Ballot Measures-HH

Section

7

■ j |i City of Fountain Valley, Fountain Valley 911 Response
n n Police - Fire/Essential City Services Measure

To maintain 911 emergency response times, fire stations, police officers/firefighters/paramedics, anti-gang/drug
programs, after school, senior programs; upgrade first responder disaster communication; repair stormwater systems
to prevent flooding, streets/potholes/parks; other general city services, shall the City of Fountain Valley establish a
one-cent sales tax providing $11.5 million annually for twenty year term, requiring public disclosure of expenditures,
independent audits, all funds only for Fountain Valley?

What your vote means	
YES	NO
A "Yes" vote on Measure HH will authorize the sales tax.	A "No" vote on Measure HH will not authorize the sales tax.

For and against

FOR	AGAINST
Jynene Johnson 39-year Resident	David Pruyne
	Rochelle Giuseffi
Ed Sussman 47-year Resident	Gloria Pruyne
Susan Saurastri 19-year Resident	Raymond Silva
Ed Arnold 49-year Resident	
Vince Bui 16-year Resident	

Sections:

3.05.010	-
3.05.020 -
3.05.030 -
3.05.040 -
3.05.050 -
3.05.060 -
3.05.070 -
3.05.080 -
3.05.090 -
3.05.100 -
3.05.110 -
3.05.115 -
3.05.120 -
3.05.125 -

Sections:

3.05.010	-

Ballot Measures-HH

Full Text of Measure HH
City of Fountain Valley

Chapter 3.05- Transactions and Use Tax

Purpose.

Contract With State.

Transactions Tax Rate.

Place of Sale.

Use Tax Rate.

Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.
Permit Not Required.

Exemptions and Exclusions.

Amendments.

Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

Severability.

Effective Date.

Termination Date.

Purpose.

Section

7

This ordinance is adopted by the City of Fountain Valley (hereafter "City") to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative
if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the
existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales
and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes,
and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.05.020 - Contract With State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to
the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract.

3.05.030	- Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after
the operative date of this ordinance.

3.05.040 - Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery
is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which
the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.05.050 - Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on
and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one percent (1%) of the sales price
of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

Ballot Measures-HH

of Provisions of State Law.

Section

7

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted
and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.05.070 - Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, Victims Compensation and Government Claims Board,
State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would
not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax
by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.05.080 - Permit not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

3.05.090 - Exemptions and Exclusions.

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to
such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-
City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal
place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to
be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal
property:

m	Section

Ballot Measures-HH	7

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use
tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition
to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any
right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the
retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid
to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.05.100 - Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part
1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

3.05.110 - Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the
City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

3.05.115 - Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

3.05.120 - Effective Date.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

3.05.125 - Termination Date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire 20 years from the "Operative Date" of this ordinance.

Ballot Measures-HH

Impartial Analysis
City of Fountain Valley
Measure HH

Section

7

On July 19,2016, the City Council placed Measure HH, the Fountain Valley 911 Response Police-Fire/Essential City Services Measure, on the November
8, 2016 ballot. If approved by a majority of Fountain Valley voters, this Measure would authorize a one cent (1.0%) transactions and use (i.e. "sales")
tax within the City of Fountain Valley. Measure HH is intended to prevent significant cuts to general City services such as 911, police, and fire services;
after-school recreation and gang prevention programs; street, pothole, and storm water system repairs; and business attraction/job creation programs,
resulting from revenue shortfalls caused by recent economic factors. This sales tax would be a general tax, meaning revenues raised from the tax would
go into the City's general fund to maintain or enhance any lawful City program, improvement, or service such as those described. The City would not
be required to use the revenues raised by Measure HH for any special purpose.

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9 authorizes the City to levy a local transactions and use/sales tax at a rate of one percent (one
cent) so long as the tax is approved by two-thirds of the City Council and a majority of the voters voting in an election on that issue. If approved, the
sales tax would become effective on April 1, 2017.

The tax would be paid in addition to current sales taxes and would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as existing sales taxes. By law,
all revenues raised by the Measure would belong to the City of Fountain Valley and could not be taken by, or shared with, the State or any other agency.

By placing Measure HH on the ballot, the City complies with Proposition 218, which requires a majority of the voters to approve a general tax.

A "yes" vote on Measure HH will authorize the sales tax

A "no" vote on Measure HH will not authorize the sales tax

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance or Measure. If you desire a copy of the Ordinance or Measure, please call the election
official's office at (714) 593-4410 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

s/ Colin Burns

Attorney for the City of Fountain Valley

Fiscal Impact Statement
City of Fountain Valley
Measure HH

The cost to the City for placing the transaction and use tax measure before the voters ranges from $6,000 to $10,000 based on a consolidated County
election. The tax measure is for a 20 year term and would generate approximately $11.5 million dollars per year. The tax will be paid by everyone,
including visitors to the City and exempts food purchased as groceries and prescriptions. Additional tax on a $1 item would be 1 cent.

The funds will be used to maintain vital City services including public safety (police and fire), public works services & infrastructure, recreation programs;
address structural budget deficit; rebuild designated reserves and pay down existing debt and unfunded pension and OPEB obligations. The measure
has the potential for fiscal benefit to the City by helping maintain its long-term goal of fiscal sustainability.

The measure includes a Citizens Advisory Committee to review the expenditures from the tax measure proceeds and their compliance with the ballot
question and City Council intent. Semi-annual reports are required to be presented to the public and the City Council at regular Council Meetings.

Ballot Measures-HH

Argument in Favor of Measure HH

Sacramento politicians have taken about $100,000,000 of Fountain
Valley's money-causing reductions to OUR services. Tired of this money
grab? Vote YES on HH!

Fountain Valley's firefighters, paramedics and law enforcement are the
first to respond when an emergency occurs. They need the up-to-date
emergency equipment to reach your family YES on HH provides.

Response times for 911 calls are critical to stopping crime, protecting
victims and saving lives! YES on HH helps maintain and increase our
neighborhood patrols, put more officers on the street and improve law
enforcement response times to every neighborhood in Fountain Valley.

Did you know that 85% of our local Fire calls are for medical emergencies?
YES on HH keeps our fire stations open, ensuring that firefighters and
paramedics can quickly respond to emergencies and save lives.

By law, Yes on HH requires strict fiscal accountability provisions, public
spending reports, and annual independent audits, so every cent of our
money is used effectively, efficiently, and as promised by law to voters.
Sacramento can't touch a dime! By law, ALL funds are required to remain
local for Fountain Valley's benefit!

YES on HH maintains Fountain Valley's safety and quality of life:

YES on HH maintains 911 emergency response, neighborhood patrols

and anti-gang/anti-drug programs

YES on HH maintains Fountain Valley fire stations

YES on HH maintains city-funded after-school, summer rec, youth job

and gang prevention programs that serve more than 4,200 kids annually,

keeping them safe and out of trouble

YES on HH repairs streets/potholes

YES on HH repairs Fountain Valley storm water systems to prevent
flooding

YES on HH maintains programs attracting businesses/creating jobs

Measure HH is NOT a tax on your home or property and is not applied
to prescription medication or food purchased as groceries. Out-of-town
visitors share the cost.

s/Jynene Johnson
39-year Resident

s/ Ed Sussman
47-year Resident

s/ Susan Saurastri
19-year Resident

s/ Ed Arnold
49-year Resident

s/ Vince Bui
16-year Resident

Section

7

Section

Ballot Measures-HH	7

Argument Against Measure HH

The 1% sales tax proposed for Fountain Valley residents is a bad move on
many levels. Already California, of all the states, is in the top three highest
sales tax. In Orange County, we pay 8% total sales tax. Only .25 of that
is county tax levied to solve a major financial crises. A full 1% sales tax
increase added, would total a gigantic 9%.

Who stands to lose from the high tax burden?

-Business: residents will shop elsewhere to pay less

-Residents: especially those on fixed incomes. Social Security with no
increase In 2016

-The middle class

-Big ticket manufacturers

-City of Fountain Valley

s/ David Pruyne

s/ Rochelle Giuseffi

s/ Gloria Pruyne

s/ Raymond Silva

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure HH

Maintain Fountain Valley's Police, Fire and Essential Services -
Vote YES on HH!

Sacramento Politicians have seized hundreds of millions of dollars from
Fountain Valley. You can do something about this by voting YES on HH!

We've been extremely responsible with your tax dollars: City staff,
healthcare and pension subsidies for employees have all been reduced.
But Sacramento money grabs, unfunded state mandates and the lingering
effects of the Great Recession means Fountain Valley needs additional
funds to maintain the services you expect and deserve.

FACT: Measure FI FI is NOT a tax on your home or property.

FACT: Voting YES on HH keeps your taxpayer dollars LOCAL and requires
out of town visitors to share the cost of using our services, streets and
roads. NO money can be taken by Sacramento politicians.

FACT: Serious Part 1 Fountain Valley crimes such as homicide, rape,
robbery, and assault have increased 41% over the previous year.
YES on HH maintains Fountain Valley's police cadet training program
and crime suppression unit to fight gangs and drugs. It funds protective
clothing and equipment for our first responders such as helmets, vests,
and firefighting equipment.

The State has grabbed well over $100,000,000 from Fountain Valley.
Without YES on HH we will likely need to close one of our two fire
stations, and eliminate 12 firefighters. YES on HH keeps both of our fire
stations open and staffed, and also maintains school crossing guards and
school-based police officers - join us.

For factual information, visit www.fountainvallev.org

s/ Joe Zane

President, Fountain Valley Police Officers Association

s/ Chris Grogan

President, Fountain Valley Firefighters Association
s/ Ed Arnold

49-year Fountain Valley Taxpayer
s/ Jean Hardy

Service Club Member/Community Volunteer

s/ Richard Nguyen Wynn
Attorney/Fountain Valley Taxpayer