MEASURE H	COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE H
COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H	To provide Cambrian neighborhood elementary and middle school students with stable funding for instruction in math, science, reading, engineering, technology, and arts; retain highly qualified teachers; and maintain class sizes; shall Cambrian School District establish an annual parcel tax of $84 for 8 years, its continuance subject to voter approval, raising approximately $740,000 in the first year, subject to annual adjustment; with exemptions for senior citizens, no funds for administrator's salaries and every dollar benefitting Cambrian children?  Levy of Special Tax  The Board shall first levy the tax in fiscal year 2018-19, at $84. Thereafter, the Parcel Tax shall be adjusted annually by the change in the Consumer Price Index (all urban consumers) for the San Francisco- Oakland-San Jose Metropolitan Area, published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, or an equivalent index.  The Board shall cease to levy the tax following fiscal year 2025-26, unless continuation of the tax has been approved by a majority of voters voting in an election held consistent with the requirements of Elections Code Section 9603.  Parcels to be taxed each year will be any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Santa Clara County Tax Collector's Office unless an exemption applies. Exemptions include only 1) property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which no ad valorem property taxes are levied in any year and 2) property for which an exemption has been approved due to the parcel being owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over who occupies said parcel as a principal residence.  Purpose of Tax  Revenue raised from Cambrian School District's parcel tax will be expended in order to maintain the high quality of education at all elementary, middle and transitional kindergarten (TK) through eighth grade schools. Cambrian School District's goal is to continue providing such high quality education by retaining teachers, maintaining class sizes, instructing students in science, art and music, so that our students may find success in high school, college, and careers. However, due to reductions in State funding (cut back to 2008 funding levels), the District is struggling to continue providing high quality instruction and academic programs for Cambrian children in grades transitional kindergarten through eighth grade.  These reductions in State funding, the requirement to maintain District reserves, and the need to reduce deficit spending have impacted our schools. We can no longer rely on the State to fully fund the instruction and academic programs our students need. Cambrian School District has tightened its belt, improved efficiencies, and made cuts as far away from the classroom as possible. Cambrian School District has conducted a full assessment of all of their local school instructional program needs—including the need to retain our best teachers and maintain core academics for children in grades TK-8. Additional local revenue is needed to fund these core priorities. Accordingly, Cambrian School District is asking its community to vote on a local parcel tax to continue to protect the high quality of education at Cambrian schools.
Measure H was placed on the ballot by the Board of Trustees (Board) for the Cambrian School District (District). The Measure would impose a tax on parcels of real property. If approved, a tax of $84 per parcel will be collected in 2019. After 2019, the tax will be adjusted annually by the change in the Consumer Price Index (all urban consumers) for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Metropolitan Area, published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, or an equivalent index. This proposed tax will expire after eight years.  For the District to impose the proposed tax, Measure H must be approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it.  There are two exemptions from the proposed tax. First, upon application, the District will grant an exemption for any parcel that is owner-occupied by a person 65 years or older. Second, parcels that would otherwise be exempt from property tax will also be exempt from the proposed tax.  State law requires the District to state the specific purposes for which the tax proceeds will be used and to only spend the proceeds of the tax for these purposes. The stated purposes of the proposed tax are:  •	providing Cambrian schools with stable local funding for instruction in math, science, reading, engineering, technology, and arts;  •	retaining highly qualified teachers;  •	maintaining class sizes; and  •	continuing to provide physical education that promotes student health and fitness.  No proceeds may be used for administrator salaries.  The District is required by law to provide additional accountability measures for the proceeds. These measures include: (1) depositing the proceeds into a fund that is separate from other District funds; and (2) providing an annual written report to the Board stating the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized to be funded from the tax proceeds.  A "yes" vote is a vote to approve a parcel tax of $84 per parcel for eight years, adjusted annually to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index.  A "no" vote is a vote to not approve the proposed parcel tax.  James R. Williams County Counsel  By: Isl Danielle L. Goldstein Deputy County Counsel	

PR-8442-1 ENG

SC Ballot Type 052 - Page 67

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE H-Continued

The tax shall be levied for providing Cambrian schools with stable local
funding for instruction in math, science, reading, engineering,
technology, and arts; retain highly qualified teachers; and maintain class
sizes and continue to provide physical education that promotes student
health and fitness.

Severability

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure
concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent
value, and the Board and the voters would have adopted each provision
hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
measure by the voters, should any part of the measure or taxing
formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for
any reason, all remaining parts of the measure or taxing formula hereof
shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

Protect the outstanding education our local Cambrian students receive
at Bagby Elementary School, Fammatre Elementary School, Farnham
Elementary School, Ida Price Middle School, Sartorette Elementary
School and Steindorf School: VOTE YES on Measure H.

Cambrian School District has built a reputation on creativity, innovation
and maintaining a strong focus on educating the whole child. Cambrian
schools are part of what make our neighborhoods a desirable place to
live, work and grow-up. Exceptional teachers, challenging instructional
programs, dedicated parent volunteers, and outstanding curricula have
prepared generations of children to succeed in high school, college, and
careers.

Measure H is necessary! We depend on local revenue to
supplement limited State funding. Measure H is a modest proposal
and it's temporary, lasting only eight years. It won't solve all our
problems, but it will help retain our exceptional teachers and protect
core programs.

This money cannot be taken away by the State. Measure H is a
local measure. All funds generated will stay here, for Cambrian
students.

Specifically, Measure H will:

•	Attract and retain high quality teachers

•	Continue core programs in math, science and technology

•	Maintain core programs in reading, music and the arts

•	Maintain class sizes

•	Continue to provide physical education that promotes student
health/fitness

Taxpayer protections are REQUIRED.

Senior citizens are eligible for an exemption. Measure H provides
an exemption for property owners who are 65 or older. We do not want
this measure to become a burden to those living on a fixed income.

Measure H funds cannot be spent on administrator's salaries. All

funding will be used to support classroom instruction.

Whether you have school-age children or not, protecting the local
quality of education is a wise investment. Good schools protect
property values and keep our community strong.

Join Cambrian parents, teachers, neighbors, businesses and
community leaders fighting to protect our local quality of education.

PR-8442-2ENG

SC Ballot Type 052 - Page 68

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H-Continued

VOTE YES on H.

/s/Jarod Middleton
Cambrian Board President/Firefighter

/s/Don Rocha
San Jose City Councilmember

/s/Brian Tanger
Cambrian Realtor

/s/Ed Chirco
Lifelong Resident/Kiwanis Member

/s/ Lisa MacFarland
Fammatre Elementary Principal

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

The Cambrian School District in 2014 received $39, 000,000 via a voter
approved bond measure.

Now, they are back for more of your hard-earned dollars.

In 2010 the voters rejected a $96 parcel tax and voters should also
reject this $84 parcel tax.

To paraphrase economist Milton Friedman, nothing is as permanent as
a temporary tax. What do you think will happen after eight years of this
$84 per parcel tax? You guessed it: they'll be back for more.

They want to retain "highly quality teachers," and yet CA students rank
48th in math achievement, 49th in reading. Source:
http://www.lao.ca.gov/reports/2011 /calfacts/calfacts_010511 .aspx

California teachers are the third highest paid teachers in the nation.

Don't reward bad performance with more money, unless you want
student test scores to fall further.

Spending, per student, is already $9,607 per year. For a class of 27
students, that's $259,389 per class per year!

Only 67% of the students meet or exceed CAASPP English
proficiency. Only 52% meet or exceed math standards. Source:
http://www.ed-data.org/district/Santa-Clara/Cambrian

You won't believe the teacher's pension benefits. It's like nothing you'll
ever see in the private sector. And those exorbitant pensions are
starting to bankrupt school districts, cities and counties all across the
nation.

Taxpayers must live within their means. And so should the Cambrian
School District. This tax-and-spend frenzy has got to end.

You can be FOR schools, FOR students, and AGAINST Measure H.

Please vote NO on Measure H

For more information, visit
http://www.SVTaxpayers.org/2018-measure-H

/s/ Mark W.A. Hinkle
President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/Jennifer Imhoff
Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

PR-8442-3ENG

SC Ballot Type 052 - Page 69

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H
The Cambrian School District in 2014 received $39,000.00 via a voter approved bond measure.  Now, they are back for more of your hard-earned dollars.  In 2010 the voters rejected a $96 parcel tax and voters should also reject this $84 parcel tax.  To paraphrase economist Milton Friedman, nothinq is as permanent as a temporary tax. What do vou think will happen after eiqht years of this $84 per parcel tax? You guessed it: they'll be back for more.  They want to retain "highly quality teachers," and yet CA students rank 48th in math achievement, 49th in reading. Source: http://www.lao.ca.gov/reports/2011/calfacts/calfacts_010511 .aspx  California teachers are the third highest paid teachers in the nation.  Don't reward bad performance with more money, unless you want student test scores to fall further.  Spending, per student, is already $9,607 per year. For a class of 27 students, that's $259,389 per class per year!  Only 67% of the students meet or exceed CAASPP English proficiency. Only 52% meet or exceed math standards. Source: http://www.ed-data.org/district/Santa-Clara/Cambrian  You won't believe the teacher's pension benefits. It's like nothing you'll ever see in the private sector. And those exorbitant pensions are starting to bankrupt school districts, cities and counties all across the nation.  Taxpayers must live within their means. And so should the Cambrian School District. This tax-and-spend frenzy has got to end.  They say they're using "no funds for administrators' salaries," but all the other monev is funaible-meaninq that money now dedicated to teachers' salaries could be moved to administrative salaries if this tax increase is passed. It's a shell game and you shouldn't let them fool you into thinking otherwise.  You can be FOR schools, FOR students, and AGAINST Measure H.  Please vote NO on Measure H  For more information, visit http://www.SVT axpayers.org/2018-measure-H  /s/MarkW.A. Hinkle President: Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association  /s/Jennifer Imhoff Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County	We must invest in our children now to protect the outstanding education they receive in our Cambrian School District schools. Measure H funds will address critical instructional needs to ensure our children continue receiving the highest quality education possible.  Don't be misled by the out-of-town authors who oppose Measure H. Their facts are wrong and misleading, they regularly oppose all school measures, and they are NOT from our community.  Measure H preserves the quality of academic instruction we offer by helping attract and retain high-quality teachers; continuing core programs in science, technology, math, reading, music, and the arts; maintaining class sizes and continue providing physical education that promotes student health/fitness.  Measure H REQUIRES strong accountability provisions:  •	All funds are locally controlled and used to support classroom instruction  •	No funds used for administrators' salaries  •	BY LAW these funds cannot be taken bv the State  •	Senior citizens are eligible for an exemption  Measure H is prudent, asking for less money than neighboring districts. Measure H will expire in eight years and cannot be renewed without voter approval.  By making our neighborhood school and students a priority, all of us benefit. Great schools contribute to strong property values and a thriving community.  Don't be deceived by the opponents inaccurate, cynical and misleading statements. Take a positive step to protect the outstanding quality of education in our Cambrian School District. Vote YES on Measure H.  Please join Cambrian parents, teachers, neighbors, businesses and community leaders fighting to protect our local quality of education.  Isl Jim Beall State Senator  /s/Aletta Godden Board Member/Kiwanis Member  Isl Joyce Barber Life long resident  Isl Aaron Sessions Cambrian Resident/Business Owner  /s/ Jeff Lowery Cambrian Resident/Volunteer

PR-8442-4ENG

SC Ballot Type 052 ■ Page 70