EUREKA UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX LEVY	
Shalt the Eureka Union School District be authorized' to levy a special tax on new residential building permits for the sole purpose of constructing and E furnishing new school facilities and shall the appro- priations limit of the district be increased by an amount equal to the special tax for a period of four (4) years?	YES
	NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E

WHEREAS, the Eureka Union School District takes pride in its history of
providing high quality educational services to the elementary (K-8) students
in the community, Having the proper facilities to house the students is essential
to providing a quality education; and
WHEREAS, since November 7, 1978, the Eureka Union School District has
been impacted due to the inadequacies of the impaction program (SB 201) and
the limited resources in the State for school construction; and
WHEREAS, this Board has determined that it would be in the best interests
of this District and the pupils thereof to finance new school facilities with the
proceeds from a special tax; and
WHEREAS, Sections 50075-50077 of the Government Code authorize this
District to order an election to allow the electorate to determine whether such
special tax shall be levied; and
WHEREAS, after the giving of notice and the holding of a public hearing on
the 17th day of June, 1986, this Board has determined that it is in the best
interests of this District to submit to the qualified electors of this District the
question of whether the Eureka Union School District should be authorized to
levy a special tax for the construction and furnishing of new school facilities;
and

I WHEREAS, the electors who will be entitled to vote on this special tax
I ^pasure -shall be those electors who reside within the boundaries of the Eureka
Jon School District; and

WHEREAS, approval of two-thirds (2/3) of such electors voting upon the
measure is required for the passage of said measure; and
WHEREAS, Section 5322 of the Education Code authorizes this Board to adopt
the specifications of the election order as contained in this Resolution.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Governing Board of the above entitled district FINDS,
DECLARES, RESOLVES AND ORDERS as follows:

1.	A special election is hereby called and ordered to be held within the
boundaries of the Eureka Union School District on the 4th day of November,
1986, at which election there shall be submitted to the qualified electors the
following measure, to-wit:

EUREKA UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR NEW SCHOOL FACILITIES AND FURNISHINGS

Shall the Eureka Union School District, be authorized to levy a special
tax for the sole purpose of constructing and furnishing new school
facilities, and shall the appropriations limit of the district be increased
by an amount equal to the special tax for a period of four (4) years
beginning on November 4,1986? The special tax shall be levied upon
ail persons receiving building permits for any new residential dwelling
units at thefollowing rates:

Single Family Detached	$3,986

Duplexes or Halfplexes	2,392

Multiple Family	1,196

Mobile Homes in Parks	769

The foregoing rates shall be increased for inflation on July 1 of each fiscal
year based on the Marshall-Swift index for school construction.

For the purposes of this measure the following terms shall apply:
a. Building permits means new residential dwelling units. Non-residential
structures are excluded as are remodeling and additions to existing resi-
dential units where less than three bedrooms are added.

). Single family detached: Including conventional subdivisions, mobile homes
or single family lots, and all other buildings designed or intended for single
or multiple family use which are not otherwise defined.

c.	Duplex or halfplex: Including conventional duplexes or halfplexes, and
single family attached dwellings.

d.	Multiple Family: Including structures with three or more attached units.

e.	Mobile homes: In mobile home parks or subdivisions specifically designed
for mobile homes.

2.	The text of the aforementioned measure as displayed on each individual
ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

EUREKA UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR NEW SCHOOL FACILITIES AND FURNISHINGS

Shall the Eureka Union School District be authorized to levy a special
tax on new residential building permits for the sole purpose of con-
structing and furnishing new school facilities and shall the appropria-
tions limit of the district be increased by an amount equal to the special
tax for a period of four (4) years?

3.	The proceeds of this special tax shall be used solely and exclusively for
the purpose of constructing and furnishing new school facilities for use by the
pupils of the Eureka Union School District.

4.	The special tax which will be levied on the issuance of all residential build-
ing permits except as otherwise provided by this resolution and shall be due
and payable to the Eureka Union School District prior to the issuance of said
permits by either the County of Placer or City of Roseville. Upon receipt of this
special tax, the Eureka Union School District shall provide the residential building
permit applicant with a certificate indicating that said applicant has paid said
special tax. The special tax shall not apply to the issuance of building permits
on property where there is a valid agreement in effect on or before November
3, 1986 between the Developer and the District to provide adequate school
facilities. The Board of Trustees shall have the power to exempt building permit
applicants from the special tax upon application for good cause shown.

5.	The Secretary of this Board shall immediately deliver a copy of this
Resolution to the Board of Supervisors, County Clerk and County Superintendent
of Schools of the County of Placer.

6.	As provided in Sections 23300, et seq.. of the elections Code, the afore-
mentioned special school district election is hereby consolidated with the regular
election of school board members to be held in the Eureka Union School District
on the 4th day of November, 1986.

7.	That the County Superintendent of Schools of the County of Placer and
the County Clerk of the County of Placer are hereby requested and authorized
to take all necessary steps to call and hold the election within the time and
manner required by law.



31-52

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

A “YES" vote is a vote to authorize the Board ot Trustees of the Eureka Union
School District to levy a special tax on new residential building permits within
the boundaries of the District for a period of four (4) years to be used for the
sole purpose of constructing and furnishing new school facilities.

A “NO1' vote is a vote against the levy of the special tax.

Articles XIII A and XIII B of the California Constitution and Government Code
§§ 79 00-7913 and §§ 50075-50077 limit property taxes and establish
"appropriation limits’’ for local governmental agencies. Special taxes may be
levied and a District's "appropriations limit" may be increased if authorized by
the voters of the District.

The District is seeking approval of the voters to levy and expend a special
tax on new residential building permits for a period of four (4) years to be
used for the sole purpose of constructing and furnishing new school facilities.
The special tax would not exceed $3,986.00 for single family detached resi-
dential units, $2,392.00 for duplexes or halfplexes, $1,196.00 for multiple family
dwellings and $769.00 for mobile homes in parks.

If at least two-thirds (2/3) of the qualified voters voting on the measure vote
for approval, the measure will pass and the District will be authorized to levy
and expend the special tax.

If at least two-thirds (2/3) of the qualified voters of the District voting on
the measure do not vote for approval, the measure will fail.

This special tax has no effect on the existing law and the electors who will
be entitled to vote on the measure will be those qualified electors who reside
within the boundaries of the Eureka Union School District.

s/ Douglas A. Lewis
Schools’ Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

THIS SPECIAL FOUR-YEAR TAX WILL BE LEVIED ONLY ON NEW RESIDENTIAL
CONSTRUCTION. CURRENT RESIDENTS WILL NOT BE TAXED

These revenues will be used solely to obtain school facilities for the students
moving into the district as a direct result of the new residential construction.
These tax dollars will be audited annually.

State funds are not currently available to the Eureka School District. The $800
million bond measure on this ballot will not help this district, but will go to fund
the existing $1,2 billion state-wide deficit in school construction needs (not to
fund Eureka District’s needs). The California Department of Finance projects the
State will be $5.5 billion short of meeting school construction demands through
1988. It will be very difficult to get State funding for our rapidly growing District.
Without an adequate secure, local source of funding for permanent and
temporary school facilities, the choices facing the Eureka District are grim
indeed:

• Further overcrowding of our classrooms

-	Loss of libraries as they are converted to classrooms

-	Double sessions

-	Year-round-school (only a 1-2 year solution)

Six developers in Placer County are supporting this fee program through signed
agreements with the school district: Granite Bay Village, Grosvenor Downs,
Hidden Creek Estates, Quail Oaks I, Treelake Village, and Woodbridge Ranch.
All developers must support this program. Measure E will assure that all
developers contribute equitably to maintain the quality of education in the
Eureka School District.

' This is_the time for local residents to helg protect the quality of education
for the present and future students of the Eureka School District by voting yes
on Measure E
LET’S PLAN FOR GROWTH NOW.

DON’T LET GROWTH DESTROY OUR SCHOOLS.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE E TO PROTECT EUREKA EDUCATION.

s/ Dr. Dan W. Coombs, DVM, President
Granite Bay Chamber of Commerce
s/ Dr. Ronald L. Feist, Chairperson
Granite Bay Municipal Advisory Council
s/ Kenneth E. Nitschke, Co-Chairperson
Eureka Citizens for Adequate
School Facilities
s/ Barbara Reynders, President
Eureka Union Parent Teacher Club
s/ Garry Genzlinger, President
Eureka Union School District
Board of Trustees

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

31-53