
<full> ORDINANCE NO.__________(NEW SERIES)

AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 1.5 (COMMENCING WITH SECTION 22.150) TO
DIVISION 2 OF THE SAN DIEGO COUNTY CODE OF REGULATORY ORDINANCES
RELATING TO THE FINANCING OF REGIONAL JUSTICE FACILITIES, IMPOSING A
COUNTYWIDE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX, AND INCREASING THE COUNTY
CONSTITUTIONAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Diego ordains as to Bows

Section 1. Chapter 1.5 (commencing with section 22.150) Is hereby added to the
County Code of Regulatory Ordinances to read as follows:

CHAPTER 1.5

SAN DIEGO COUNTY REGIONAL JUSTICE
FACILITIES FINANCING ORDINANCE

Sec. 22.150. PURPOSE AND INTENT.

The County of San Diego as a regional government is required to provide justice
facilities such as courts and jails for all the people of the County of San Diego in order to promote their health, safety and welfare The purposes of this ordinance are to impose a one-half of one percent (1/2%) countywide retail transactions and use tax, limit the
collection of such tax to the absence of state or federal funding for the same purposes,
establish the duration of such tax, and increase the constitutional appropriations limit for
the County of San Diego.

Sec. 22.151. COUNTYWIDE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX.

(a)	In addition to any other taxes authorized by law, on the operative date of this ordinance there is hereby Imposed In the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of San Diego. In accordance with chapter 13.5 (commencing with Section 28250) of part 2 of division 2, of title 3 of the Government Code and part 1.8 (commencing with Section 7251) of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, a retail transactions and use tax at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2%) in addition to any existing or future authorized state or local sales tax or transactions and use tax.


(b)	The proceeds of the tax imposed by this ordinance shall be deposited into the
San Diego County Regional Justice Facilities Financing Fund and its uses shall include, but not be limited to:

(1) site acquisition, capital acquisition, construction, reconstruction, expansion,
improvement, maintenance and financing of regional justice facilities; (2) the administration
and implementation of this chapter, including costs of legal proceedings relating to this
ordinance; and (3) costs related to planning, environmental review, engineering, design
and right-of-way acquisition of any regional justice facility. The proceeds of the tax shall
not be used for the operation of any regional justice facilities.

(c)	For purposes of this ordinance, the term “regional justice facilities” shall include,
but not be limited to, jails; women's centers; juvenile halls; or any other type of detention
facility for the confinement of persons accused, convicted or sentenced regarding a
criminal offense; and courts or courtrooms.

(d)	The County of San Diego shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this ordinance,
including the collection of the additional tax imposed by this ordinance.

(e)	The proceeds of the tax deposited into the San Diego County Regional Justice
Facilities Financing Fund shall be used in accordance with the San Diego County Regional
Justice Facilities Plan adopted, and as may be amended from time to time, by the Board of
Supervisors, The Board of Supervisors shall utilize such proceeds in accordance with the

following priority:

(1)	Federal or state funds made available to the County of San Diego
specifically for financing regional justice facilities subject to the Plan;

(2)	Proceeds of the tax imposed by this Ordinance.

Sec. 22.152. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES.

This Ordinance shall become effective on November 4,1986 only if two-thirds (2/3)
of the electors voting on the measure at the election held on November 4, 1986 vote to
approve the ordinance. If so approved, the provisions of this ordinance shall become
operative on, and the taxes authorized by this ordinance shall be imposed commencing
on April 1,1987, the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 120 days
after November 4,1986.

Sec. 22,153. DURATION OF TAX.

The provisions of this ordinance, shall no longer be of any force and effect, on or
after five (5) years following its operative date, unless extended by a vote of two-thirds
(2/3) of the electors voting at an election called for that purpose by the Board of
Supervisors; or unless earlier repealed by the Board of Supervisors based upon a finding
by the Board of Supervisors that sufficient funds have been generated by the tax or other
revenues to solve the need for regional justice facilities in the County of San Diego.

Sec. 22.154. IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCES.

Upon approval of this ordinance by the voters, the Board of Supervisors shall enact
such other ordinances and take such other actions as may be necessary for the
implementation of this ordinance and the collection of the one-half of one percent (1/2%) transactions and use tax authorized by this ordinance.


Sec. 22.155. INCREASE IN APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT.

The appropriations limit imposed on San Diego County by Article XIIIB of the
California Constitution is hereby increased by the amount of taxes generated by the
transactions and use tax imposed by this ordinance, for the next four fiscal years following
the operative date of this ordinance.

Sec. 22.156. AMENDMENTS.

This ordinance may be amended or repeated by either of the procedures set forth in
this section. If any portion of subdivision (a) is declared invalid, then subdivision (b) shall
be the exclusive means of amending or repealing this ordinance.

(a) This ordinance may be amended or repealed to further its purposes by
ordinance, passed by roll-call vote entered in the minutes, four-fifths of the Board
concurring, if at least 20 days prior to passage, the ordinance as proposed has been
publicly noticed in a newspaper of general circulation within the County of San Diego.

(b) This ordinance may be amended or repealed by an ordinance that becomes
effective only when approved by the electors at a special election called by the Board of
Supervisors for such purpose.

Sec. 22.157. SEVERABILITY.

If any section, part, clause or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason held invalid
or unconstitutional, the remaining portions shall not be affected but shall remain in full
force and effect. <fullend>










<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

You are asked to vote on the San Diego County Regional Justice Facilities Financing
Ordinance which imposes a one-half of one percent (1/2%) Countywide transactions and
use tax for the financing of regional justice facilities and increasing the constitutional
appropriation limit of San Diego County.

The major elements of the Ordinance, which have been authorized by state legislation, are as follows:

1.	Imposes a transaction and use tax of 1/2 percent in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County of San Diego for a period not to exceed five years;

2.	Requires the proceeds of the tax to be deposited into the San Diego County
Regional Justice Facilities Fund;

3.	Limits the use of the proceeds of the tax to activities relating to the financing of
regional justice facilities, which are defined as jails, women’s centers, juvenile halls, or any
other type of detention facility for the confinement of persons accused, convicted or
sentenced regarding a criminal offense, and courts and courtrooms. .

4.	Requires that the proceeds of the tax can be used to finance regional justice
facilities after the Board of Supervisors has developed a plan and only after state or federal
funds received for such purposes have first been expended in accordance with the plan;
and

5.	Increases the County’s appropriation limit in an amount equal to the tax to be
collected. Article XIII B of the California Constitution limits the County’s total annual
appropriations unless such limit is increased by a two-thirds vote of the electors voting.
Passage of the Ordinance will ensure that the taxes collected may be appropriated for the
purposes enumerated in the Ordinance.

This Ordinance will become effective only it approved by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
electors voting on the Ordinance. If the Ordinance is approved, it becomes effective on
November 4, 1986 and the taxes authorized by the Ordinance will be imposed
commencing on April 1,1987.
<impartialend>










<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

YES ON A

More than 2,000 criminate — drug addicts, drug pushers, prowlers, prostitutes,
vandals and drunk drivers — are arrested and then turned loose each month because our

jails and courts are jammed, Many are back on the streets even before the arresting
officer has completed the necessary reports. Our streets have become our jails! This
crisis threatens the safety of every man, woman and child and we need action.

"I've seen what they turn loose from the jails,” says Norma Phillips, President of
Mothers Against Drunk Driving. “It's scary!”

Proposition A is the help we need. It would add a half-cent to our sales tax for only
five years and raise $400 million to build additional jails and courts. The revenue raised
could only be used to provide facilities. This tax could not be extended beyond five years
without another 2/3 vote of the electorate. Furthermore, if more state or federal funds for

jails and courts become available, the tax will end sooner.

Why use a sales tax? Because it’s fair to Mi and it’s smart for taxpayers. The jails
and courts would be paid for without burdening our children and grandchildren with debt.

Proposition A is a grass roots campaign supported by a broad coalition including:
organizations such as MADD, Greater San Diego Chamber of Commerce, Neighborhood
Watch groups, the media, police chiefs in every city in our county, school leaders, the
clergy, and community leaders county-wide.

San Diego County is in a race against 'time and crime which we cannot afford to
lose. Let’s get criminals off our streets and provide speedy trials. Protect your
neighborhoods and the public safety. Vote Yes on A — to slam the door on crime in San
Diego County!

TAXPAYERS AGAINST CRIME <favorend>









<favorsigs> Clair Burgener
Former Congressman

Sheriff John Duffy

County of San Diego

Lionel Van Deeriin
Former Congressman

Police Chief Bill Koiender

City of San Diego

Norma Phillips, President
Mothers Against Drunk Driving <favorsigsend>










<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

We question the need to jail people who harm only themselves. Over 30% of the
prisoners in jail are there for victimless "crimes" — prostitution, drugs, gambling, etc. We
feel it's time we stopped prosecuting peaceful activity among consenting adults and
concentrate efforts on jailing the real criminate who rob, rape, burglarize and kill innocent
victims.

But for discussion, let’s agree that there is indeed a need for more jails.
Unfortunately, we have been paying for more jails since we first started paying our taxes in
San Diego County years ago. So where are the jails?

The very first obligation of government is to protect its citizens with the very first tax
dollars collected. Let’s get our priorities straightened out. If the county government wishes
to raise the sales tax, then Set the people vote regarding higher taxes to support low
income people in brand spanking new housing, for instance, and use the millions of
dollars currently spent on public housing for the jails that should have been built long ago.

It takes enormous gall to ask us to tax ourselves more to pay for essential
government services. Let's vote on the frivolous government spending - things such as
welfare, public art objects, and public housing and then start building our jails today with
the tax dollars that have been collected today.

The final irony is that politicians are pushing for a sales tax increase at the very
moment that the federal "tax reform” law is disallowing the deductibility of such taxes. <rebutfavorend>









<rebutfavorsigs> PAT WRIGHT, Chairman	BETSY	A. MILL

Libertarian Party of San Diego	Libertarian Candidate

State Senate, District 38

FRED SCHNAUBELT	DICK RIDER

Former San Diego City Councilman	Libertarian Candidate

41st Congressional District <rebutfavorsigsend>










<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

NO ON PROPOSITION A

It seems that in every election we’re asked to vote tor more spending on jails. Now
we’re being told that the criminals will run wild in the streets unless we raise the sales tax.

Notice that the politicians didn’t come to us urging a higher tax to pay for the many
frills and inefficiencies buried within the county's billion dollar budget. They know we need
jails. The prime responsibility of our government is to protect the citizens. So shouldn't

the politicians pay for the jails, and put the frills up for a vote?

This "temporary” sales tax increase (does anybody believe this increase is
temporary?) is regressive in that it falls most heavily upon the poor, The California sales
tax is too high as it is.

Private contractors, experts in the corrections field, can run jails at a savings of 10%
to 25%. Yet the county has not moved in this direction. The state of California has begun
limited private contracting of its correctional facilities, and we should follow suit.

There are alternatives to jail for the less dangerous non-violent offenders. One
inexpensive innovation is electronic home detention where the prisoner is not housed at
taxpayer expense. Another alternative is to emphasize offenders working to pay restitution
to the victims or performing community service instead of serving time.

Since many of the county prisoners are awaiting trial, money invested in a speedier

court system would both save detention costs and improve our justice system in general.

Next year they will have on the ballot yet another proposal to raise the sales tax, this
time for roads. It's time to demand that government provide essential services without tax
increases. We can ail protect our earnings and force the county to budget our money
responsibly, with a decisive “NO" vote on Proposition A. <againstend>









<againstsigs> PAT WRIGHT, Chairman
Libertarian Party of San Diego

BETSY A. MILL
Libertarian Candidate
State Senate, District 38

FRED SCHNAUBELT, President	JACK R. SANDERS

Frederick Schnaubelt & Sons, Inc.	Libertarian Candidate

Board of Equalization

DICK RIDER
Libertarian Candidate
41st Congressional District <againstsigsend>











<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Don’t be misled by the Libertarians!

The proposed half cent sales tax will end! The five year termination is in the ballot
language and cannot be extended without another vote of the people.

Yes, there are alternatives to jail and the County of San Diego has 30 such programs
now working — more than any county in California! Electronic home detention, cited by
the Libertarians as one such alternative, is already being used by San Diego County.
However, some criminals must be punished in jail and not given alternatives.

The real Libertarian issue: they support legalization of drugs.

Prisoners in this county did provide over 65,000 days of community service work
during 1985. The clean-up crews you see on our roadways are prisoners.

The Libertarians recommend a speedier court system to relieve the jails. Had they
read Proposition A, they would know that the revenue will be used to construct more
courtrooms as well as jails.

The average cost per county resident of theft in 1985 was $79.24; the average cost of
theft for each business was $1,386.00. The additional half cent will only amount to an
average $38.00 per resident each year. Proposition A is a good investment in public safety!

The voters have asked for more police, tougher judges, stricter laws and stiffer
penalties. Without new revenue, the County cannot give the police, deputy sheriffs and
judges the tools they need to do the job.

Vote “YES” on Proposition A!

TAXPAYERS AGAINST CRIME <rebutagainstend>










<rebutagainstsigs> Clair Burgener	Lionel Van Deerlin

Fomier Congressman	Former Congressman

Sheriff John Duffy	Police Chief Bill Kolender

County of San Diego	City of San Diego

Norma Phillips, President
Mothers Against Drunk Driving
<rebutagainstsigsend>