mm, ^	•••	v.	*

0T:	t	#	-	•*'	"	T^

_Vt-=	]	swJf^-

RESOLUTION NO. 5779

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PACIFIC GROVE
DECLARING THE RESULTS OF THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION HELD
IN THE CITY OF PACIFIC GROVE ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1986

WHEREAS, a general municipal election was held in the City
of Pacific Grove, State of California, in accordance with law and
the Charter of said City pursuant to Resolution No. 5725, duly
adopted by the Council thereof on the 4th day of June, 1986, for
the election of a mayor for the full term of two years and three
councilmembers for the full term of four years; and

WHEREAS, subsequent to calling that election, two measures
were added to the ballot: the first (Measure C) is a measure
requesting the authority (by a 2/3 vote) to issue bonds for
City’s purchase of the David Avenue School site; the second
(Measure D) is a measure to require voter authorization to rezone
any properties presently zoned unclassified or open space; and

WHEREAS, said candidacies for said respective offices and
said measures were submitted to the qualified electors of said
City at said general municipal election, and the returns from all
of the consolidated election precincts regularly established for
holding said election have been duly received by this Council in
the form of a document entitled "Certification of Statement of
Votes Cast at the General Election Held Throughout the County of
Monterey, November 4,	1986," consisting of three (3) pages,

attached hereto, marked Exhibit A, and incorporated herein by
this reference; and

WHEREAS, this Council, pursuant to law and the Charter of
said City has met on Tuesday, this 11th day of November, 1986, in
the Council Chambers at the City Hall of said City to canvass the
returns and to declare the results of the election; and

WHEREAS, this Council then and there, in public proceeded
to, and did canvas the returns of the election, according to law
and the Charter of the City; and

WHEREAS, it appearing to this Council that all absent voter
ballots issued have been received and returned and accounted for,
and the Council, as the canvassing board of the City, having
canvassed the returns from all voting precincts, including the
absent voter ballots, has determined the results of the general
municipal election;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PACIFIC GROVE
DOES RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed
to enter upon the records of this Counc i1 a st atement of the
results of the November 4th, 1986, general municipal election,
which is hereby declared to be as follows:

The total number of votes cast at the general municipal
election in each of said voting precincts, and in all of said





steaisseya'.

Resolution No* 5779

Page 2 of 2

City, the total number of absent voter ballots cast at the
election, and the total number of votes cast at the election, and
the names of the persons voted for, the offices to fill for which
each person was voted, the measures voted upon and their
designated titles, the number of votes given at the election in
each of said precincts, and by absent voter ballot, and in the
whole of the City, to each of said persons and measures is as set
out in Exhibit A.

SECTION 2. Morris G. Fisher, a duly qualified person,
having received the highest number of votes cast at said election
for mayor, is hereby declared elected Mayor of the City of
Pacific Grove for the full term of two years.

SECTION 3. Bob Russell, Robert H. "Bud" Nunn and David J.
Eaton, each a duly qualified person, having received the highest
number of votes cast at said election for councilmember, full
term, are hereby declared elected Councilmembers of the City for
the full term of four years each.

SECTION 4. Measure C, having not received a 2/3 affirmative
("yes") vote of the electorate voting in the election, hereby is
declared to have been defeated.

SECTION 5. Measure D, having received a majority of
affirmative ("yes") votes of the electorate voting in the
election, hereby is declared to have been approved.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PACIFIC
GROVE this 11th day of November______,	1986, by the following

vote:

AYES: Eaton, Fisher, Gasperson, Hughes, Russell, Whitman, Williams
NOES: None
ABSENT:	None

APPROVED:

ATTEST:

“FRED SMITH”, City Clerk
APPROVED:

GEORGE C. THACHER, "CTty Attorney

th'

Monterey

County

California

[Wi

J85Q.



3 .'«$

Ilf

\“Jk-





■iicc

Sample Ballot

& Voter Information Pamphlet

GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1986



i®

I.

AVISO IMPORTANTE

Una traduccion a I Espanol de esta Muestra de Baiota y Panfleto Informative al Votante puede
obtenerse completando y regresando la tarjeta de solicited (porte postal pagado) que se ie propor-
ciona en la cubierta de atras de este panfleto. Escriba su nombre y direccion con letra de molde y
enviela por correo !o mas tarde una semana antes del Dia de Eleccion.

| THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE AND AN ABSENT VOTER’S
BALLOT APPLICATION ARE PROVIDED ON THE BACK COVER

will :V§Slf |jSi;	i



111

27FC-69354

n fc

CITY OF PACIFIC w k
PROPOSED BONDED INDEBTEDNESS ANQ SPECIAL TAX LEVY
MEASURE C

CITY OF PACIFIC GROVE, COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 1 (DAVID
AVENUE PARK PROGRAM.) AUTHORIZATION TO INCUR GONDED INDEBTED-
NESS AND AUTHORIZATION FOR SPECIAL TAX LEVY

RATE AND METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT OF SPECIAL TAX
PUBLIC CAPITAL FACILITIES
The tax rate shall not exceed $31.00 per year per residential dwelling unit, said tax
to be payable until all bonds are discharged.

SERVICES

An annual special tax for services, including operation and maintenance, for each year
shall not exceed $4.00 per residential dwelling unit, subject to annual review and increases
as indexed by the Consumer Price Index.

No special tax for capita! facilities, bonded Indebtedness or services shall be levied
on any property other than a residential dwelling unit. A “residential dwelling unit" is
defined as any building or portion thereof, including mobilehomes, which contain living
facilities, including provisions for sleeping, cooking and sanitation as required lor not more
than one (1) family,

27-203C.1E

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE C

The City Council of the City of Pacific Grove has formed the Community Facilities District
No. 1 {David Avenue Park Program) pursuant to the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act
of 1982 (“Act").

A Community Facilities District is established (or the purpose of carrying on specific
activities within a definite area of service. The specific activities proposed for this District
are the financing of park and recreation facilities and the maintenance and operation of
such facilities on the westerly portion of the David Avenue School site. No other facilities
or services are authorized.

The City Council has also declared the necessity to incur a bonded indebtedness not
to exceed $2,800,000, to pay for the proposed public facilities. The total amount of the
bonds actually issued may be less than this amount.

Any bonds issued shall be serial bonds and generally mature over a 25 year period.
The bonds may be issued in differing series, at differing times, at a maximum interest
rate not to exceed the greater of either 12% per annum or the maximum legal rate at
the time of bond sale.

The City Council has also proposed the levy of a special tax within the District
boundaries which are coterminous with the City boundaries, to pay for the public facilities
directly or pay debt service on the bonds. A separate special tax is proposed to pay
for operation and maintenance of the public facilities. The proposed rate and method of
apportionment of the special taxes is set forth in the ballot measure. The annual levy
of the special tax may not exceed the rate set forth in the ballot measure; however,
the special tax may be levied at a lower rate.

The public facilities portion of the special tax proceeds may only be used to pay tor
either the direct costs of the public facilities or debt service for the ponds. The special
tax may be levied no longer than necessary to pay tor either the direct costs or debt
service on the bonds. The bonds, if issued, will not be secured by any taxing power
or funds of the City, although contributions from lawful sources may be used in certain
cases.

Approval of Measure C must occur before the issuance of any bonds or the levy of
special taxes. To approve Measure C, 2/3rds of the vote cast must be cast in favor
of the bonded indebtedness and special tax levy. In this District the vote will be by
registered voters.

Approval of Measure C will not obligate the City to construct the public facilities, issue
bonds, or levy special taxes. Approval will grant the power and authorization to the City
to undertake the project upon completion of additional actions.

Approval of Measure C will also establish the appropriations limit tor the special taxes
utilized for operation and maintenance at $31,000 per annum, subject to adjustment for
changes in cost of living and population.

(For further information, the voter is referred to the “Bond issue Statement" regarding
Measure C, included with the sample ballot.)

Si George C. Thacher
City Attorney

27-203C.3E

MEASURE C
BONO ISSUE STATEMENT

As shown on the enclosed official ballot, an election is being conducted pertaining to
the proposed issuance of bonds for a Community Facilities Oistrict formed pursuant to
hie "Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act ot 1982", said Community Facilities District
known and designated as COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 1 (DAVID AVENUE PARK
PROGRAM) (hereinafter referred to as the “District").

This election will be conducted on the 4th day of November, 1986, at which time the
qualified voters of the District shall be asked whether or not the District shall incur a
bonded indebtedness in an amount not to exceed $2,800,000.00 in 1986 dollars to
finance the construction, expansion, rehabilitation or purchase of certain public capital
park and recreational facilities as specified in the ballot proposition. The rate of interest
on said bonds shall not exceed twelve percent (12%) per annum or the maximum rate
permitted by law at the time of sale of any of the bonds.

If such bonds are authorized and sold, the principal of and interest on the bonds will
be payable from the proceeds of special tax levies, which are described in the ballot
proposition.

The best estimate from official sources of the tax rate which would be required to be
levied to fund the bond issue during the first fiscal year after the first sale of bonds
is as follows:

Public Capita! Facilities, Special Tax Rate - Not to exceed $31.00 per year per
residential dwelling unit.

Services, Special Tax Rate •- Not to exceed $4,00 per year per residential dwelling
unit, subject to adjustment for inflation as determined by the Consumer Price Index.
The best estimate from official sources of the tax rale which would be required to be
levied to fund that bond issue during the first fiscal year after the last sale of bonds
is as follows:

Public Capital Facilities, Special Tax Rate - Not to exceed $31.00 per year per
residential dwelling unit.

Services, Special Tax Rate - Not to exceed $4.00 per year per residential dwelling
unit, subject to adjustment for inflation as determined by the Consumer Price Index.
The best estimate from official sources of the highest tax rate which would be required
to be levied to fund the bond issue is as follows:

Public Capital Facilities, Special Tax Rate ■* Not to exceed $31.00 per year per
residential dwelling unit.

Services, Special Tax Rate - Not to exceed $4.00 per year per residential dwelling
unit, subject to adjustment for inflation as determined by the Consumer Price Index,
inasmuch as the timing of the issuance of bonds and the actual rate of the special
tax necessary to secure the bonded indebtedness is dependent upon development within
the District, no estimates are available as to the year in which the highest tax rate will
apply.

27-2G3C.4E

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

City purchase will guarantee the 7.2 acres of land at David Avenue School will remain
a recreational area for our citizens, especially our children. Measure "C" makes this
possible.

For a maximum cost of up to $35 (very possibly less) per dwelling unit, per year (based
upon the final appraisal and the availability of state and other funds for parklands), we
can preserve open space for future generations, as our predecessors have done for us
with our oceanfront.

If we do not purchase the property, and the zoning remains "U", the following still could
be built: public and civic buildings or school use of an expanded nature. In other words,
development could take place and a potential park area would be tost permanently.

The voters of Pacific Grove have an unusual two-fold opportunity to not only prevent
loss of open space, but also to insure that our school district has adequate funds to
provide for quality education.

This land, originally a gift to the school district from Del Monte Properties, is used for
Little league baseball and soccer practice. Well-trodden walking paths run under stands
of ancient oaks and pines, and it is the home of a multitude of wildlife. It is the possible
future site of a swimming pool and a home for Pacific Grove's scout troops.

As open space of the peninsula is eliminated, the quality of life we have taken for
granted is severely affected by increased traffic, the elimination ot wildlife habitat with
die lessening of the natural forest, and higher total density.

We urge you to vote for Measure “C" for parkland and continue our community's
commitment to preserving our unique environment.

s/ Morris Fisher, Counciimember
s/ Bob Russell, Counciimember
s/ Teresa Welle, PGUSO Board Member
si Hefaine Clark, Vice President

Concerned Neighbors of Del Monte Park
si Hank Heitbron, PGUSO Board

27-2G3C.5E

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

27-56