MICROFILM LOCATION

File 06742
June 24, 1986

JU

County of

Agenda Item

DATE:	June	24,	1986

TU:	Hoard of Supervisors

FKUM:	Richard D. Melton, Director c

Public Works & Development Services Department

SUBJECT; Report on Road Financing and Policy Guidelines on the Road Fund

KECUWbHUATlOH

Receive the subject report, consider proposed program guidelines, and
provide policy direction on issues presented.

FISCAL IMPACT

No fiscal impact for fiscal year 1986-87. A need for additional funding is
projected for fiscal year 1989-90 in order to maintain a constant level of
service for the preventative maintenance program.

DISCUSSION

The purpose of the report is to provide your Board with information on the
sources of revenues for the Road Fund and to describe the effect that our
projected reduced revenues and increased expenses will have on the road
program. The expenditure plan for these revenues will be described and the
future direction on the use of revenues to retain a preventative maintenance
program will be presented for your consideration as a policy issue.

A number of proposed guidelines and issues are contained in the report for
Board consideration. These issues can be discussed to assist your Board in
a policy determination on our program or revenue.

Program

RDM;LJ:jp

04101

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE REVIEW Q£
BOARD ACTION: DATE_____6/ 24/86



OTHER_____XX.

Pago_____l— of™.

APPROVED AS RECOMMENDED

HELD.

UNANIMOUS

ANDREEN______CONRAD.

KOLIGIAN

LEVY

RAMACHER.



County of

InterOffke Memo



I



DATE:	June 17, 1986

TO:	Board of Supervisors

FROM:	Richard D. Welton, Director

Public Works & Development Services Department ^

SUBJECT: Advance Agenda Material

Report on Road Financing and the Road Fund Program

The attached report Is submitted for your review prior to the scheduled Board
meeting for June 24, 1986, at which time a verbal report will be presented
covering the issues outlined in the subject report.

RDW:LJ:jp
04111

Attachment

cc: Bruce Spaulding, CAO

FC-1B 11/82)

GUARD OF SUPERVISORS - COUNTY OF FRESNO
REPORT OR RUAD FINANCING ARD
POLICY GUI0EL1KES OH THE ROAO FUND PROGRAM
JURE 24, 1986
PUBLIC WORKS & DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT

SUMMARY OF ISSUES

L

t

1. The need for additional funding continues to grow as current funding
levels still leave a $5.0 million annual shortfall for maintenance and a
present day need to reconstruct 750 miles of deficient roads that will
take 100 years to complete at current funding levels.

2.	The revenue sources for road maintenance and Improvements are steady to
slightly declining while costs continue to increase. This fact is
curtailing our road construction program in order to meet the most
pressing need of presentative maintenance and on-going operations.

b

3.	The focus to establish the level of service must keep the current	j

investment in the road system and the motorist in mind. Our main	i

objective for the use of road funds will therefore be used to provide safe	I

roadways through normal maintenance activities and to maintain a pavement	;

sealing and resurfacing program to prolong the life of the highways.

4.	A diminishing road construction program will result due to static revenue	j

projections and the need to retain the level of service for maintenance

and operations. This will result in a reduction of engineering/technician
positions allocated to this program.

5.	The ability to provide new or expanded levels of service will only be	•

possible with adjustments to other programs under current funding
projections. Existing procedures to Improve the cost effectiveness will

be pursued by the Department.

6. New and additional sources of revenue should be considered for the road
program. Consideration for local funding for road purposes seems
necessary as additional funds from the State and Federal level will be
more difficult to obtain.

RDW:LJ:jp

04191

I

»<•

i*

\

v

/

J

BOARD OF SUPERVISORS - COUNTY OF FRESNO
REPORT ON ROAD FINANCING AND
POLICY GUIDELINES ON THE ROAD FUND PROGRAM
JUNE 24, 1986
PUBLIC WORKS & DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT

GENERAL

The purpose of this workshop Is to review the sources of road revenues,
describe the expenditure plan for these revenues, and discuss the effect that
the expected reduced revenue will have on the road maintenance and Improvement
program currently and in the future.

RUAU SYSTEM NEEUS

The source of road revenues comes primarily from vehicular generated use taxes
and fees. The major sources are Federal aid. State Gas Tax, State Sales Tax,
In-lieu Fees, traffic fines, and Federal Forest fees. Charts describing these
revenue sources and their use are attached for your reference. In fiscal
years 1986-86 and 1986-87, SB 300 provided an additional source of funds.

The expenditure of road funds falls into four major categories: (1) general
road maintenance, (2) preventative maintenance and resurfacing, (3) traffic
signing ana striping, and (4) road reconstruction and rehabilitation.
Inflation and revenue stagnation has curtailed our ability to improve and
maintain the road construction activities at the same level as years past.

The County has about 750 miles of roads In need of reconstruction now. The
current funding will accommodate approximately 7 to 8 miles of reconstruction
per year. At this rate, it will take 100 years to meet the road construction
needs. Since a reconstructed road has a useful structural design life of 20
years, funding, in addition to that needed for reconstruction, will be
necessary for preventative maintenance for pavement overlays. A recent
estimate of our road maintenance shortfall, in addition to our reconstruction
needs, is over $>5 million annually for the balance of the 3,650 mile road
system.

The County Maintained Road System consists of 3,650 miles of which 634 miles
are Federal Aid Secondary (FAS) and 125 miles are Federal Aid Urban (FAU).
Also, there are 576 bridges within the maintained system of which 130 are
timber structures constructed prior to 1940. These timber bridges are either
functionally obsolete or structurally inadequate for today's traffic loads. A
Road and Traffic Evaluation Study (RATE) is conducted every five years to
develop a comparative evaluation of each road section in the maintained system
and from this evaluation a list of roads in greatest need of construction is
developed. The Road Improvement Program (RIP) which is a five-year program Is
developed from this list. The implementation of this five-year program cannot
be completed in five years based on current funding projections and the need
to retain a minimum level of road maintenance.

i-

•	FAS funds of $1.2 million for FY 1986-87 should remain constant

Federal funds are provided for the Federal Aid Secondary (FAS), Federal Aid
Urban (FAU), and Federal Highway Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement (FHBRR)
programs. FAS funos have been consistent over the previous years at
$1,200,000 and are expected to remain at this amount through 1990 based on
proposed authorizations In the Federal Highway Act of 1986.

•	FAU funds will be allocated to the cities

FAU funds in an annual amount of $1,500,000 are allocated to projects In the
Fresno-Clovis Urbanized Area. Row that the City of Fresno has reached a
population of 200,000, they are entitled to 65% of this allocation. Current
and future projects in the Fresno-Clovis area are within the cities of Fresno
and Clovis. FAU funds for urban roads under the County's jurisdiction are not
expected in the near future. Herndon Avenue, Villa to State Highway 168, was
the last County project using FAU funds; however, County staff is performing
design and construction engineering on two FAU projects for the City of
Clovis: Ashlan Avenue, Winery to Minnewawa, and Villa Avenue, Shaw to
Herndon.	The City of Clovis is requesting certification from Caltrans to

perform their own design and construction engineering which will reduce the
services required by our engineering staff.

0 FHbRK funds of $0.4 million for FY 1986-87 are allocated by a statewide
project priority system

FHBRK funds are allocated to cities and counties for bridge replacement based
on a statewide priority system monitored by Caltrans. In Fiscal Year 1984-85,
the County was allocated about $1.4 million for four bridges including the Big
Creek Bridge on Huntington Lake Road. This year only $400,000 for two bridges
has been approved and next year we expect one bridge to be approved for
$200,000. Since the statewide funds for this program are constant each year,
the possibility of future funds for the near term are remote as Fresno County
projects on the priority list are too far down the list to be allocated any
funds.

a Federal Forest funds of $0.7 million for FY 1986-87 should hold steady

Federal Forest Reserve funds are used by the Department for road maintenance
and can vary from year to year depending primarily on timber sales. In recent
years, the funds from this source have remained constant at the $700,000 level
and we expect this trend to continue.

•	Traffic fines funds of $1.8 million for FY 1986-87 should remain as a
dependable source

Revenues from traffic fines collected within the County are placed in the Road
Fund and used for road maintenance. This has been a constant source of funds
ana they have increased about $100,000 each year. In fiscal year 1986-87, we
expect to receive $1,778,000.

2

•	In-1 feu Tax funds of $3.4 million for FY 1986-87 are allocated by the Board
based on needs

A portion of the Motor Vehicle license Fee (In-lieu Tax) funds are allocated
to the Hoad Fund by your Board of Supervisors and are used for road
maintenance purposes. In recent years about 30% of the total in-lieu funds,
or about $3.4 million, have been allocated to the Road Fund. An evaluation of
the needs of the Road Fund Is conducted annually and compared with the needs
of the balance of the County. These funding needs are matched to the
anticipated in-lieu tax funds and the allocation is established In the County
Administrative Office's Recommended Budget.

9 LTF funds of $2.1 million for FY 1986-87 are declining due to Increased
transit needs and a population reduction In the unincorporated area

The Sales Tax revenues (SB 325) are collected under the Transportation
Development Act (TDA) and distributed to the cities and counties through the
Local Transportation Fund (LTF) and the State Transit Assistance (STA). These
funds can only be used for roads after there is a determination made that "no
unmet public transit needs which can reasonably be met." These funds are
processed through the Council of Fresno County Governments (COFCG). The Road
Fund received approximately $2.1 million last year after contributing $1.2
million of LTF and STA funds to Fresno City Transit, Fresno County Rural
Transit, and Consolidated Transit Authority. These funds are used by the
County for road reconstruction and resurfacing. Hhile this has been a
consistent source of funds for the County Road Fund, the amount Is
decreasing. The reason for the decrease is that funds are allocated on the
basis of population and the population In the unincorporated area Is
decreasing with respect to the cities In the County. Exhibit B, which
displays those population relationships, depicts a 26% population Increase for
the cities of Fresno and Clovis while the County unincorporated area has
experienced a 15% decrease In population since 1980.

•	STA funds of $0.2 million for FY 1986-87 may be lost due to State
reallocation of funds

A recent development at the State level was a proposal by the Governor to
eliminate the $110 million allocation for the STA since revenues for sales tax
on gas will not reach the minimum amount required for State use and this will
result in a $210,000 loss to the County Road Fund. The minimum revenues are
not being generated due to the current low price of gasoline. The ripple
effect of this action is that this loss of funds will reduce our ability to
meet the base year expenditure requirements in order to receive additional
funds under SB 300. Due to the maintenance of effort provision in SB 300, the
County must spend funds from other sources to match the base year's
expenditures for maintenance before SB 300 funds can be claimed.

•	Gas Tax funds of $6.4 million for FY 1986-87 are a continuing source but
Fresno County's share is declining

Motor Vehicle Fuel Taxes (Sections 2104 and 2106) are derived from a per
gallon tax on gasoline. Under Section 2104, 2.035 cents per gallon of gas is
collected and under Section 2106, 1.05 cents per gallon of gas Is collected.
Revenues from this source are dependable, however, they are diminishing each

year. An amount of $6,430,000 is expected next fiscal year based on
projections provided by the State Controller's Office. These funds are used

3

for road maintenance and operations. The funds from 2104 and 2106 are
attributed on the basis of vehicle registration In the counties vs. statewide
vehicle registration. Additionally, 2106 funds are distributed within the
County on the basis of assessed valuation within cities and the unincorporated
county. On both these fronts, the County is losing ground.

EXPEHDITUKE PLAN

The expenditure plan can be categorized In three major areas: maintenance and
operations, construction, and engineering services and administration.
Exhibit C depicts that funds allocateo to maintenance are steadily Increasing
at the expense of construction funds while other services remain constant.

Maintenance and Operations: Funds are used primarily for providing safe
highways For the motorist through daily maintenance activities such as
patching, major repairs, shoulder work, drainage control, pavement striping,
and sign repair. The level of service for those activities has remained
constant; however, the funds allocated have steadily Increased In order to
maintain this service level. The increased funding Is the result of
inflationary costs of materials and equipment along with labor wages. These
road maintenance activities are critical from a safety standpoint and are
necessary to keep the problem of liability under control.

Another expenditure area for Maintenance & Operations Is for preventative
maintenance. This activity consists primarily of pavement seals and overlays
placed by County crews as well as chip seals and A.C. overlays placed under
contract. These activities are extremely important in order to protect the
millions of dollars and hundreds of miles of road previously improved.
Deferring maintenance on these roads will result in more costly repairs or
even reconstruction if preventative maintenance is not implemented timely.
The cost to keep an effective preventative maintenance program continues to
rise. Exhibit D depicts the increasing cost per mile to construct various
pavement seals and overlays. While a reduced cost for A.C. overlays occurred
this year due to sharply reduced oil prices, the overall trend is increasing.
In addition to rising costs there is a need to perform more preventative
maintenance each year due to passing of time and Increased traffic volume and
loads. Every new dollar received is channeled into the preventative
maintenance program. The two year limited allocation of SB 300 funds, as an
example, were used to increase the number of miles of pavement seals and
overlays.

Construction:	Funds	available for road construcion and major improvements

have declined to the point that reconstruction by County forces will no longer
be performed. Tne effect of static funding and increasing costs is depicted
in Exhibit E showing miles of road constructed per year. Road improvements by
County forces will be limited to minor grading and pavement surface remix.
Approximately 6% of the road maintenance funds ($676,000) will be used on this
program to Improve six miles of road.

Koad and bridge construction by contract is also on the decline. Exhibit F
shows projects in the Road Improvement Program (RIP) as originally scheduled
for construction in 1984 will have to be rescheduled as shown based on current
cost trends and revenue projections. The 1984-89 RIP originally projected the
construction of 72 miles, however, our projections now are that only 40 miles

will be constructed within this five year period.

4

T







If

/

i

This year's contract construction program includes $3.6 million of SB 300
funds which must he spent on pavement maintenance, resurfacing and
rehabilitation. These funus will be used to seal and overlay 290 miles of
road. This Is a special allocation by the state and amounts to 3756 of our
$9.7 million construction program in fiscal year 1986-87. In fiscal year
1987-88, the construction program will be $6.1 million or less if costs
continue to rise.

The near term outlook for the road construction program is that only FAS funds
will be available for new construction. This allocation of $1.2 million per
year will fund the construction of only 3 to 4 miles of road. Exhibit 6 shows
the increasing cost required to construct a mile of road. It is anticipated
that all other road revenues will be needed to fund the maintenance program.

Engineering Services and Administration; Funds allocated for engineering
services to perform transportation planning and programming, review and
process private development projects, respond to traffic service requests,
issue permits, and inspect work performed by permit, as well as the overall
administration of the Uepartment, have remained constant.

STAFFING AND PRUGRAft)

The above reduction in the road construction program along with the loss of
funds for other construction programs such as Federal Aid Urban and Community
Development will affect our staff performing engineering services. Eight
positions in the engineering/technician series are vacant at this time. It is
anticipated that these positions will not be filled and that additional
positions may be affected by the decline in the road construction program. A
more detailed review of staffing needs will be conducted during the final
review of the Road Fund Budget. A reduction In staff will reduce our ability
to perform engineering services on federally funded projects requested by the
cities in the County and will require a greater reliance on consultant
services to handle unscheduled projects and projects requiring special
services.

The 1986-87 road improvement program will consist of 14 construction contracts
and the design of 16 road and bridge projects performed by County staff.
Consultant services will be necessary for foundation studies on two bridge
projects. Six projects for Parks & Recreation funded by the State Bond Act
will be designed and inspected by County personnel.

The Community Development Block Grant Projects will consist of 21 projects
designed and inspected by consulting engineers for the cities and 7 projects
for districts and the County, of which 4 will be administered by County staff
ana 3 by consulting engineers.

Tne work distribution to consulting engineers and the proposed reduction In
County engineering staff described above should meet the Intent of the
Resolution for Utilization of Consulting Engineers which is supported by our
Department. In addition to projects requiring civil engineering services, six
projects will require consultant architect services.

5



!•

Tfie Department has implemented a number of ideas to either reduce costs or
extend service life- Pavement recycling has been used on four road contracts
over the past two years. The last project was on Kt. Khitney Avenue near
Kiverdale in which over 150,ObO in cost savings were realized using recycling
in lieu of conventional construction. A careful analysis of the traffic paint
used for painting centerlines was made to establish specifications to obtain a
higher quality paint wnich will last longer and therefore reduce frequency of
repainting. A program to construct pavement seals within a few years after
reconstruction will result in an extended pavement life as the pavement will
be protected from the destructive elements of weather.

KuAUS ADDED TO MAINTAINED SYSTEM

The number of new roads added to the maintained system has not created a major
burden on our maintenance program. Exhibit H shows the change In the
maintained mileage. Annually, only 3 or 4 miles of road have been added while
10 to 15 miles have been lost due to annexation over the past few years. As
long as new roads are constructed to County Public Road Standards, the first
ten years' cost will be minimal. Funds generated by vehicle fuel taxes
provide a major offset to the annualized maintenance costs for new roads.
This obviously is not true for roads constructed to private road standards or
existing County maintained roaas which have not been reconstructed to current
structural requirements. In addition, new roads usually Increase the value of
adjacent land with the attendant development and this results in improving the
County property tax base.

PROPOSED PROGRAM GU1UELINES

The following guidelines are suggested to your Board which may be used to
provide direction for the Department to implement the Road Fund program and to
seek policy on issues of funding ana service levels.

1.	Continue to pursue a road program which emphasizes safety related
maintenance activities and a preventative maintenance effort using
pavement seals and overlays. This effort will reduce or at least keep our
liability exposure to a manageable level.

2.	Limit the County's road Improvements near a city's jurisdiction to only
those projects that are safety related and insert provisions in joint
project agreements requiring cities to fund the project If annexation
precedes completion of the project. This is consistent with the County's
urban development referral policy and the thinking that cities should
provide urban services.

3.	Support legislation that would develop a funding formula to increase fixed
dollar allocations based on the agencies' maintained mileage. When
Section 2104 of the Streets & Highways Code was enacted in 1947, 20% of
the revenues were distributed on a dollar amount for each mile of road to
provide a minimum service level. Today, even though total revenues have
increased, the amount apportioned on the basis of mileage is less than 4%
of the revenues and this amount does not begin to fund the minimum
services level at today's costs. The San Joaquin Valley counties have
taken a position that 25% of the revenues from this gas tax should be
distributed on the basis of mileage.

6

4.	Support the Department's position that the joint use between the County
and the adjacent property owner of the dirt shoulder area within the road
right of way can be beneficial. However, when uses by the owner result In
an unsafe condition for the motorist or cause damages, the owner will be
held responsible to pay for the corrective action.

5.	Consider	establishing a	set back ordinance	that would require farming

operations such as plantings, irrigation furrows, plowing and discing,
etc. to be performeo off the road right of way. Currently there are a
number of locations where plantings are on the right of way line with
plowing and Irrigation taking place on the road right of way. This
orulnance would result in a reduction of damage to the edge of the
pavement and dirt shoulder and reduce our liability exposure for unsafe
roadway conditions.

6.	Recognizing the constant decline In revenues, support the Department's

position	that the level	of service provided	cannot be expanded and that

requests	for increasing	service levels such	as snow removal, centerline

striping, roadside weed control, neighborhood drainage problems, etc. can
only be based on its safety merits until additional funding can be
developed.

7.	Support	future legislation for increased	funding for County road

maintenance and construction at the state and federal levels. From time
to time new bills are proposed to fund State Highways and the Federal
Interstate System. When this occurs, funding for local roads should also
be considered.

8.	Consider support for the local 1/2% Sales Tax for Transportation should
this measure be put to the voters of Fresno County, Even though a
majority of the revenues generated from this tax will fund State Highways
in Fresno County, this will help by relieving the Increasing traffic
burden on the County road system. Additionally, 25% of the tax will be
allocated to local roads with Fresno County expected to receive
approximately $2.5 million annually.

I0:jp

04011

6/19/86

7

Separation Fund	Commission	(PUC)	only	Priority	established by State PUC.

allocation based	Projects	must conpete on State-wide

on each project	basis.	State projects are also

cost	eligible.	County	share	= 10*.

Railroad share = 10*.

RDW:lg

1170H

6-17-86

I

I

I

I

$

i

11

§ 111

Bill

3

tQ

X

A i

?

t

&

\ .y

/



J1IN U3dl$03

a

*



EXHIBIT G

Years	Total Maintained Mlleaae	Miles A By Devel
1980-81	3770	-
1981-82	3722	6.4
1982-83	3750	1.5
1983-84	3665	1.3
1984-85	3658	4.0
1985-86	3645	2.4

SN:dk

24860-21

EXHIBIT H

BOARD OF SUPERVISORS - COUNTY OF FRESNO
WUKKSHOP ON ROAO FINANCING AND
POLICY GUIDELINES ON THE ROAD FUND PROGRAM
JUNE 24, 1986
PUBLIC WORKS & DEVELOPMENT SERVICES DEPARTMENT

GENERAL

The purpose of this workshop Is to review the sources of road revenues,
describe the expenditure plan for these revenues, and discuss the effect that
the expected reduced revenue will have on the road maintenance and improvement
program currently and in the future.

The County has about 750 miles of roads in need of reconstruction now. The
current funding will accommodate approximately 7 to 8 miles of reconstruction
per year. At this rate, it will take 100 years to meet the road construction
needs. Since a reconstructed road has a useful structural design life of 20
years, funding, in addition to that needed for reconstruction, will be
necessary for preventative maintenance for pavement overlays. A recent
estimate of our road maintenance shortfall, in addition to our reconstruction
needs, is over $5 million annually for the balance of the 3,650 mile road
system.

The source of road revenues comes entirely from vehicular generated use taxes
and fees. The major sources are State Gas Tax, State Sales Tax, In-lieu Fees,
traffic fines, Federal forest fees, and Federal aid. Charts describing these
revenue sources and their use are attached for your reference. In fiscal
years 1985-8b and 1986-87, SB 300 provided an additional source of funds.

The expenditure of road funds falls into four major categories: general road
maintenance, preventative maintenance and resurfacing, traffic signing and
striping, and road reconstruction and rehabilitation. Inflation and revenue
stagnation has curtailed our ability to improve and maintain the road
construction activities at the same level as years past.

The County Maintained Road System consists of 3,650 miles of which 634 miles
are Federal Aid Secondary (FAS) and 125 miles are Federal Aid Urban (FAU),
Also, there are 576 bridges within the maintained system of which 130 are
timber structures constructed prior to 1940. These timber bridges are either
functionally obsolete or structurally inadequate for today's traffic loads. A
Road and Traffic Evaluation Study (RATE) is conducted every five years to
develop a comparative evaluation of each road section in the maintained system
and from this evaluation a list of roads in greatest need of construction is
developed. The Roaa Improvement Program (RIP) which Is a five-year program is
developed from this list. The implementation of this five-year program cannot
be completed in five years based on current funding projections and the need
to retain a minimum level of road maintenance.



Federal funds are provided for the Federal Aid Secondary (FAS)* Federal Aid
Urban (FAU), and Federal Highway Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement (FHBRR)
programs.	FAS funds have been consistent over the previous years	at

$),200,0U0 and are expected to remain at this amount through 1990 based on
proposed authorizations In the Federal Highway Act of 1986.

FAU funds in an annual amount of $1*590,000 are allocated to projects In the
Fresno-Clovis Urbanized Area. Wow that the City of Fresno has reached a
population of 200,000, they are entitled to 65% of this allocation. Current
and future projects In the Fresno-Clovis area are within the cities of Fresno
and Clovis. FAU funds for urban roads under the County*s jurisdiction are not
expected in the near future. Herndon Avenue, Villa to State Highway 168, was
the last County project using FAU funds; however, County staff is performing
design and construction engineering on two FAU projects for the City of
Clovis: Ashi an Avenue, Winery to Minnewawa, and Villa Avenue, Shaw to
Herndon.	The City of Clovis is requesting certification from Caltrans	to

perform their own design and construction engineering which will reduce the
services required by our engineering staff.

FHBRR funds are allocated to cities and counties for bridge replacement based
on a statewide priority system monitored by Caltrans. In Fiscal Year 1984-85,
the County was allocated about $1.4 million for four bridges Including the Big
Creek Bridge on Huntington Lake Road. This year only $400,000 for two bridges
has been approved and next year we expect one bridge to be approved for
$200,000. Since the statewide funds for this program are constant each year,
the possibility of future funds for the near term are remote as Fresno County
projects on the priority list are too far down the list to be allocated any
funds.

Federal Forest Reserve funds are used by the Department for road maintenance
and can vary from year to year depending primarily on timber sales. In recent
years, the funds from this source have remained constant at the $700,000 level
and we expect this trend to continue.

Revenues from traffic fines collected within the County are placed in the Road
Fund and used for road maintenance. This has been a constant source of funds
and they have increased about $100,000 each year. In fiscal year 1986-87, we
expect to receive $1,778,000.

A portion of the ln-lieu Tax funds are allocated to the Road Fund by your
Board of Supervisors and are used for road maintenance purposes. In recent
years about 30% of the total in-lieu funds, or about $3.4 million, have been
allocated to the Road Fund. A higher percentage has been allocated in the
past but due to the need to fund other County programs, a set dollar amount
has been established by the Board for the Road Fund. The amount of $3,425,000
approved in last year's budget is Included in the proposed budget for the Road
Fund.

2

/

Thu sales tax revenues are collected under the Transportation Development Act
(TUA) and distriouted to the cities and counties through the Local
Transportation Fund (LTF) and the State Transit Assistance (STA). These funds
can only be used for roads after there Is a determination made that "no unmet
public transit needs which can reasonably be met." These funds are processed
through the Council of Fresno County Governments (COFCG). The Road Fund
received approximately $2.1 million last year after contributing $1.2 mil lion
of LTF and STA funds to Fresno City Transit, Fresno County Rural Transit, and
Consolidated Transit Authority. These funds are used by the County for road
reconstruction and resurfacing. While this has been a consistent source of
funds for the County Road Fund, the amount is decreasing. The reason for the
decrease is that funds are allocated on the basis of population and the
population in the unincorporated area is decreasing with respect to the cities
in the County. Exhibit B, which displays those population relationships,
depicts a 26% population Increase for the cities of Fresno and Clovis while
the County unincorporated area has experienced a 15% decrease in population
since 1980.

A recent development at the State level was a proposal by the Governor to
eliminate the $110 million allocation for the STA since revenues for sales tax
on gas will not reach the minimum amount required for State use and this will
result in a $210,000 loss to the County Road Fund. The minimum revenues are
not being generated due to the current low price of gasoline. The ripple
effect of this action is that this loss of funds will reduce our ability to
meet the base year expenditure requirements in order to receive additional
funds under SB 300.

Motor Vehicle Fuel Taxes (Sections 2104 and 2106) are derived from a per
gallon tax on gasoline. Under Section 2104, 2.035 cents per gallon of gas is
collected and under Section 2106, 1.05 cents per gallon of gas is collected.
Revenues from this source are dependable, however, they are diminishing each
year. An amount of $6,430,000 is expected next fiscal year based on
projections provided by the State Controller's Office. These funds are used
for road maintenance and operations. The funds from 2104 and 2106 are
distributed on the basis of vehicle registration in the counties vs. statewide
vehicle registration. Additionally, 2106 funds are distributed within the
County on the basis of assessed valuation within cities and the unincorporated
county. On both these fronts, the County is losing ground.

EXPENDITURE PLAN

The expenditure plan can be identified In three major areas:	maintenance	and

operations, construction, and engineering services administration. Exhibit C
will depict that funds allocated to maintenance are steadily increasing at the
expense of construction funds while other services remain constant.

Maintenance and operations funds are used primarily for providing safe
highways for the motorist through daily maintenance activities such as
patching, major repairs, shoulder work, drainage control, pavement striping,
and sign repair.	The level of service for those activities has remained

constant; however, the funds allocated have steadily Increased in order to
maintain this service level. The Increased funding is the result of
Inflationary costs of materials ana equipment along with labor wages. These
road maintenance activities are critical from a safety standpoint and are

necessary to keep the problem of liability under control.

3

i-

The next major expenditure of funds is for preventative maintenance. This
activity consists primarily of pavement seals and overlays placed by County
crews as well as chip seals and A.C. overlays placed under contract. These
activities are extremely important in order to protect the millions of dollars
and hundreds of miles of road previously improved. Deferring maintenance on
these roads will result in more costly repairs or even reconstruction If
preventative maintenance Is not implemented timely. The cost to keep an
effective preventative maintenance program continues to rise. Exhibit D
depicts the increasing cost per mile to construct various pavement seals and
overlays. While a reduced cost for A.C. overlays occurred this year due to
sharply reduced oil prices, the overall trend is increasing. In addition to
rising costs there is a need to perform more preventative maintenance each
year due to passing of time ana increased traffic volume and loads. Every new
dollar received is channeled into the preventative maintenance program. The
two year limited allocation of SB 300 funds, as an example, were used to
Increase the number of miles of pavement seals and overlays.

Funds available for road construclon and major Improvements have declined to
the point that reconstruction by County forces will no longer be performed.
The effect of static funding and Increasing costs is depicted in Exhibit E
showing miles of road constructed per year.	Road improvements by County

forces will	be limited	to minor grading	and pavement	surface remix.

Approximately 6% of the road maintenance funds ($676,000) will be used on this
program to improve six miles of road.

Road and bridge construction by contract is also on the decline. Exhibit F
shows projects in the Road Improvement Program (RIP) as originally scheduled
for construction in 1984 will have to be rescheduled as shown based on current
cost trends and revenue projections. The 1984-89 RIP originally projected the
construction of 72 miles, however, our projections now are that only 40 miles
will be constructed within this five year period.

This year’s contract construction program includes $3.6 million of SB 300
funds which	must be spent on	pavement	maintenance,	resurfacing and

rehabilitation. These funds will be used to seal and overlay 290 miles of
road. This is a special allocation by the state and amounts to 37% of our
$9.7 million	construction	program	in fiscal	year 1986-87.	In fiscal year

1987-88, the	construction	program	will be $6.1 million or	less If costs

continue to rise.

The near term outlook for the road construction program is that only FAS funds
will be available for new construction. This allocation of $1.2 million per
year will fund the construction of only 3 to 4 miles of road. Exhibit G shows
the increasing cost required to construct a mile of road. It Is anticipated
that all other road revenues will be needed to fund the maintenance program.

STAFFIHG m PROGRAM

The above reduction in the road construction program along with the loss of
funds for other construction programs such as Federal Aid Urban and Community
Development will affect our staff performing engineering services. Currently
six positions in the engineering/technician series will be deleted. As the
construction program continues to decline, five additional positions will be
deleted by the end of this year. This reduction In staff will reduce our

ability to perform engineering services on federally funded projects requested
by the cities In the County and will require a greater reliance on consultant
services to handle unscheduled projects and projects requiring special services.

4

The 19Bb-87 road Improvement program will consist of 14 construction contracts
and the design of lb road and bridge projects performed by County staff*
Consultant services will be necessary for foundation studies on two bridge
projects- Six projects for Parks & Recreation funded by the State Bond Act
will be designed and inspected by County personnel.

The tanunlty Development Block Grant Projects will consist of 21 projects
designed and Inspected by consulting engineers for the cities and 7 projects
for districts and the County, of which 4 will be administered by County staff
and 3 by consulting engineers.

The work distribution to consulting engineers and the proposed reduction In
County engineering staff described above should meet the intent of the
Resolution for Utilization of Consulting Engineers which Is supported by our
Department. In addition to projects requiring civil engineering services, six
projects will require consultant architect services.

The Department has implemented a number of ideas to either reduce costs or
extend service life. Pavement recycling has been used on four road contracts
over the past two years. The last project was on Mt. Whitney Avenue near
Kiverdale in which over $50,000 In cost savings were realized using recycling
In lieu of conventional construction. A careful analysis of the traffic paint
used for painting centerlines was made to establish specifications to obtain a
higher quality paint which will last longer and therefore reduce frequency of
repainting. A program to construct pavement seals within a few years after
reconstruction will result in an extended pavement life as the pavement will
be protected from the destructive elements of weather.

ROADS ADDED TO MAINTAINED SYSTEM

The number of new roads added to the maintained system has not created a major
burden on our maintenance program. Exhibit H shows the change in the
maintained mileage. As long as new roads are constructed to County Public
Road Standards, the first ten years' cost will be minimal. Funds generated by
vehicle fuel taxes provide a major offset to the annualized maintenance costs
for new roads. This obviously is not true for roads constructed to private
road standards or existing County maintained roads which have not been
reconstructed to current structural requirements. In addition, new roads
usually increase the value of adjacent land with the attendant development and
this results in improving the County property tax base.

PROPOSED PROGRAM GUIDELINES

1.	Continue to pursue a road program which emphasizes safety related
maintenance activities and a preventative maintenance effort using
pavement seals and overlays. This effort will reduce or at least keep our
liability exposure to a manageable level.

2.	Limit the County's road improvements near a city's jurisdiction to only
those projects that are safety related and insert provisions in joint
project agreements requiring cities to fund the project if annexation
precedes completion of the project. This is consistent with the County's
urban development referral policy and the thinking that cities should
provide urban services.

5

3.	Support legislation that would develop a funding formula to increase fixed
dollar allocations based on the agencies' maintained mileage. When
Section 2104 of the Streets 6 Highways Code was enacted In 1947, 20% of
the revenues were distributed on a dollar amount for each mile of road to
provide a minimum service level. Today, even though total revenues have
Increased, the amount apportioned on the basis of mileage is less than 456
of the revenues and this amount does not begin to fund the minimum
services level at today’s costs. The San Joaquin Valley counties have
taken a position that 25% of the revenues from this gas tax should be
distributed on the basis of mileage.

4.	Consider a Board policy that would allocate a percentage of the In-lieu
Tax Fund, as opposed to a fixed dollar amount, to the Road Fund to keep
pace with Inflationary expense.

5.	Support the Uepartment's position that the joint use between the County
and the adjacent property owner of the dirt shoulder area within the road
right of way can be beneficial. However, when uses by the owner result in
an unsafe condition for the motorist or cause damages, the owner will be
held responsible to pay for the corrective action.

6.	Consider establishing a set back ordinance that would require farming
operations such as plantings, irrigation furrows, plowing and discing,
etc. to be performed off the road right of way. Currently there are a
number of locations where plantings are on the right of way line with
plowing and irrigation taking place on the road right of way. This
ordinance would result in a reduction of damage to the edge of the
pavement and dirt shoulder and reduce our liability exposure for unsafe
roadway conditions.

7.	Recognizing the constant decline in revenues, support the Department's
position that the level of service provided cannot be expanded and that
requests for increasing service levels such as snow removal, centerline
striping, roadside weed control, neighborhood drainage problems, etc. can
only be based on its safety merits until additional funding can be
developed.

8.	Support future legislation for increased funding for County road
maintenance and construction at the state and federal levels. From time
to time new bills are proposed to fund State Highways and the Federal
Interstate System. When this occurs, funding for local roads should also
be considered.

9.	Consider support for the local 1/2% Sales Tax for Transportation should
this measure be put to the voters of Fresno County. Even though a
majority of the revenues generated from this tax will fund State Highways
in Fresno County, this will help by relieving the Increasing traffic
burden on the County road system. Additionally, 25% of the tax will be
allocated to local roads with Fresno County expected to receive
approximately $2.5 million annually.

LJ:jp

04011

6/17/86

6



/



m

m •

an

& 10 E

UJ ©

w©3
•*4 U Oi

c _co

a at o *
«H c ©

44 rl o u

a xi *j <o
4-> o cox:

&eeg)

« To 8 2

O ft- O

o co
8 E

©
o

©« _ . .
•j- vo o ro
hcoog

(Am O

3

2

*3 „

oj o

u. co a>

44 o
CD CO O

S-8?
D O

go's

*04J

CO

c

o

o

ft

TD

3

73

!§

.© u.

li. v-»

O CD CO p.
O M 6 O
J ra fi a

O CD 0.*mJ U

&*m( 4J H

x: xj co co

§tf£83

8 . E
3£*ro8

o	*»-H

P 44 C 0)44

SS.S8

(/)t(+J O h
C M CO CO 4->
OH h5- B)

o jg o m c

il||i

z	hh

o

>.

44 U 44
♦ TO »H *H

|8<8U

Ort M O F

© CD ft- CD

O T» ©
OrlOOk
1A COM HL

Wh-M « O

CO

U /—*
© z>
«x

]B

© ©

t?p

*j

m

CV CO CD

flB"

CD C .M
C *H

2E8

CJ 44 *H

e*3©

f-1 W U)
CO ID

882

_J co p

* g

C **H
O 44
*»H ©
4-» 44
O «H

3 s

W CO

CO p

84

38

CO Q

I c

(0°

© p
fi © J
H ©
C0 CO ■
> -O I

44

•a

QC *rt



CD JD

52

a.©
CC *H

SEES

<0 ^3 CO 44

x: «x .. o

J

OX

CJ

44 iCJpi C«H

© e © © o£



ft- CD

~) w.

ft- c
Cft- -H

O O Lt

88

_ *3

4c c ©2 *2
« M £> c3 ©
c © „ e m

H ^44 8 S44 ©

Sg£°2S*H

"is8* •!€

(&3£8g?53

U. P O. CJ)#—1 Q. E

©	73

44 >,5 >,5

© c TO © X)

£ n> 1 E
C © E 5*

•SAJI'S

83E£©

(£ CU. WD

44 44
© O

o ©

O **-7

*-r o

© p •

*h 23 44

SCD ©
© O

> n o

w

>>B
44 ©

© c

3C O

SL *H
CD 44

28

ss

44 M
©8’8
£S.0-

© DO
Qcn
•n W

©

ro © ©

M

_ W U

>» CJO

HZ-

© *H M
-y C M
C0O4JO

5c £E

3Si8

J-14J o
ft- CJ <H4>

•rt 44 U •

V> tj U O V)



o ©
ft-'*1 cfe

O © Ti CJ

.coo1*'

0)44 OIA

2 O ?44
O O «
© O O ©

E IA

Sgft-E.

li-^ 044

Forest Reserve	From	a	high	of	Construction	4	County	wide	Funds fluctuate each year. No

$885,000 to a low maintenance	restriction on usage. County's

of $600,000 in	apportionment is allocated 50* to

the last 3 years	support schools and 50* for use on

roads.





•H O >»*J

o o

T!fr

4J 3

g§

o d^-c-w °
<*- x: ro »-i

* fe ri <

p f-i TJ »H Co

Sl^gu

3

SS ra &

t£ii

fm sl ro b.
o 4j o
CL O T>

3 §>2 §

SI

2S

*J 4-1
C/> C
C W
O CD
O E

C

o <U
—< O
+J C

B2

££

S5

Si

~«S w

CA O &
0\O fl)

*0 5*

U£'t'

£&£

o^.

3 8

21
f =

1“

iff

o >»$**> g

_ JO N ri P

S?ciS£ .
3«J5P£8

U W U ' u u

■HHCOJ) a

% V) *cL CO flJ 3

ro£ c *£

§£525

J *H Q.

■O

H, 4J-H-I d

SteS^S"
£

o o a> o

R g.<*- S3 •*-
• » jC. ctj+jb

5«b!s!

<U CD
2<0

CD
U C.
O

<u

"S .

3E CD -H

<i-

w w

••■D-H
«X CD -J->

CO £ $

3

>»

s

A

O CD

ns

CJ +j

O C tj o •

*»!s§Jf

<*- 10	w

gO-H^_ cg_

a

Ss

H i-c V)

x3?§?

CD q p W p

CD
• T>

.8 *

S°-AS .
gSS'sS

4J W4J *-1
1 ;!«:
gpils

TO *rt a M 4J II

SS°“So
&S«SS‘J

:®3a .■

"D >1
CD +j
f-< *rt

CX H _ _.	_

hS^USa
£ £ £ S*3 S

CJ

B

It

u o

CD »—. "D

DOWD

n2$s

•H'-'fl-n

P c c 2

S55a

o $ Id

S|8

£Si§

«?

RDWrlg

1270H

6-17-86

li $	&	i	i

momma

Samoa

EXHIBIT

FFTFSA/O COUA/TV 0O0L/LA T/OA7
7900-06

79Bo !3s; rasa rssj rsa4 isss rsae

30VlN30B3d

Urn

•iririivn **f5

888? RBR2B8 888 R

(VIOIVM. BhVrifJm' O N (V "

8BR88RB8

pirJrici^-pJci

EXHIBIT

(Samoa ao earn now

aim uadisoo

Maintained Miles

Years	Total Maintained Mileaqe	Miles Ac By Oevelc
1980-81	3770	-
1981-82	3722	6.4
1982-83	3750	1.5
1983-84	3665	1.3
1984-85	3658	4.0
1985-86	3645	2.4

SN:dk

24860-21

EXHIBIT H

microfilm location

Cartridge No.-............

From© No..................

FRESNO
COUNTY AMD CflY
G4AMBER OF
COMMERCE

"ar-::. 1H, I'iUfj

March 6, 1986

Ms. Darlene Richards
Clerk to the Board

Fresno County Board of Supervisors
2281 Tulare Street
Fresno, California 93721

Dear Darlene:

The Fresno County and City Chamber of Commerce would like
to be assigned a time certain for your agenda on the
morning of March 18 to present a resolution In the
Matter of a Proposed Local One-Half of One Percent
Sales Tax for Transportation.

Enclosed is a copy of the resolution which we will be
presenting for adoption. If you have any questions,
please feel free to call Dianne Orcn, Manager of Governmental
Affairs/Transportation, at the Fresno County and City
Chamber of Commerce at 233-6651.

Thank you for your help in this matter.

Sincerely,

UPON BOARD ORDER, CONTINUED TO TUESDAY, APRIL 1,	1986

Russ Sloan
Executive Director

RS:DJO:gb

cc:	Deran	Koligian,	Chairman	of the Board

V'tieorge Bleth, Director of Management Services

lb

P.O.Box 1469 2331 FresnoStreel Fresno.California93716
209 233-4651

REPORT OH A LOCAL TRANSPORTATION -SALES TAX PROPOSAL FOR FRESNO

COUNTY

MARCH 1986

BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF PROPOSAL

Since October 1981# the Council of Fresno County Governments
(COFCG) and local agencies' representatives have been considering
the possibility of a local revenue measure to fund major
transportation improvements. A report from the City of Fresno
Public Works Department was submitted to the City Council on June
29# 1982 supporting the concept of a local sales tax to fund
state highway and transit improvements within the Fresno-Clovis
Metropolitan Area (FCMA)• Although endorsed by the Council, the
recommendation was not taken to the Fresno County Board of
Supervisors or the Clovis City Council for joint consideration
because of the following factors:

-	There was controversy among agencies related to the pending
Fresno General Plan which overshadowed this issue.

-	Agencies' staff believed that state and Federal transportation
funding increases in 1982 eroded the public perception that a
transportation revenue problem continued to exist.

-	Local transportation funding measures in other areas of the
State were most often unsuccessful, at least until the most
recent experience in Santa Clara County.

-	Subsequent consideration by the Fresno City Council identified
a concern that differential sales tax levies within Fresno
County might channel purchases to surrounding areas.

Most recently, attempts were made to redirect the local policy
debate regarding the FCMA highway network and project programming
to address listing of priorities. A City of Fresno Public Works
Department draft policy of August 21,	1984	included	a

recommendation for such a listing, and was distributed to CCFCG
and other metropolitan agencies with intent to seek concensus on
priorities. The Fresno County Board of Supervisors was reluctant
to discuss priorities jointly without first having the
opportunity to hold a separate workshop to consider
transportation issues in a broader context. Such a Board
workshop was scheduled for November 19, 1984.

During this workshop, both COFCG and Caltrans representatives
indicated that no significant progress can be made to implement
the existing planned FCMA freeway system without major funding
increases. Data presented by COFCG demonstrated that funding
equal to “four times" the amount which Fresno County should 1

1

receive under the existing "70% County Minimum" formula would be
required to build most of the planned FCMA freeway system within
the next twenty years. It was also brought to the Board of
Supervisors' attention that the voters of Santa Clara County had
just approved a local 1/2% sales tax which would be used to fund
three priority freeway projects in that county. The Board was
further advised that such a measure in Fresno County would enable
completion of all of Caltrans' Candidate Listing of New Facill-
ties Projects for the 1984 Proposed State Transportation Improve-
ment Program if it were levied over the next twenty years.

The Board of Supervisors responded with cautious interest,
observing that Caltrans1 "Candidate Listing" did not appear to
provide sufficient projects to benefit all people of Fresno
County - particularly those within rural areas. They directed
COFCG and County staff to continue to work to develop an expanded
listing of project priorities in relation to alternative funding
potentials.

COFCG's staff and the Transportation Technical Committee (TTC)
initiated more intensive efforts to develop such an expanded
listing of projects, and also to determine potential for program
implementation assuming voter approval of a 1/2% sales tax.
Since that time, TTC has developed a proposal which it considers
to be appropriate which includes the following elements:

-	State enabling legislation should be sought to create a
"transportation commission" with authority to levy a 1/2% sales
tax for transportation projects, creation of such a separate
body which has never had authority to levy an ad valorum
property tax would enable approval by a simple majority of
voters (Los Angeles County Transportation Commission vs
Richmond).

-	Provision should be made for funding for both State Highways
(80%)and local transportation purposes (20%) and for a balance
between urban (70%) and rural areas (30%).

-	For the highway program, it was agreed that that Caltrans'
prior and current listing of candidate projects for New
Facilities, Operational and Safety Improvements, and
Rehabilitation projects should serve as the basis for the
proposed funding program. The total 1984 Base value of
projects on the candidate listing is approximately $358 million
($115 million within the rural area and $269 million within the
FCMA). It is assumed that Caltrans will continue to provide a
reasonable level of financial participation toward completion
of the program. Table I (attached) lists the highway projects
for the FCMA and rural areas which were included in the
analysis, but it is understood that some flexibility should
exist in programming (perhaps a "balancing" of urban and rural
accounts within X years).

2

ricrnre I illustrates the major highway projects proposed to be
Implemented if the proposal is approved by the voters.

Although the Board of Supervisors had requested listing
projects in order of proposed priority, TTC recommends that
such priorities not be identified at this time. Rather, the
proposal should assume that the 1/2% sales tax would be levied
until the entire candidate listing of projects is funded.
Assuming the sales tax levy would begin in 1987, that would
take until 2004, or 18 year9 on a "pay as you go" basis. Once
a more specific schedule for project implementation is set, it
might be possible to issue revenue bond's and compress the time
frame slightly by offsetting some inflationary costs. The
proposal assumes the tax would be "sunset" in 20 years.'

- For the local transportation purposes, it is assumed that funds
will be distributed between the County and fifteen cities
proportionate to their populations. The Fresno County Board of
Supervisors and City Councils would determine how funds should
be expended, based upon their independent determination of
needs and priorities.

To a great extent, the local sales tax measure in Santa Clara
County was successful because it was strongly supported by the
business community. As a participant of TTC, representatives of
the Fresno County and City Chamber of Commerce were aware of the
proposal. The concept of a local sales tax for transportation has
been considered by the Chamber's Ground Transportation Committee
and endorsed by the Board of Directors on April 10, 1985.

Although the chamber Board supported the concept, they would not
commit to supporting a ballot initiative until there was some
assurance that there would be a fair degree of political and
voter support. The Chamber of Commerce and the City of Fresno
jointly funded a survey of 33 community leaders and 600 active
registered voters throughout the county on the proposal. The
survey of voters indicated 63% support of the proposal;
discounting respondents whose support was weak (4%) and
statistical error (+/-3.9%	)	the	margin	of	support	would	still

be 55% - sufficient for voter approval.

The proposal is now at a point where State Legislators
representing-Fresno County must determine if they will sponsor
enabling legislation to create a "transportation authority"
empowered to levy a tax with majority approval of the voters.
It appears that some indication of support by City Councils and
the Board of Supervisors for such enabling legislation may be
required by the State Legislators.

3

1.	Should local agencies support enabllnq legislation to allow
a majority of voters to decide on a Local Transportation Sales
Tax for Fresno County?

State enabling legislation to create a Fresno County
Transportation Authority empowered to levy a 1/2% sales tax for
transportation purposes subject to approval by a majority of
voters should be supported by local governments for the following
reasons:

-	It is understandable that City Councils and the Board of
Supervisors may not want to take action to impose another tax.
However, action to support this proposal would not be a
governmental action to impose a tax. It would be an action
which would enable a majority of the voters to determine for
themselves if they believe it would be appropriate to tax
themselves to pay for transportation improvements to meet
existing and future needs.

-	There does not appear to be a reasonable funding alternative.

"There is not, nor will there be, sufficient Federal and State

funding to complete the highway network which has been planned
for nearly thirty years.

There is a general perception that the 5 cent increase in
Federal Gas Tax and Truck Weight Fees solved transportation
funding problems. This perception is incorrect for the
following reasons:

- The costs to construct and maintain roads increases faster
than the growth of these adjusted revenues, especially since
more fuel efficient cars work against the bulk of the
transportation revenue base.

-California has historically been a "Donor State",
contributing more to the Federal Highway Trust Fund than is
returned for projects. The 1982 Surface Transportation Act
included a provision to guarantee at least an 85% return to
State of origin. However, subsequent Congressional budget
actions have further limited the amount of funds California
may receive for its needed projects. In earlier attempts to
combat the Federal deficit, Congress limited 1986
obligational authority to 86% of the original apportionments
to each state; the net effect is that California will receive
about 73 cents on the dollar. It is anticipated the deficit
reductions resulting from implementation of the Gramm-Rudnan-
Hoi lings Act will further raduce obligational authority and
the share of funds which come back to California. This is
despite the fact that the funds are still collected and
remain unused within the Federal Highway Trust Fund. Efforts
are being made to remove the Trust Fund from the Unified
Budget so that it is not subject to Gramm-Rudman-Hol 1 ings
sequestering, but the chances of that may be remote, since

Congress is committed to reducing the Federal deficit.
--Besides, it appears that the era of "dedicated" use of

-	Pederal fuel taxes for transportation purposes may soon be
. over? some Congressman suggest a significant increases in the

Federal gas tax to combat the deficit.

• - Congress has established priority to complete the' Interstate
highway system. The increases provided no more money for
Primary system highways, which is the source of funds which
must be used for all highways in Fresno County other than I-
5. Althdugh Route 99 carries the bulk of north-south truck
traffic within the state, none of the increase in Federal
. Truck Weight Fees have gone to maintain Route 99.

rtfany~'locally elected officials believe that Fresno County has
not received its "fair share" of Statewide transportation
funding. According to information from Caltrans, Fresno County
has about 2.3% of the total over the last twenty years, which
would be the County's "fair share". However, the current
Federal requirement to complete the Interstate System by 1990
•and to give priority to rehabilitation of the existing
-Interstate system means that Fresno county is apt to receive
less than that share during the next five years. Surely,
Fresno County interests need to continue to argue for their
"fair share", but the underlying problem is that there is not
enough money. Congress and the State Legislature (and Governor
Deukmejian) are reluctant to approve even minor increases in
funding at this time for highways, local streets, or transit.
There is no reasonable possibility that Federal and State
revenues will be increased or reallocated sufficiently to meet
actual existing and future.transportation needs.

- If some workable approach is not developed to implement
improvements proposed by the Regional Transportation Plan for
Fresno County and the General Plan, Circulation Elements of
member local governments, it may no longer be reasonable to
retain such proposals for facilities expansion as part of those
Plans. For example, discussions with Caltrans indicated that
under the existing revenue basis a reasonable assumption for
priority new facilities projects within Fresno County would be
limited to the following projects by 2005:

-	Extension.of Freeway 41 from Bullard Avenue to Audubon Drive
(which -is now in the five year State Transportation Improve-
ment Program),

-	Widen -Freeway 99 north of Ashlan Avenue to Madera County and
South of Selma to Tulare County, and

-	Limited progress on Freeway 180, probably limited to
construction of the gap between Freeway 99 to existing 180 at
Blackstone/Abbey.

5

Dismal prospects for completing other planned projects within
the County by 2005 are as follows:

-	Proposed Route 41 freeway and expressway segments south of
Freeway 99 to Kings County will not be completed.

-	Proposed Route 168 freeway and expressway segments from
Freeway 180 north through Clovis to Shaver Lake will not be
completed.

-	Proposed Route 180 freeway, expressway, and rehabilitation
segments from near Mendota to Freeway 99 and east of Freeway
41 to near orange Cove will not be completed.

-	Various rehabilitation, reconstruction, and operational and
safety improvements on conventional state highway segments
which are not planned as freeways or expressways on
alignments separate from existing routes will not be
completed, (i.e.. Routes 33, 145, 198, 245, and 269).

In order to act responsibly (i.e., plan a freeway system which
could reasonably be funded) COFCG, the Cities of Fresno and
Clovis, and Fresno County may be forced to delete these
proposed freeway segments from the "Circulation Elements" of
their General Plans, despite the prospect of increased traffic
demand and congestion.

A sales tax is a good and reasonable source of revenue for
transportation projects. Many people commonly believe that a
sales tax is regressive? it is not. Items of necessity, such
as food, medicine and shelter are exempt from tax. Those
people who have higher disposable incomes generally buy more
taxable consumer goods.

Based upon the current estimate of average household income in
Fresno County of $33,500, it is estimated that the amount of
the average sales tax per household would be about $30 per year
(Source: 1934 IRS Table on Sales Tax deductions by State); such
average household sales taxes are estimated to initially
generate about $6 million, or 29% of the total. An additional
$4.6 million (or 22%) is initially estimated from motor vehicle
sales (i.e., passenger cars, light duty trucks, heavy trucks,
farm equipment, etc.). The remaining $10.1 million (or 49%)
of sales tax estimated to be initially generated would be paid
by businesses for their substantial taxable purchases.
Businesses should benefit from the transportation improvements.

Based upon the competitive experience of retailers within the
San Francisco Bay Area, in which some counties have had
additional local sales taxes which others have not, it does not
appear that a 1/2% sales tax would erode competitive advantage.
As an example, the additional tax on a $10,000 automobile

6

purchase would be only $50; the additional tax on a $50 article
of clothing would be 25 cents.

The greatest benefit to a sales tax as a basis for
transportation improvements is that it would increase along
with inflation (unlike a fixed amount per gallon fuel tax) and
would also keep pace with population growth. It is this
potential for growth that would enable full completion of the
planned transportation system in less than 20 years.

2.	Should funding for local transportation also be Included?

There appears to be agreement between COFCG's Transportation
Technical Committee and the Chamber of Commerce Ground
Transportation Committee that funding for local transportation
purposes should be included. Twenty percent is considered to be
an appropriate share. The following documents the extent of
local transportation funding needs:

-	Tremendous need exists for additional funding for local streets
and roads which have not been adequately addressed by past
transportation finance legislation. The most recent State
legislation (SB 215, Statutes of 1982) provided for adjustments
to licenses, increased truck weight fees, and a 2 cent per
gallon increase in gas tax. Cities and counties only received
1 cent of the gas tax increase. The Federal Surface
Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 increased truck weight
fees and excise taxes, and added 5 cents to the Federal gas
tax. None of this additional revenue was provided to cities
and counties to assist their streets and roads programs. SB 300
(Statutes of 1985) provides some additional funding for local
city streets and county roads, but this was a two-year "step
gap" measure insufficient to address long-range needs.

As part of a nine county San Joaquin Valley study on funding
needs for county roads and city streets, it has been estimated
that the current annual funding shortfall for Fresno County's
local governments to address maintenance is $11.9 million. An
additional $28 million is needed annually to address a backlog
of rehabilitation needs. Based upon valleywide figures, it
would require the equivalent of a 14 cents per gallon gas tax
increase to respond to this shortfall now. Considering
inflation, -the equivalent gas tax increase would have to total
20.5 cents by 1990, 30 cents by 1995, 44.5 cents by 2000, and
65 cents by 2005.

Although the additional funding from this local sales tax
proposal would not meet all local streets and roads needs, it
would provide significant help - particularly within rural
areas.

-	There may also be need for additional funding to support
existing public transportation operations, particularly Fresno

7

Transit. Federal assistance for public transportation
operations is anticipated to be phased out within the next few
years. State Transit Assistance funds nay also disappear as a
result of an unfavorable formula which is based upon the sales
taxes on motor vehicle fuels and general sales taxes.
Considering these factors, Fresno Transit estimates an
operating deficit of $2.4 million during 1986-87 which would
increase to $3.4 million during 1989-90. Again, this only
assumes maintenance of Fresno Transit's existing level of
service, which was already severely cut in 1981 in response to
prior reductions in Federal operating assistance. It does not
consider growth in the system which may be required to serve
newly developing residential and employment areas.

Fresno Transit's patrons generally have incomes far below the
County average. Forty-five percent of the riders have incomes
less than $10,000 per year. These people are less likely to
have alternative means of transportation. In the past, the
Fresno City Council has sought to provide some assurance of
mobility to less fortunate people to avoid the resulting
physical, social and economic isolation. Public transportation
is part of the total transportation system. In order to serve
the needs of all users of transportation, it is necessary to
provide benefit to the bus riders and well as motorists.

There is tremendous need for additional funding for local
transportation purposes. It is assumed that during the period
when the local transportation sales tax might be collected, the
best way to deal with needs would be to distribute 2 0% of the
total funds collected to local governments based upon their
populations and to leave decisions regarding how such funds
should be spent up to the local governments.

3• Should there be a 1 init on how loner the sales tax would be
collected? If so,"‘how long should that be?" What: projects
would be funded? How would priorities be set?

Observers of the recent, successful Santa Clara County
transportation sales tax measure indicate that two factors were
critical to its success.* First, the projects to be implemented
were clearly identified; in that case, three freeways heavily
used by commuters were targeted for the funds. Second, there was
a "sunset" fpr collection of the tax; in that case, a limited
period of ten years was specified by the ballot measure.

As previously stated, COFCG's TTC has not proposed limiting the
scope of proposed projects. All identified corridor improvements
needs on Routes 33 (rural), 41 (urban and rural), 99 (urban and
rural), 145 (rural), 168 (urban and rural), 180 (urban and
rural), 198 (rural), 245 (rural), and 269 (rural) are now
included in the proposed program. The analysis which has been
performed indicates that if a 1/2% transportation sales tax were
approved to take effect on January 1,	1987,	all of these

8

improvements could be completed in eighteen years (through 2004)?
this analysis is based upon assumed project inflation of 7% per
year and growth of sales tax revenue equal to inflation plus 2%
per year for population growth. If the enabling legislation and
ballot measure which night be approved by voters allowed for the
tax for a 20 year period, all of these currently identified needs
could be met and there would be no need to select higher priority
projects for a more limited program. This is the direction that
TTC now recommends.

However, it is possible that a shorter timeframe may be set by
enabling legislation. The following are alternatives which night
be considered if such a reduced time frame is necessary:

-	Increase the transportation sales tax to higher than 1/2%. This
might be permitted by enabling legislation. For example, if the
sales tax were 3/4%, it is estimated that all identified FCMA
projects could be completed by 1998. However, the higher the
tax, the greater the potential that voters might not approve
it. .

-	Set priorities and only implement projects which could be
funded within a more limited timeframe. For example, if con-
struction of Freeway 168 and that portion of Freeway 180 east
of Clovis Avenue within the FCMA were deferred, it would be
possible to complete all other FCMA freeway segments by 1997.
It might also be possible to limit the highway routes eligible
for funding support.

This alternative approach would assume that some subsequent
voter approved sales tax measure would be necessary to complete
the planned system. If success during the first phase is
clearly demonstrated, it is not unreasonable to believe that
future voters would approve continuation of the special tax.

-	Downscope the projects. For example, if instead of
constructing "freeways'1, it is decided that “expressways" would
be constructed on Routes 180 (west of 99 and east of 41) and
168 within the FCMA, it is estimated that construction could be
completed within in a more limited timeframe. However, using
anticipated reductions in "travel tine delays" as a comparative
measure of efficiency, "expressways” would be only about 50% as
effective as "freeways". Further, once a decision is made to
build an “at grade" expressway, it would not be possible to go
back to construct "depressed and elevated" freeway segments -
-a more desirable design concept from the standpoint of com-
munity compatability. Further, "expressways" may be prone to
subsequent pressure for access to adjoining properties, which
would not occur with "freeway" development.

-	Issue revenue bonds. It is possible to issue revenue bonds to
construct capital projects, providing the enabling legislation
gives such authority. Bonding would allow acceleration of

9

construction to avoid increases as a result of inflation,
assuming interest rates on the bonds are lower than inflation.
Also, it is possible to earn interest on bond proceeds until
construction payments are nade. This funding mechanism should
enable trimming a moderate amount of time from the
implementation schedule.

The Transportation Technical Committee recommends a timeframe of
approximately twenty (20) years for the ballot measure. If this
is possible, it will not be necessary to make decisions regarding
a reduced or downscoped program. However, if less time is
established by State law or may be more acceptable to the voting
public, it would be necessary to choose among the above cited
alternatives.

4. What enabling legislation is required? What should be the
elements of such "legislation?

In 1982, the California Supreme Court made a landmark decision
that Proposition A in Los Angeles County would be upheld.
Proposition A, which provided for a 1/2% sales tax within the
County for public transportation purposes, was approved by 54% of
the voters. Since the effective date of the- tax was after
Statewide voter approval of Proposition 13, which appeared to
require 2/3 voter approval of any local tax increases, the Los
Angeles County Transportation Commission (LACTC) sought legal
clarification of the legality of Proposition A. In order to test
legality, LACTC sued its Executive Director for refusing to
collect the tax. LACTC vs. Richmond (3ical.3 d 197) found that
only a simple voter majority was required because (1) that was
all the State enabling legislation creating the Commission
required for a local transportation sales tax, and (2) LACTC had
never had authority to levy property taxes. Proposition 13
required 2/3 voter approval for local tax measures intended to
replace property taxes, and this requirement did not apply to a
Commission with no such property tax authority.

As a matter of practicality, enabling legislation which would
require only majority voter approval is necessary for any
realistic possibility of success. That means that provision
would have to be made for statutory creation of a local
commission or authority empowered to levy a sales tax, but which
has never had property tax authority.

In order to be approved by the State Legislature, it is likely
that the enabling legislation would also have to specify the
amount of the tax. In Los Angeles and Santa Clara Counties,
where past measures have been successful, the sales tax is
limited to 1/2%. In Orange County, where Proposition A failed in
June 1934, the limit was set at 1%. AB 2329 proposes a 1%
ceiling but would enable each individual county commission to
determine, in quarter percentages (i.e., 1/4, 1/2, 3/4, or 1%)
the amount of the sales tax they wish to ask voters to approve.

10

It is possible that in order to receive support front the State
Legislature, enabling legislation nay have to specify eligible
projects and "sunsets". Some previously approved legislation has
been more general, restricting funding to transit or transit and
roads. In the case of the most recent, successful measure in
Santa Clara County the enabling legislation specified that the
revenue would be limited to improvements on three identified
freeways, limited the period for collection of the tax to ten
years, and specified that the commission was to go out of
business twelve years after the voters approved of the tax. AB
2329 would require that individual county commissions prepare
specific capital project proposals for voter approval {i.e.,
local streets and roads, highways, or transit), and would limit
the period for collecting the tax to fifteen years.

In order~tb place a local transportation sales tax measure on the
November 1986 ballot, It would be necessary for urgency
legislation to be introduced during the current session. Santa
Clara County's enabling legislation was passed during the same
year as their ballot measure (1984). It would be best to have
the enabling legislation in place before gearing up for a
campaign. 11

11

1 I	li h

3

I	immmtm s I li|

II	mm.m i fs \ J

11	Iff f I

I I HsfHHSKH I Is I.

1 f liliiiliillli I It S ,

f I iltSMStlMK ill!,

1 i 8®««S6« S |{ t,

I! IliHHHSH I If S,

I f iimnrn f If I,

f S IfKMilHK! I It SI
f 1 IfitKMMBl J ft I,

I	Illfllililllfl S Ss S,

f S SMffiflHfi I if 11

II	MiHiHHKl S li I,

I	f Iliii'llillH-i! il S s

SI lliltlllislil! Si i,

II	Msiliiiliiil I Si S,

11 llfllllfllili 111,

I	f iffilMtlsiS Ill,

II	mmmrn I IS I»

8 a tt	ap	3 |p S

I

County of



rn

/z>

Agenda Item

Aj<ri.l J, JV4<>

■& i

DATE:

TO:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

April 1, 1986
Board of Supervisors



Richard D. Helton, Director S?

Public Works & Development Services Department

Chamber of Commerce Request to Adopt Resolution Seeking Enabling
Legislation For a Sales Tax Proposal for Highway and
Transportation Purposes

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

The Board of Supervisors adopt the attached resolution supporting enabling
legislation to permit a majority of the voters within the cities and County
of Fresno to determine if a local transportation sales tax should he levied
for highway and transportation purposes.

FISCAL IMPACT:

Approval of the 1/2% Sales Tax Proposal could provide about $1,150,000 in the
first year 1987 for County local transportation purposes. The annual amount
would be responsive to Inflation and population growth. Table 3 provides an
estimate of these funds at an annual rate of inflation of 7% and using a
population growth of 2% for a period of 18 years. Inflation and population
percentages were derived from what has historically occurred in the Local
Transportation Fund.

BACKGROUND:

Funding highway and transportation improvement projects have hecome an
increasingly serious problem due to the lack of revenues keeping pace with
inflation, the Increases in traffic, and the physical deterioration of the
roads. In 1984 it was estimated Fresno County's road maintenance shortfall
was over $5 million annually simply to provide preventative maintenance and
that over 700 miles of our 3,640 miles of roads needed to be rehabilitated
(reconstructed) at an estimated cost of $175 million. The fact that we
cannot keep up with basic preventative maintenance simply means the County
road system will continue to deteriorate and the level of service will
decline.

A



ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE REVIEW
BOARD ACTION: DATE b/l/Kb

APPROVED AS RECOMMENDED.

XlT

Page

/..X

.. OTHER

ADOPTED RESOLUTION #86-146.

UNANIMOUS _^__ANDREEN.

.CONRAD.

KOLIGIAN.

LEVY.

RAMACHER.

ek

/JT

I

-

'

-ff

I

i -V

I

Ui" .....  ■■	1	■	v	»f	**

/£>

Board of Supervisors
Page 2

April 1, 1986

In November of 1984, the Hoard of Supervisors considered a request to
prioritize the Fresno-Clovis Metropolitan Area (FCMA) highway network
projects. The Board felt the entire County should he considered In lieu of
only the FCMA. During the November workshop. Council of Fresno County
Governments (COFCG) and Caltrans representatives indicated no significant
progress could be made to implement the existing planned freeway system
without major funding increases. Staff was directed to work to develop the
expanded listing of project priorities in relation to alternative funding
potentials.	i

COFCG's staff and the Transportation Technical Committee (TTC) (includes

County staff) developed an expanded list of projects and focused on the	i

implementation potential via a 1/2% sales tax.

DISCUSSION;

The proposal has been developed as follows:

l

State enabling legislation should be sought to create a "Transportation
Coimission" with authority to levy a 1/2% sales tax for transportation
purposes with approval by a majority of the voters.

Provisions should be made for both State Highways (80%) and local
transportation (20%) and for a balance between urban (70%) and rural
areas (30%).

For the highway program, it was agreed that the Caltrans* prior and
current listing of candidate projects for New Facilities, Operational
and Safety Improvements, and Rehabilitation projects should serve as the
basis for the proposed funding program.

Table 1 and Figure 1 show the proposed work and estimated funding for
the State Highways.

Estimated Distribution of Funds

The entire proposal would generate an estimated revenue of $19,276,420 in
1987 the Base Year (B.Y.) and continue annually for the entire period of 18
years.

Distribution of the revenue would be as follows:	80%	or	$15,421,136	(B.Y.)

for State Highway Projects; 20% or $3,855,284 (B.Y.) for Local Transportation
Projects.

The 80% (State Highway Projects) would be distributed with 70% going to the

Fresno-Clovis Metro Area (FCMA) which includes the cities of Fresno, Clovis

and the unincorporated County areas (Fig Garden, Mayfair, Tarpey Village,	;

Sunnyside, etc.) and 30% going to the Fresno County rural area and rural

cities or communities outside the FCMA. See Table 1 for a proposed list of

fundable State Highway Projects (1987-2005). Figure 1 depicts the locations

of these projects.



i

/■s

Hoard of Supervisors
Page 3

April 1, 19C6

The 20% (Local Transportation Projects) could be used for any local road or
transit projects and would he distributed to the cities and County based on
population. See Table	2 for funding distribution	chart. Base	Year	1907.

Table 3 shows the funding distribution for the 1987-2005 period.

Proposed Composition of the Transportation Commission

The Commission would have seven members. It would Include two members of the
Board of Supervisors, the Mayor of the City of Fresno, a council member from
the City of Fresno, a	councilmember of the City of Clovis, a	rural	city

councilmember (appointed by the Mayor Select Committee) and one member at
large.

Proposed Benefit to the County

The State freeways and highways function as regional arteries and, in
conjunction with the County's system of primary	roads, form	the	basic

framework of the County	Circulation System. As such,	the system provides the

means whereby agricultural products reach their markets, and residents of the
County, as well as tourists and visitors from outside the County, reach their
recreation or business destinations. The State highway's serve every city in
the County either directly or indirectly via major County roads.
Improvements that increase safety and capacity on those routes benefit all
the County's residents, regardless of where they live, because the State
highway system provides the major network that serves all areas of the County.

The expenditure on State Highway routes of the revenue generated by a ]/2%
transportation sales tax will relieve the pressure of increasing traffic
volumes on the County's own road system. For example, upgrading State Route
180 west of Fresno will result in reduced traffic conditions on such parallel
roads as McKinley, Belmont, California, and Jensen Avenues as far west as the
Kerman area. Likewise, improvements on Route 180 to the east will benefit
Belmont and Jensen Avenue as far east as the Sanger area. In the case of
Highway 41 south of Fresno, the major County roads that will benefit are
Marks, West, Walnut, Cherry, East and Cedar Avenues as far south as Elkhorn
Avenue. Also, improvements to Highway 168 will have a positive effect on
Auberry Road between the Fresno-Clovis area and Auberry.

The cities of Coalinga, Firebaugh, Fowler, Huron, Kerman, Kingsburg, Mendota
and Selma will benefit because improvements are proposed for State highway
routes that directly serve those cities, including Routes 33 (Coalinga,
Firebaugh, Mendota), 99 (Fowler, Kingsburg, Selma), 180 (Kerman, Mendota),
198 (Coalinga) and 269 (Huron). Even though the cities of Parlier, Reedley,
Sanger, and San Joaquin are not directly served by State routes, they too
will be better served by proposed improvements because the State highways. In
conjunction with County primary roads such as Manning, Reed, Frankwood,
Jensen, Academy, Bethel, Colorado Avenues and Santa Fe Grade, also represent
major links between those cities and their markets.

Board of Supervisors
Page 4

April 1, 1986

a'.*/ >

/£>

The Chamber of Commerce Board supported this concept, however, they deferred
committing ballot initiative support until a professional community survey
had been completed. This survey was completed and indicated about 63%
support for the proposal. The Board has previously been furnished copies of
this report.

The Chamber appeared before the Board on March 18, 1986, reauesting your
support to allow the voters to consider this proposal by adopting their
proposed resolutions. The City of Fresno adopted the resolution with a
slight modification. In lieu of the resolution stating the "one-half of one
percent sales tax measure appears to be the only viable option to meet these
needs," it struck the words "the only" and replaced it with "a." In
addition, they added the word "request" to the paragraph "Now, therefore, be
It resolved as follows: Request that our local State legislators...."

Also, attached is the workshop materials prepared by the Council of Fresno
County Governments staff for the Local Transportation Sales Tax Proposal.

ROW:jp
02821

Attachments

	/ VT'*’*' lit*i -jijJ/.S  /O April 1. 1986 ^ KoHoliiclon £86-146
1	BEFORE THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF FRESNO
2	STATE OF CALIFORNIA
3	
4	IN THE MATTER OF A PROPOSED )
5	LOCAL ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT )  SALES TAX FOR TRANSPORTATION ) RESOLUTION IN SUPPORT THEREOF
6	WHEREAS, Caltrans highway systems studies Indicate that
7	insufficient state and federal revenue will exist to Implement priority
8	highway needs within District 6 and Fresno County; and
9	WHEREAS, needs assessments performed by Fresno City, Fresno
10	County, and the Council of Fresno County Governments indicate that there
11	are insufficient local, state, and federal funds to meet present and
12	future local transportation needs, and
13	WHEREAS, local analysis performed by transportation experts
14	indicates that a local, one-half of one percent sales tax measure appears
15	to be a viable option to meet these needs; and
16	WHEREAS, a professional community leader and voter survey was
17	commissioned by the Fresno County & City Chamber of Commerce and the City
18	of Fresno, which indicates sufficient support for such a measure to
19	warrant placing it on the ballot; and
20	WHEREAS, enabling legislation Is needed to allow a majority of
21	the voters to make a choice on the use of sales tax to improve highways
22	and transportation within the cities and County of Fresno; and
23	WHEREAS, the Fresno County and City Chamber of Commerce believes
24	that the public within the cities and County of Fresno should have the
25	opportunity to vote on such a ballot measure and are seeking the support
26	of local government agencies to secure necessary state enabling
27	legislation.
28	
County of Fresno  frtiMi bUI«r«li fC-16 (4/62)	

f

*9

Wfmm

' 1? \
\ S

/

		
1	NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:	
2 i	Request that our local State legislators Initiate and support	
3	enabling legislation to permit a majority of the voters within the cities	
4	and County of Fresno to determine if a local transportation sales tax	
5	should be levied for highway and transportation purposes.	
6  7	ADOPTED by the Fresno County Board of Supervisors this 1st day	
8	of April, 1986, by the following vote, to-wit:	
9	AYES: Supervisors Ramacher, Levy, Andreen, Conrad,	j
	Koligian	
10	NOES: None	
11	ABSENT: None	|  j
12		
13  14	.  CHAIRMAN, Board of Supervisors	
15	ATTEST:	
16	DARLENE BLOOM, Clerk to	i
17	Boani o£^upervisori.	i  i  I
18	Deputy	!
19	02841	j
20		i
21		j
22		I
23		
24  25	File #6523 Agenda #15 Resolution #86-146	■
26		
27		
28		
County of Fresno		
f 1(1(16. Cl GlMAU		
FC-18 (4/821		

FUNDABLE STATE HIGHWAY PROJECTS WITH 1/2% TRANSPORTATION SALES TAX

FRESNQ-CLOVIS METROPOLITAN AREA PROJECTS (70%)

ROUTE	LIMITS & PROJECTS	1984 COST {$ million)
41	Clayton Avenue to Freeway 99,  & Audobon Drive to Madera County Freeway and Expressway Construction	28.90
99	Clinton Avenue to Madera County Overcrossings and Freeway Widening	11.60
168	Freeway 180 to Temperance Avenue Freeway Construction	99.73
180	West or Hughes Avenue to Freeway 99; & Freeway 41 to Highland Avenue Freeway Construction	128.84  $269.06
FRESNO COUNTY RURAL AREA PROJECTS (30%)		
ROUTE	LIMITS & PROJECTS	1984 COST ($ million)
33	Firebaugh to Kings County AC Overlay/Widenlng Turn Slots	3.05
41	Elkhorn to Clayton Avenues Expressway Construction	13.70
99	Tulare County to Clovis Avenue Freeway Widening	13.11
145	McMullin Grade to Napa Avenue AC Overlay	1.23
168	Temperance Avenue to Shaver Lake Freeway and Expressway Construction	48.24
180	Mendota 33 to Hughes AC Overlay/Widening/Turn Slots;  &  Highland Avenue to Route 63  Exressway Construction/Bridge Replacement	4.76
		27.89
198	Coalinga Hot Springs Canyon to 1-5 AC Overlay/Widening	1.45
245	Tulare County to Route 180  AC Overlay/Flood Maintenance and Rehabilitation	1.16
269	Jayne Avenue to Route 198 AC Overlay/Turn Slots	.83  ?1T^

TABLE 2

ESTIMATED 20% "LOCAL TRANSPORTATION FUNDING" TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS IN FRESNO COUNTY
IF A 1/2% TRANSPORTATION SALES TAX IS APPROVED BY VOTERS - 1987 BASE YEAR

	1985*	ASSUMED ESTIMATED	
	POPULATION	FUNDING  DISTRIBUTION*	20%  1987
COMA CITIES		54.9635%	$2,118,998
CLOVIS	38910	6.818%	$262,865
FRESNO	274750	48.145%	$1,856,133
RURAL CITIES		15.223%	$586,876
COALINGA	7671	1 .344%	$51,823
FIREBAUGH	3976	0.697%	$26,861
FOWLER	3048	0.534%	$20,591
HURON	3689	0.646%	$24,922
KERMAN	4112	0.721%	$27,780
KINGSBURG	5734	1.005%	$38,737
MENDOTA	6062	1.062%	$40,953
ORANGE COVE	4631	0.812%	$31,286
PARLIER	5962	1.045%	$40,278
REEDLEY	13431	2.354.%	$90,736
SAN JOAQUIN	2083	0.365%	$14,072
SANGER	13606	2.384%	$91,918
SELMA	12866	2.255%	$86,919
FRESNO COUNTY	170139	29.814%	$1,149,411
LOCAL 20% TOTAL	570670	100.000%	$3,855,284
*SAME DISTRIBUTION AS SB 325 (LOCAL TRANSPORTATION FUND)  SN:dk  15910			

W

& i

\ V

/

*T

Figure 1

& PLANNED STATE HIGHWAY ROUTES
mm FREEWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS
EXPRESSWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT!
6RIDGE/0VERCRQSSING PROJECTS
STREET WIDENING PROJECTS
REHABILITATION PROJECTS AS NEEDt

MAJOR PROJECTS DELIVERED BY P4c LOCAL SALES TAX INCREASE

PLANNED HIGHWAY PROJECTS

County of
eneau
mEws^

DATE:	July	29,	1986

July 29, 1986
Resolution 086-367

Agenda Item

TO:

PROM:

boaro ot Supervisors

Richard D. fee1ton. Director
Public Works & Development

Services Department

SUBJECT:	Adopt	resolution	calling	tor	a special election

on the question ot whether to create a Fresno
County Transportation Authority with the power
to increase the sales tax in Fresno County by
a maximum ot one-half ot one percent

RECOMMENDED ACTION:

Adopt a resolution placing on the November 4, 1986, general
election ballot a measure seeking authorization tor a Fresno
County Transportation Authority to impose a retail transactions
and use tax at a maximum rate ot one-halt ot one percent tor a
maximum period of 20 years.

FISCAL IMPACT:

The administrative costs of operating the Fresno County
Transportation Authority would be paid for out ot the proceeds
of the tax. The costs of the election will be borne by the
Authority if the measure is approved by the voters. It not
approved, the County will bear these costs, estimated by the
Elections Division to be approximately $16,000.

DISCUSSION:

On March 18 and April 1, 1986, your Board considered a proposal
by the Fresno County ana City Chamber ot Commerce to request
local legislators to enact enabling legislation to permit a
majority of the voters within the cities and County of Fresno
to determine if a local transportation transactions and use tax
should be levied for highway and transportation purposes. The
tax would be collected with the sales tax.

7	/	v	/	p

ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE REVIEW . jrfCUJL --------------------------- Page  '— of .S=T-

BOARD ACTION: DATF 7/29/86^—»	APPROVED AS RECOMMENDED____AA--- OTHER-------------

UNANIMOUS

APPROVED AS RECOMMENDED; ADOPTED RESOLUTION NO. 86-367.

__ANDREEN_________CONRAD________KOLIGIAN_______LEVY_________RAMACHER_______

!



ek

hoard of Supervisors
Page Two
July 29# 1986

The Legislature enacted the measure as part of Senate hill 878
and the Governor allowed the bill to become law, without his
signature, on July 14, 1986.

The legislation provides that not more than 75 percent of the
tax proceeds would be used for highway capital improvements,
and not less than 25 percent of the tax proceeds would be
allocated to each city and the county for local transportation
purposes. The tax would be imposed at a maximum rate of
one-half of one percent for a period not to exceed 20 years.

The statute requires that the County place this measure before
the voters and that the election "shall be held on the next
established election date for a general election after this
division takes effect." The next extablished election date is
November 4, 1986. In order to meet the statutory deadlines to
get this measure on the ballot, it is necessary that this
resolution be adopted on or before August 8, 1986.

OTHER REVIEWING AGENCIES:

County Counsel has prepared the resolution and it has been
reviewed by the Elections Division.

ID8009j

1

2

3

4

July 29, 1986
Resolution 086-367

BEFORE TUB BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
OP TUB COUNTY OP FRESNO
STATE OP CALIFORNIA

!)

6

7

0

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20
21
22

23

24

25

26

27

28

County or Fresno
rxcixo. California

In the Matter of	)

)

CALLING AND PROVIDING FOR A )
SPECIAL ELECTION CONSOLIDATED )
WITH THE STATEWIDE GENERAL )
ELECTION ON NOVEMBER 4, 1986	)

FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING )

RESOLUTION

TO THE ELECTORS OF FRESNO
COUNTY A MEASURE SEEKING
AUTHORIZATION FOR THE
IMPOSITION OF A RETAIL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
BY THE "FRESNO
COUNTY TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY" AND FOR
AUTHORIZATION TO ISSUE BONDS
PAYABLE SOLELY FROM THE
PROCEEDS OF THAT TAX

WHEREAS, the State Legislature has enacted Public
Utilities Code Section 142000 et seg. which creates, subject to
voter approval, the "Fresno County Transportation Authority" with
certain limited taxing authority? and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Fresno
is directed by Public Utilities Code Section 142252 to conduct an
election for the purpose of submitting the ballot proposition to
the voters seeking authorization to impose a retail transactions
and use tax at a maximum rate of 1/2 of 1% for highway and
transportation purposes, including, but not limited to, those set
forth in Public Utilities Code Sections 142000 et seg., and to
issue bonds payable from the proceeds of that tax? and

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

WHEREAS, approval o£ a majority of. too electors voting
upon the measure is required tor passage ot the measure; and

WHEREAS, a statewide general election will be held on
November 4, 1986.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows;

1. A special election is hereby called and ordered to be
held within the boundaries of Fresno County on the fourth day of
November, 1986, at which election there shall be submitted to the

9

qualified electors the following measure, to wit:

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

Shall the ’’Fresno County Transportation
Authority", pursuant to Public Utilities
Code Section 142000 et seq., be created and
authorized to impose a retail transactions
and use tax ordinance, applicable in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of
the County, said tax to be tor a term not
exceeding twenty (20) years at a rate not to
exceed 1/2 of 1% of the gross receipts of
all retailers within Fresno County, as
specified in detail in Revenue and Taxation
Code Section 7251 et seq., said tax proceeds
to be used for the purposes set forth in
Public Utilities Code Sections 142000 et
seq.? Further, shall the Authority be
authorized to issue bonds payable solely
from the proceeds of the tax?

19

2. The text of the aforementioned measure as displayed

20

on each individual ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as

21

follows:

22

IMPROVING ROADS AND TRANSPORTATION IN FRESNO COUNTY

23

24

25

26

27

To provide for countywide road improvements
and rehabilitation, freeway expansion, and
local transportation purposes which would
contribute to better traffic flow, improved
air quality, and increased safety; this
proposition authorizes the Fresno County
Transportation Authority to impose, by
ordinance, a one-half of 1 percent
transactions and use tax (tor a period of

28

County or Fresno
Frsiko. California

FC 16 M#8?;

	
1	not to exceed 20 years) with not more than 75 percent for highway improvements in
2	Fresno County and not less than 25 percent
3	for local transportation purposes ancJ to Issue bonds payable trom the proceeds of that tax and establishes the appropriations
4	Limit of the authority in the amount of sixty-five million dollars ($65,000,000).
r>	3. The aforementioned special tax election is to be held
6	on the fourth day of November, 1966.
7	4. Pursuant to Elections Code Section 23302 said
0	election is to be consolidated with the California statewide
9	general election to be held on the fourth day of November, 1966.
10	5. The polls for this election shall open at 7s00 a.m.
11	and close at 6:00 p.m. The precincts, places of holding the
12	special election, and officers appointed to conduct the special
13	election shall be the same as those provided for in the regular
14	election to be held that date.
15	6. The Clerk of this Board shall immediately deliver a
16	copy of this Resolution to the County Clerk of Fresno County.
17	7. Upon qualification of the measure for a place on the
18	ballot, the County Clerk shall transmit a copy of the measure to
19	the County Counsel. The County Counsel is hereby directed to
20	prepare an analysis of the ballot measure in accordance with
21	Section 3781 of the Elections Code.
22	8. The County Clerk shall publish a notice for
23	submission of arguments for and against the measure. He shall
24	select one argument for and one argument against the measure from
25	those submitted, if any, and shall cause direct arguments.
26	together with rebuttal arguments to be printed on each sample
27	
28	
County or Fneeno  rntNO. California  fC is (A,o?;	3

	
1	ballot preceded by the County Counsel'8 analysis.
2	9. not later than titty (50) days prior to the election.
3	the County Clerk shall cause it to be published in a newspaper o£
4	general circulation in accordance with Section 2554 o£ the
5  6 7	Elections Code.
8  9  10  11  12  13  14  i 15 16  17  18  19  20 21 22  23  24  25  26  27  28  County or Fresno  FKfttHO. CM.IFORHIA  FC 16 M/02;	ID7962j  4

! 1

i

1 1 2	THE FOREGOING was passed and adopted by the following
3	vote of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Fresno this
4	29th day of July , 1986, to-wit:
5	AYES: Supervisors Levy, Ramacher, Andreen, Conrad, Koligian
6	NOES: None
7	ABSENT: None
8	
9	
10	^ Cw~~. ;
11	CHAIRMAN, Board of Supervisors
12	
13	ATTEST:
14  15	SHARI GREENWOOD, Clerk Board of Supervisors
16	. y^> '
17	b vf  Deputy
18	
19	
20	
21	
22	
23	
24	
25	File #6523
26	Agenda #6
27	Resolution #86-367
28	
County ot Fresno  Hugo. Cillloroli	
FC-16 (4/82)	

f





COALlNflA, CALIFORNIA

si» too* mi a

■jrricc 0/

THE MAYOR

April 17, 1986

Les Dabritz, Executive Vice President
Fresno County and City Chamber of Commerce
Box Ih69

Fresno, California 93716
Dear Hr. Dabritz:

The Coalinga City Council wants to go on record as opposing
the proposed 1/2 of 1% sales tax for street and highway
construction and maintenance in the County.

The City Council believes the apportionment of the tax monies
for the metropolitan area and the rural areas would be of
little benefit to the City.

Very truly yours,

Mayor

cc:	Fresno	County	Board	of	Supervisors

V/rfy'/

Bo^rd Brtefing Report

'j'tf '/'j . 'Y'A

y//Jt >

I**?) V; v,A//n*t two '''/Aft of '/js;t/Hoiz r^baia to ifre Fresno County
fr/Umlty creaUid fry Fresno Count/ Tsx Measure C.

(JW Ih/hitim /*, VJi'Z), Vnfi votere of Fresno County approved County of Fresno
r/// Vwwtro C \ry h	majority. Measure C was placed on the ballot in

rwimrnn 1j) 'Ji am <WMs.s of IM6 ~ Public Utilities Code Section 142000
yl-JW'J/)' Vie U'/jisHUon created the "Fresno County Transportation
5toftitriVW/* uUU.h, subject to majority voter approval, is authorized to impose
n }/'/% hfiim to/ owi nance for transportation purposes. The text of this
wmUlinQ iOfiidUition defiling with Fresno County is attached.

7lie |'?flfino County Transportotion Authority Is to be composed of a seven
tmiimr Untml (County fionrd of f/Uporvieors - 2\ Fresno Mayor and Council - 2;
CJo»/J& Council » Jj Pi/rnJ oouncilmembcr representing 13 cities -1; public at
Inrun HfipninlwJ hy the other mofnboro - 1). The Authority is to appoint a
polfoy ndvioory onwwiJiton composed of elected officials from each of the
Of Men onO the county > J t mny he upproprlate to consider that this policy
flilylwify finimiifttflO could he the Council of Fresno County Governments (COFCG)
pimoy Hom'd, However, the logJalotlon prohibits the same elected officials
f'jTHii eeryfnu on tlm AtiUiorlty nnd the policy advisory committee at the same
Miihii

hfi fl?fl rwuiran the Authority to consult and coordinate with cities, the
County, and the COFCnj nnd to roly on existing state, regional, and local
tvehoporteUnn plfinntnu nnil programming data and expertise, rather than on a
liti'uu dupliootWo atnff nnd ant of plans.

‘41 fl/f\ (fiootion iA??.‘>fl) defines how the transportation planning and
gvntirnnwlnu pvncinm la to bo coordinated through the existing regional
Vvmmpnrtnilon planning process. Tl^o COFCG, as the regional transportation
pienniiUl agnnoy, ia to annually review and assess highway transportation
iwiuIa, As part- of that review and assessment, the COFCG is to solicit
pvupomvia fov highway transportation improvements from Caltrans, the cities
amt rvesnn County, The COFCG is also required to adopt a procedure for
OYttidUiinu pvopusala in consultation with these agencies.

mW( UMltn

/

Board of Supervisors
Page 2

November 17, 1986

Eased upon the evaluation, the COFCG is to prepare a plan or* expenditure of
the revenues expected to be derived from the 1/256 transportation sales tax,
together with other funds (federal, state, and local) for a 20 year
period. The first five years are to be included in the COFCG's Regional
Transportation Improvement Program for submission to the California
Transportation Commission (CTO. Finally, the “Expenditure Plan" is to
include projections of revenues likely to be available in the next five
years for capital, maintenance, and operational purposes for (at least)
freeways, expressways, conventional state highways, local streets and
roads, and transit. The COFCG is to adopt the "Expenditure Plan" following
a public hearing. During the year, the COFCG may amend the adopted
"Expenditure Plan."

Section 142260 provides that the Authority is to annually approve the
Expenditure Plan," and may amend the "Expenditure Plan," subject to certain
conditions. The Authority would be required to hold a public hearing and
adopt a resolution which specifically details the reason why amendments are
necessary relative to conditions beyond the Authority's control.
Notification of proposed amendments must be transmitted to the COFCG, the
cities and Fresno County. The amendment would take effect 45 days
following adoption of the above cited resolution and notification, unless
any city or County objects to the amendment in writing within 50 days
following notification. In that event, the Authority must hold another
public hearing on the amendment prior to final action.

FISCAL IMPLICATIONS;

There is no direct impact on the County's General Fund. Fresno County's
Local Transportation share of the funds are estimated to be $1,682,103 in
1987-88 (three-fourths of year) and $2,326,257 in 1988-89 and continuing at
this level depending directly on the level of sales tax collected.

ACTION TIME FRAME:

The first meeting of the Authority is planned in January of 1987. The
Mayors of the 13 rural cities will probably meet on November 20, 1986, to
select their one representative.

Contact Person:

Richard 0. Welton - 453-5168

RDWrjp

11231

Attachment

Division 15. FRESIJO COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
Chapter 1. General Provisions

142000.	This division shall be known and may be cited as the
Fresno County Transportation Improvement Act.

142001.	The Legislature hereby finds and declares all of the
following:

(a)	In Fresno County, highway improvements and local
transportation improvements and services are an immediate high
priority needed to resolve the county's transportation problems
that threaten the economic viability and development potential of
the county and adversely impact the quality of life therein,

(b)	In order to deal in an expeditious manner with current and
future transportation problems, the county needs to develop and
implement a local funding program that goes significantly beyond
current federal and state funding which is inadequate to resolve
these problems.

(c)	It is in the public interest to allow the voters of Fresno
County to create the Fresno County Transportation Authority so
that local transportation decisions can be implemented in a
timely manner to provide highway capital improvements and to meet
local transportation needs.

142002.	It is the intent of the Legislature that funds
generated pursuant to this division not replace property tax
revenues which would otherwise be expended for roads and
transportation purposes.

142003.	This division shall be liberally construed in order
to effectuate its purposes. No inadvertent error, irregularity,
informality, or the inadvertent neglect or omission of any
officer, in any procedure taken under this division, other than
fraud, shall void or invalidate that proceeding or any levy
imposed to finance highway improvements or local transportation
needs.

142004.	“Authority" means the Fresno County Transportation
Authority created pursuant to this division in the county of
Fresno.

142005.	"Board of supervisors" means the Fresno County Board
of Supervisors.

142006.	"County" means the County of Fresno.

142007.	"Fresno-clovis Metropolitan Area" means that area

within the adopted spheres of influence of the cities of Fresno
and Clovis, as approved and amended by the local agency formation
commission.	,

142008.	"Transportation planning agency" means the Council of
Fresno County Governments or any other agency which may be
designated by the Governor as responsible for regional
transportation planning within the county to comply with federal

C-17

r

i'JQ IH

and state requirements.

142009.	If the electors do no approve the inposition of the
one-half of l percent retail transactions and use tax, this
division is repealed as of the date that the county certifies the
election results to the Secretary of State.

142010.	The authority is terminated two years from the last
day on which the transactions and use tax authorized by this
division is collected and as of that date this division is
repealed.

Chapter 2. Creation Of The A uthority

142050.	The Fresno County Transportation Authority is hereby
created in the county.

142051.	The authority shall consist of seven members selected
as follows:

(a)	Two members of the board of supervisors appointed by the
board.

(b)	Two members representing the City of Fresno, consisting of
the mayor thereof and a member of the city council of that city
appointed by the city council.

(c)	One member representing the City of Clovis appointed by
city council of that city.

(d)	One member representing the other cities within the county
appointed by a committee comprised of the mayors of each of those
cities.

(e)	One member of the public at large selected by the other
members of the authority.

142052.	(a)	Except	as provided in subdivision (b), and except

for the Mayor of the city of Fresno, the members of the authority
shall serve for a term of two years.

(b)	At the first meeting of the authority convened pursuant to
Section 142110, three members shall be selected by lot to serve
three-year terms, and the other three shall serve two-year terms.

(c)	If any member other than the public member ceases to be an
elected official, that member shall cease to be a member of the
authority, and another member shall be appointed for the
remainder of the term pursuant to Section 142051.

Chapter 3. Administration

142100.	The authority, at its first meeting, and thereafter
annually at the first meeting in January, shall elect a
chairperson who shall preside at all meetings, and a vice
chairperson who shall preside in his or her absence. In the
event of their absence or inability to act, the members present,
by an order entered into the minutes, shall select one of their
members to act as chairperson pro tempore, who, while so acting,
shall have all the authority of the chairperson.

142101.	The authority shall adopt rules for its proceedings

C-18

consistent with the law of the state.

142102.	A majority of the members of the authority
constitutes a quorum for the transaction of business, and all
official acts of the authority require the affirmative vote of
the majority of the members of the authority.

142103.	The acts of the authority shall be expressed by
motion, resolution, or ordinance.

142104.	All meetings of the authority shall be conducted
pursuant to chapter 9 (commencing with Section 54950) of Part 1
of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government code.

142105.	The authority shall do all the following:

(a)	Adopt an annual budget.

(b)	Adopt an administrative code, by ordinance, which
prescribes the powers and duties of the authority officers, the
method of appointment of the authority employees, and methods,
procedures, and systems of operations and management of the
authority.

(c)	cause a postaudit of the financial transactions and
records of the authority to be made at least annually by a
certified public accountant.

(d)	Appoint a policy advisory committee composed of one
representative of each city in the county and one representative

of the county. Each representative on the committee shall bo an
elected official. If a representative ceases to be an elected
official, that representative shall cease to be a member of the
committee, and another representative from that city or county,
as the case may be, shall be appointed. No person shall serve on
the authority and on the committee at the same time.

(e)	Do any and all things necessary to carry out the purposes
of this division.

142106.	The authority may hire an independent staff of its
own or contract with any department or agency of the United
States or with any public agency to implement this division.

142107.	The authority shall fix the compensation of its
officers and employees.

142108.	(a)	Notice of the time and place of a public hearing

on the adoption of the annual budget shall be published pursuant
to Section 6061 of the Government Code not later than the 15th
day prior to the day of the hearing.

(b)	The proposed annual budget shall be available for public
inspection at least 15 days prior to the hearing.

142109.	(a)	The authority shall rely, to the extent possible,

on existing state, regional, and local transportation planning
and programming data and expertise, rather than on a large
duplicative staff and set of plans.

(b)	The authority shall not expend more than 1 percent of the
funds generated pursuant to this division in any year for salary
and benefits of its staff.

142110.	The initial meeting of the authority shall convene
within 90 days of the approval of the transactions and use tax at
the election conducted pursuant to Chapter 6 (commencing with
Section 142250). The Secretary of the Business, Transportation

C-19

r/i^ts x: s

ai:d Housing Agency shall convene the initial meeting in the City
of Fresno.

Chapter 4. Powers and Functions

142150.	The authority nay adopt a seal and alter it at its
pleasure.

142151.	The authority nay sue and be sued, except as
otherwise provided by law, in all actions and proceedings, in all
courts and tribunals of competent jurisdiction.

142152.	All claims for money or damages against the authority
are governed by Division 3.6 (commencing with section 810) of
Title 1 of the Government Code, except as provided therein, or by
other statutes or regulations expressly applicable thereto.

142153.	The authority may make contracts and enter into
stipulations of any nature whatsoever, either in connection with
eminent domain proceedings or otherwise, including, but not
limited to, contracts and stipulations to indemnify and hold
harmless, to employ labor, and to do all acts necessary and
convenient for the full exercise of the powers granted in this
division.

142154.	The authority may contract with any department or
agency of the United states, with any public agency, including,
but not limited to, the Department of Transportation, the council
of Fresno county Governments, or any county, city, or district,
or with any person upon any terms and conditions that the

authority finds in its best interest.

142155.	(a)	Contracts	for the purchase of services, supplies,

equipment, and materials in excess of ten thousand dollars
($10,000) shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder after
competitive bidding, except in an emergency declared by the
authority or by an executive committee to which the authority has
delegated responsibility to make that declaration.

(b) If, after rejecting bids received under subdivision (a),
the authority determines and declares that, in its opinion, the
services, supplies, equipment, or materials may be purchased at a
lower price on the open market, the authority may proceed to
purchase these services, supplies, equipment, or materials in the
open market without further observance of the provisions
regarding contracts, bids, or advertisements.

Chapter 5. Transportation Coordination

142200. The authority shall consult with, and coordinate its
actions to secure funding for the completion and improvement of
the priority regional highways with the cities in the county, the
board of supervisors, the Council of Fresno County Governments,
and the Department of Transportation for the purpose of
integrating its planned highway improvements with the highway and
other transportation improvement plans and operations of other

C-20

r C & -

T

transportation agencies impacting the county.

142201. The authority shall prepare and adopt an annual
report each year on progress nade to achieve the objective of
improving transportation conditions related to priority highway
operations and local transportation needs.

Chapter 6. Transactions and u se Taxes

142250.	(a)	A retail transactions and use tax ordinance,

applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of
the county may be imposed by the authority in accordance with
Section 142262 of this code and Part 1.6 (commencing with Section
7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, if a
majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve
the imposition of the tax at an election which shall be called
for that purpose by resolution of the board of supervisors.

(b)	The election shall be held on the next established
election date for a general election after this division takes
effect.

(c)	The tax ordinance shall become operative as set forth in
Section 142253. The tax ordinance shall specify the period, not
to exceed 20 years, during which the tax is to be imposed. The
tax may be terminated earlier if the conditions of sections
142255, 142256, 142257, and 142260 have been met.

142251.	The authority, in the transactions and use tax
ordinance, shall 3tate the nature of the tax to be imposed, shall
provide the tax rate or rates or the maximum tax rate or rates,
shall specify the purposes for which the revenue derived from the
tax will be used, and may set a term, not to exceed 20 years,
during which the tax may be imposed.

142252.	(a)	The county shall conduct an election called by

the board of supervisors to implement this chapter pursuant to
Section 142250, and the authority shall reimburse the county for
the county's costs in conducting the election.

(b) The election shall be called and conducted in the same
manner as provided by law for the conduct of elections by a
county.

142253.	Any retail transactions and use tax ordinance adopted
pursuant to this chapter shall be operative on the first day of
the first calendar quarter commencing more than 120 days after
adoption of the ordinance.

142254.	The revenues from the retail transactions and use
taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter may be allocated by the
authority for the administration of this division and for
transportation improvement purposes.

Not more than 75 percent of the proceeds of the tax shall be
allocated for highway capital improvements, including
administration of this division, legal actions related thereto,
planning, environmental reviews, design, construction, and
repair. These revenues may also be used for improvements to the
state highway system in the manner otherwise provided by law.

C-21

5 ago 22

t

* I

' j

\

. 142255* Of the funds allocated for highway capital
inprovements pursuant to Section 142254/ not rrore than 70 percent
thereof shall be allocated for improvements within the Fresno-
Clovis Metropolitan Area, which way include, but are not United
to, the following highway projects:

(a)	Construction of freeway overcrossings, grade separations,
and operational improvements necessary for effective connection
of the designated arterial street system in Fresno with State
Highway Route 99 and to avoid excessive traffic delays-

(b)	Widening the Route 99 freeway from Ashlan Avenue northwest
to Madera County.

(c)	construction of a freeway or expressway on the designated
State Highway Route 41 alignment from Clayton Avenue south of
Fresno to connect with existing Route 41 freeway and Route 99
freeway.

(d)	Construction of a freeway or expressway on the designated
Route 41 alignment extending from Audobon Drive north across the
San Joaguin River in concert with any project which may be
•approved by the California Transportation Commission on that
alignment north to Madera County.

(e)	Construction of uncompleted freeway or expressway segments
on the designated State Highway Route 160 alignment from either
Hughes Avenue and Whitesbridge Road eastward to connect with the
existing Route 99 freeway; from the existing Route 99 freeway
eastward to connect with existing Route 180 freeway at
Blackstone/Abbey Streets couplet, including additional
improvements eastward to the existing Route 100 and Route 41
freeway interchange/ and from the existing Route 180 and Route 41
freeway interchange; and from existing Route 41 freeway eastward
to Highland Avenue.

142256. Of the funds allocated for highway capital
improvements pursuant to Section 142254, not less than 30 percent
of the funds shall be allocated for improvements within the rest
of the county, which may include, but are not limited to, the
following highway projects:

(a) Rehabilitation, reconstruction, and operational and safety
improvements on conventional state highway segments which are not

planned as freeways or expressways on alignments separate from
existing routes. Eligible state highway routes include all of
the following:

(1)	Route 33 from Merced County to Kings County.

(2)	Route 145 from Route 5 to Madera county.

(3)	Route 168 from Shaver Lake to Huntington Lake.

(4)	Route 180 from Route 33 near Mendota eastward to Hughes
Avenue near Fresno.

(5)	Route 198 from Kings County to Monterey County.

(6)	Route 245 from Tulare County to Route l80.

(7)	Route 269 from Route 145 to Kings County.

(b)	Construction of an expressway on the designated State
Highway Route 41 alignment from Elkhorn Avenue north to Clayton
Avenue.

(c)	Widening State Highway Route 99 freeway from Tulare County

I

C-22

►

*



I-

ra'.iQ /.)

north to Floral Avenue and from Hanning Avenue north to Clovis
Avenue.

<d) Construction of freeway or expressway segments on the
designated state Highway Route 169 allgnr.ent fron Temperance
Avenue to existing Route 168 freeway near Lodge Road and fron
existing Route 168 freeway near Pine Ridge to Shaver Lake.

(e) Construction of an expressway on the designated State
Highway Route 180 alignment from Highland Avenue eastward to
State Highway Route 63 near orange Cove.

142257.	(a)	Mot	less	than	25	percent	of the proceeds of the

retail transactions and use tax shall be allocated to each city
and the county for local transportation purposes determined to be
priority projects by local governments to which funds are
allocated. The distribution of these funds shall be based upon a
formula allocation in which 25 percent of the funds are allocated
on the basis of proportionate total street miles and 75 percent
of the funds are allocated on the basis of proportionate
population using the latest estimate of population.

For purposes of this subdivision, the population of the county
is the population of the unincorporated area of the county.

(b)	Prior to the authority allocating funds, each local
government shall certify to the authority that the funds will not
be substituted for property tax funds which are currently
utilized to fund existing local transportation programs. If the
local government is unable to segregate property tax revenues
from other general fund revenues which cannot be so
distinguished, substitution of funds from tho authority for
general funds is also prohibited.

(c)	The authority shall require that local governments to
which funds are allocated to separately account for those funds
and maintain records of expenditures in accordance with
administrative code requirements adopted by the authority.

142258.	(a)	The	transportation planning agency shall annually

review and assess the needs for highway transportation purposes
specified in Sections 142255 and 142256. As part of this review
and assessment, the transportation planning agency shall solicit
proposals for highway transportation improvements from the
Department of Transportation and the cities and the county. The
transportation planning agency shall adopt a procedure for
evaluating these proposals in consultation with the Department of
Transportation and the cities and the county.

(b) Based on the evaluation, the transportation planning

agency shall prepare a plan for the expenditure of the revenues
expected to be derived from the transactions and use tax imposed
pursuant to this chapter, together with other federal, state, and
local improvements, for a period of not less than 20 years. The
first five years of the plan shall be incorporated into the
transportation planning agency's annual submission to the
California Transportation commission for the state transportation
improvement program pursuant to Chapter 2.5 (commencing with
Section 65080) of Division 1 of Title 7 of the Government Code,
(c) The expenditure plan shall also include projections of

C-23

rcge 24

revenues likely to be available in the next five years for
capital, maintenance, and operational purposes in categories of
transportation facilities, including, but not limited to,
freeways, expressways, and conventional state highways, and local
streets and roads and transit.

(d)	Before adoption of an expenditure plan, the transportation
planning agency shall conduct public hearings on the plan.

142259.	Except as otherwise provided by Section 142260, the
transportation planning agency may amend the expenditure plan
annually.

142260.	(a)	The authority may, by the affirmative vote of a

majority of the members, annually approve, or approve subject to
amendment, the expenditure plan adopted pursuant to section
142258. The authority 6hall take all appropriate actions to give
highest priority to the projects in the initial expenditure plan,
and any amendments shall not delay or delete any project in the
initial plan without the authority holding a public hearing and
adopting a resolution specifically detailing the reason why the
amendments are necessary relative to conditions beyond control of
the authority.

(b)	The authority shall notify the transportation planning
agency, the board of supervisors, and the city council of each
city in the county and provide them with a copy of the proposed
amendments.

(c)	The proposed amendments shall become effective 45 days
after notice is given pursuant to subdivision (b). A public
hearing shall be held on the proposed amendments prior to final
adoption if any city or the county objects to the amendment in
writing within 30 days of receiving the notice.

142261.	If a retail transactions and use tax is adopted
pursuant to this chapter, the authority shall prepare and submit
a report to the Department of Transportation, to the board of
supervisors, to the city council of each city in the county, and
to the transportation planning agency, on or before each January
1 after taxes are imposed pursuant to this chapter. The report
shall evaluate and report the progress made in implementing the
expenditure plan during the preceding fiscal year.

142262.	The authority, subject to the approval of the voters,
may impose the retail transactions and use tax at a maximum rate
of one-half of 1 percent under this chapter and Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and may state the maximum tax rate in terms of not
to exceed one-half of 1 percent.

142263.	(a)	The board of supervisors, as part of the ballot

proposition to approve the imposition of a retail transactions
and use tax, shall seek authorization from the electors to issue
bonds payable solely from the proceeds of the tax.

(b) The maximum bonded indebtedness which may be authorized
shall be an amount equal to the sum of the principal and interest
on the bonds, not to exceed the estimated proceeds of the tax,
for a period of not more than 20 years. The actual wording of
the proposition on any short form of ballot card, label, or other

C-24

device, regardless of the system of voting used, shall read as
follows:

IMPROVING ROADS AND
TRANSPORTATION IN FRESNO	’

COUNTY	‘

To provide for countywide road improvements	'

and rehabilitation, freeway expansion, and	'

local transportation purposes which would	*	YES

contribute to better traffic flow, improved	1

air quality, and increased safety; this	'

proposition authorizes the Fresno county	'______

Transportation Authority to impose, by	'

ordinance, a one-half of 1 percent transactions '
and use tax (for a period of not to exceed 20	'

years) with not more than 75 percent for high-	'	NO

way improvements in Fresno County and not less *
than 25 percent for local transportation pur- 1
poses and to issue bonds payable from the	1

proceeds of that tax and establishes the appro- '
priations limit of the authority in the amount '
of _____ dollars	($____)	.	' *

142264.	(a)	The	bonds authorized by the voters concurrently

with the approval of the retail transactions and use tax may be
issued by the authority at any time, and from time to time,
payable solely from the proceeds of the tax. The bonds shall be
referred to as "limited tax bonds."

(b) The pledge of the tax to the limited tax bonds authorized
under this chapter has priority over the use of any of the tax
for pay-as-you-go financing, except to the extent that that
priority is expressly restricted in the resolution authorizing
the issuance of the bonds.

142265.	Limited tax bonds shall be issued pursuant to a
resolution adopted at any time by an affirmative vote of a
majority of the members of the authority. Each resolution shall
provide for the issuance of bonds in the amounts as may be
necessary, until the full amount of the bonds authorized have
been issued. The full amount of bonds may be divided into two or
more series and different dates of payment fixed for the bonds of
each series. A bond need not mature on its anniversary date.

142266.	(a)	A	resolution	authorizing	the	issuance	of limited

tax bonds shall state all of the following:

(1)	The purpose for which the proposed debt is to be incurred,
which may include all costs and estimated costs incidental to or
connected with the accomplishment of those purposes, including,
without limitation, engineering, inspection, legal, fiscal

C-25

/ago 20

agents, financial consultant and other fees, bond and other
reserve funds, working capital, bond interest estimated to accrue
during the construction period and for a period not to exceed
three years thereafter, and expenses of all proceedings for the
authorization, issuance, and sale of the bonds,

(2)	The estimated cost of accomplishing those purposes.

(3)	The amount of the principal of the indebtedness.

(4)	The maximum term that the bonds proposed to be issued
shall run before maturity, which shall not be beyond the date of
termination of the imposition of the retail transactions and use
tax.

(5)	The maximum rate of interest to be paid, which shall not
exceed the maximum allowable by law.

(6)	The denomination or denominations of the bonds, which
shall not be less than five thousand dollars ($5,000).

(7)	The form of the bonds, including, without limitation,
registered bonds and coupon bonds, to the extent permitted by
federal law, and the form of any coupons to be attached thereto,
the registration, conversion, and exchange privileges, if any,
pertaining thereto, and the time when all of, or any part of, the
principal becomes due and payable.

(b) The resolution may also contain any other matters
authorized by this chapter or any other provision of law.

142267.	The bonds shall bear interest at a rate or rates not
exceeding the maximum allowable by law, payable semiannually,
except that the first interest payable on the bonds, or any
series thereof, may be for any period not exceeding one year, as
determined by the authority,

142268.	In the resolution authorizing the issuance of the
bonds, the authority may also provide for call and redemption of
the bonds prior to maturity at the times and prices and upon
other terms as specified. However, no bond is subject to call or
redemption prior to maturity unless it contains a recital to that
effect or unless a statement to that effect is printed thereon.

142269.	The principal of, and interest on, the bonds shall be
payable in lawful money of the United States at the office of the
auditor-controller-treasurer of the county and other places as
may be designated by the authority.

142270.	(a) The bonds, or each series thereof, shall be dated
and numbered consecutively and shall be signed by the chairperson
or vice chairperson of the authority and the auditor-controller-
treasurer of the county, and the official seal of the authority
shall be attached.

(b)	The interest coupons of the bonds, if any, shall be signed
by the auditor-controller-treasurer of the county.

(c)	All signatures and the seal may be printed, lithographed,
or mechanically reproduced, except that one of the signatures on
the bonds shall be manually affixed.

(d)	If any officer whose signature appears on the bonds or
coupons ceases to be that officer before the delivery of the
bonds, the officer's signature is as effective as if the officer
had remained in office.

142271.	The bonds may be sold as the authority determines by
resolution. The authority may sell the bonds at a price below
par, whether by negotiated or public sale.

C-26

142272- Delivery of any bonds ray be made at any place either
inside or outside the state, and the purchase price nay fce

received in cash or bank credits.

142273.	All accrued interest and premiums received on the
sale of the bonds shall be placed in the fund to be used for the
payment of principal of, and interest on, the bonds, and the
remainder of the proceeds of the bonds shall be placed in the
treasury of the authority and applied to secure the bonds or for
the purposes for which the debt was incurred. However, when the
purposes have been accomplished, any money remaining shall be
either (a) transferred to the fund to be used for the payment of
principal of, and interest on, the bonds or (b) placed in a fund
to be used for the purchase of outstanding bonds of the authority
from time to time in the open market at prices and in the manner,
either at public or private sale or otherwise, as determined by
the authority. Bonds so purchased shall be canceled immediately.

142274.	(a)	The authority may provide for the issuance, sale,

or exchange or refunding bonds to redeem or retire any bonds
issued by the authority upon the terms, at the times, and in the
manner which it determines.

(b)	Refunding bonds may be issued in a principal amount
sufficient to pay all, or any part of, the principal of the
outstanding bonds, the premiums, if any, due upon call and
redemption thereof prior to maturity, all expenses of the
refunding, and either of the following:

(1)	The interest upon the refunding bonds from the date of
sale thereof to the date of payment of the bonds to be refunded
out of the proceeds of the sale of the refunding bonds or to the
date upon which the bonds to be refunded will be paid pursuant to
call or agreement with the holders of the bonds.

(2)	The interest upon the bonds to be refunded from the date
of sale of the refunding bonds to the date of payment of the
bonds to be refunded or to the date upon which the bonds to be
refunded will be paid pursuant to call or agreement with the
holders of the bonds.

(c)	The provisions of this chapter for the issuance and sale
of bonds apply to the issuance and sale of refunding bonds.

142275.	(a) The authority may borrow money in anticipation of
the sale of bonds which have been authorized pursuant to this
chapter, but which have not been sold and delivered, and may
issue negotiable bond anticipation notes therefor and may renew
the bond anticipation notes from time to time. However, the
maximum maturity of any bond anticipation notes, including the
renewals thereof, shall not exceed five years from the date of
delivery of the original bond anticipation notes.

(b) The bond anticipation notes, and the interest thereon, may
be paid from any money of the authority available therefor,
including the revenues from the retail transactions and use taxes
imposed pursuant to this chapter. If not previously otherwise
paid, the bond anticipation notes, or any portion thereof, or the
interest thereon, shall be paid from the proceeds of the next
sale of the bonds of the authority in anticipation of which the

Page 20

notes were issued.

(c) The bond anticipation notes shall not be issued in any
amount in excess of the aggregate amount of bonds which the
authority has been authorized to issue less the ancunt of any
bonds of the authorized issue previously sold, and also less the
amount of other bond anticipation notes therefor issued and then
outstanding. The bond anticipation notes shall be issued and

sold in the same manner as the bonds.

(d)	The bond anticipation notes and the resolutions
authorizing them may contain any provisions, conditions, or
limitations which a resolution of the authority authorizing the
issuance of bonds may contain.

142276.	Any bonds issued under this chapter are legal
investments for all trust funds; for the funds of insurance
companies, commercial and savings banks, and trust companies; and
for state school funds; and whenever any money or funds may, by
any law now or hereafter enacted, be invested in bonds of cities,
counties, school districts, or other districts within the state,
that money or funds may be invested in the bonds issued under
this chapter; and whenever bonds of cities, counties, school
district, or other districts within the state may, by any law now
or thereafter enacted, be used as security for the performance of
any act or the deposit of any public money, the bonds issued
under this chapter may be so used. The provisions of this
chapter are in addition to all other laws relating to legal
investments and shall be controlling as the latest expression of
the Legislature with respect thereto.

142277.	Any action or proceeding wherein the validity of the
adoption of the retail transactions and use tax ordinance
provided for in this chapter, or the issuance of any bonds
thereunder, or any of the proceedings in relation thereto, is
contested, questioned, or denied, shall be commenced within six
months from the date of the election at which the ordinance is
approved; otherwise, the bond9 and all proceedings in relation
thereto, including the adoption and approval of the ordinance,
shall be held to be valid and in every respect legal and
incontestable.

SEC. 5, Section 7252.8 is added to the Revenue and Taxation
Code, to read:

7252.8. "Districts," as used in this part, also means a
county transportation authority or the Metropolitan
Transportation Commission if authorized to impose transactions
and use taxes pursuant to this part.

SEC. 6. Section 7252.10 is added to the Revenue and Taxation
Code, to read:

7252.10. "District," as used in this part, also means the
Fresno County Transportation Authority, if authorized to impose
transactions and use taxes pursuant to this part.

This section shall remain in effect as long as Division 15
(commencing with Section 142000) of the Public Utilities Code
remains in effect, but shall be repealed upon the repeal of that
division.

C-28

SEC. 7. Section 42009 of the Vehicle Code is amended to read:
42009. (a) notwithstanding subdivision (c) of Section 42007,
in addition to the fees authorized or required by Section 42007
or any other provisions of law, the court shall order payment of
an additional fee from every person ordered, in lieu of
adjudicating a traffic offense, to attend a school pursuant to
Section 42005 or any court-supervised program of driving
instruction.

(b)	The amount of the fee shall be ten dollars ($10).

(c)	The revenues from the fees shall be deposited by the clerk
in accordance with Section 68034 of the Government Code. The
clerk shall report to the county auditor which agency issued the

notice to appear for which the fee was collected and the amounts
thereof.

(d)	After deducting one dollar and ten cents ($1.10) per
citation for the administrative costs to the county for
collection and processing of the fee, the county shall transfer
the revenues to the issuing local governmental entity monthly.

(e)	Revenues collected under this section shall be deposited
in the general fund of the local governmental entity which issues
the notice to appear.

SEC. 8. If any provision of this act or the application
thereof to any circumstances is held unconstitutional, that
decision shall not affect other provisions or applications of the
act which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end, the provisions of this act are
severable. The Legislature hereby declares that it would have
passed this act, and each portion thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any other portion be declared unconstitutional.

SEC. 9. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to
Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution
because the local agency or school district has the authority to
levy service charges, fees, or assessments sufficient to pay for
the program or level of service mandated by this act and because
this act is in accordance with the request of a local agency or
school district which desired legislative authority to carry out
the program specified in this act.

SEC. 10. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety
within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall go
into immediate effect. The facts constituting the necessity are:

In order to assure the development of traffic and
transportation projects and to clarify what fees a court may
order persons to pay who are ordered to attend schools for
traffic violators or driving schools, it is necessary that this
act take effect immediately.

END OF BILL TEXT

V. in/.Vl EAOlC' VWC** —»*	SlAIICrcaiifGR*.*	GO>I»'.>

>01 turru
w«i i	>

<icvliu'/,iiiOi:'.l
WMfr# nm»n
»vu<*'/c l£0'J#M>
enuct HttltuUl
RiChmid ROVF.RO

ROBfRi 5 (Htsuam Owe

CALIFORNIA TRANSPORTATION

tlfONSTREf! KO B0n*ib7J
£ACRAt/EMO04273 GGOi
IB1b)44fr16Kr

October 3, 1986

Deron Kollgian
Chairman

Fresno County Board of Supervisors
County Hall of Records
2281 Tulare Street
Fresno, CA 93721

COMMISSION

f:C7 07 !93b

CLERK, BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

Dear Chairman Kollgian:

At the September 25, 1986 meeting of the California Transportation
Commission, the Commission approved the following statement in support of
the upcoming sales tax measure appearing on the November ballot in your
county:

This Commission takes note of local transportation improvement
efforts being made in four counties, Alameda, Contra Costa,

Fresno and Tuolumme, each of which has a sales tax measure
dedicated to transportation purposes on the November ballot.

This Commission has consistently encouraged and supported local
improvement efforts. Therefore, the California Transportation
Commission, acting at its September 25, 1986 meeting, endorses
and advocates passage of these county measures:

-	Alameda County, Measure B

-	Contra Costa County, Measure C

-	Fresno County, Measure C

-	Tuolumme County, Measures D and G

The Commission further reiterates that present and future
State transportation spending programs in these counties will
not in any way be decreased and, to the contrary, increased
local effort will be likely to inspire additional support by
this Commission for projects within those counties which have
approved local revenue measures.

October 3, 1986
Page 2

Given the wide disparity between available funding and the needs for
transportation improvements in California, your county's efforts in
providing additional revenue are particularly important.

On behalf of my fellow Commissioners, I wish you good luck and success
November,

Sincerely,

JOE LE
Chairman

Attachment

JL:bpm:K27

*-7

board of
SUPERVISORS

T

IOI AI. SAlV/.'/. IIAI.Ua HFASIJRKS - r.'oYI.HilkK A, |«jKfe

/

		tOUIllV	Author i/Jug !.«.*>'isl.fi Ji-i.	Sales 1ax Kate	Duration  of Tax _	hut Jmated Revenue	Bonding
&		AJ.AMk'IM (Measure B)	:>JJ Ji/K (Boatwright) Chapter 301 1986	1/27.	13 yrs.	$990 million	Fermicted; not yet determined
	r-	CONTRA COSTA (Measure C)	SR B7B (Boatwright) Chapter 301 1986	1/2%	15 yrs.	$596 million	Permitted; not yet determined
•	i	FkESKO (Measure C)	SB 878 (Boatwright) Chapter 301 1986	1/2%	20 yrs.	$5AA million	Permitted; not yet determined
	; n	TUOLUMNF (Measure D County) (Measure G City)	AB 3937 (N. Waters) Chapter 1521 1986	1%	15 yrs.	$39 million	Permitted and will be utilized

i

Coh:;iilmH c/lJ»e»

$AB9H (A92)	-	mate hjghw

$2R5M (7.9/0	-	1 raiib J r

$197H (70Z>	-	local rand

maintenance and construe
$15M	(1.57)	-	para tram, it

$AM (0.57)	-	administrat

$249M	(42%)	-	state	highv

$239M	(A0%)	-	transit

$87M	(157)	-	local	road

maintenance only
$21M	(3%)	-	right	of wi

acquisition, administrai

$A08M (757)	-	state highi

o $286M (707) - Fresno/*
o $122M (307.) - countyw
$136M (2570	-	cities and

county local prioritiza

Majorities in both uninco
porated areas & City of S
must approve mensure.
$7.6M (197) - widen Route
to 5 lanes
$31.AM (817) - local stre
roads.

Counties authorized, but yet to consider, local sales tax measure:	Marin,	Napa,	San	Diego,	Solano,	Sonoma.

Counties currently with a local sales tax in effect:

l.os Angeles
Santa Clara

San Mateo

1/27 for transit

1/2% for highways (Route 85, 101, 23?)
1/2% for transit
1/2% for transit

A 1 ornfl Ho	7

Contra Costa >	1/2%	for	HART

San Franc!8co\

I

r