■SIDE 1

OFFICIAL BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED

GENERAL ELECTION

Sonoma County, California
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4,1986

This ballot stub shall be torn oft by precinct board
member and handed to the voter.

CARD E

SIDE 2'

E

r'

'1

j MARK YOUR CHOICE(S) |

IN THIS MANNER __

ONLY --------►)—|

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

62

LOCAL TAXATION. For new and in-
creased taxes, local governments and
districts need two-thirds popular vote-
special taxes; majority—general taxes.
Fiscal impact: Prevents new or higher
general taxes by local agencies without
voter approval. Could reduce local agen-
cies’ existing tax revenues, if their voters
do not ratify the continuation of new or
higher taxes adopted after August 1,
1985. Provisions imposing penalties and
requiring voter approval cannot be ap-
plied to charter cities.

YES EZ3

NO CD.

OFFICIAL STATE LANGUAGE. Re-
quires Legislature and state officials to
ensure English as official state common
03 language. Provides for private enforce-
ment. Fiscal impact: No direct effect on
the costs or revenues of the state or local
governments.

YES

NO

ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY
SYNDROME (AIDS). Declares AIDS
virus carrier a contagious condition,
subject to quarantine and reportable
disease regulation. Fiscal impact: The
measure’s cost could vary greatly de-
pending upon its interpretation by
or health officers and courts. If existing
0 * discretionary communicable disease
controls were applied to AIDS, given the
current state of medical knowledge,
there would be no substantial change in
state and local costs. If measure were
interpreted to require added disease
controls, costs could range to hundreds
of millions of dollars per year depending
on measures taken.

YES CD

NO CD

65

TOXIC DISCHARGE AND EX-
POSURE RESTRICTIONS. Prohibits
discharge of toxic chemicals into drink-
ing water and requires warnings of toxic
chemicals exposure. Fiscal impact:
Costs of state and local enforcement are
estimated at $500,000 in 1987 and there-
after would depend on many factors, but
could exceed $1,000,000 annually. Costs
would be partially offset by lines col-
lected.

YES a

NO CD

49505

VOTE BOTH SIDES

I HAVE VOTED-HAVE YOU?

r-

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)
IN THIS MANNER
ONLY ---------fe.

"I

I

B

COUNTY

ON-SHORE SUPPORT FACILITIES
MEASURE A

Shall the ordinance requiring voter ap-
proval for on-shore facilities supporting
off-shore oil and gas exploration and f~ L. ,
development and expressing the strong YES t*~I

opposition of the citizens of the County -------

of Sonoma to proposed off-shore oil and NO
gas developments affecting Sonoma
County be approved?

NUCLEAR FREE ZONE INITIATIVE
MEASURE B

B

Shall an ordinance prohibiting the pro-
duction, transportation, storage, pro-
cessing, disposal and use of nuclear
weapons and nuclear weapon compo-
nents, including enriched nuclear mate-
rial and radioactive waste, within
Sonoma County and creating a task
force to investigate compliance with the
ordinance and to make recommenda-
tions regarding tax credit guidelines de-
signed to encourage conversion of af-
fected industries to non-nuclear
weapons related activities be adopted?

YES cd

NO CD

DISTRICT

BENNETT VALLEY FIRE DISTRICT
TAX ASSESSMENT MEASURE G

Shall the Bennett Valley Fire Protection
District adopt an ordinance authorizing
imposition of a special tax not to exceed
ten dollars ($10.00) per unit of benefit
per year, on real property within the
boundaries of the District for fire protec-
tion and prevention services, and in-
creasing the appropriations limit of the
District in any year for a period of four
(4) years in an amount equal to the total
of such charges for that year, which
charges shall be established by the
Board of Directors of the District accor-
ding to the units of benefit for the dif-
ferent categories of land use as set forth
in the ordinance?

YES CD
NO CD

FLOOD CONTROL ZONE 3A
BENEFIT ASSESSMENT MEASURE L

L

Shall the Sonoma County Water Agency
be authorized to levy a benefit assess-
ment in accordance with Sonoma Coun-
ty Water Agency Ordinance No. 9, to
remain in effect for 10 years to finance
the maintenance and operation cost of
flood control services and the cost of
installation and improvement of flood
control facilities within Zone 3A with a
maximum assessment of $25.00 per
benefit assessment unit per year, a single
family residence on a .22 acre lot having
one benefit assessment unit?

YES 1=3
NO 1=3

49514

VOTE BOTH SIDES

49sb-39

Sample Ballot

BENNETT VALLEY FIRE DISTRICT TAX ASSESSMENT MEASURE G
(Full Text of Ordinance)

ORDINANCE NO. 86-1

AN ORDINANCE OF THE BENNETT VALLEY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
IMPOSING A SPECIAL TAX FOR FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
AND INCREASING SAID DISTRICT’S APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

The Board of Directors of the Bennett Valley Fire Protection District does
ordain as follows:

SECTION I. PURPOSE AND INTENT.

It is the purpose of this ordinance to authorize the levy of a special tax
on parcels of real property that are within the Bennett Valley Fire Protection
District in order to augment funding for obtaining, furnishing, operating, and
maintaining fire protection and prevention equipment and services.

This is a special tax within the meaning of Section 4 of Article XI11A of
the California Constitution, and is being enacted pursuant to the authority
and procedures of Government Section 53978. This tax is a property tax, but
the amount of tax is not determined according to nor is it in any manner
based upon the value of the property. This tax is based, to the extent practi-
cal, upon the risk of fire and the firefighting and fire prevention costs asso-
ciated with each parcel, its use and the improvements thereon. Insofar as
not inconsistent with this ordinance or Chapter 397 of the Statutes of 1979
(commencing with Government Code Section 53970), such provisions of a
California Revenue and Taxation Code as relate to ad valorem property taxes
are intended to apply to the collection and administration of this tax, as
authorized by Government Code Section 53978 (d). Since this tax is not an
ad valorem tax, the exemptions contained in or authorized by Article XIII of
the California Constitution shall not apply.

The taxes imposed by this ordinance may be collected by the County on
behalf of the District along with other property taxes as authorized by
Government Code Section 53978, or they may be collected by the District by
billing separately for: the amount of tax due and payable.

In order to effectively use the proceeds of such special tax, within the
meaning of Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, the
appropriations limit of the Bennett Valley Fire Protection District for fire pro-
tection and prevention services shall be increased in any year, for a period
of four (4) years, in an amount equal to the total of the charges imposed by
said special tax for such year.

The, revenues raised by this tax are to be used solely for the purposes of
obtaining, furnishing, operating, and maintaining fire suppression and rescue
equipment and apparatus,, and for other necessary fire protection and pre-
vention expenses of the District.

SECTION II. SPECIAL TAX.

The District’s Board of Directors is authorized to levy a special tax in the
Bennett Valley Fire Protection District each year, for the purposes stated in
Section I, on each parcel of land shown on the Sonoma County Assessor’s
Parcel Maps and carried on the Sonoma County secured property tax roll;
provided, however, that such a special tax shall not be imposed upon a
federal or state governmental agency or another local agency. The special
tax shall be imposed in accordance with the following schedule:

Maximum Number of
Actual Land Use:	Units	of Benefits:

Rural Residential Vacant Home Site
Vacant Residential w/wo Utilities unde-
veloped.

Single Family Dwelling
Rural Residential,

Single Residence
Rural Residential,

2 Dwellings or More

1 Unit per acre

(Up to 4 units per parcel)

4 Units

4 Units

3 Units per dwelling
(Not to exceed 6 Units)

Mobile Home & Cemeteries	2	Units

Condominiums, Clubs & Lodge Halls, Pri-
vate Schools	4	Units

Commercial

(Store or Office)	5 Units

Agricultural

(Land and improvements including all 4 Units of Benefit
agriculture and similar uses)	Per Parcel.

SECTION III. SPECIAL TAX LIMIT.

The special tax authorized by this ordinance shall not exceed $10.00 per
unit of benefit per year.

SECTION IV. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT.

The appropriations limit of the Bennett Valley Fire Protection District is
hereby increased, in any year, for a period of four (4) years from the effec-

tive date of this ordinance, in an amount equal to the special taxes hereby
authorized to be imposed.

SECTION V. REPORT AND HEARING.

Each year prior to the imposition of said tax the District’s Board of Direc-
tors shall cause a report to be prepared showing each parcel, the owner(s)
thereof, and the proposed levy thereon. Upon receipt of such report, the
Board of Directors shall set a date for a hearing thereon and shall cause
notice of such hearing to be posted at three (3) public places within the Dis-
trict, or in lieu of posting, by mailing notice of hearing to each property own-
er at the address disclosed on the latest tax roll of Sonoma County. At said
hearing, the Board of Directors shall make such corrections to the taxes pro-
posed to be levied as may be required to conform to the schedule as set
forth above.

SECTION VI. COLLECTION.

The taxes imposed by this ordinance may be collected in the same man-
ner and subject to the same penally as other charges and taxes collected by
the County on behalf of the District, or they may be collected by separate
billing to the owner of each parcel.

SECTION VII. LIMITED AMENDMENT.

If any section of this ordinance or portion thereof is held invalid or unen-
forceable by any court and such judgment becomes final, then that section
may be amended by the District’s Board by majority vote to conform with
the judgment of such court, provided such amendment is Consistent with the
purpose and intent of said ordinance. The provisions of this ordinance relat-
ing solely to procedural matters may be amended by an ordinance of the
Board of Directors of the District.

SECTION VIII. SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.

If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase or clause of this ordinance is
for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The Directors of the District
hereby declare that they would have adopted the ordinance and each section
thereof, despite the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, phrases
or clauses may be declared invalid.

SECTION IX. EFFECTIVE DATE AND LANGUAGE OF PROPOSITION.

This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its confirmation of two-
thirds (2/3) of the voters in an election to be held on November 4,1986.

The proposition to appear on the ballot shall be as follows:

“Shall the Bennett Valley Fire Protection District adopt an ordinance
authorizing imposition of a special tax not to exceed ten dollars ($10.00)
per unit of benefit per year, on real property within the boundaries of the
District for fire protection and prevention services, and increasing the
appropriations limit of the District in any year for a period of four (4)
years in an amount equal to the total of such charges for that year,
which charges shall be established by the Board of Directors of the
District according to the units of benefit for the different categories of
land use as set forth in the ordinance.”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G AUTHORIZING
A SPECIAL TAX FOR FIRE PROTECTION IN THE
BENNETT VALLEY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

If Measure G is approved by two-thirds of the voters of the Bennett
Valley Fire Protection District voting on the measure, the Board of Directors
of the District may impose a special tax that can only be spent for fire ser-
vices. This measure would also increase the spending limit of the Bennett
Valley Fire Protection District to allow these taxes to be used
The rate of this tax would be set by the Board of Directors of the Ben-
nett Valley Fire Protection District at a rate not to exceed ten dollars
($10.00) per unit of benefit based on the benefit schedule set forth in the
measure.

Before imposing this special tax each year, the District’s Board of Direc-
tors would prepare a report on the proposed tax for each parcel and hold a
public hearing. At this hearing, individuals could protest the amount of their
tax.

The tax would be collected in the same manner as property taxes.

si James P. Botz
County Counsel

NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF OR AGAINST
THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

49-64