J

VOTE ^
TUESDAY
JUNE 3, 1986

Polls Open
7:00 am to 8:00 p.m.

VOTE AT THE LOCATION

SHOWN ON THE BACK COVER
OF THIS PAMPHLET

To save time on election day, mark your sample
ballot in advance and take it to the polls when you

go to vote.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The Government Code authorizes school districts to impose special taxes with the ap-
proval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting on the proposed tax. The governing
board of the Cupertino Union School District adopted a resolution proposing a special tax.
A "yes" vote is a vote In favor of levying the proposed special tax.

The special tax would be levied upon parcels of real property in the district. The amount
of the tax levy on any particular parcel is determined in accordance with a schedule con-
tained in the resolution proposing the tax. The schedule classifies parcels on the basis of
size, in acreage, if undeveloped, commercial, or industrial, and on the basis of number of
dwelling units on a parcel in the case of improved property.

The proceeds from the proposed tax would be used to enable the district to retain ex-
perienced and highly qualified teachers and support staff and to recruit new teachers.

A "yes" vote is also a vote to increase the annual appropriations limitation of the district.
A “no" vote is a vote not to authorize the levy of the proposed special tax and not to
authorize the increase in the annual appropriations limitation.

DONALD L. CLARK
County Counsel

by James C. Emerson
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Why Measure “A"?

As your community confronts the nationwide teacher shortage, your outstanding
school district cannot provide competitive salaries to keep and recruit qualified staff
with current funding.

School funding comes from the state—distributed unequally by an outdated formula.
Each student in the Cupertino elementary schools receives less than each student in
surrounding districts.

GIVEN THE PER-STUDENT RATE OF:

Sunnyvale Elementary.. .your schools would have $2.3 million MORE;

Saratoga Elementary.. .your schools would have $3.6 million MORE; or
Palo Alto Unified.. .your schools would have $9.7 million MORE.

It may not be fair, but it’s a fact.

Result:

No money for competitive salaries.

Loss of good people to districts that can afford higher salaries.

Program and staff cut to the bone. THERE IS NO FAT!

Faced now with a nationwide teacher shortage, how. can we keep and attract the best
and the brightest if our salaries don't even keep pace with neighboring districts?

Lottery funds simply won’t do the job—at best, they total only 3 cents on the dollar of our
annual budget.

Measure “A” is a three-year, one-time, CONSERVATIVE solution.

It will provide a minimum base, Just enough to keep salaries from slipping back to the
bottom of districts in Santa Clara County.

Think about it.. .Your future depends directly on the quality of your schools.

Excellent schools need COMPETENT teachers.

A YES vote tells us you agree that a competent teacher, is worth your investment
of $5 a month.

Elaine K. White, President	Tommy G. Shwe, Clerk	Beverly J. Armstrong

Board of Education	Board of Education	PTA Unit President

Joan C. Barram,	Yvette del Prado

Vice-President	Superintendent

Board of Education

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

The District states that it will cost “you" $5.00 a month to support this"special tax" that
will raise $1,500,000 annually. There are 34,700 parcels of property to be levied with this
"poll tax". The total tax actually will be $2,082,000 compared with the estimated $2,137,688
lottery revenue the District will receive each year.

On the rolls to vote at this election are 67,000 people. When the District refers to “you"
it cannot mean the voters because multiplying the total voters by $5.00 a month would mean
$4,020,000 revenue annually from this tax. It behooves the property owner to remember
that he or she is the "you" the District means, not the voters. Voters outnumber property
owners nearly two to one. Remember that fact on election day as you enter the voting booth.

The District says it needs this tax for three years. The figures we have listed clearly prove
that this tax is not needed for any one year. At 150 a voter charge for calling this election,
the District needlessly spent $10,500 of the taxpayers' money.

Once again, we the undersigned directors of United Taxpayers strongly urge a vote of

"NO" on MEASURE "A"

Henry J. Severin, UTI Director	Otis	F.	Forge,	UT1	Director

J

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Here we go againl Once more the Cupertino School district is asking the property owners
to pay an additional “special” tax in addition to the taxes they already pay to support schools.
The arguments and reasons are identical with the ones trotted out by the District in the 1984
election when a similar property tax was defeated.

This proposed “poll" tax will raise $1.5 MILLION in property taxes. The District says it will
be spent for “high quality classroom teaching" and "salary and benefit increases to teach-
ers". The District now pays teachers for a nine month year an average salary of $30,000.
annually.

The District receives an annual cost of living increase of 6.19% but the District claims it
actually amounts to less than 2% because of declining enrollment. The proposed budget
for 1986/87 will receive a 1.3% increase from the state. Yet the District says is will have a
shortfall of $200,000 if this property tax fails!

The District says that the lottery money is less than 3% of the "budget". Not knowing
what amount is "budget”, we used a calculator and totaled the ten numbered budget allo-
cations. Gross budget for the current year (with no lottery money included) is $47,017,088!
Using the District's 3%, anticipated lottery money would total $1,410,512.

But estimate and reality are two different stories. The District's first quarterly payment was
$534,422. Multiplying that figure by 4 shows the anticipated lottery money will total
$2,137,688. Perhaps the District can explain to the property owners why it still needs to
collect this "special" tax.

Since the disposition of tottery receipts is optional, let the District use this money to retain
and hire "high quality" teachers. This property tax in not needed. We, the undersigned
directors of UNITED TAXPAYERS, INC', urge

VOTE "NO" ON MEASURE A

Henry J. Severin, UTI Director

Otis Forge, UTI Director

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Measure A asks for less money for a single purpose: competitive salaries.

Measure A is a parcel tax, not a "poll" tax.

It takes 36 years of service plus schooling beyond a master’s degree for Cupertino teach-
ers to reach the top—$37,960.

"COLAs" for schools are variable; ours is only 1.3%. Even without increasing compen-
sation, cuts would be necessary to maintain the instructional program and balance the
budget.

Operating budget for this year is $30,027,130. UTI's figure includes money to repay state
building loans and bonds. The schools never get it.

Clarifying the lottery:

Lottery money is not a stable, predictable revenue source. It’s a gamble!

Experts predict lottery funds will be less than 3% of a district's budget.

We are using lottery funds for critical classroom needs. Examples: classroom desks
and chairs, medical supplies for disaster preparedness and science materials and
books.

Why this "special tax"?

Teacher shortage makes competitive salaries imperative.

School funding comes from the state—distributed unequally by an outdated formula.
Each student in the Cupertino elementary schools receives less than each student in
surrounding districts.

Result:

No money for competitive, salaries to attract and retain qualified staff.

Loss of good people to districts and industry able to pay higher salaries.

Further cuts in programs and staff.

The future of this community depends on the quality of education we provide our children.
Good schools = high property values + healthy, safe community.

VOTE YES!

Elaine K. White, President	Tommy G. Shwe, Clerk	Beverly J. Armstrong

Board of Education	Board of Education	PTA Unit President

Joan C. Barram,	Yvette del Prado

Vice-President	Superintendent

Board ot Education