<impartial> COUNTY OF FRESNO TAX

MEASURE C
(Impartial Analysis By County Counsel)

The Legislature has established a Fresno County Transportation Authority with the power to impose,
subject to approval by a majority of the voters, a one-half cent increase in the sales tax in Fresno County
for up to 20 years. The tax is called a retail transactions and use tax. Proceeds from the tax would be used
for highway and transportation purposes.

All qualified electors who reside within the boundaries of the County of Fresno will be entitled to vote on
this measure. If a majority of those voting vote for approval, the Fresno County Transportation Authority
will be authorized to impose a retail transactions and use tax within the cities and the unincorporated
areas of Fresno County at a maximum rate of one-half of one percent for highway and transportation
purposes and to issue bonds payable from the proceeds of that tax. The tax could be imposed for a
maximum of twenty years and would be collected as part of the sales tax.

Not more than 75 percent of the tax proceeds would be allocated for highway capital improvements such
as rehabilitation, reconstruction, widening and safety improvements on existing roads and highways, and
for construction of freeways or expressways. Not more than 70 percent of the funds for highway capital
improvements could be allocated within the Fresno-Clovis Metropolitan area; the balance would be
allocated for highway capital improvements within the rest of the County.

Not less than 25 percent of the tax proceeds would be allocated to each city and the county for local
transportation purposes determined to be priority projects by the local governments to which the funds
are allocated.

If a majority of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the measure will fail,
the Fresno County Transportation Authority will cease to exist, and the proposed retail transactions and
use tax will not be levied.

This analysis is prepared and submitted to the voters in accordance with Section 3781 of the Elections
Code. <impartialend>







<impartialsigs> s/ Max E. Robinson
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>



