HtnmosA

OFFICIAL

AND VOTER INFORMATION

GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 4, 1986

CHARLES WEISSBURD
REGISTRAR-RECORDER
5557 FERGUSON DRIVE
COMMERCE, CA 90022
(213) 721-1100

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE
IS SHOWN ON THE BACK COVER

261

PLEASE DO NOT THROW THIS PAMPHLET AWAY
SAVE FOR ELECTION DAY

09-013E

STATE MEASURES

MP TOXIC DISCHARGE AND EXPOSURE RESTRICTIONS. Prohibits hK discharge of toxic chemicals into drinking water and requires warnings of toxic chemicals exposure. Fiscal Impact: Costs of state and local enforcement are estimated at $500,000 in 1987 and thereafter would depend on many factors, but could exceed $1,000,000 annually. Costs would be partially offset by fines collected.	211 YES* O
	O  t  o  z  CM  CM
COUNTY MEASURE	
. LOS ANGELES COUNTY BOND PROPOSITION J. BONDS FOR .1 ADULT AND JUVENILE DETENTION FACILITIES. Shall the County of “ Los Angeles incur a bonded indebtedness and issue bonds in the sum of Ninety-Six Million Dollars ($96,000,000) for the purpose of providing funds for site acquisition, construction and improvement of adult and juvenile detention and support facilities serving the entire County and the relocation and demolition of any existing facilities on the sites?	o  t  t/>  ULi  >-  oo  CM
	219 no-* O
HERMOSA BEACH CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION	
/V PROPOSITION 0. AMENDING THE GENERAL PLAN OPEN SPACE (1 ELEMENT. Shall Ordinance No. 86-844, an ordinance submitted to the v voters by the City Council, be adopted which requires that any proposed modification, amendment, or elimination of the Open Space designated areas of the General Plan shall be prohibited without a vote of the electorate?	224 yes* O
	O  t  o  z  LO  CM  CM
n PROPOSITION P. POLICE, FIRE/PARAMEDIC PROPOSITION. Shall U Ordinance No. 86-845, an ordinance submitted to the voters by the City • Council, be adopted which levies a special real property tax of $52.00 per year for not more than four (4) years on each parcel of property or dwelling unit in the City for the purpose of providing 39 police personnel and 19 fire personnel?	228 yes* O
	O  t  o  z  o>  CM  CM
a PROPOSITION 0. LIMITING DENSITY IN ALL RESIDENTIAL. ZONES.  f 1 Shall Ordinance No. 86-846, an ordinance submitted to the voters by the “ City Council, be adopted which requires that any proposed reduction in the minimum lot area required per dwelling unit in all residential zones shall be prohibited without prior approval by the electorate of the City of Hermosa Beach?	232 yes* O
	O  t  o  CO  CO  CM

END OF BALLOT

LA-261-10

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION P

This Initiative Ordinance, No. 86-845, is a measure which requires a
two-thirds (2/3) approval margin for passage. This two-thirds requirement is
necessary because die measure is a Special Tax, and all special taxes require
a two-thirds vote for adoption under the California Constitution.

If enacted, this measure will place an assessment against every parcel of
property in the City that pays property taxes. The assessment will be fifty-two
dollars ($52.00) for the calendar year 1987 and a maximum of fifty-two dollars
a year for the years 1988, 1989 and 1990. For those parcels of land that contain
more than one dwelling unit, an additional fifty-two dollars per year will be
assessed for the calendar year 1987 for each additional dwelling unit, and a max-
imum of fifty-two dollars a year may be assessed against each additional dwell-
ing unit for the calendar years 1988, 1989 and 1990. Thereafter, the tax will
cease to exist unless reenacted by the voters.

The special tax imposed, if this measure is adopted, will be assessed against all
parcels and dwellings at an equal rate regardless of the actual or assessed value
of the particular parcel or dwelling in question. For the purposes of this mea-
sure, a condominium will be considered a parcel of land and will be assessed
at the same rate as any other single dwelling unit parcel, a maximum of fifty-two
dollars a year. The first installment of the tax would be due on November 1,
1987, with installments due every succeeding February 1st and November 1st
with a final payment on February 1, 1991. The tax would be part of every prop-
erty owner’s tax bill received from the County of Los Angeles.

The revenue from the Special Tax will be placed in a special fund and only be
used for providing certain enumerated levels of police and fire service to the
citizens of Hermosa Beach. The objectives of the fund are to provide enough
funds for thirty-nine (39) police officers and nineteen (19) firefighter/paramedic
personnel. In addition, the fund will be used to provide support, training, equip-
ment, services and compensation to the police, fire and paramedic personnel
mentioned above. If a majority of the full City Council finds that the levels of
services listed in the measure can be obtained without the assessment of the
Special Tax, they can vote to suspend the tax, in whole or part, for any year.

The Special Tax will constitute a lien on each parcel as are all other property
taxes. If there is a special fund residue at the end of any year, the unexpended
amount will be returned to the taxpayers or the next year’s assessment will be
lowered in an amount equal to the carryover funds. If any part of this measure
is declared invalid or unconstitutional, the remaining parts shall remain in full
force and effect.

Respectfully submitted,	.

By

JAMES P. LOUGH

CITY ATTORNEY

CITY OF HERMOSA BEACH

LA-261-30

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION P

POLICE, FIRE AND PARAMEDIC TAX OVERRIDE

Passage of this measure would raise $482,000 a year. It will cost each parcel/
dwelling unit $52.00/yr. ($1.00/wk.) for the next four years, the maximum time
period this ordinance would be in effect. The monies raised will be used solely
for vital police and fire services.

We are urging your support so we can continue to provide and maintain the
quality and reliability of public safety services Hermosans expect and deserve.

Some history: Our budget for police services has remained flat for the past four
years. This has been accomplished mainly by reducing the size of the force from
41 to 33 sworn officers.

Our fire department budget for our 18-1/2 man force has similarly been held
down with the exception of a recently approved 3-year labor contract.

Our goal as your city representatives has been to exercise financial restraint to
the greatest extent possible. We have done that. Our General Fund has been
our sole source for past public safety funding. We cannot continue to rely on
this fund without contemplating cuts in other departments.

The purpose of this tax measure is to make you aware of our current plight so
that you can decide what level of public safety you want.

The $482,000 that this measure will raise will augment our public safety budget
by 15%. It will simply maintain our existing fire service. It will restore our police
staff to 39 sworn officers. We feel that this level is more consistent with the goal
of maintaining a safe community and deterring crime.

State law requires two thirds of the voters approve this measure. We believe
it is the cheapest insurance available for the safety of Hermosa Beach. We urge
your support.

TONY DE BELLIS, Mayor
City of Hermosa Beach

JOHN CIOFFI, Mayor Pro Tern
City of Hermosa Beach

JIM ROSENBERGER, Councilmember
City of Hermosa Beach

ETTA SIMPSON, Councilmember
City of Hermosa Beach

JUNE WILLIAMS, Councilmember
City of Hermosa Beach

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION P WAS SUBMITTED

LA-261-31

PROPOSED ORDINANCE NO. 80-845 - PROPOSITION P

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF HERMOSA BEACH,
CALIFORNIA, LEVYING A SPECIAL REAL PROPERTY TAX (POLICE,
FIRE AND PARAMEDIC)

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF HERMOSA BEACH, CALIFORNIA, DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. There is hereby levied and assessed by the City of Hermosa Beach
a special real property tax on each parcel of property in the City of Hermosa
Beach each year, commencing with the calendar year 1987, and ending with
the calendar year 1990.

SECTION 2. Said special real property tax shall be in the following amount per
calendar year for each parcel of property except parcels containing more than

one dwelling unit.

CALENDAR YEAR

1987

1988

1989

1990

AMOUNT PER PARCEL
$52.00

52.00

52.00

52.00

Said special real property tax on parcels of property containing more than one
dwelling unit shall be in the following amount per fiscal year for each separate
dwelling unit.

CALENDAR YEAR

1987

1988

1989

1990

AMOUNT PER DWELLING
UNIT
$52.00

52.00

52.00

52.00

“Parcel of Property,” as used in this ordinance shall mean any contiguous unit
of improved or unimproved real property held in separate ownership,
including, but not limited to any vacant property, commercial property, single
family residence, any condominium unit as defined in California Civil Code
Section 783, or any other unit of real property subject to the California
Subdivided Lands Act (Business and Professions Code Section 11000, et seq.)

“Dwelling Unit,” as used in this Ordinance, shall mean a building or portion
thereof suitable for one family containing a kitchen. “Dwelling Unit” as used
in this Ordinance shall not include servants quarters (attached or detached) for

a single family residence.

The tax imposed by this section shall be a tax upon each parcel of property,
or dwelling unit, and the tax shall not be measured by the value of the property.

SECTION 3. The special tax imposed by Section 2 shall be due in two equal
installments in accordance with the collection procedures of the Los Angeles
County Tax Collector with the first installment for the first calendar year, to

NPR-14.3

LA-261-32

wit; 1987 being due November 1, 1987, and the second installment for said
calendar year being due on February 1, 1988. The special tax for subsequent
calendar years shall be due on the same basis, in the same manner, and on the
same applicable dates as established by law for the due dates for the other
charges and taxes fixed and collected by the County of Los Angeles on behalf
of the City of Hermosa Beach. The final tax payment shall be due on February
1, 1991.

SECTION 4. The revenue raised by the tax levied by this Ordinance shall be
placed in a special fund to be used only for the purposes of providing adequate
levels of police and fire protection and the continuation and maintenance of
all paramedic emergency services in the City of Hermosa Beach, including
expenses incidental to such purposes, it being the intent of this Ordinance that
the funds raised hereby be allocated and expended prudently by the Legislative
Body of the City of Hermosa Beach and in any event be applied to the following
specific objectives.

A.	To provide an authorized police department strength of 39 sworn personnel,
including attendant salaries, support services, benefits and necessary training,
supplies, materials and equipment required to provide a community standard
of law enforcement and protection.

B.	To provide an authorized fire department strength of 19 firefighter/
paramedic personnel, together with attendant salaries, support services, benefits
and necessary training, supplies, material and equipment required to provide
a community standard, of fire and paramedic service.

SECTION 5. The City Council, by three (3) affirmative votes, is empowered:

(a) to suspend all or any part of the tax imposed by this ordinance and shall
suspend each part of said tax as the City Council finds in the exercise of
reasonable discretion and fiscal prudence is not required to provide an adequate
level of Police and Fire Department services in the City in accordance with the
purposes set forth in this Ordinance;

SECTION 6. The City Council shall be empowered to amend this Ordinance
by three (3) affirmative votes of the members thereof in order to carry out the
general purposes of this Ordinance in order to conform to State Law that
permits the County Tax Collector, or other proper official, to collect a special
tax such as levied by this Ordinance in conjunction with County Taxes or in
order to assign duties pursuant to the Ordinance to other officers.

SECTION 7. This Ordinance shall be null and void as of midnight December
31,1990, and shall have no force and effect whatsoever after said time and date,
and any action by the legislative body of the City of Hermosa Beach to the
contrary, notwithstanding, except that Section 9, relating to the collection and
enforcement procedures have been completed.

SECTION 8. No section of this Ordinance shall be construed to permit, and
the City Council is expressly prohibited from extending the terms of this
Ordinance beyond December 31, 1990, or increasing the amount of any special
tax levy or penalty imposed by this Ordinance.

LA-261-33

I

1'

I

f

I

i

t

I

SECTION 9. The special tax imposed hereby shall be collected in the same
manner, on the same dates, and subject to the same penalties and interest in
accordance with the established dates as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed
and collected by the County may deduct its reasonable costs incurred for such
service before remittal of the balance to the City.

Said special tax, together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall constitute
a lien upon the parcel upon which it is levied until it has been paid, and said
special tax together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall, until paid,
constitute a personal obligation to the City of Hermosa Beach by the persons
who own the parcel on the date the tax is due.

SECTION 10. The special tax hereby imposed shall not be imposed upon a
Federal or State Governmental agency or another local agency or upon any
parcel of property that is exempt from the special tax imposed by this Ordinance
pursuant to any provision of the Constitution or any paramount law.

SECTION 11. Pursuant to California Constitution, Article XIIIB, the
appropriation limit for the City of Hermosa Beach will be increased by the
aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax in each of the yearn covered
by the Ordinance plus the amount, if any, by which the appropriation limit is
decreased by law as a result of the assessment of a special tax set forth in this
Ordinance.

SECTION 12. Unexpended residue of any money raised by the City under this
Ordinance may only'be used in the succeeding year for the purpose stated in
this Ordinance by lowering the next year’s tax by the amount unexpended or
returned to the taxpayers on the same pro rata basis as originally levied.

SECTION 13. If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to
ady person or circumstances is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of Competent jurisdiction, such invalidity of unconstitutionality shall not affect
any other provision or applications, and to this end,-the provisions of this
Ordinance are declared to be severable. The City Council and the electorate by
this initiative hereby declare that they would have adopted this Ordinance and
each section, subsection, sentence, clause^ phr^e, part or portion thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, phrases, parts or portions thereof, be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.

SECTION 14. This Ordinance, or any provision thereof, other than those
provisions, if any, which provide for modification by the City Council of the
City of Hermosa Beach, may only be amended or repealed by approval of the
voters on the provisions at any initiative or referendum election.

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

JAMES P. LOUGH, CITY ATTORNEY

I

£

i

NPR-14.5