


BALLOT SUMMARY

A

(j /

To provide funding for the Berkeley public schools for the special Purposes of; (I) smaller class sire, (2)
program enrichment, in during-school and beforefafter-school programs, in art, music, sports, literature,
science, and other curricula, (3) books and supplies, and (4) buildings and grounds improvements, shall the
Berkeley Unified School District be authorized to levy a special tax of $0.07 per square foot on alt Residential
Buildings and Improvements and of $0,105 per square foot on all Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional
Buildings and Improvements, for a period of eight years, as described in the voters pamphlet?

To enable expenditures of the above tax monies, shall the Appropriations Limit for the District be increased
by the amount collected by levy of this special tax in each of the first four years covered by this eight-year
Measure? (Increase of the Appropriations Limit for the last four years of the Measure will require approval
by the electorate.)



FULL TEXT OF MEASURE H 

The full text of the ballot Measure shall read as follows;

To improve the quality of public education to the benefit of the entire Berkeley community by providing
funding for the Purposes and in accordance with provisions specified below, shall the Berkeley Unified School
District be authorized to levy a special tax of $0.07 per square foot on all Residential Buildings and
improvements and of $0.105 per square foot on all Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional Buildings and Improvements for a period of eight years?

1. Title

This Measure may be cited as the "Berkeley Public Schools Educational Enrichment Act of 1986". The
Measure reflects ideas and judgments from a wide variety of perspectives on the needs of the public educational system and has been developed by citizens committed to the Berkeley Public Schools. The tax levied
by this Measure is solely for the purpose of raising revenue to improve the quality of the public schools.

2. Allocation of Funds

A.	Percentage Formula

The Available Funds raised by this special tax shall be allocated as follows:

Percentage Purpose	

50%	I,	Reducing Class Size and Maintaining Program Diversity		

20%	2.	Site-Administered	Enrichment	Programs,	Including	Before-	and After-School Programs

15%	3.	Books,	Instructional	Supplies,	and Educational Equipment

15%	4.	Buildings	and Grounds Improvements ,

B.	Special Purpose Funds	

To provide proper accounting for the revenues raised by this Measure, all such revenues shall be deposited
in four Special Purpose Funds—one for each of the four Purposes above—in the percentages set forth above, •'

3. Purposes

The Purposes identified above shall be specified as follows; 

A.	REDUCING CLASS SIZE AND MAINTAINING PROGRAM DIVERSITY

To reduce the average size of classes, thereby enabling more individualized attention in grades kindergarten
through six, and allowing a wider diversity of course offerings in grades seven through twelve. Funds for
this purpose may be spent to cover ail attendant staff, operational, and material expenses associated with the
increased number of classrooms needed to achieve lower class size, including those expenses associated with
the reopening of closed school sites, if such reopening is needed to achieve the lower class sizes.

It is the goal of this Measure to reduce the Average Class Size to 25 or lower and to reduce the Maximum
Class Size to 27 or lower in grades kindergarten through six and to reduce the Average Class Size to 27 in
grades seven through twelve. However, since class size is, by state law and regulation, subject to negotiation
with the authorized teacher collective bargaining agent, adoption of this goal in any particular year is subject
to negotiation with said agent. Nevertheless, in no case, may money allocated by this Measure for the purpose
of Reducing Class Size and Maintaining Program Diversity be expended for any other purpose.

B.	SITE-ADMINISTERED ENRICHMENT PROGRAMS. INCLUDING BEFORE- AND

AFTER-SCHOOL PROGRAMS

To provide to all School Sites a per pupil allocation from preschool through twelfth grade for (I) new
enrichment programs in areas such as language arts, mathematics, the arts, athletics, and physical and social

sciences, and (2) before- and after-school programs. As described in Paragraph 9.B below, a Site Committee
shall be established at each School Site to develop a set of objectives and a plan for expenditures of funds
in this category.



C. BOOKS, INSTRUCTIONAL SUPPLIES, AND EDUCATIONAL EQUIPMENT

To increase the budget for books, instructional supplies, and educational equipment from preschool through
grade twelve, thereby providing adequate quantities of quality texts and materials, improving school libraries,
and furnishing special equipment in areas such as science, physical education, and the arts.

D. BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS IMPROVEMENTS

To make improvements to buildings and grounds of School Sites, with priority to those Deferred Maintenance
Plan items the District could not otherwise afford to fund, thereby protecting the health and safety of children
and staff, preserving the structural integrity of school buildings, providing for site security, and creating an
environment more conducive to learning.

4.	The Tax Levy

The special tax shall be levied on the square footage of all Improvements in the City of Berkeley, except
where the Improvements are otherwise exempt from taxation by Paragraph 12 of this Measure. The tax levied
shall be at the rate of $0.07 per square foot on all Residential Buildings and Improvements and at the rate
of $0.105 per square foot on all Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional Buildings and Improvements, as defined in Paragraph 13. 

5. Cost-of-living Adjustment



Each year the rate imposed by this special tax may be increased, if applicable, by a percentage equal to the
annual percentage increase in the Consumers' Price Index, All Urban Consumers, All Items, for the San
Francisco-Oakland Metropolitan Area, published by the United States Department of Labor. Bureau of Labor
Statistics, but in no event shall such percentage increase exceed 5% of the Special Tax rate for the previous
year.	

6.	Reallocation Provisions

A.	Any increases in funds raised by this Measure due to the cost-of-living adjustment set forth in Paragraph
5 shall be First allocated to Reducing Class Size and Maintaining Program Diversity if needed to assure
continued maintenance of reduced class sizes. The remainder of these increased funds, after subtracting the
allocation for Reducing Class Size and Maintaining Program Diversity, shall be distributed among the remaining Purposes proportionately to the relative percentages established by Paragraph 2.

B.	In the event of expiration, without reauthorization, of this Measure, all funds remaining in the Special
Purpose Funds established by this Measure shall be expended for their respective Purposes in subsequent
Fiscal years, except that all funds shall First be reallocated to the Purpose of Reducing Class Size and
Maintaining Program Diversity if needed to assure maintenance of reduced class size.

7. Intent to Supplement, Not To Replace

It is a general goal of this Measure that for each of the years the Measure is in force the revenues allocated
by the Measure to each of the Purposes described in Paragraph 3 be in addition to continued District
expenditures at levels equal to or greater than Fiscal Year 1986-1987 expenditures for those Purposes.
Specifically, it is a goal that expenditures of funds generated by this Measure to reduce class size be in
addition to the District's continued expenditures at or above Fiscal Year 1986-1987 levels to maintain class-
size objectives for that year; that expenditures of funds generated by this Measure for books, supplies, and
equipment be in addition to the District's continued expenditures at or above Fiscal Year 1986-1987 levels for per pupil non-categorical funds for these Purposes: and that expenditures of funds generated by this,
Measure fur buildings and grounds improvements be in addition to the District's continued expenditures at
Fiscal Year 1986-1987 levels for deferred maintenance.

8. Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, the Appropriations Limit of the District shall be
increased by the amount collected by the levy of this special tax in each of the first four years covered by
the Measure. (Pursuant to Article XIIIB. the increase of the Appropriations Limit for the last four years of
the Measure will require approval by the electorate.

9.	Planning, Public Information, and Compliance Review Provisions

A. Independent Auditor's Report

Each year, an Independent Auditor retained by the District shall review District records to determine that
funds have been allocated and expended in compliance with the terms of this Measure. Said audit shall be
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the Standards and Procedures for Audits of
California K-12 Local Educational Agencies, and this Measure. The Independent Auditor shall transmit a
' Finding of Violation" to the District with a copy to the Alameda County Superintendent of Schools if:

(1)	Funds raised by the Measure have been spent for purposes other than those specified in Paragraph 3.

(2)	Funds raised by this Measure have not been allocated to the respective Purposes in the percentages
specified in paragraphs 2 and 6.

(3)	The goal to provide funds in addition to Fiscal Year 1986-1987 levels of District expenditures, as
specified in Paragraph 7, has not been met.

B. Site Committees

At each School Site, a Site Committee shall be established, composed of Site principal, elected representatives
of staff, and elected representatives of parents of children attending school at the Site. In addition. Site
Committees at Sites serving any grades nine through twelve shall include elected representatives of students.

Each Site Committee shall annually develop a recommended set of objectives for the use of the funds
allocated by this Measure to that School Site and a recommended plan for the expenditure of those funds
that is consistent with those objectives. The plan shall be based in part on a springtime survey of Site staff.
Site administration, parents, and students and shall consider comments and suggestions of the district-wide Planning and Oversight Committee.

The Site Committees shall also assist the District in preparation of the Annual Report on the expenditures
of funds raised by this Measure.

C.	Planning and Oversight Committee 

A Planning and Oversight Committee shall be established (1) to assist the District with the development of
objectives and expenditure plans for each of the Purposes other than “Site-Administered Enrichment Pro-
grams, Including Before- and After School Programs", (2) lo provide coordination and communication among
School Sites in their effective use of the revenues provided by this Measure, and (3) to review District
compliance with the terms of this Measure. This Committee shall consist of four representatives chosen by
the Site Committee of Berkeley High School and one representative chosen by each of the other Site Committees. This Committee shall meet no fewer than six times per year, including at least one meeting within
one month of the Auditor's Report described above.

The District shall make available lo the members of the Committee a quarterly financial tabulation detailing
and summarizing, by category and by Site, expenditures of funds raised by this Measure.

The Committee shall, subsequent to Issuance of the Auditor's Report, prepare a report to the District
assessing the District's compliance with the Measure. The Committee shall assist the District in achieving
full compliance with the terms of the Measure.

D. District Reports

The District shall prepare the following documents;

1.	Annual Plan

An Annual Plan shall indicate how the District will satisfy the Purposes and intent of this Measure in the
following year. The first such report shall be prepared by March 1, 1987.

2.	Independent Auditor's Report Summaries

A report shall summarize, in layperson's terms, the findings of any Independent Auditor's Reports with
respect to compliance with the terms of this Measure.

3.	Quarterly Financial Report

A quarterly financial statement shall tabulate and summarize expenditures of Special Tax Funds, by category
and by site.

4.	Annual Report

An Annual Report, prepared with the assistance of the Site Committees, shall describe how funds raised by
the Measure were distributed in the previous fiscal year in relation to the Annual Plan and in satisfaction of
the Purposes of this Measure.

5.	Manual of Definitions

A manual, periodically updated as needed, shall define the assumptions and formulae associated with cost
allocations needed to determine compliance with the terms of this Measure.

E.	Public Comment Process

To facilitate public discussion, the above District Reports shall be promptly distributed to the Planning and
Oversight Committee, to individual Site Committees, and to all City public libraries. The public shall be
informed of the District Reports' availability.

At the annual public hearing in January, the Board, either collectively or as individual members, shall provide
written responses to issues raised by written comments previously received from the public regarding the
District Reports. These responses shall be distributed as were the District Reports. The purpose of this
comment process is to increase parent and general public understanding of the operations of the District and
to assure that the District has fully considered public comment in its decision-making process.

F.	Public Hearing Process

In January of each year, beginning in 1988, and continuing annually until all monies generated by this
Measure have been expended, the District shall bold a public hearing or hearings for the purpose of review ing
compliance with the terms of this Measure including the presentation of the report on compliance of the
Planning and Oversight Committee. .

G.Administrative Costs

Up to a maximum of 1.0% of the funds raised by this Measure may be expended for administrative activities
related to complying with the auditing, monitoring, and reporting processes of this Measure,

H.	Civil Remedies Available At Law

The above provisions are in addition to other civil remedies available at law for assuring compliance with
the terms of this Measure.

10.	Term

The tax levied by this Measure shall be operative on January 1, 1987, or from the date it is first collected,
whichever is later, and for the eight-year period that immediately follows thereafter unless it is terminated
sooner for lack of any necessary voter approval of an increase in the Appropriations Limit referred to in
Paragraph 8. In any event, the tax shall expire at the end of said eight-year period or no later than December
31, 1995, unless otherwise extended.


11.	Collection

The District may request that the special la* be collected by the County of Alameda in conjunction with the
County's collection of property tax revenues far the District. In the event that the County of Alameda collects
the special tax. live imposition of penalties, additional fees, and interest upon persons who fail to remit the
special tax imposed by this Measure, or who fail to remit any delinquent remittance under this Measure,
shall he subject to and governed by the rules, regulations, and procedures utilized by the County of Alameda
in its collection of properly taxes for lire District and in its collection of this additional tax for the District.
Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of this Measure shall become a part
of the tax herein required to be paid.	


12.	Savings clause 

The provisions of this Measure shall not apply to any person, association, or corporation or to any property
as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the District to impose the tax herein provided. If any sentence,
clause, section, or part of this Measure or any tax against any individual or any of the several groups specified
herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid, such unconstitutionally, illegality, or invalidity
shall affect only such clause, sentence, or part of this Measure and shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections, or other parts of this Measure, It is hereby declared to
be the intention of the Board that this Measure would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal,
or invalid sentence, clause, section, or part thereof not been included.

13.	Definitions

For purposes of this Measure, the following terms shall be defined as set forth below:

A. “Available Funds" shall mean the amount of money provided by this Measure after deduction of costs
for collecting the tax as provided in Paragraph II and the costs of administration as provided in Paragraph


B. "Average Class Size" shall mean the average of the class enrollments of all classes excluding such classes
as special day classes and "pullout programs." Certificated personnel who do not have full-time teaching
assignments shall only he counted in the average to the extent they teach regular classes. The formula for
determining the number of teachers needed to meet the class-size objectives at the nine to twelve grade level

shall be:

teacher full-time equivalent assignment

enrollment	x number of classes per day per student 

average class size objective X number of classes per day taught by each teacher

C.	“Building" shall mean any structure having a roof supported by columns or by wails and designed for
the shelter or housing of any person, chattel or property of any kind. The word "building" includes the word
"structure".	

D.	"Commercial," "Industrial," and "Institutional" shall refer to all buildings and improvements within the,
city that arc not classified by this Measure as Dwelling Units. 

E.	“District" shall mean the Berkeley Unified School District.	

F.	"Dwelling" shall mean a building or portion of a building designed for human occupancy. 

G.	"Dwelling Unit" shall mean a building or portion of a building designed for or occupied exclusively by
one family.

H.	"Family" shall mean one or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption and, in addition, any
domestic servants or gratuitous guests thereof who arc living together in a single Dwelling Unit and maintaining a common household. Family shall also mean all unrelated persons who live together in a single

Dwelling Unit and maintain a common household,

I.	“Improvements" shall mean all buildings or structures erected or affixed to the land.

J.	"Independent Auditor" shall mean an independent public accountant or independent certified public accountant retained by the District.


K.	"Maximum Class Size" shall mean the maximum number of students at any time during the day in any
class.

L.	"Residential Buildings and Improvements” shall mean Improvements of Dwelling Units.

M.	"School Site and Site” shall mean each distinct school premise serving any grade between pre-school
and twelfth grade. 

N.	"Site Committee” shall mean the committee designated by this Measure to develop recommended objectives and expenditure plans for the Site-Administered Enrichment Programs. Including and Before- and After-
School Programs.

O.	"Square footage" shall mean the total gross horizontal areas of all doors, including usable basements
and cellars, below the roof and within the outer surface of the main walls of buildings (or the center lines
of party walls separating such buildings or portions thereof) or within lines drawn parallel to and two feet
within the roof line of any building or portion thereof without walls, and including pedestrian access walkways
or corridors, but excluding the following:

1.	Areas used for off-street parking spaces or loading berths and driveways and maneuvering aisles relating
thereto.

2.	Areas which are outdoor or semi-outdoor areas included as part of the building to provide a pleasant
and healthful environment for the occupants thereof and the neighborhood in which the building is located.
This exempted area is limited to balconies and to natural ground areas, terraces, pools, and patios which
are landscaped and developed for active or passive recreational use, and which are accessible for use by
occupants of the building.

3.	Arcades, porticoes, and similar open areas which are located at or near street level, which are accessible
to the general public, and which are not designed or used as sales, display, storage, service, or production
areas.

P.	"Structure" shall mean anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location on the ground
or attachment to something having location on the ground.

Q.	"Parcel" shall mean a unit of real estate in one ownership as shown on the most current official assessment
roil of the Alameda County Assessor.








COUNTY COUNSEL’S ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

In 1979, the Legislature added sections 50075-50077 to the Government Code to implement the provisions
of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution. These sections authorize cities, counties and districts to
submit to the voters for approval or rejection a measure authorizing the levying of a special tax. 

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on the measure vote for approval, the Board of Trustees of
the Berkeley Unified School District will be authorized to levy a special tax of $.07 per square foot on all
residential buildings and improvements and of $.105 per square foot on all commercial, industrial and
institutional buildings and improvements for a period of eight years. Under this formula, a residential building
or improvement of 1800 square feet would be subject to an annual special tax of $126 and a similarly-sized
commercial, industrial, or institutional building would be subject to an annual special tax of $189. The
measure provides for an annual increase in the tax rate equal to any annual increase in the specified San
Francisco Bay Area Consumers' Price Index, said increase not to exceed 5% of the prior year's rate.

The measure provides that the special tax revenues are to be distributed to, and spent from, four special
purpose funds, as follows:

50% - Reducing class size and maintaining program diversity

20% - Site administered enrichment programs, including before and after-school programs
15% - Books, instructional supplies, and educational equipment
15% - Buildings and grounds improvements
Additional revenues resulting from the indexing of the tax rate to the Consumers* Price Index are to be first
allocated to reducing class size and maintaining program diversity and any of these sums not required for
this purpose are to be distributed to the other three funds in the proportion indicated.


The measure slates that its goal is to supplement, not replace, continued expenditures for the stated purposes
at the fiscal year 1986-87 expenditure levels. The district's appropriations limit, as provided in Article XIIIB
of the California Constitution, is increased by the measure to the amount collected by the special tax in each
of the first four years covered by the measure, and the measure states that the appropriations limit for the remaining four years of the measure will requite voter approval.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on the measure do not vote for approval, the measure will fail
and the proposed tax will not be levied. 

s/RICHARD i. MOORE.

County Counsel	-










<favor>

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H !

OUR SCHOOLS NEED HELP

Dramatic changes in California school finance over the pa'st decade have deprived Berkeley’s children of
essential educational programs, produced alarming shortages of books and supplies, and given us over-
crowded classes in deteriorating buildings. Adjusted for inflation, Berkeley’s school income per pupil has
declined 20% since 1977. Berkeley's expenditure per pupil now ranks below the district average of every
other industrial state in flic nation.

LOCAL ACTION IS NEEDED
The lottery provides only a 2%-3% increase in school income. Funding bills in Sacramento have failed.

Slate loans must go solely toward eliminating the current deficit. While better management will help, it will
not solve the problem of inadequate funding. Unless we act now, the decline in school support will do

irreversible damage.

MEASURE H WILL RESTORE MUCH OF THE LOST FUNDING .	\

The revenues raised by Measure H arc strictly designated for the basics of quality education: .

-5mallcrclasssi7.es	i	^	(	.....	..

-adequate books, supplies, equipment	■	-

-secure, well-maintained facilities	.	■	.

-site-administered funds for basic and enrichment programs, e.g., science, arts, sports, before and after

school programs.

These revenues may not be used for other purposes—not for the General Fund, not to retire the deficit. They
will supplement current expenditures for the above purposes. |	•	‘	•	•	':'

QUALITY EDUCATION IS ESSENTIAL	'	'	'	'''	'

The cost of the tax is surprisingly low. A small house (1000 sq. ft.) pays $70/year. An average house
11iSOO sq. ft.) pays Sl26/ycar. Sec Attorney's Analysts.	•	_

PEOPLE FROM VIRTUALLY EVERY EDUCATIONAL AND POLITICAL PERSPECTIVE HAVE EN-
• POR-SEO MEASURE H:

•School Board Candidates: Handy, {Cakashiba, Kemper, Miao, Moskovitz, Shaughncssy, Traylor,

Warren

I

* Mayoral Candidates: Hancock, PolakolT

’Congressman Heliums, Stale Senator Petris, Assemblyman Bates

BM-8

•James Ella James, Mary Friedman, Pat Jackson, Jay Welsh, Ronnie Stevtnson, Luanne hogcis,
Louise Stoll, Mare Monhefaer, Pedro Noguera, Charles Benson, UCB Education Department, School
Superintendent Zktkovlch


s/Jeanie Rucker, Former School Board Member
Lillian Rabinowitz, Co-founder and Board Member. Over-Sixty Clinic '
s/Robcrt Sicular, RealtortBustnessman
s/lrcnc Hcgarty, Neighborhood and School Activist'
s/Chris Lim. Principal. Willard Junior High School

<favorend>






<rebutfavor> 

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

The issue is not education. The issue is how to pay for it.

Do the ends justify the means? Would you vote for a tax that discriminates against women or minorities?
Of course not. Then you should vote against this unfair tax. A good end docs not justify an evil means!

The progressive economist Henry George said: "It is unjust when tax gatherers say that because a person
has built a house, therefore the state demands a certain portion from him. The person who builds a house
docs something not just for himself, but for the whole community, it is stupid to tax someone for building
houses. The state should encourage employment, not discourage it."

Many people oppose this tax because they don't wish to further the mismanagement that left a multi-
million dollar deficit. Others note that Berkeley public schools already receive S650 per child more than the
state average.

There are ways to pay for better schools without this tax increase. Parents can help pay for special
enrichment programs. Donations, sound management, and renting out excess sites can generate more funds.

But even if you favor higher taxes for schools, why choose a socially destructive tax? Why penalize
improvements, housing and jobs? Why subsidize land speculation?

Berkeley voters rejected the same type of improvements tax in 1982. Note no to send the politicians back
to the drawing board to come up with a more equitable way of raising funds.

s/Frcd Foldvary, Economics Teacher

<rebutfavorend>







<against>

 ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H

Will you vote to enrich idle land speculators and penalize improvements and productivity? ^

They call this tax an "Enrichment Act", but those it would enrich are speculators owning unimproved
land!	■	•

Public services such as belter streets, police protection, and schools attract people to Berkeley ami increase
the demand for land. Land prices rise.

This measure only taxes improvements, not land. So owners of idle land profit while those who improve
land get slapped with a tax penalty. The families who add a cellar or a room to their houses get punished
as though improving their lives were a crime, while the idle land speculator, who drives rents and land prices
up. gets enriched.

Why do the proponents of this tax want to penalize socially productive Use of land and enrich the speculators
Many people oppose this unfair tax because the school district should have kept its budget balanced. Others
oppose it because the district could have other sources of income, such as charging market rents on ns
property. Others oppose it because il is regressive 1 smaller houses in the wcalthy hills pay less than larger
houses in the fiat lands.

BM-9

15ut worst of all. the la* stifles ihe productive and efficient use of land, reducing jobs and raising rents.
This sould have been avoided simply by basing the tax on lot size instead of improvements.

' In 1982. Berkeley voters defeated Measure A, a similar improvements tax. Unless you are a land speculator,
you should vote this tax down. too. The issue is not education, but bow to pay for it. Even a good cause
docs not justify an unfair tax. The schools will not disappear. Vote no and let the politicians go back to the
drawing board and conic up with a more equitable way of raising funds.

s/fted E. Foldvary	'


<againstend>








<rebutagainst>

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H

Foldvary*s argument against the Berekeley schools enrichment tax is on the method of calculating the tax,
rather than on the merits of ihe tax. By shifting the focus of the argument he attempts to link the tax to land
speculation which is an entirely separate issue. In addition, his proposal that a tax based on lot sire would
be more fair is wrong; a one story home would be assessed ihe same as a multiple story building if they
were on lots of the same size!

The California school finance picture has worsened over the past decade, leaving Berkeley school resources
behind those of comparable states. Balancing an inadequate budget will not provide funds for needed edu-
cational programs. Increasing rents on school rental property, as Foldvary advocates, is being implemented
by the District and will yield less than to the District's budget, NEW local revenues are needed to
restore effective income lost in the past decade.

-.. This is a time when all Berkeley voters must join together to strengthen our school system. Berkeley
ciliaens from all walks of life agree our children deserve the best education possible. Measure H will provide
funds to enrich regular and extra curricular programs for all children. Good schools improve property values,
stimulate commercial activity and promote a healthy community.

Vote YES on Measure H.

slJamcs Ella James, National Council of Negro Women, Inc.

s/Venusliano Olguin, Jr., Berkeley Parent

sISteve Wong, Berkeley Parent

s/Collecn Houlihan, Home Engineer

s/Robert Sicular. Realtor


<rebutagainstend>






