COUNTY OF

and

45-FC 69438

45 FC



SHASTA COUNTY FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE AREA NO. 1
MEASURE B
(Full Text of Proposed Ordinance)

ORDINANCE NO. 535

AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SHASTA ESTAB-
LISHING AND LEVYING A BENEFIT ASSESSMENT FOR FIRE SUPPRESSION EQUIPMENT
AND SERVICES IN FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE AREA NO. 1

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Shasta ordains as follows:

Section 1. This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the 1986 Fire Suppression Assess-
ment Ordinance.

Section 2. Pursuant to Article 3.6 (commencing with Section 50078) of Chapter 1 of Division 1 of
Title 5 of the Government Code, an annual benefit assessment for fire suppression services and
equipment (the assessment) is hereby established within Fire Protection Service Area No. 1 (the service

area).

Section 3. The assessment shall be levied at a rate not to exceed $20 per year for each parcel of
real property within the service area on which improvements exist with a value of more than $1,000,
as determined annually from the latest equalized assessment roll. As used in this ordinance, “year”
means the Shasta County fiscal year commencing July 1 and ending the following June 30.

Section 4. The amount of the assessment may be decreased or increased by the Board of
Supervisors prior to July 1 of any year, following a public hearing for which notice has been given by
publication in at least three editions of a newspaper of general circulation regularly delivered or sold
within the service area’s boundaries. In setting the amount of the assessment the Board of Supervisors
shall consider the total amount of revenue necessary to fund for the next year the expenditure plan
established pursuant to Section 5. Any increase is subject to the limitation that the maximum assess-
ment against any parcel shall not exceed $20 in any year. For the first year of the assessment, the rate
shall be $20, unless the Board of Supervisors sets a lower rate prior to July 1, 1987.

Section 5. Prior to or concurrently with any hearing held pursuant to Section 4, the Board of
Supervisors shall consider a master plan for expenditure (the plan) during the next year of the proceeds
of the assessment. The plan shall be developed cooperatively by the Fire Warden and the chiefs of the
volunteer fire companies and shall be recommended to the Board of Supervisors by the Fire Warden. The
plan may be adopted in whole or in part or modified by the Board of Supervisors. In developing,
recommending or approving the plan, the chiefs of the volunteer fire companies, Fire Warden and Board
of Supervisors shall each give primary consideration to continued funding of outstanding obligations of
the service area that require ongoing periodic payments (eg, lease-purchase agreements). The adopted
plan shall serve as the budget for the next year for spending the proceeds of the assessment. If in any
year the Board of Supervisors declines to modify an existing plan or adopt a new plan, the latest plan
approved by the Board of Supervisors shall remain in effect, except to the extent that budgeted
expenditures exceed revenue available from the proceeds of the assessment plus any other revenue
available to support implementation of the plan, as may be determined by the Board of Supervisors.

Section 6. The Board of Supervisors finds and declares that the improvements to the parcels of real
property subject to the assessment are primarily residential or agricultural in character and that the
benefit to any such parcel from the assessment will be equivalent to the benefit to every other such
parcel. Therefore, the rate of assessment, including any increases or decreases, shall be the same for
all such parcels so long as the proceeds of the assessment are spent solely for fire suppression
equipment or apparatus.

Section 7. The assessment shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as County
real property taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same procedure and
sale in case of delinquency as is provided by law for such taxes.

Section 8. Except as provided in Section 9, the proceeds of the assessment may be used to obtain,
furnish, operate and maintain fire suppression equipment or apparatus (ejj., rated fire engines or water

45

tenders or both) or to pay the salaries and benefits of firefighting personnel or for both of these
purposes. However, none of these proceeds shall be used to pay these salaries or benefits unless
the question is first approved by a majority of the voters of the service area voting on it.

Section 9. Before any proceeds of the assessment are used to pay for the operation of fire
suppression equipment or apparatus or to pay for salaries or benefits of firefighting personnel, a ballot
measure authorizing such payments shall first be approved by a majority of the voters of the service
area or zone voting on the question.

Section 10. Pursuant to Public Resources Code Section 21080(b)(8) and 14 Cal. Admin. Code
Section 15273(a) the establishment of assessments for fire suppression purposes is exempt from
environmental review under the California Environmental Quality Act because the use of the proceeds
of these assessments is limited by law to paying the costs of fire suppression equipment and personnel.

Section 11. If any provision of this ordinance, or the application of any such provision to any person
or under any circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance or its application to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected by the holding, and to this end the provisions of this
ordinance are severable.

Section 12. This ordinance shall take effect and be in full force and effect from and after 30 days
of approval by the voters of the service area of the measure submitted to them at the November
4,1986, general election pursuant to Shasta County Resolution No. 86-170. If those voters disapprove
that measure at that election, this ordinance shall be deemed to be entirely repealed without further
action by the Board of Supervisors. The Clerk shall cause this ordinance to be published as required
by law.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

A “YES" VOTE on this measure will approve adoption of an ordinance known as the “1986 Fire
Suppression Assessment Ordinance.” The ordinance authorizes the Board of Supervisors to levy a
benefit assessment for fire protection equipment and services on real property within the boundaries of
Fire Protection Service Area No. 1. The ordinance authorizes an assessment of not more than $20 per
year against every parcel on which improvements exist with a value of more than $1,000, as deter-
mined annually from the latest county equalized assessment roll.

The ordinance permits the amount of the assessment to be decreased or increased annually follow-
ing a public hearing. However, any increase is subject to the limitation that the maximum assessment
against any parcel shall not exceed $20 in any year. The ordinance sets the assessment at $20 for the
first year, unless the Board of Supervisors sets a lower rate prior to July 1, 1987.

The ordinance provides that the Board of Supervisors shall consider a master plan for spending the
money raised by the assessment. The plan would be developed cooperatively by the volunteer fire chiefs
and the Fire Warden. The Board of Supervisors would adopt the plan, wholly or partially, or would
modify the plan. The ordinance requires the fire chiefs, Fire Warden and Board of Supervisors to give
primary consideration to continued funding of outstanding obligations, such as long-term funding of the
lease-purchase of equipment. The adopted plan would become the budget for spending the revenue from
the assessment during the next year. If the Board of Supervisors did not modify an existing plan or
adopt a new plan during any year, the last plan adopted by the Board of Supervisors would remain in
effect.

The ordinance contains a finding and declaration that the parcels of real property subject to the
assessment are primarily residential or agricultural in character, that the benefit to each such parcel will
be equivalent to the benefit to every other such parcel, and that therefore the rate of assessment will
be the same for all parcels so long as the proceeds of the assessment are spent solely for fire
suppression equipment.

The ordinance provides that the assessment shall be collected at the same time and in the same
manner as county real property taxes are collected and that delinquent assessments are subject to the
same penalties and procedures that apply to delinquent property taxes.

The ordinance generally authorizes the proceeds of the assessment to be used to obtain, furnish and
maintain fire suppression equipment or apparatus including fire engines and water tenders. The ordi-
nance further provides that these proceeds may also be used to pay for the operation of fire suppres-
sion equipment or to pay for salaries or benefits of firefighting personnel, provided a ballot measure
authorizing those payments is first approved by a majority of the voters of the service area or zone
voting on the question.

The ordinance declares that the establishment of assessments for fire suppression purposes is
exempt from environmental review under a specific provision of the California Environmental Quality Act.

The ordinance takes effect 30 days after approval of this measure by the voters. The ordinance
further provides that if the voters disapprove this measure, the ordinance shall be deemed to be entirely
repealed without further action by the Board of Supervisors.

A "NO” VOTE on this measure will disapprove the ordinance and prevent the levy of the assessment
described in the above paragraphs.

THE PROBLEM

Shasta County Volunteer Fire Companies need your help. Currently they do not have enough money
to purchase and maintain adequate fire engines and water tenders. The 20 Volunteer Fire Companies
operate 21 fire engines and 9 water tenders. 75% of the fire engines are 20-38 years old. The equip-
ment is unreliable and expensive to maintain.

THE SOLUTION

Establish the Shasta County Volunteer Fire Company “Equipment Fund”. An Annual Parcel Charge
of $20 maximum per year would be assessed on all parcels with over $1,000.00 in improvements,
as recorded by the Assessor’s Office.

The Equipment Fund monies will be used each year for the following purposes and those purchases
ONLY:

. purchase new fire engines for Volunteer Fire Companies

. purchase water tenders for Volunteer Fire Companies

. 20% of all monies collected will be earmarked to maintain Volunteer Fire Company fire engines

and water tenders

The following Volunteer Fire Companies and communities would benefit directly from the Annual

Parcel Charge. , Bella Vista	West Valley	Palo Cedro
Big Bend	Jones Valley/Silverthorn	Platina
Cassel	Keswick	Shasta Lake
Centerville	Millville	Shingletown
Cloverdale	Montgomery Creek	Soldier Mountain/Glenburn
Hat Creek	Oak Run	Whitmore
Igo-Ono	Old Station	

In addition, county areas adjacent to the communities of Redding, Anderson, Burney, Cottonwood
and Central Valley would also directly benefit.

Volunteer firefighters need good equipment with adequate maintenance. Their safety and ability to
serve you in times of need depends on having reliable fire engines.

Support your local Volunteer Firefighters by voting yes on Measure B to establish the equipment
fund. A yes vote is a vote to provide reliable fire engines. A yes vote on Measure B supports the
dedicated Volunteer Firefighter who serves you.

Measure B has the unanimous support of the Shasta County’s 20 Volunteer Fire Companies.

SHASTA COUNTY VOLUNTEER FIRE COMPANIES

CHIEFS ASSOCIATION

s/ Mel Fisher, President

si David R. Frank
County Counsel

NO REBUTTAL TO THIS ARGUMENT
WAS SUBMITTED

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

Self-governing volunteer fire companies serve many of the communities in this county and tradi-
tionally raise money by volunteer contributions from their own communities. An assessment procedure
to generate funds to help fund the volunteer companies would be welcome F there was assurance
the funds would be used only for needed equipment and apparatus and that the volunteers would
have some say in how the money is apportioned. County Measure B does neither of these, and in
addition, unfairly spreads the burden of the tax. The money would be parceled out by the Board of
Supervisors as they decide and could be used up paying salaries.

However, it appears the Board has attempted to commit the money from the A.P.C. for volunteer
fire department apparatus and maintenance in Section 7 of an ordinance drafted August 7, 1986.
But, this measure could have been designed to assure a more fair assessment and could limit this
money to volunteer companies apparatus and equipment and allow the volunteers to participate in
the apportionment process.

Therefore, we are opposed to County Measure B as it is written.

s/ Devon E. Tassen, Chief

Millville Volunteer Fire Department

45-5

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

Since the argument against Measure B was written, the. Board of Supervisors has adopted an
Ordinance fully resolving the concerns expressed in the opposition statement. The Ordinance essentially
guarantees that all funds raised by Measure B will be used exclusively to

. purchase new fire engines
. purchase water tenders

. maintenance of both fire engines and water tenders

A yes vote will provide adequate firefighting equipment for your community.

A yes vote supports the volunteer firefighters who serve you.

Measure B has the unanimous support of Shasta County Volunteer Fire Chiefs.

s/ Mel Fisher, President
Shasta County Volunteer Fire
Companies Chief’s Association