EASTSIDE RURAL COUNTY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
PROPOSED SPECIAL TAX ORDINANCE

Q Shall the proposed special tax ordinance set forth by
Ordinance No. 86-1 of the Eastside Rural County Fire Pro-
tection District be adopted?

YES

NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q

ORDINANCE NO. 86-1
AN ORDINANCE PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX
FOR FIRE PREVENTION AND SUPPRESSION
The Board of Directors of Eastside Rural County Fire Protection District of
San Joaquin County do ordain as follows:

Section 1: In accordance with Section 53978 of the Government Code a
special tax for fire prevention and suppression is proposed to take effect
upon the approval of two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting upon the proposed
special tax.

Section 2: The maximum rates allowable under this special tax shall be
based upon the use of the property and any improvements thereon, provided
however, the maximum rates shall not exceed those set forth as provided in
Section 3 below.

Section 3: Each parcel shall be assessed an annual fee consisting of the
Parcel Assessment described in subparagraph A and the Improvement
Assessment described in subparagraph B except for mobile home parks
which shall be assessed an annual fee based upon the number of mobile
home spaces thereon at the rate set forth in subparagraph C below. The
annual fee shall not exceed the maximum rates described in this Section 3.

A.	Parcel Assessment: Each taxable parcel as shown upon the San
Joaquin County Assessment Roll (except mobile home parks) shall be
assessed an Annual Parcel Assessment of THIRTY AND NO/IOO
DOLLARS ($30.00).

B.	Improvement Assessment. All parcels containing buildings shall (in
addition to the applicable Parcel Assessment) have an annual Improve-
ment Assessment equal to the product derived by multiplying the number
of square feet attributable to the improvements thereon (as shown on the
San Joaquin County Assessment Roll) times the rate of $.04 per square
foot.

C.	Mobile Home Parks. Each parcel dedicated or used primarily for the
sale or leasing of mobile home spaces shall be assessed an annual Mobile
Home Park Assessment equal to the product derived by multiplying the
number of mobile home spaces attributable to said parcel (as shown on
the San Joaquin County Assessment Roll) times the rate of THIRTY AND
NO/IOO DOLLARS ($30.00) per mobile home space.

Section 4: The Board of Directors of this fire protection district may set
the special tax and collect less than the maximum amount of the approved
special taxes designated in Section 3 of this ordinance.

Section 5: The approved special tax shall be collected in the same man-
ner as other charges and taxes collected by the County of San Joaquin on
behalf of this fire protection district. Any tax levied under this ordinance shall
become a lien upon the property against which it is assessed and collectible
in the manner and subject to the same penalties as provided for the collec-
tion of other taxes collected by the County of San Joaquin on behalf of this
fire protection district. The special tax shall be in addition to the annual tax
rate allowed by law.

Section 6: Each property owner in the district shall, within thirty (30) days
after mailing of the notice of the special tax bill for that fiscal year, have the
right to file a written appeal with the district protesting the levy of such spe-
cial tax. The filing of an appeal is not grounds for failing to timely pay the
entire amount of taxes specified as due on the tax bill. If the special tax is
either reduced or increased as a result of the decision of the Board of Direc-
tors, the special tax shall either be refunded or the increased amount collect-
ed.

The property owner, or their designated representative, may be present at
the protest hearing concerning the setting of the special tax rate. The prop-
erty owner or their designated representative may present any relevant evi-
dence and may be examined under oath by the Board of Directors of the
district. The district’s representative may also present any relevant evidence
and be examined under oath by the taxpayer or their designated representa-
tive and the Board of Directors of the district. The burden of proof on any
factual question shall be on the taxpayer.

Within thirty (30) days after the hearing, the Board of Directors, by major-
ity vote, shall render a decision concerning the protest of the special tax.

Section 7: All proceeds of the special tax levied under this ordinance shall
only be expended for the purpose of obtaining, furnishing, operating and
maintaining fire protection, suppression and other obligations of the district.

Section 8: If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to
any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect
any other- provision or applications. To this end the provisions this ordinance
are declared to be severable.

Section 9: This ordinance shall take effect and be in force upon approval
of two-thirds (2/3) of voters voting upon this ordinance. This ordinance, prior
to the expiration of fifteen (15) days from its passage by this Board, shall be
published once in the Stockton Record, a newspaper of general circulation,
published in the County of San Joaquin, State of California.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a special- meeting of the Board of Eastside
Rural County Fire District on the 28th day of July, 1986, by the following
vote, to wit: •

AYES: Moore, Solari, Juelch, Armanino

NOES:

ABSENT: Schenone

si Ginger Root
Clerk, Board of Directors
Eastside Rural County
Fire Protection District

Board of Directors
Eastside Rural County
Fire Protection District
si Ben Moore
Chairman
si James Solari
Director
si James Juelch
Director
si Lynne Armanino
Director

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q
(Prepared by the Office of the County Counsel]

. The Eastside Rural County Fire Protection District provides fire protection
services. The District’s revenue comes from ad valorem property taxes which
are restricted by Article XIII A of the California Constitution.

Article Xill A permits the imposition of a special tax upon a two-thirds
vote. The District proposes a yearly special tax as set forth in the District's
Ordinance, a copy of which is enclosed.

The special tax would be calculated on classes of improvements. Your
attention is directed towards the District’s Ordinance tor the calculation of
the special tax.

The District could collect less than the approved special tax. The approved
special tax would be collected in the same manner and subject to the same
penalty as other charges and taxes collected by San Joaquin County on
behalf of the District.

If two-thirds (2/3) of those voting on this measure vote “YES", the District
may levy a special tax up to the amounts set forth in the Ordinance.

39-67

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

A YES vote is vital to those of us who live in the Eastside Rural County
Fire Protection District because:

A YES vote will allow us to maintain a Class I Fire Department coverage
for. us, our homes, and our businesses. This department averaged 24.64 Fire
calls, 85.00 Rescue calls, 29.73 First aid - engine company calls, and 66.45
"Cover-in” calls per month.

A YES vote will allow us to retain the paramedic service we now have.
The. paramedic program averaged 39,36 calls and 15.91 First aid calls per
month, for a total of 55,27 calls per month for an eleven month period in
1985.

We believe the above services were important services. They were
probably VERY IMPORTANT services to those involved. No one is able Jo
forecast which one among us will be the next person to need these services.
If you are involved, you will want the service to be as quick and efficient as
is possible.

This is the type of service we think you want maintained for you. To
maintain this service, it requires a YES vote on this Measure.

A NO vote will reduce the fire department to a part paid / part “Volun-
teer" fire department, for we will not have the funds necessary to maintain
an adequate completely paid staff for fire suppression. We have projected
our revenue for the next five years, and we. find that a NO vote will provide
us with only $630,256.41 average income. That is not adequate income to
provide enough funds for the operation of an. adequate Fire Protection
Department,

A NO vote will eliminate the present paramedic service.

Again we do urge you to vote YES on Measure Q so that you may have
the best fire protection available.

■ BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Eastside Rural County Fire
Protection District.

ATTEST: si Ginger Root

Clerk, Board of Directors
Eastside Rural County Fire
Protection District

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

WATERLOO-MORADA RURAL COUNTY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT PROPOSED SPECIAL TAX ORDINANCE	
R Shall the proposed special tax ordinance set forth by Ordinance No. 86-1 of the Waterloo-Morada Rural County Fire Protection District be adopted?	YES
	NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE R

ORDINANCE NO. 86-1
AN ORDINANCE PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX FOR
FIRE PREVENTION, SUPPRESSION
AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE WATERLOO-MORADA RURAL FIRE
DISTRICT DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1: In accordance with Section 53978 of the Government Code a
special fire tax for Fire Prevention, Suppression and Emergency Medical Ser-
vice is proposed to take effect upon approval of two-thirds of the voters vot-
ing upon the proposed special tax. This ordinance shall be adopted, if
approved, as an ordinance measure by two-thirds of the voters voting at a
special election to be held on the 4th day of November, 1986.

Section 2: The maximum rates allowable under this special tax shall be
calculated as follows, based upon the following classes of improvements to
property or use thereof, or a combination thereof;

A.	Residential Dwelling: Any building or structure which is occupied or
intended to be used for living purposes with the exception of duplex, triplex,
fourplex, etc., or apartment house, hotel or motel.

B.	Commercial Residential: Any apartment house, condominum, hotel,
motel, or any other building or structure containing two or more residential
units.

C.	Commercial: Any building or structure used or intended to.be used
for storage, wholesale (other than wholesale nurseries), retail or other com-
mercial activities.

D.	Industry: Any building or structure used, or intended to be used for
the purpose of production or manufacturing of goods and products, including
the storage of such goods or products.

E Vacant Residential Lots: Any uninhibited ground or property which
is intended to be used or developed for dwelling purposes.

F.	Vacant Commercial Lots: Any vacant ground or property to be used
for any commercial building or development or any commercial purpose.

G.	Vacant Industrial Lots: Any vacant ground or property to be used
for any industrial building or development or any other industrial purpose. The
lots shall be divided as follows:

1.	.01	acre to 10 acres ■

2.	10.01 acres to 20 acres

3.	20.01 acres or greater

H.	Gas Wells: Fixed components located on property designed for the
purpose of producing natural gas, storage of natural gas, or other petroleum
products.

.1. State Board of Equalization Properties: Utility, Railroad and other
properties valued by the State Board of Equalization.

J, Mobile Home Residential Lots: Any space, pad or other area provid-
ed in any mobile home park for Mobile Homes.

Section 3: Vacant Residential Lots, Commercial Vacant Lots, Vacant
Industrial Lots, Gas Wells, Mobile Home Residential Lots, and State Board of
Equalization Properties shall be assessed an annual fee each fiscal year, with
the rest of the charges being based on a square foot rate each fiscal year.

The maximum rate for each category
A. Residential Dwelling:
Commercial Residential:
Commercial:

Industry:

Vacant Residential Lots:
Vacant Commercial Lots:
Vacant Industrial Lots:

1.	.01	acre	to	10 acres

2.	10.01 acres to 20 acres

3.	20.01 acres or greater
Gas Wells:

State Board of Equalization:

B.

C.

D.

E.

F.

G.

H.

shall be as follows:

Up to 3 cents per sq. ft.

Up to 4 cents per sq. ft.

Up to 6 cents per sq. ft.

Up to 6 cents per sq. ft.

$12.00 per fiscal year
$35.00 per fiscal year

$50.00 pef fiscal year
$75.00 per fiscal year
$125.00 per fiscal year
$25.00 per fiscal year
$10:00 per acre unit per fiscal year
* i.e.

J. Mobile Home Residential Lots:	$20.00	per fiscal year

*Each lot shall be rounded up to the next even acre; 1.01 acres equal 2
acres, 2.65 acres equal 3 acres, etc.

Section 4: The Board of Directors of this Fire Protection District may set
the special tax and collect less than the maximum amount of the approved
taxes designated in Section 3 of this ordinance.

Section 5: The approved special tax shall be collected in the same man-
ner as other charges and taxes collected by the County of San Joaquin on
behalf of this Fire Protection District. Any tax levied under this ordinance
shall become a lien upon the property against which it is assessed and
collectible in the manner and subject to the same penalties as provided for
the collection of other taxes collected by the County of San Joaquin on
behalf of this Fire Protection District. The Special Tax shall be in addition to
the annual tax rate allowed by law.

Section 6: Each property owner in the District shall, within thirty (30)
days after mailing of the notice of the special tax bill for that fiscal year,
have the right to file a written appeal with the District protesting the levy of
such special tax. The filing of an appeal is not ground for failing to timely
pay the entire amount of taxes specified as due on the tax bill. If the special
tax is either reduced or increased as a result of the decision of the Board of
Directors, the special tax shall either be refunded or the increased amount
collected.

The property owner, or their designated representative, may be present at
the protest hearing concerning the setting of the special tax rate. The prop-
erty owner or their designated representative may present any relevant evi-
dence and may be examined under oath by the Board of Directors of the
District. The District’s representative may also present any relevant evidence
and be examined under oath by the taxpayer or their designated representa-
tive and the Board of Directors of the District. The burden of proof on any
factual question shall be on the taxpayer.

Within thirty (30) days after the hearing, the Board of Directors, by major-
ity vote, shall render a decision concerning the protest of the special tax.

Section 7: All proceeds of the Special Tax levied under this ordinance
shall only be expended for the purpose of obtaining, furnishing, operating and
maintaining fire protection, suppression and emergency medical services.

Section 8: If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to
any person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect
any other provision or applications. To this end the provisions of this ordi-
nance are declared to be severable.

DATED: August 4,1986

Ayes: Robert Byington, Thomas Oliver, La Vor Sessions, Perlin Jack
Caulkins
Noes: None
Absent: Joe Solari, Jr.

WATERLOO-MORADA RURAL COUNTY
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
si Robert G. Byington
Chairman of the Board

ATTEST:
si Thomas H. Oliver
Secretary of the Board

39-69

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
MEASURE R

(Prepared by the Office of the County Counsel)

The Waterloo-Morada Rural County Fire Protection District provides fire
protection services. The District’s revenue comes from ad valorem property
taxes which are restricted by Article XIII A of the California Constitution.

Article XIII A permits the imposition of a special tax upon a two-thirds
vote. The District proposes a yearly special tax as set forth in the District’s
Ordinance, a copy of which is- enclosed.

The special tax would be calculated on classes of improvements. Your
attention is directed towards the District's Ordinance for the .calculation of
the special tax.

The District could collect less than the approved special tax. The approved
special tax would be collected in the same manner and subject to the same
penalty as other ■ charges and taxes collected by San Joaquin County on
behalf of the District.

If two-thirds (2/3) of those voting on this measure vote “YES”, the District
may.levy a special tax up to the amounts set.forth in the Ordinance.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURER

The Waterloo-Morada Rural Fire District is a Special District formed to
provide FIRE PROTECTION, SUPPRESSION AND LIFE SAFETY SERVICES to
the residents of the District. The District has attempted to maintain an ade-
quate level of service in these areas.

Because of changes in Property Tax laws in-recent years, (the source of
income for Fire Districts) the District has been unable to maintain the same
level of service in all areas.

If the Special Tax fails, it will force a continuing decline in services now
offered and in some instances, total elimination of some services.

. Your YES vote on this special tax will enable the District to generate
revenue from the local area to be used only in our Fire District. This revenue
will be used to maintain and upgrade a level of service to our residents, plus
replace and rebuild needed equipment and buildings.

The Waterloo-Morada Fire District is proud of its history of quality service
to its deserving residents. We want to continue this tradition. We urge you
to support our effort and vote YES on the Special Tax Measure.

WATERLOO-MORADA RURAL
COUNTY FIRE PROTECTION
si Robert G. Byiogton
Director

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED