CONSOLIDATED GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 4, 1986 ~ COUNTY OF TUOLUMNE

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

STATE

64

ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS). Declares
AIDS virus carrier a contagious condition, subject to quarantine and
reportable disease regulation. Fiscal impact: The measure’s cost could
vary greatly depending upon its interpretation by health officers and
courts. If existing discretionary communicable disease controls were
applied to AIDS, given the current state of medical knowledge, there
would be no substantial change in state and local costs. If measure were
interpreted to require added disease controls, costs could range to
hundreds of millions of dollars per year depending on measures taken.

YES 160
NO 161

TOXIC DISCHARGE AND EXPOSURE RESTRICTIONS. Prohibits
discharge of toxic chemicals into drinking water and requires warnings
pc of toxic chemicals exposure. Fiscal impact: Costs of state and local
DO enforcement are estimated at $500,000 in 1987 and thereafter would
depend on many factors, but could exceed $1,000,000 annually. Costs
would be partially offset by fines collected.

YES 163 -►
NO 164

COUNTY

ADVISORY WATER CONSOLIDATION
___________MEASURE	E_________

ADVISORY VOTE ONLY

Shall the water, power and sewer operations of the County of Tuolumne
and the Tuolumne Regional Water District be consolidated?

YES 172 -►
NO 173 -►

ADVISORY WATER CONSOLIDATION NUMBER OF BOARD MEMBERS MEASURE F	
ADVISORY VOTE ONLY  _ If the water, power and sewer operations of the County of Tuolumne and L the Tuolumne Regional Water District are consolidated, should those 1 consolidated operations be governed by a five member Board made up of three members of the Board of Directors of the Tuolumne Regional Water District, and two members of the County Board of Supervisors?	YES 176 -► NO 177 -►
PI TV CITY OF SONORA u 1 1 ' PROPOSED USE TAX ORDINANCE MEASURE G	
Shall Ordinance No. 624 of the Sonora City Council, calling for the A Tuolumne County Traffic Authority to impose a fifteen year, one-cent ll Transactions and Use Tax for the purpose of financing road improve- ments throughout the City of Sonora be approved?	YES 180 NO 181

55702-11,51.30,31,32,40,41,50.

55sb-9



CITY OF SONORA TAX MEASURE G
(Full Text of Ordinance)

ORDINANCE NO. 624

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SONORA IMPOSING A TRANSACTION AND USE TAX,

ON BEHALF OF THE TUOLUMNE COUNTY TRAFFIC AUTHORITY, TO BE ADMINISTERED
BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION
The Council of the City of Sonora, State of California, do ordain as follows:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Tuolumne County Traffic Authority Transac-
tions and Use Tax Ordinance. Such Traffic Authority shall be referred to herein as “District".

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative date” means [pursuant to Public Utilities Code Section
150204] the first day of the 1st calendar quarter commencing more than 120 days after adoption of the
ordinance, the effective date of such adoption being as set forth in Section 15, herein.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other, purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenues and
Taxation Code and Public Utilities Code Section 150000, et. seq., which directs the Sonora City
Council to adopt the tax ordinance for voter approval exercising the taxing power granted to the
Tuolumne County Traffic Authority in Public Utilities Code Sections 150201 and 150206, on behalf of
said Authority;

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code;

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and provides a measure
therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that
adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes;

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use ordinance which can be administered in a manner that will,
to the degree possible consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes and at the same time
minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance;

(e)	To improve, expand and construct those certain streets and highways shown on the City of
Sonora Expenditure Plan as adopted on July 21,1986 in accordance with the provisions of Public
Utilities Code Sections 150202 and 150205.

(f)	To permit the Traffic Authority to issue bonds payable solely from the proceeds of this tax.

(g)	To set a maximum term of fifteen (15) years during which time this tax shall be imposed pursuant
to the authority specified in Public Utilities Codes Sections 150201 and 150202.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date this District shall contract with the
State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if this District shall not have contracted with the State
Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX AND RATE OF 1%. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in this District at the rate of one percent of the
gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at a retail in this District
on and after the operative date.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purpose of this ordinance all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the
state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no

____________________________________________________________________

permanent place of business in the state or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed
and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX AND RATE OF 1%. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in this District of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date for storage, use or other consumption in this District at the rate of one percent of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this
ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In
adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, wherever the State of
California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this District shall be substituted
therefor. The substitution, however, shall not be made when the word “State" is used as part of the title
of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, orthe Constitution of the State of California; the substitution shall not be made when the result
of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this District or any agency, officer, or
employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance; the substitution shall not be made in those
sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the
State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to provide an exemption from this tax
with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the state under the provisions of Parti of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
or to impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provisions of that code; the
substitution shall not be made in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. The name of this District shall be substituted for
the word “state” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this state” in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203. A retailer engaged in business in the District shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the District or participates within the District in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the District or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary or person in the District under authority of the retailer.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section
6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any
sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property to operators of waterborne vessels to be used or
consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the
carriage of persons or property in such vessels for commercial purposes.

(2)	Sales of tangible personal property to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this state, the
United States, or any foreign government.

(3)	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped to a point outside the

(Continued on Next Page)

55-62

FULL TEXT OF ORDINANCE, MEASURE G, CONTINUED

District pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or
by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes
of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the District shall be satisfied

(i)	with respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Article 2 (commencing with Section 680) of Chapter 5 of Division 3 of
the Harbors and Navigation Code by registration to an out-of-District address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact,
his principal place of residence.

(ii)	with respect to commercial vehicles by registration to a place of business out-of-
District, and a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be
operated from that address.

(4)	The sale of tangible personal property if the Seller is obligated to furnish the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property for any
period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(6)	For the purposes of subsections (4) and (5), the sale or lease of tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(c)	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance the storage, use or other
consumption in this District of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any
state-administered transactions and use taxes ordinance.

(2)	Purchased by operators of waterborne vessels and used or consumed by such operators
directly and exclusively in the carriage of persons or property in such vessels for commercial
purposes.

(3)	Purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this state, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

(4)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of the ordinance.

(5)	Or the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the
lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

(6)	For the purposes of subsections (4) and (5), storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to
be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to
part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code shall automatically become a
part of this ordinance; provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate
of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or
equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or this

District, or against any officer of the state or this District, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.

Section 14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 15. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the Traffic
Authority’s transactions and use taxes and shall take effect on January 1,1987 providing that: (a) AB
3937,1986 (N. Waters) adding Division 15 (commencing with Section 150000) to the Public Utilities
Code and Section 7252.13 of the Revenue and Taxation Code becomes law on that date; and (b) on
November 4,1986, this proposition as well as a similar proposition addressing the unincorporated area
of the County of Tuolumne are approved by a majority vote of the electors voting on each measure.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Council of the City of Sonora, State of California, on August 4,1986, by
the following vote:

AYES: Mayor Hildreth, Councilmembers Cassinetto, Rucker, Calvert, Stearn

NOES: None.

ABSENT: None.

s/ BETTY CASTLE, Clerk	s/ JIM HILDRETH, Mayor

City of Sonora	City	of Sonora

55-207G.2

LEGAL COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

The effect of this measure is to create the Tuolumne County Traffic Authority, and authorize the Traffic
Authority to impose a one per-cent transactions (referred to as “sales”) and use tax for street/highway
transportation purposes. The tax will be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City, and will be for
a period not to exceed 15 years. The creation of the Authority and imposition of the sales and use tax must
be approved by a majority of the electors voting on this measure, both within the City, and County.

The Authority will be created pursuant to the Tuolumne County Road Facilities Improvement Act,
enacted by the Legislature in 1986. (Public Utilities Code, beginning with Section 150000.) The Authority
shall consist of five members: (2) Two members of the Board of Supervisors; (2) Two members of the
City Council of Sonora; (1) One member representing the public-at-large.

The sales and use tax will be imposed by ordinance pursuant to the Act, and the Transactions and Use
Tax Law (Revenue and Taxation Code, beginning with Section 7251). Revenues from the tax will be
allocated by the Authority for administration of the Act, and for street/highway capital improvements
only, limited to planning, environmental reviews, design, and construction of streets, roads, and
highways within the City of Sonora.

The City Council has prepared a plan for expenditure of revenues derived from the tax (Expenditure
Plan). The Expenditure Plan lists projects in order of priority.

The Authority, by a 4/5 vote of its members, may revise the Expenditure Plan, after conducting noticed
public hearings on the proposed revision.

The Authority is required to rely on existing state, regional, and local data and expertise. It is limited in
its expenditure of funds for staff salaries and benefits.

The ballot proposition also authorizes issuance of bonds payable solely from proceeds of the tax, for
accomplishment of street/highway transportation purposes of the Act. The maximum bonded indebted-
ness which maybe authorized (principal and interest) shall not exceed estimated proceeds of the tax over
a period of not more than 15 years.

s/ James Boscoe
Legal Counsel
City of Sonora

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Traffic congestion and safety problems throughout the City of Sonora have reached unacceptable
levels, creating a need for swift and thoughtful action. Passage of Measure G will provide urgently
needed relief. It allows a special 1 cent sales tax fora maximum term of 15 years at the end of which it
must terminate. During this 15 years period, revenues generated from both the 1 cent sales tax and
developer fees and/or right-of-way donations, etc., will finance road improvements identified in the City
of Sonora Expenditure Plan. That Plan includes a prioritized list of 24 critical projects totalling
$15,886,641 which have been reviewed and developed through public hearings.

Some important features of this measure are as follows:

1.	It guarantees improvements will be made within the next five to seven years to alleviate the worst of
the County’s traffic congestion and safety problems.

2.	The 1 cent sales tax is not applied to food, housing, medical care or utilities and is deductible in
calculating state and federal income tax.

3.	The sales tax mechanism assures that tourists will help pay to improve road conditions for which
they are partially responsible.

4.	New development will pay its fair share of needed road improvements via development fees and/or
right-of-way donations, etc., in conjunction with the 1 cent sales tax.

Can we afford a 15 year, 1 cent sales tax to address traffic problems? Indeed, it is a prudent investment
in our quality of life.

Can we afford not to?

There is no other solution to our traffic problems on the horizon. If you are tired of bumper to bumper
traffic, congested and unsafe intersections, roads which are too narrow with dangerously sharp curves,
vote YES on Measure G.

s/ Jim W. Hildreth
Mayor
s/ Ronald E. Stearn
Councilman
s/ Betty M. Castle
City Clerk

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

The argument in favor of Measure G says: “There is no other solution to our traffic problems on the
horizon”.

Yet:

The Greenley Road north extension is planned for separate funding by the County. (Not by this
proposed sales tax money).

The Sonora Bypass is being funded by the State (CALTRANS).

Together, these two major projects are designed to relieve Washington St. both ways from the signal.
Most side and cross street traffic conditions would improve as a result.

Clearly, our City Officials who signed the argument in favor of this measure must have had in mind
traffic problems somewhere out of the City. Could they be proposing a sales tax increase in the City to
clear traffic congestion at Highway 108 and Tuolumne Road?

As City voters, most of us would say that is NOT one of “our traffic problems”.

As of the date of this writing the new Federal tax reform measure has apparently cancelled the
deductibility of Sales tax.

The proposed sales tax increase would result in further destruction of the business climate in our city.

Vote NO on Measure G.

s/ Robert W. McKee
s/ James A. Panero
s/ Lewis R. Leonard
s/ Don Dambacher
s/ Charles F. Rodriquez

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

Vote NO on measure G.

The life blood of trade has been sucked away from Sonora merchants by commercial development in
East Sonora. In the City, vacant stores and reduced City services resulted. The same development
produced traffic congestion in East Sonora.

The proposed one percent sales tax increase would drive even more business out of the City toward
Modesto, and even into Calaveras County. It would cost those who buy in the City about ten million
dollars over fifteen years.

True, the ten million would buy us some roads in the City. But the County project required to bring
real relief to downtown congestion (The Greenley Road extension) is already faltering.

Don’t ask the general taxpayer to finance the State (CALTRANS) obligation, the developers’
obligation and the driver’s own obligation to provide roads.

Wait to see the traffic conditions in the City after the Bypass is completed. Remember, if the City
votes No, the sales tax in the whole County remains at six percent.

This is another attempt to end-run Proposition 13. Vote No on Measure G.

s/ Robert W. McKee
s/ James A. Panero
s/ Lewis R. Leonard
s/ Don Dambacher
s/ Charles F. Rodriquez

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

The argument against Measure G represents the same false information and scare tactics which have
prevented construction of City road improvements and delayed the construction of the Sonora Bypass
over the past 25 years.

. It is a great over statement to say that trade has been lost in downtown Sonora due solely to
commercial development outside of the City. The congested street system and lack of adequate
parking facilities in downtown Sonora are just as much to blame for this condition.

. The experience of other jurisdictions which have adopted such a sales tax has indicated that local
business will not be lost to neighboring cities and counties. In fact, due to improved circulation
brought about by tax financed road and transit improvements, total sales have increased in these
jurisdictions.

. According to every study done on downtown circulation, other road improvements in addition to the
Sonora Bypass and the Greenley Road Extension will be needed to make a significant improvement
in downtown circulation.

. Developers, tourists and local residents will all be participating in a fair and equitable way to fund the
proposed road improvements. As for Caltrans, it is doing its part by paying $18 million for the
Sonora Bypass and $300,000 towards Highway 108/Lime Kiln Road intersection improvements.

Wishful thinking and a “Wait and see” attitude will not build the road improvements we need today.
Vote “YES" on Measure G.

s/ Jim W. Hildreth
Mayor
s/ Ronald E. Stearn
Councilman
s/ Betty M. Castle
City Clerk