RESOLUTION NO. 86-5

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
AMERICAN CANYON FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
PROPOSING THE IMPOSITION OF A SPECIAL TAX AND
ORDERING A SPECIAL, TAX ELECTION TO BE
CONSOLIDATED WITH THE GENERAL ELECTION OF
NOVEMBER 4, 1986 FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING
TO THE VOTERS OF THE DISTRICT THE QUESTION OF
WHETHER OR NOT SUCH A TAX SHOULD BE LEVIED

WHEREAS, on June 11, 1986 the American Canyon Fire Protection District,
pursuant to Government Code Section 50077, published notice that public hearings
would be held on Monday, July 7, 1986 and on Monday, August 4, 1986 regarding
whether or not a resolution should be adopted calling for a special tax
election on November 4, 1986; and,

WHEREAS, such duly noticed public hearings were held on July 7, 1986
and August 4, 1986, at which time all interested persons were given the oppor-
tunity to address this Board; and

WHEREAS, as a result of the testimony at said public hearings, this
Board has concluded that solely due to the combination of the passage of
Proposition XIII, which severely reduced the tax base of the District, and the
projected construction of one thousand (1,000) additional residential units,
sixty-five thousand (65,000) square feet of new commercial development, and
three million (3,000,000) square feet of industrial development within the next
twenty (20) years, additional tax revenues are needed if the District is to
continue to provide an adequate level of fire protection and maintain the
District's present fire rating; and

WHEREAS, to secure the"necessary authority to raise the additional
needed revenue, this Board has concluded to submit to the voters the question
of whether or not a one-time special tax should be imposed upon new development

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the
American Canyon Fire protection District that:

1.	A special tax election is hereby called to be held on November 4, 1986,
in conjunction with the general election to approve or disapprove the levy of the
hereinafter described special tax.

2.	The tax to be imposed if approved by the voters, shall be placed in
a reserve as authorized by Section 13911 of the Health and Safety Code, and will
be utilized for the following purposes:

a.	The acquisition of special fire equipment, including but not
limited to, water tower fire apparatus, truck companies, and
high volume water delivery systems,

b.	One fire station located within the northern half of the District,
and

c.	Assuring that all residential developments within the District
will be served with not less than three Class A, triple combina-
tion pumpers as first line fire apparatus.

3.	The tax shall be a special tax and shall be levied, once only, on
the date construction commences, upon each property owner who constructs and
occupies or causes to be constructed and occupied any residential, commercial or
industrial building located within the District. For the purposes of this tax
measure, on or off-site grading shall not be considered the commencement of
construction.

4.	The taxes imposed snail be based-upon the square footage of the
structure as determined from the plans submitted with the application for a
building permit and shall be computed as follows:

3

fcnw nrnnncorl cl-'riii-t-ii'ro Hoc-irmoH fnr nco oc o cinrrlo ■f.am'i'lv

square foot. For purposes of this subsection a single family
dwelling shall mean a dwelling unit containing not more than
one kitchen and designed to house not more than one family.

b.	Any proposed structure designed for use as a multiple family
dwelling unit shall be assessed a tax of eleven cents ($.11)
per square foot. For purposes of this subsection, a multiple
family dwelling unit shall mean any structure designed to
house two or more families living independently of each other
and may consist of one building or a series of detached
dwelling units.

c.	Any proposed structure designed to be used for business or
commercial purposes shall be assessed a tax of fifteen cents
($.15) per square foot. Business or commercial purposes as
used herein includes, but is not limited to, facilities used
primarily for public assembly, sleeping rooms in hotels, or
motels, and mental or physical convalescent facilities.

d.	Any proposed structure designed to be used for industrial
purposes shall be assessed a tax of twenty cents ($.20) per
square foot. Industrial purposes as used in this subsection
shall mean any use involving manufacturing, fabricating,
refining, processing, research, warehousing or similar uses.

e.	If the proposed structure as designed could be used as either
a dwelling or for commercial or industrial purposes, the
higher tax rate shall be applicable.

f. No tax shall be assessed if the proposed structure is to be
used for the benefit of, the United States, the State of
California, or any department, agency or political subdivision
of either the uiiiteu Suates ol ihe t>faLe of California.

g.	Where a structure is replaced, no fee shall be payable, pro--

less than the replaced structure.

h.	Where a structure is remodeled, no fee shall be payable,
provided the square footage of the new structure is the same
or less than the remodeled structure.

i.	If a fee had been previously paid to the District, and the
new structure contains less square footage than the old
structure, no refund shall be payable by the District.

j.	Any increase in taxes shall be controlled by Amendment XIII B
and shall not exceed the percentage increase in the cost of
living.

k.	Fee shall be reviewed the first meeting in July of each year
by the Board of Directors and adjusted according to the changes
in the Bay Area Consumer Price Index.

5.	In case of disagreement as to interpretation of fees, the decision
of the designated fire district administrator shall be final, with right of the
applicant to appeal his decision to the Board of Directors. The appeal shall
be in writing and shall be submitted to the designated administrator within
thirty (30) days after the designated administrator has made his decision. The
designated administrator shall place the matter on the agenda for consideration
of the Board of Directors at its next regular meeting, but if the written appeal
is submitted within five (5) days of the next regular meeting, then appeal
shall be considered at the second succeeding meeting following its submission.

6.	The tax shall be due and payable on the date construction of the
structure commences, five (5) months following the issuance of the initial build-
ing permit authorizing construction, or, if a temporary waiver of payment of the
tax has been granted by the District Board, on the date indicated in the waiver,
whichever is later. If the tax is not paid when due it shall become delinquent.

as the tax. The tax and penalty shall bear interest at the rate of one percent
(1%) per month on the unpaid balance. If the tax assessed has not been paid to
the American Canyon Fire Protection District on or before the July 30th follow-
ins the due date, the tax shall be collected as follows:

On or before the first day of August of each year, the District
shall file with the Napa County Auitor and the Napa County Treasurer
a resolution identifying each property owner that has been assessed
a tax during the previous fiscal year due to new construction and
has not paid said tax to the District and the amount of the tax
and penalties due and owing. Upon receipt of the resolution, the
County shall collect the special tax in the same manner, and
subject to the same penalty, as other charges and taxes are collect-
ed by the County on behalf of the District; provided, however,
that the County may deduct its reasonable costs incurred for such
collection services before remittal of the balance to the credit of
the District as hereinafter provided so long as such costs do not
exceed one-tenth of one percent (1/10 of 1%) of the total taxes
actually collected.

All net taxes collected shall be placed in a special account with the Napa
County Treasurer entitled Reserve for Capital Outlays - American Canyon Fire
Protection District. Funds in said account shall only be used for the pur-
poses hereinabove enumerated.

7.	The tax shall be in addition to any other tax that the District
is authorized by law to collect or receive.

9. The measure to be-submitted to the voters shall read substantially

as follows:

"MEASURE A"

Shall a tax be imposed on the date construction begins, on all
new residential, commercial and industrial construction. Single
family residential construction, nine cents ($.09) per square foot;
multiple family residential construction, eleven cents ($.11) per
square foot; commercial construction, fifteen cents ($.15) per square
foot; industrial construction, twenty cents ($.20) per square foot?
Unless paid earlier by the property owner, all such taxes shall be
placed on, and collected as a part of, the tax bill of the property
owner within twelve (12) months, or in a limited number of cases,
within twenty-four (24) months, of the commencement of construction.

9. Pursuant to section 23300 of the California Elections Code, the
Board of Directors of the American Canyon Fire Protection District hereby
consolidates the special tax election with the general election to be held
November 4, 1986. The District further authorizes the Board of Supervisors,
pursuant to section 23306 of the Elections Code to canvass the returns of the
election.

10. It is the intent of the District in adopting this resolution
that if any word, phrase, or other portion of this tax measure, as approved
by the voters, is held by the courts to be unlawful or void, the remaining
portions shall not be affected and the tax measure will be construed and en-
forced as if it did not contain the particular word, phrase, or provision

held invalid.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED at a meeting of the Board of Directors

of American Canyon Fire Protection District held on the 4th day of August 1986,
by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Directors Barrett, Chapman, North, Carver and Johnson

None

None

None

ATTEST:

Joy A. Peters
Secretary