<resolution> BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

Riverside County Flood
Control and Water
Conservation District

RESOLUTION NO. F86-23

RESOLUTION CALLING SPECIAL ELECTION ON PROPO-
SITIONS WITH RESPECT TO ZONE THREE OF THE
RIVERSIDE COUNTY FLOOD CONTROL AND WATER
CONSERVATION DISTRICT INCURRING A BONDED
INDEBTEDNESS IN AN AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT
NOT TO EXCEED $8,000,000 FOR DRAINAGE AND
FLOOD CONTROL IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN SAID ZONE
AND ANNUAL LEVY OF BENEFIT ASSESSMENTS ON
PROPERTY WITHIN SAID ZONE FOR THE PAYMENT OF
PRINCIPAL OF AND INTEREST ON BONDS REPRE-
SENTING SUCH BONDED INDEBTEDNESS AND
REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH ANY AND ALL
OTHER ELECTIONS TO BE CONDUCTED BY THE COUNTY
OF RIVERSIDE ON NOVEMBER 4, 1986

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors (the "Board of Super-
visors") of the Riverside County Flood Control and Water Conser-
vation District (the "District") is authorized by Section 25.1
of the Riverside County Flood Control and Water Conservation
District Act Chapter 1122, Statutes of 1945, as amended (the
"Act"), upon complying with the requirements of Chapter 6.1
(commencing with Section 54701) of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title
5 of the Government Code, the Benefit Assessment Act of 1982,
including obtaining the approval of the voters as required by
Section 54717 of the Government Code, to levy benefit assess-
ments within any zone of the District to pay principal of and
interest on bonds of the zone which are issued to finance the
cost of any work of improvement, as authorized in the Act, in
the zone if the issuance of the bonds has also been approved by
the voters at the same election at which the levy of the benefit
assessments was approved;

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 54715 of the Government
Code, on July 15, 1986, the Board of Supervisors adopted Resolu-
tion No. F86-20 determining and proposing for adoption an annual
assessment on each parcel of real property within Zone Three of
the District, (the "Zone") for the purpose of paying the
principal of and interest on bonds to be issued for the Zone for
the design, acquisition and construction of drainage and flood
control improvements identified therein, and by said resolution
did further determine that a bonded indebtedness in an aggregate
principal amount not to exceed $8,000,000 should be incurred for
the Zone for the purpose of financing the design, acquisition
and construction of said drainage and flood control improve-
ments, and scheduling a public hearing thereon; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 54716 of the Government
Code, and Resolution No. F86-20 the Board of Supervisors caused
a written report to be prepared and filed with the Clerk of the
Board of Supervisors containing the information required by said
Section 54716, and said Clerk, pursuant to said section, caused
a notice of the filing of said report and of the time, date, and
place of the hearing thereon to be published and posted as also
required by said section 54716; and

WHEREAS, at the time, date and place of said hearing
the Board of Supervisors heard and considered all protests; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to subdivision (c) of said Section
54716, at the conclusion of the hearing, the Board of Super-
visors adopted Resolution No. F86-21 making a determination upon
the assessments as described in the report which was prepared
pursuant to said section and presented at said hearing, and determining the proposed assessments; and

WHEREAS, on August 5,	1986,	pursuant to Section 19 of

the Act, the Board of Supervisors, by unanimous vote of the
entire Board, adopted Resolution No. F86-22 determining that a
bonded indebtedness should be incurred to pay the cost of the
drainage and flood control improvements described in said report
and hereinafter described, and determining and declaring that
the amount of said bonded indebtedness and the bonds to be
issued in order to raise the amount of money necessary for the
design, acquisition and construction of said improvements is
$8,000,000, that said bonds shall be sold in denominations of
$5,000, or any integral multiple thereof, and that the rate of
interest on the bonds shall not exceed twelve percent (12%) per
annum; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to said Section 19, a certified copy
of Resolution No. F86-22 shall be recorded with the County
Recorder of the County of Riverside within five days after its
adoption; and

WHEREAS, from and after and as a result of the filing
of said resolution with the County Recorder, the Board of Super-
visors is vested with the authority to proceed with the bond
election with respect to said bonded indebtedness and said
bonds; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 54717 of the Government
Code and Section 25.1 of the Act, the Board of Supervisors has
determined to submit to the eligible voters within the Zone the
proposition with respect to the Zone incurring a bonded
indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $8,000,000 for the design, acquisition and construction of
drainage and flood control improvements therein and therefor,
and the annual levy of assessments on property within the Zone
for the payment of principal and interest on the bonds of the
Zone; 


	AYES: Dunlap, Cenicero, Larson, Younglove and Abraham NOES: None ABSENT: None



STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE )

I, Gerald A. Maloney, Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
of the Riverside County Flood Control and Water Conservation
District, do hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was
duly adopted by the Board of Supervisors of said District at a
regular meeting of said Board held on the 5th day of August,
1986, and that it was so adopted by the following vote:

AYES:	Dunlap,	Ceniceros,	Larson,	Younglove	and	Abraham

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAINED:	None

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and the
seal of said district this 5th day of August, 1986.

GERALD A. MALONEY
Clerk of the Board

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

) ss.

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE )

I, Gerald A. Maloney, Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
of the Riverside County Flood Control and Water Conservation
District, do hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a
full, true and correct copy of Resolution No. F86-23 of said
Board, and that the same has not been amended or repealed.

Dated:	August	_5_,	1986

GERALD A. MALONEY
Clerk of the Board

Deputy Clerk of the Board
<resolutionend>












<full> NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, DETERMINED AND ORDERED
by the Board of Supervisors of the Riverside County Flood
Control and Water Conservation District, in regular session
assembled on August 5, 1986, as follows:

Section 1. The foregoing recitals are true and

correct.

Section 2. The estimated cost of the proposed drainage
and flood control improvements, excluding therefrom certain
federal and state contributions and including the cost of the
design, acquisition and construction thereof, and costs inci-
dental thereto, is $8,143,000.

Section 3. The amount of the principal of the bonded
indebtedness to be incurred and the bonds to be issued therefor
is $8,000,000, and the maximum rate of interest to be paid on
said bonded indebtedness and on said bonds is twelve percent
(12%) per annum.

Section 4. A special election shall be and is hereby
called for November, 1986 at which there shall be submitted to
the qualified electors of Zone Three of the Riverside County
Flood Control and Water Conservation District the following
proposition:

Shall a bonded indebtedness in an aggregate principal
amount not to exceed $8,000,000 be incurred by and for
Zone Three of the Riverside County Flood Control and
Water Conservation District for a maximum term of not
more than 40 years and with interest at a rate or rates
not to exceed twelve percent (12%) per annum, or such
other rate as may be the maximum interest rate
permitted by law, for the purpose of financing the
design, acquisition and construction of drainage and
flood control improvements within and for Zone 3 and
shall benefit assessments be annually levied on
property within Zone Three of the Riverside County
Flood Control and Water Conservation District in
amounts which in the aggregate will be sufficient to
pay the principal of and interest on the bonds thereof
and the administrative expenses of the District and the
County of Riverside in levying and collecting such
assessments?	To	Dick	§ Typesetter 8-13-86

Section 5. It is the intent of the Board of
Supervisors that said special election shall be consoli-
dated with the general election to be held within the Zone
on November 4,	1986,	and	accordingly	it	is therefore not

necessary that the Board of Supervisors establish election
precincts, designate polling places and appoint inspectors,
judges and clerks for such precincts or determine the form
and contents of the ballot to be used for purposes of said
election.

Section 6. The Registrar of Voters of the County
of Riverside is hereby requested to order that the special
election be consolidated with any and all other elections
to be conducted on November 4, 1986.

The consolidated election will be held and con-
ducted, elections officers appointed, voting precincts
designated, ballots printed, polls opened and closed,
ballots counted and returned, returns canvassed, results
declared, certificates of election issued and all other
proceedings incidental to and connected with the election
shall be regulated and done, in accordance with the provi-
sions of law regulating the election with which the special
election is consolidated.

Section 7. The Chief Engineer of the District
shall prepare a map or maps covering a general description
of the improvements to be done, which map shall show the
location of the proposed improvements, and shall cause the
map or maps to be posted in a prominent place in the County
Court House and in the County Administrative Center of the
County of Riverside for inspection for at least 30 days
before the date fixed for the election.

Section 8. The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
shall cause a copy of this resolution to be published in a
newspaper of general circulation circulated in the Zone 3
for six consecutive times prior to the date set for the
election in the Press-Enterprise and two times in the Lake
Elsinore Sun Tribune. The last publication of this resolu-
tion shall be at least 14 days before the election.

Section 9. This Resolution shall become effective

five (5) days after the adoption of Resolution F86-22.
Roll Call resulted as follows: <fullend>











<fiscal> TAX-RATE STATEMENT MEASURE F

STATEMENT IN COMPLIANCE WITH
ELECTIONS CODE SECTIONS 5300 AND 5301

As indicated in the accompanying materials, an election is being held in
Zone Three (the “Zone”) of the Riverside County Flood Control and Water
Conservation District (the “District”) on November 4,1986 for the purpose of
submitting to the registered voters of the Zone, as Measure F, the proposition
of whether a bonded indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount not to
exceed $8,000,000 shall be incurred by and for the Zone for a maximum term
of not more than 40 years and with interest at a rate or rates not to exceed 12%
per annum, or such other rate as may be the maximum interest rate permitted
by law, for the purpose of financing the design, acquisition and construction
of drainage and flood control improvements within and for the Zone, and
whether benefit assessments shall be annually levied on property within the
Zone in amounts which in the aggregate will be sufficient to pay the principal
of and interest on the bonds thereof and the administrative expenses of the
District in levying and collecting such assessments.

If the bonds are authorized and sold, the principal thereof and interest
thereon will be payable from the proceeds of benefit assessments to be levied
on taxable property in the Zone. The following information regarding the
benefit assessments is given to comply with Section 5301 of the Elections
Code. Such information is based upon the best estimates and projections
presently available from official sources and other experience within the
Zone, or other demonstrable factors, but is subject to change.

The benefit assessments, as adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the
District, by Resolution No. F86-21, on August 5, 1986, are set forth in the
report referred to in said resolution and which was the subject of a public
hearing which was conducted by said Board of Supervisors on said
date. Copies of said resolution and said report are on file in the office of the
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of the District.

Following the sale of the bonds for the Zone, the Board of Supervisors of
the District will annually levy benefit assessments on all taxable property in
the Zone sufficient to pay the interest on the bonds for the year and the portion
of the principal thereof which will be due during the years.

The benefit assessments to be levied on taxable property in the Zone will
not be based on assessed valuation, but will be based on benefit derived by lots
and parcels of land within the Zone from the proposed improvements,
expressed as benefit assessment units, as determined and set forth in the report
hereinbefore mentioned.

The estimated amounts of benefit assessments which will be required to
be levied to fund the bond issue during the first fiscal year after the first sale of
the bonds when such benefit assessments will be levied for various classifications of property (e.g., residential, commercial, etc.), based on an assessment
of S30.00 per benefit assessment unit, are as follows:


The best estimates of the amounts of benefit assessments which will be
required to be levied to fund the bond issue during the fiscal year after the last
sale of the bonds and of the highest amounts of benefit assessments which will
be required to be levied on property within the Zone for payment of annual
principal of and interest on the bonds, is that said benefit assessments will be
in approximately the same amounts as are set forth in the above table. <fiscalend>












<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “F”
WE URGE A YES VOTE FOR FLOOD CONTROL


We, who have resided in the Lake Elsinore Valley since 1980 or 1983, or who
have been closely associated with it, have seen first hand the damage that can
occur as the result of the flooding of Lake Elsinore as well as the damages
wrought by many of its surrounding tributaries. The Riverside County
Flood Control and Water Conservation District, working in cooperation with
the County and City and other local jurisdictions, is responsible for
constructing the flood control projects needed to minimize future damages.
However, projected revenues for the District fall far short of meeting the
needs.

The issue placed before you, if approved, will allow the District to sell up to $8
million in bonds. The proceeds, when coupled with other District revenue
and Federal, State and City monies, will allow the District, over the next 8 to
10 years, to construct major flood control facilities. The facilities will be
located in the Four Corners, West Elsinore, Lakeland Village and Sedco Hills
areas and will also include improvement of the Lake Elsinore Outlet Channel
and its associated tributaries.

A yes vote, in addition to authorizing the sale of bonds will also set into
motion a benefit assessment program. This program provides an equitable
method of paying off the bonds by distributing the cost in relationship to the
stormwater runoff from each parcel of land. The average homeowner,
within the Lake Elsinore Valley, will pay an annual flood control benefit
assessment of approximately $30 per year to pay off the bonds. The cost per
household is small; community benefit is great.

Failure to provide this funding will result in an ever increasing gap between
needs and completed project construction, thereby resulting in a greater
potential for flood damage and possible loss of life.

You have the opportunity to support a solution to our Valley’s flood control
problems with a yes vote. <favorend> 









<favorsigs> By: WALTER P. ABRAHAM

Chairman, Flood Control Board

BILL CAMPBELL
Chairman, Zone 3 Commissioner <favorsigsend>