TITLE:

GEYSEHVILLE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

________________MEASURE	A	- UDEL_____________________

ELECTION DATE:	11/V87	REGISTERED	VOTERS	842

RESULTS:

YES	267

NO	202

C2/3 *s VOTE REQUIRED)

GEYSERVILLE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT ' SPECIAL TAX MEASURE	
fl Shall the Geyserville Unified School Disl “ be authorized to levy a special tax of $12 per parcel except for parcels owned and occu as a primary residence by persons over the of 65 for a period of 5 years for: Drug/Alc< Abuse Education, Sports, Library Servi Vocational Auto Mechanics, Fine Arts, Gifted and Talented, Counseling Services, Day Care Services, Classroom Support and College Preparation Service?	-rict  1.00  pied  age  )hol  ces,  YES  NO

■<v

Full Text of Measure A

GEYSEEVILLE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOE DRUG/ALCOHOL ABUSE
EDUCATION, SPORTS, LIBRARY SERVICES,
VOCATIONAL AUTO MECHANICS, FINE ARTS,
GIFTED AND TALENTED, COUNSELING
SERVICES, DAY CARE SERVICES, CLASSROOM
SUPPORT SERVICES, AND COLLEGE
PREPARATION SERVICES
Shall the Geyserville Unified School District be
authorized to levy a special tax beginning on January
1,1988 upon all parcels of land, residential or otherwise,
within the Geyserville Unified School District, on an
annual basis at the rates set forth in the following
schedule?

Each parcel within the Geyserville Unified School
District at a rate of $121.00 per parcel, with the
following exception: persons over 65 years of age
having 50% or more ownership in a parcel which
is their primary residence may be exempted from
the tax, if written application is made annually to
the District or its designee no later than March of
the previous year. In the first year, the application
deadline will be December 1.

For the purpose of this measure, the term “parcel”
shall mean a unit of real property and any improvements
thereon designated by an assessor’s parcel map and
parcel number and carried on the last equalized
assessment roll of the County of Sonoma. The proceeds
of this special tax shall be used for the purposes of: Drug
Alcohol Abuse Education, Sports, Library Services,
Vocational Auto Mechanics, Fine Arts, Gifted and
Talented, Counseling Services, Day Care Services,
Classroom Support Services, and College Preparation
Services.

Impartial Analysis of Measure A
Prepared by the Sonoma County Counsel

Measure A, if enacted, would impose a special tax in the
Geyserville Unified School District. The purpose of this
special tax is to pay the cost of providing specified programs
within the school district. This tax may only be imposed
with the approval of two-thirds of the voters within the
Geyserville Unified School District voting on the measure.

If adopted, the special tax would be $121.00 annually on
each parcel within the Geyserville Unified School District.
An exemption from this special tax is provided, upon
application, for persons over 65 years of age who have 50
percent or more ownership interest in a parcel on which
their primary residence is located.

In our opinion, the tax would be imposed for a period
of five years only, commencing January 1,1988 and ending
December 31, 1992.

The tax would apply to any person who owns real
property within the boundaries of the district. However,
this special tax would not be imposed on real property
owned by a federal, state or local governmental agency. The
special tax would be collected in the same manner as
property taxes.

The proceeds from the special tax may only be used for
the programs specified in the proposed measure which are
titled Drug Alcohol Abuse Education, Sports, Library
Services, Vocational Auto Mechanics, Fine Arts, Gifted and
Talented, Counseling Services, Day Care Services,
Classroom Support Services, and College Preparation
Services.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Geyserville Unified
School District vote “yes" on this measure, a special tax
of $121.00 will annually be imposed on each parcel
throughout the district.

If more than one-third of the voters vote “no” on this
measure, it will fail.

Argument in Favor of Measure A

The Geyserville community has provided excellent
schools for youngsters. For the past five years our schools
have received supplemental funds from geothermal
resources which have been used wisely by the Board of
Trustees to provide solid academic, vocational and fine arts
programs for students.

However, geothermal funds will not be available to us
in the foreseeable future and the gap between the State’s
allotment to the District and actual expenses widens. The
projected deficit is in excess of $130,000 annually.

This measure seeks to establish a more equitable and
reliable source of continued funding for Geyserville’s
educational programs and will generate the necessary funds
to meet actual expenses. The measure will last for only five
years and will be used to maintain current high-quality
programs for youngsters; no new programs will be funded
by this measure. Additionally, property owners age 65 and
older may apply for an exemption for their primary
residence.

Our public schools add to the desirability of the
Geyserville community. It is up to us to maintain our
excellent program for youngsters as well as our Geyserville
individuality and pride.

VOTE YES ON THIS MEASURE

/s/James S. Hamilton

President, Geyserville Unified School District
Board of Trustees

Argument Against Measure A

No ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A
was submitted

49-13	49-14