r^RAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPEi.ML TAX MEASURE A ELECTION

TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 1987

“Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.”

MEASURE A

MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX FOR CRITICAL EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS	YES	
“Shall the Moraga School District, be authorized to levy a special tax of $135 per assessor’s parcel (as defined in the voter pamphlet) per year for a period of four years, beginning July 1, 1987, to provide specific critical educational programs? In order to implement this tax, shall the appropriations limit of the District be exceeded by the amount collected	NO	
by levy of this special tax during each of the four years, if necessary?”		



Resolution 87-07
Resolution and
Order of Election

WHEREAS, the Moraga School District has been inadequately funded by the State Legislature for a period of years; and as a
result of the lack of financial support for the schools, the District will be forced to eliminate programs and sendees which provide basic
educational opportunities for the students of this District;

WHEREAS, a sound public-education provides long-lasting- benefits to the entire community by fostering the growth of the
minds of its youth, strengthening the ability of its younger members to cope successfully in a competitive society, enhancing real property-
values, promoting civic pride and participation in community affairs, reinforcing traditional moral values, increasing individual awareness
of the duties and responsibilities of citizenship and attracting to the community members who share these ideals;

WHEREAS, the Governing Board wishes to provide the basic educational program anticipated and expected by the citizens of
Moraga, and to maintain a quality educational program over time;

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077, and
57320 et seq. authorize school districts to levy a “special tax” for the purpose of providing Funds to run the district’s schools upon the
approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by the voters voting upon such a “special tax" proposal; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, the appropriations limit of the District may be exceeded

by a majority vote of the electorate;

4

WHEREAS, it is the intention of the Governing Board of the MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT to conduct a special election on
June 2, 1987. at which will be submitted to the qualified electors of the MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT a measure to authorize the
“special tax" for specific programs critical to the educational excellence of the MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT;

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1, Said election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries of the MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT’, at which
election shall he submitted to the qualified electors within the MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT the following tentative measure, to wit:

“MEASURE (A)”

Shall the MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT he authorized to impose a special tax of $135 per assessor’s parcel (as defined below)
per year for a period of four years, beginning July 1, 1987, for specific critical educational programs listed below:

District Average Class Size of 28.5 Students or less
Fine Arts Instruction

Resource Teachers and Aides in Areas Such as Science, Mathematics, arid Reading

Library Services
Instrumental Music Instruction
Art Instruction

Custodial and Maintenance Services
Textbooks

Science, Mathematics and Reading Materials and Instructional Equipment

Counseling Services
Amounts levied by this tax shall be spent for the above mentioned purposes.

In order to implement this tax, shall the appropriations limit of the District be exceeded by the amount collected by the levy
of this special tax in each of the first four years covered by this measure.

The special tax of $135 per rear shall be imposed on each assessor’s parcel under the following use codes: 11-14, 17-47, 49-55,
57-70, and 72.

Section. 2, The text of the measure as displayed on each individual ballot shall be abbreviated as follows:

MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX FOR CRITICAL EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM'S

Shall, the Moraga School District be authorized to levy a special tax of $1.35 per' assessor’s parcel (as defined in the voter

p . ,>h)i t» pe.	u i a
to nlt-Dum '	?a ri
hi	th hi

11 f four years, be
]’ tiw. appropriations
vtrirs. if necessary?

lining Jur
mu of the

v 1, 1987, to prov:
District be exceed

pedfk critical educational programs? in order
by the amount collected by levy of this special

YES

NO

	Sect-« *•>	Commcrscinv
ib	ad	ited , nd. advnt *
oi	dm	i ru< and T<*v
	- ecfc	The Supcrm
"ziw c:al	X 1 i	i 1 f n June 2,
		i to Ihi maih
a < nt	m'L	u-e by qu d
I	** uijon	! a.n et on,
shall not	s'ct fcht	p * U 1 ti» a.

L 1 987, the special tax imposed annually on all assessor's parcels at the
the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and collected ura-

te specified
- provision?

A Schools of Contra Costa County is hereby requested to call
no County Clerk is hereby requested and authorized to: I.) sc
e qualified electors of ihe’MOftAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT said
tors of the MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT who are entitled the

special election of the said
forth on aii sample ballots
ure; and 2) to provide
i the manner provided

fo-section, phrase or danse of this resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision
uiing portion of this resolution, This Governing Board declares that it would have adopted this
n. ...ib (.turn, phrase or clause thereof Irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, sub-sections,
t e i dmed invalid.

t i< K i’ the MORAGA .SCHOOL DISTRICT Governing Board is authorized and directed to certify to the
- ( £ fra Costa County and to file a copy hereof so certified with the County Clerk of Contra Costa County.

S«....... on 6,

Superintendent of sebo

PASSED AND„ ■,. JlU '-D by the Governing Board of the Mornga School District of Cor
1.3, 1.967, by the following vote:

'i Costa County, California, on January

AYES; Fred B. We.il, Barby Fppinger, Kaye Yost, Robert E. Merritt

NOES:	Joan	Noble

ABSENT:	0

AMENDED by the Governing Board of the Moraga School District of Contra Costa County. California, on March 6V 1987, by
the following vote:

AYES:	Fred	VVeif	Barby	Eppinger,	Kaye	Yost,	Robert	B.	Merritt

NOES:	0

ABSTAIN; Joan Noble

ABSENT:	0

.1 I

of the Oca
the memo
foregoing

«.r

g . d *
«>< tin i i
nc\u ! fri

I hat the foregoing resolution was daily and regularly introduced, passed, and adopted by the members
he ^ oraga School District at the public meeting of said Board held on January 13, 1987. and amended by
ng • »ard of the .Moraga School District at the public meeting of said Board held on March 6. 1987, and the

tfo ournal of said Governing Board for said meetings.

Judith R. Glickman, Superintendent
Moraga School District

3 t N
iH tbo*e

.01' ! illWM i

ail di a extent

1? £ i u to *
o! ( < m ,i\G ( turn
through i thi r v
on the wwu >< p
'•pecdi (i <	rt	o

of !
”£

COUNTY COUNSEL'S ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE PROPOSING A SPECIAL
TAX IN THE MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT

rntui (T-urtitutH,-?! ‘Proposition. 13) remotes that any special district special tax he approved by
n >'Cd tax. A school cistnct is a special district under Article XIII A. California statutes authorize
moved by two-thu ds of those voting on the proposal. Proceeds from a special tax are not available
mly be used fur the snecific purpose set forth in the tax measure.

adopte

hoo

ed

n i dcr the. CfolTo’ni i
\ Su«. diu.ion on Janiuu
-.tnct ter the speeuic rn
hte t<ix will be used ?<
,	listed	>n Reaohm

(\ isTite-fon <> id -am i Vs. the Governing Board of the Moraga School District
•\ 13. 19«7. and amended on March 6. 1987 which wth oManltsh a special tax
irons** set forth ;n tne ballot measure, if approved nv two-thirds of those voting
ueiv lor me purpose o! providing specific critical td sf*’i< i. programs- Those
on n! -07. aoopteu Jan uarv 13,1987, and amended on March o. 19H7, as follows:

)i		'.IU	’ e i 28.5 Si-udcnfs or ie.a-
fn		MM	*on
f		Hu	Hid \ de- in Area.- Such as Sctei
! i		».t«-	
Li		Mi	’nst>i Xu
\i	instruct	i	
< IW	Uidial m	YL	i ikt f** i vices
S	M M	! 1	, a d Rcoiung Materials and h
Cou	n-cang	ourvic	•»

Mathen

s. and Reading

piuent

«

The special tax propo?*-.;
The annual tax on each pimv! *
of land on which stands a si,
apartments, store, common ia* - ’

\ this n
"be$H i
un A dv
prist

is not based upon the value of;,
parcel, under this tax, is germ
^ a duplex, a condominium, ur <
iitural enterprise, industrial en ,

m

The tax will be imposed for a four year period at the annual rate of $.!■
reduce the tax.

tin

The tax will be collected and administered in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes.

on an assessor's parcel,
eparately assessed unit
donment. a townhouse.
els.

d of Trustees resolve to

The ballot measure also seeks voter approval to increase the Moraga. School District's appropriations? limit for a
Article XHI R of the California Constitution authorize;-; a public entity to change its appropriations limit, upon approv	-	^

of the public entity. In order for thfe Moraga School District to expend the proceeds of the special tax, the District's apptop?i.,>, is ,mul
must be increased.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX MEASURE A ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 1987

Your YES vote will benefit both Moraga’s schoolchildren and its residents.

Education is key to a strong, healthy country. Qualify education and an outstanding school system are high priorities and vital
assets of the Town of Moraga. Paying for this quality has become, through no fault of the school district or the children, increasingly
Lm possible.

Why?

COURT DECISIONS AND PROPOSITION 13. These gave educational, funding control to the state.

INADEQUATE STATE FUNDS. California’s funding for schools ranks 4-r>t h among the states relative to personal income.

DECLINING LOCAL ENROLLMENT. This further reduces income from the state, without a corresponding reduction

in such fixed costs as maintenance.

STATE LOTTERY. Promoted as a painless source of funds, it is a failure. Only 29 ofM-nraga’s budget is from the lottery.

Foe 10 years, significant efforts have balanced the budget: closing a school, delaying maintenance, trimming administrative
and staff costs, and reducing the curriculum.

Thousands of dollars raised annually hy the Moraga Educational Foundation and Parent Clubs are not enough to prevent cuts
that continue to undermine our excellence.

This special tax, deductible from state- and federal income taxes., will last only four years. Each parcel 'not including parks,
churches, etc.) would be taxed 3135 per year 'not per unit, in the case of multiple units;.

Property values are a direct measure of how- desirable Moraga is u> people seeking homes. The attribute mentioned MOST by
prospective home buyers is quality of our schools.

Are there alternatives? School trustees are actively considering selling surplus and undeveloped school property, consolidating
districts or services, and encouraging greater state funding. But relief is needed N(3W.

School trustees unanimously urge your YES vote. Help Moraga’s schoolchildren hy giving schools necessary, predictable income,
and help us all to preserve the quality of life that, is Moraga.

Please vote YES.

Barby Eppinger — President, Moraga School. District Governing Board
Elisabeth Allison — Former Chairperson. Moraga Committee on Aging
Michael T. Cory -■ Former Mayor. Town of Moraga
Fred Keeperman — President, Moraga Educational Foundation

Ronalee Worden — President of the Board of Directors. Moraga Chamber of Commerce

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE A ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 1987

None filed.