04/22/87	MUNICIPAL	£	SCHOOL	DISTRICT	ELECTIONS

APRIL 21, 1987

A- ALBANY SCHOOL DIST. SPECIAL TAX

01	-	YES

02	-	NO

8- ALBANY SCHOOL DIST. EXCEED APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

03	-	YES

04	-	NO

	01	02	03	04
TOTAL	2,249	1,003	2,225	1,014
ABSENTEE	166	149	163	150
GRAND TOTAL	2,415	1,152	2,388	1,164
ALBANY	2,415	1,152	2,388	1,164

PROPOSED SPECIAL TAX FOR ALBANY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT	
m MEASURE A: "Shall the Albany Unified School District he authorized to levy JjL a special lax of $87.00 for each residential unit and SO.0175 per square foot or $87.00. whichever is greater, for each non-residential parcel in the District for the purpose of preserving and maintaining the District's educational programs and providing safe facilities and equipment for the District's students?”	YES
	NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

The I'll 11 text of the ballot measure shall read as follows:

"I. In order to preserve and maintain the high level of public education, that has benefited all students,
citizens, and properly owners in Albany, and to provide safe facilities and equipment for the District's students,
shall the Albany Unified School District he authorized to levy and collect a special tax to provide funds whose
expenditure is restricted to the following specific educational purposes ’

(1)	Comprehensive High School: to provide and maintain strong academic and vocational programs in
the following areas:

a.	Mathematics

b.	Science

c.	Writing

d.	Industrial Education

e.	Business Education

f.	Music

g.	Arts

h.	Courses in (l)a. through (I Ig. above to continue a seventh instructional period at Albany High
School

i.	Athletics

j.	Health Programs and Services

(2)	Kindergarten-8th Grade Programs: to provide and maintain programs that contribute to the high
academic standards of our kindergarten through eighth grades in the following areas:

a. Science
h. Library

c.	Physical Education

d.	Music and Arts

e.	Health Programs and Services

f.	Languages, Industrial Education, and courses in (2)a. through (2)e. above to restore the full school
day at Albany Middle School

(3)	Buildings, Safety, and Equipment: to make repairs at existing District facilities and replace out-
dated equipment.

2.	The special tax shall he levied as follows:

(a)	On residential real properly at a rate of S87.00 for each residential unit per year; a residential unit
is a room or suite of two or more habitable rooms which are occupied or which are intended or designed to
be occupied by not more than one family with facilities for living, sleeping, cooking and eating, and having
oitls one kitchen.

(h) On non-residential real property at a rate of $0.0175 per square foot of each non-residential parcel
per sear or $87.(X) lor each non-residential parcel per year, whichever is greater.

±

COMPOSITE PAMPHLET
APRIL 21, 1987

(c)	The rales set forth above shall be adjusted annually to reflect the inflationary rate not to exceed two
percent for any given year or reduction as shown in the consumer price index or comparable data for the area
under taxing jurisdiction, as established by the Alameda County Assessor pursuant to Article XIH A of the
California Constitution.

(d)	Residential real property shall include all real property, lawfully used for dwelling purposes.

(c) Non-residential real property shall include all real property, improved or unimproved, not used for
dwelling purposes.

(0 If a parcel consists of both residential and non-residential real property, such parcel shall be liable
for the special tax at the rate set forth under subdivision (a) and at the rate set forth under subdivision (b) of
this section.

(g) Real property otherwise exempted from taxation under the Constitution of the Slate of California
shall also be exempted from any liability for the special tax imposed by this measure.

3.	The revenue raised by the special tax shall not be used for general educational purposes but shall be
used solely for the specific educational purposes set forth in this measure. Each year the Board or Education
shall determine which specific educational purposes shall be funded and the amount of such funding. The
revenue raised by the special tax shall be accounted for separately. Each year the Board of Education shall,
within 90 days alter the close of the District's fiscal year, prepare and make available to the District's electors
a financial report about the revenue raised by the special tax and its expenditure in accordance with the
specific purposes of this measure. Each fiscal year, as a part of its normal budget process as mandated by
law. the Board of Education shall develop a separate budget for the expenditure of revenues raised by the
special tax.

4.	On July I. 1987, and thereafter, the tax shall be collected by the Alameda County Tax Collector at the
same time as and along with the general ad valorem taxes collected by the Tax Collector. The tax shall be
subject to the same penalty and enforcement provisions as general and ad valorem taxes. The tax and penalty
shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem taxes until paid.

5.	This special tax is a property tax and qualified property owners and renters shall be entitled to the
benefits of the Gonsalves-Deukmejian-Petris Senior Citizen's Property Tax Assistance Law (California Rev-
enue and Taxation Code Section 20501 el.seq.) and the Senior Citizens and Disabled Citizens Property Tax
Postponement Law (California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 20581 et.scq.j, as provided by law.

6.	This special lax shall not be collected if a majority of the District's electors have not approved an increase
or a continuation of any previously approved increase in the District's appropriations limit pursuant to Article
XI1IB of the California Constitution. The duration of any such change shall be determined by such electors,
but in no event exceed four years from the most recent vote of.such electors creating or continuing such change.

7.	If any section, sub-section, phrase, or clause of this measure is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of thc.remaining portion of this measure. The Board declares that it would
have adopted this measure and each section, sub-section, phrase, or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, sub-sections, sentences, phrases, or clauses be declared invalid."

COUNTY COUNSEL’S ANALYSIS MEASURE A

In 1979. the Legislature added §8 50075 ct at., to the Government Code to implement the provisions of
Article X111A of the California Constitution. These statutes authorize cities, counties, and districts to submit
to the voters for approval or rejection a measure authorizing the levying of a special tax.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on the measure vote for approval, the Board of Education of
the Albany Unified School District will be authorized to impose a special tax on each residential unit and on
each non-rcsidcntial parcel of real estate located within the boundaries of the school district, in the amounts
specified in the ballot measure. The measure also provides that the tax rates may be adjusted annually to
reflect inflation, but not to exceed two percent for any given year. The proceeds raised by this special tax shall
be used only to preserve and maintain high levels of education and to provide safe facilities and equipment
as specified in the ballot measure. Annually, the Board of Education shall determine which of the listed
educational programs and purposes shall receive revenues generated by the special tax and shall maintain a
separate budget for such revenues.

This ballot measure makes the collection of the special tax contingent upon a majority of the District’s
electors also passing Measure B at this same election. If approved. Measure B would authorize, as specified
therein, an increase in the appropriations limit of the school district pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIB of
the California Constitution.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the measure will fail
and the proposed special lax will not be levied.

s/RICHARD J. MOORE
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

This small local tax is necessary to protect Albany's outstanding public school system.

Funds from the highly publicized state lottery arc far less than expected. Last year the school district cut
its budget an additional S5(X).(XX). Classes in basic subjects were cut back or eliminated. Some students in
grades 7 through 12 now have larger classes and fewer course options. Important services, like the school
nurse program, were dropped. The cuts have affected all grades.

In 1986. as an emergency stop-gap measure, local citizens donated to the C.A.R.E. fund-raising drive.
This clfort saved only a few programs. Now, we must seek a long-term solution.

This proposed tax would prevent further drastic reductions and restore some courses valued by Albany
students for over 30 years.

The proposed tax would cost each Albany household only about $7 a month. In addition, every Albany
business would pay its fair share based on the size of its property.

Low-income seniors arc eligible for special state programs that would lessen or eliminate the cost of the
tax.

Albany schools are efficiently run. Salaries are modest—administrative costs arc low. Our students' test
scores have been among the highest in the Bay Area.

Our excellent school system is vital to the well-being and prosperity of every person in Albany. Good
schools help maintain our property values, attract caring young families, and help our children grow into
successful adults. Strong school programs help combat juvenile crime.

z

Today the quality of our schools is threatened! We cannot afford an inadequate school system. Albany
citizens must continue to support their fine schools. The future of our city and country depends on well-
educated young people. Protect Albany's strongest resource, our first-rate school system.

We urge a YES vote on Measure A.

s/Gcrald Brunctti, President. Albany Board of Education

s/Lconard L. Keck. Honorary Chair, “Protect Albany's Strong Schools" Tax Committee
s/Jeromc Blank, Honorary Chair. “Protect Albany's Strong Schools" Tax Committee
s/Ruth J. Ganong, Chair, "Protect Albany’s Strong Schools" Tax Committee
s/Dan Shepherd, Vice-President, Senior Class, Albany High School

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

The School Board is correct about the tax being small, small to those who wrote it. who make fifty to
seventy-five thousand a year between the husband and wife; however, is it small to a lot of senior citizens who
exist on less than S500.00 per month? The question is do we need this tax—we say “NO.” At the 11-25-86
meeting the board stated that $389,000 is realized on the 321 students living outside Albany. $389,000 -t-
321 = $1,211 x 2100 students = total enrollment x $1,211 = $2,544,860 dollars each year. When asked
what happened to this money, we were told “it was spent on comprehensive programs and building’s safety”.
The board fails to tell us that in the November 1986 election eight hundred million dollars were voted for
buildings, repairs, etc. When Proposition 13 was enacted the board had surplus of $655,000 dollars and for
four years received the same amount of school funds; this is proof that more money is not needed—that what
is needed is a comprehensive school board that has the ability to construct a school program based on the
funds on hand. The Superintendent of Schools was given a $5,000.00 raise after six (6) months on the job.
The District's employees were given a 7% raise when the cost of living rose 1.6%. Social Security recipients
received only 1.6%. No more money is needed, vote no on Measure “A”.

s/Arthur L. Lowe

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

The Albany School Board is again blaming Proposition 13 for their incompetence. The School Board has
never shown any ability to construct a budget based on the amount of funds allocated it. Therefore, the Albany
School Board has given up trying and is asking us, the citizens of Albany to pay for their incompetence by
voting to give them “A blank check” which will increase our property taxes $87.(X) the first year and will
continue to increase taxes every year until finally taxes will be equal to the amounts paid before the enactment
of Proposition 13 which has always been the goal of school boards and city governments.

No-where does the Albany School Board in its request for more funds give any valid reasons for the need
of more funds. The Albany School Board neglects to tell us that in passing this lax we will be paying for the
education for one-third of the students who do not reside in the City of Albany and whose parents do not
contribute any support for the upkeep of the Albany schools or the education of its students. ‘Therefore, I say
to you. the citizens of Albany “wake up before its loo late"*.

“VOTE NO“ on Albany's special Tax Measure “A” and make the School Board live within its means.

s/Arthur L. Lowe

s/Charles S. Perry	,

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Contrary to the argument against. California Law requires that the Albany School Board, each year, publish,
and live within, a balanced budget. The Albany School Board has always lived within its balanced budget.

Slate funding, however, continues to be inadequate. Now, to stay within the budget, the Albany School
District has been forced to make drastic cuts in many basic courses and programs. Tax Measure A would
restore some of these valued courses.

The opposition's "blank check” charge is false. Tax Measure A asks Albany taxpayers to provide only
S87.00 per household for the first year of the measure. For each of the next three years a maximum of 2%
may be added to the tax. In 1988 the tax would increase by $1.74.

Companion Tax Measure B requires voter approval every four years. If Albany voters do not vote to continue
spending (he tax, it will no longer be collected.

Albany does not support out-of-district students. The State compensates Albany schools for each out-
of-district student at the same rate it pays for each Albany student. This additional State income is badly
needed to help with mounting operating costs, especially since lottery income has fallen far below projections.

The opposition's statement that "one-third of the students do not reside in the city" is misleading and
erroneous. Only !/« of our 2400 students are from out-of-district.

Keep the facts straight. YOU HAVE THE FINAL CONTROL!

Vote YES on Measure A

s/Gcrald J. Brunetti. Ph.D.. President. Board of Education
s/Leonard L. Keck. Former Vice Mayor, City of Albany
s/Jeromc Blank. Former Mayor, City of Albany

s/Rulh J. Ganong. Member City Council, Former Mayor, City of Albany
s/Dan Shepherd. Vice-President, Senior Class. Albany High School

3