r

01

SIDE 1

BALLOT CARD

OFFICIAL BALLOT

SPECIAL SCHOOL

BOND ELECTION

BUTTE COUNTY	APRIL	12,	1988

SIDE 2

l 12, i<te>&
----------\

This ballot stub shall be torn off by precinct board
member and handed to the voter

	MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS	
	SCHOOL	
	OROVILLE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 1 BOND ISSUE. SPECIAL TAX AND APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT MEASURE	
	Shall Oroville Elementary School I)is- JVY tricl Community Facilities District No, 1 vvj be authorized to finance the acquisition. KJ construction, rehabilitation and installa- jXX tion of elementary school facilities, to- 5X> gelher with all necessary appurtenances Jxx thereto, hy incurring a bonded indebted- 2XS ness in the principal amount of JXX $7,500,000 and shall an appropriations limit in the amount of $1,000,000 per YE! » fiscal year in connection therewith be es- H tablished for the Community Facilities »,(- District and shall a special tax with a maximum rate and method of apportion- rnent as provided in Resolution No. XXS 87-88-7 adopted by the Board of Trustees XX? of the Oroville Elementary School Dis- SoX tricl on January 6, 1988, which is incor- XsX porated herein, be levied to pay for such XX> school facililics, including the payment of eXX principal of and interest on such bonds XX> and including the repayment of funds ad- (XX vanced for the Community Facilities XSo District? ggs	+  +
		

04901

Sample Ballot

\Z. I'l&t

OROVILLE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
COMMUNITY FACILITIES OISTRICT NO. 1
Bond Issue, Special Tax and
Appropriations Limit Measure

RATE AND METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT
OF SPECIAL TAX

1 Basis of Special Tax Lew

The annual special tax shall be levied on each recorded parcel within the
Community Facilities District as shown on the Butte County Assessor's
records, within the maximum rate specified below

Parcels owned by a public agency and used tor a public purpose will not be
subject to the special tax. However, parcels that are acquired by a public
agency after the special tax is authorized to be levied will be taxed In
addition, parcels owned, by a public agency that are leased to a non-exempt
person or entity will be taxed as permitted by the Mello-Roos Community
Facilities District Act.

2. Determination ol Parcels Subject to Special Tax

The records ot the county assessor ot Butte County shall be used to
determine the parcels subject to the special tax The basis for determining the
parcels will be the Secured Property Tax Roll. The land use code and acreage
data contained in the Secured Property Tax Roll will be the basis for assigning
the number of taxable units a parcel receives.

Using the records of the county assessor, the District shall prepare a list of
the parcels subject to the tax The District shall establish the taxable parcels
using the following procedure:

1)	Exclude all parcels which are owned by federal, state, local govern-
ments and public agencies: or represent publicly-owned and non-
profit hospitals, cemeteries, or land on which buildings used ex-
clusively for religious worship are situated, provided that leasehold/
possessory interests shall be taxed

2)	Exclude all parcels zoned for agriculture with no residential improve-
ments based on county assessors land use codes.

3)	From the parcels remaining identify the following groups of parcels
based on assessor's land use codes:

Single family residential, including mobile homes.

Multi-family units including duplexes, triplexes and fourplexes
Agricultural residential parcels
Commercial/industrial parcels,

The District shall make every effort to identify the parcels subject to the
tax. Ultimately, however, it shall be the burden of the taxpayer to correct any
errors in the determination of the parcels subject to the tax

3	Maximum Annual Tax

The maximum annual tax shall not exceed S48 per taxable unit.

4	Annual Tax Rate

The tax rate shall be established annually by the Board of Trustees of the
Oroville Elementary School District generally as follows:

t) Calculate the total annual special tax levy required based on the total
deb! service required in the following bond year, the expense for
authorized services, and the cost of administering the District. If the
payment of debt service is delinquent and available reserves have
been used to remedy the delinquency, the annual special tax levy
shall include the amount necessary to replenish the bond reserve
fund or any other reserve funds

2)	The annual levy may be reduced by revenues received by the District
from fees, donations, grants, or other similar sources If any such
revenues are available from the year just completed, these revenues
may be subtracted from the total annual special tax levy calculated in
Step 1 to determine the net annual special tax levy required

3)	The number of taxable units shall be calculated by assigning the
number of taxable units to each taxable parcel based on the formula
shown in Figure A-1 and adding the taxable units For developed
commercial/industrial parcels, the District must calculate the
acreage of each parcel based on the county assessor's parcel map or
recorded deed.

4)	The net annual special tax levy required for the year (Step 2) shall be
divided by the number of taxable units (Step 3) to determine the
annual tax rate per taxable unit subject to the maximum authorized
tax rate as shown in Figure A-2.

5)	Calculate the annual tax for each parcel by multiplying the tax per
taxable unit times the number of taxable units assigned to each
parcel

6)	Notify the county assessor of the annual special tax for each parcel

The District shall make every effort to correctly assign the number of

taxable units and calculate the annual tax for each parcel. It shall be the
burden of the taxpayer to correct any errors in the determination of the
parcels subject to the tax and their parcel tax assignments.____________

Figure A-1
Summary of Proposed Taxable Units

Type of Property	Taxable Units	Methodology
Single family Residential	1 Taxable Unit per	The basic taxable unit is the single
Unit Mobile Home Unit	Dwelling Unit	family residential unit A single family dwelling is assigned one taxable unit. Mobile homes produce students at approximately the same rate as single family units and are assigned the same tax rate.  Vacant single family residential parcels will be taxed based on the number of approved units recorded on the final mac It no final map is recorded. I unit will be assigned.
Multi-Family Unit	0 6 Taxable Units per	Multi-family units produce approximately
	Dwelling Unit	60% ol the students per unit as single family units in the Oroville Elementary School District and are assigned 0.6 taxable units per dwelling unit  Vacant multi-family residential parcels win be taxed based on the number ol approved units recorded on the final map If no final map is recorded. 2 units will be assigned.
Commercial/industrial	6 Taxable Units	Employees of commercial/industrial busi-
Parcels	Per Acre	nesses who live within the District require school facilities for their children
	Density Factor	These employees produce students at a rate equivalent to 6 single lamity
	0- 2 Acres • 100% 2- 5 acres - 75%	units per acre
	5-10 acres - 50%	Larger parcels generally are less densely
	10-20 acres - 25%	developed Therefore, a density allowance
	over 20 acres- 10%	is set that permits a reduction in the number of taxable units For example, a 4 acre parcel would be taxed at 2 acres at 6 units per acre + 2 acres at (.75)' 6 units per acre  12 + 2*6 *(75%) = 21 Taxable Units Only the first acre ot a vacant commercial, industrial parcel will be taxed until the parcel is subdivided or a building permit Is issued
Agricultural	1 Taxable Unit per	Agncuitural residential units produce
Residential	Dwelling Unit	students at approximately the same rate as a single family unit in the Oroville Elementary School District and are assigned 1 taxable per dwelling unit
Agncuitural Parcels with no dwelling  units	Exempt	
Publicly Owned	Exempt	However if the property is used tor
or Owned by		non-exempt purposes, then the portion ol
Charitable Groups		the parcel used for non-exempt purposes would be taxed at tne rate assigned for that purpose

Source: Economic and Planning Systems

na-ai

/g

Figure A-2
Maximum Annual Tax by Land Use

Land Use	Maximum Annual Tax
Single Detached Unit Mobile Home	S 48.00 per residence
Multi-Family Parcel	S 28.80 per residence
Commercial Industrial Parcel	S 48 00 per taxable unit
Agricultural Residential Parcel	S 48.00 per residence
Non-Exempt Public and "Charitable Group Land"	$ 48.00 per taxable unit

Notes: Commercial/lndustrial properties are taxed at 6 taxable units per acre,
with a factor decreasing the rate for larger parcels.

Senior citizens or landowners renting to senior citizens are eligible for
a 70% exemption of the annual special tax.

FACILITIES TO BE FINANCED
BY THE COMMUNITY
FACILITIES DISTRICT

The establishment of the Oroville Elementary School District Community
Facilities District No 1 (the ‘Community Facilities District' ) is being pro-
posed to finance the existing and future facility and equipment needs of the
Oroville Elementary School District (the "District”).

The primary document for establishing the specific projects to be financed
by the Community Facilities District is the Oroville Elementary School District
Facilities Master Plan (the "Facilities Master Plan”), adopted by the Board of
Trustees of the District on December 2, 1987 The District has projected and
identified the specific projects needed based upon currently available data
The Board of Trustees of the District may amend the Facilities Master Plan to
increase or decrease the number of classrooms at a particular school or to
change the location of a particular classroom, depending upon the actual
needs of the District The projects proposed to be financed by the Community
Facilities District include, but are not limited to. the following:

Additions to existing schools: such as multipurpose rooms, classrooms,
restrooms and storage facilities: deferred maintenance and hazardous sub-
stance removal.

The bonds proposed to be authorized for issuance by the Community
Facilities District will be sufficient to finance the projects, however, the
District will apply to the State of California for funds from the State School
Building Program The District plans to apply for such funds, but is not
certain, that it will receive them The District intends to use any funds
received from the State School Building Program to finance a portion of the
proposed projects, however, the District is seeking authorization to issue
bonds in an amount sufficient to finance the proposed projects in their
entirety with the special tax to be levied by the Community Facilities District.

04-4?

OROVILLE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

PROPOSED BOUNDARIES

OROVILLE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 1,
OROVILLE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT, BUTTE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

<2>06i 'ri v	«■«

flpgn <;?. 19flg

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE A

This proposition is being submitted to the voters in the Oroville Elementary
School District Community Facilities District No 1 ('‘District") pursuant to
existing law The District was previously established.

The proposition questions pertain to bonds, an appropriations limit and a
special tax levy but are combined and are to be voted on as one proposition

It 2/3 or more of the votes cast on the proposition are "Yes", it will be
approved, and the District will be authorized to incur a bonded indebtedness
in the principal amount of up to 57,500,000, a District appropriations limit of
St .000,000 per fiscal year will be established, and a special tax will be levied

If the proposition is not approved, no further action shall be taken with
respect to the levying of such special tax for one year from the date of the
election.

The money from the sale of the bonds could be used only to finance the
acquisition, construction, rehabilitation and installation of elementary school
facilities, together with necessary appurtenances and incidental expenses
relating thereto. These facilities may include all or a portion of the facilities as
defined in Resolution No. 87-88-4 adopted by the Board of Trustees of the
Oroville Elementary School District ("Board") on December 2, 1987 and set
forth in the Financial Plan for the District filed with the Board on January 6.
1988.

The interest to be paid on the bonds shall not exceed the maximum annual
rate permitted by law at the time the bonds are sold. At present, the
maximum allowable interest is 12% per year. The actual interest will be
determined by the terms of the sale of the bonds and could be less than the
maximum allowable. The principal would be required to be repaid over a
period of time not exceeding 40 years from the date of the bonds.

If the proposition is approved, real property taxes will be levied annually so
long as needed to pay the interest on the bonds as it becomes due and to
provide a fund for the payment of principal

The whole territory within the District will be subject to the tax. However,
certain parcels owned by the public or charitable groups may be exempt The
maximum annual tax per single family residential parcel will be 548. and the
maximum tax applicable to other types of parcels will vary depending upon
land use, as specified in Resolution 87-88-7, adopted by the Board on
January 6, 1988.

Proposition 13. approved in 1978. amended the California Constitution by
adding Article 13A limiting ad valorem taxes on real property to 1% of the full
cash value of the property. Article 13A was amended in 1986 by adding an
exception providing that the 1% limitation does not apply to taxes used to pay
interest and redemption charges on certain bonds. Taxes levied to pay the
interest and principal of these District bonds would be within this exception
and not subject to the 1% limitation.

This ballot proposition would not change the existing law.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

The Oroville Elementary School District has experienced pupil enrollment
growth of 300 students during the past three years Enrollment growth is
expected to continue for the next five to ten years, and 600 new pupils are
expected to be enrolled in the District by 1996
Because all classrooms are used at full capacity, the Board of Trustees has
explored all funding alternatives to construct additional classrooms to relieve
existing overcrowding and to plan for anticipated growth Lottery funds
cannot legally be used for new school construction After considering several
options, including developer fees and general obligation bonds, the Board
has determined that the best, most equitable, means to finance the critically-
needed facilities is to create a community facilities district, to levy a special
tax and to issue bonds.

It is proposed that all owners of residential, commercial, and industrial
property within the Oroville Elementary School District pay a special tax each
year which cannot be increased above the maximum authorized amount
without another election. The maximum special tax for residential property
owners will be less than 54 00 per month per residential unit. With a 70%
reduction in special taxes for persons over the age of 64. the parcel assess-
ment for senior citizens is less than Si 20 per month. This tax cannot be
Increased during the term of the bond.

The special tax and bond proceeds will be used to construct the following
facilities:

Ophir School Classroom Building
Wyandotte Avenue School Classroom Building
Stanford Avenue School Restroom Building
Oakdale Heights School Restroom Building
Bird Street School Kindergarten Classroom
Ophir School Multipurpose Room Expansion
The Oroville community has always maintained execellence in the class-
room and sought exemplary educational programs A "yes" vote on Measure
A will help insure that the Oroville Schools remain an excellent place for
educating our youth



I yoi

lailot

lack

nose

heS

ihysi

ind v

vhicl

icce

ihaN

ind i

vhicl

>lacc

icco

;elve

ind

is a

ilaci

si Ann C Shannon, President,

Board of Trustees
Oroville Elementary School District
s/ Michael C Glaze, Chairman
Measure "A" Steering Committee
si Dennis Robinson
Robinson Construction
si Hack Mclnturf, President,

Butte County Board of Supervisors
si Dr Donald Remley, Superintendent,
Oroville Elementary School District

si Susan Roff
Butte County Counsel

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

,0

04-44