<resolution> 
A RESOLUTION OP THE BOARD OP SUPERVISORS OP THE COUNTY OP BUTTE
CALLING FOR A SPECIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD AND CONSOLIDATED WITH THE
STATEWIDE GENERAL ELECTION ON A PROPOSAL TO IMPOSE
TRANSACTION AND USE TAX OP ONE-HALF OP ONE PERCENT
WITHIN THE COUNTY OP BUTTE

WHEREAS, Chapter 1257 of the Statutes of 1987 authorizes the
voters of Butte County to impose a transaction and use tax at a
rate of one-half of one percent pursuant to Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and

WHEREAS, the County of Butte currently lacks the funding to
provide public services expected and needed by the citizens of this
County, including but not limited to library services, and

WHEREAS, Chapter 1257 of the Statutes of 1987 offers the
citizens of this County the opportunity to raise sufficient revenue
to pay for some of these services.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Supervisors
of the County of Butte hereby declares the County of Butte to be
a district within the meaning of Revenue and Taxation Code Section
7252.9, as added to the Revenue and Taxation Code by Chapter 1257
of the Statutes of 1987.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a special election is hereby
called to submit to the qualified voters of the said district the
question of whether a transaction and use tax shall be imposed, at

the rate of one-half of one percent of the sales price, on the
privilege of selling tangible personal property within the district
at retail or on the sales price of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer for storage, use or other consumption
within the district, said tax to be effective April 1, 1989 and to
conform to Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2
and Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 7285) of Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, as effective January
1, 1988 and thereafter amended.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the text of the measure to be
submitted to the voters at that election shall read:

Shall a transaction and use tax be imposed at the rate
of one-half of one percent of the sales price of tangible
personal property sold within Butte County or purchased
for storage, use or other consumption within Butte
County, effective April 1, 1989?

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the special election hereby called
shall be held on November 8, 1988, and is hereby consolidated with
the Statewide General Election to be held throughout the County on
November 8, 1988, all as required by and pursuant to law; and the
election precincts, polling places and voting booths shall in every
case be the same and there shall be only one set of election
officers in each of said precincts.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Clerk of this Board is
authorized and directed to publish this resolution once in a
newspaper of general circulation within the County of Butte.

PASSED/ APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors,
County of Butte, State of California, this 2nd day of Aug.t 1988 by

the following vote:

AYES:	Supervisors Dolan, Fulton,	McLaughlin and Vercruse

NOES:	Supervisor Mclnturf

ABSENT:	None

ISKEL McINT

the Butte County of
Supervisors <resolutionend>










<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
BUTTE COUNTY
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX, MEASURE A

A ‘'YES" VOTE on Measure A by a majority of the qualified voters of Butte County voting on the measure would approve imposing a transactions and use

The tax would be imposed and implemented by an ordinance adopted by the Butte County Board of Supervisors.

The tax would apply to retail sales in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the County; it would be applied to the sales price of personal property
sold within Butte County or purchased outside Butte County for storage, use or other consumption within Butte County. The rate of the tax would be one-half
of one percent of the sales price of taxable property. The tax would apply to goods now subject to the state sales and use tax. Goods exempt from the state tax would also be exempt from the local tax.	

The state would collect the tax on behalf of the county in the same manner as sales and use taxes are now collected by the state. The state would deduct
the cost of administering the tax from the money collected. The remainder of the money would be returned to Butte County and would be available for general revenue purposes to meet county operating expenses, including, but not limited to, library and criminal justice services.	

The tax would be effective commencing April 1, 1989. The measure does not contain a time limit, and the tax would continue in effect unless and until action was taken to repeal it. 

A “NO” VOTE by a majority vote of the qualified voters of Butte County voting on the measure would disapprove imposing the transactions and use tax
described above. <impartialend>










<impartialsigs> SUSAN ROFF
Butte County Counsel
by/ Neil H. McCabe

Chief Deputy County Counsel <impartialsigsend>










<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Butte County has very serious, ongoing, and well known financial problems.
State government, which created the problem, has refused to solve it. We must
take matters into our own hands. We are the only people who can secure
our vital services.

Passage of this measure would provide the county with a major new source
of money that will be used for libraries and to convict and lock up criminals.

While state law prohibits us from dedicating the increase revenues to libraries
or any other singular service, the Board is pledged to utilizing this new finan-
cing for libraries and criminal justice services. We have demonstrated our
commitment to your high priority services many times in past budget years,
in the face of ongoing serious budget shortages. We will continue to do so.

This measure will not have a negative economic impact on our business
community. People will not avoid the increased sales tax on vehicles or boats
by buying these items in other counties. Also, people from other counties
coming into Butte to buy these vehicles will pay the sales tax applicable to
their home county.

Finally, this measure will not affect the sales taxes that now go to the
cities.

Your vital services are in serious jeopardy. The state has not fixed the
problem. We must do it ourselves. Vote YES ON COUNTY MEASURE A. <favorend>








<favorsigs> /s/ Jane Dolan, Supervisor, Chico
/s/ Len Fulton, Supervisor, Paradise <favorsigsend>












<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

While Supervisors of County government pledge to utilize the new tax for
libraries and criminal justice system, there is no guarantee that this board or
any other future boards will honor this "pledge". Furthermore there is no mention
of using any of the new tax for fire protection.

Proponents of Measure A argue that an increase in sales tax is the only
solutions to our financial problems. There are alternatives, but they have
chosen the path calling for the least restrictions on how to spend the money
and the lowest level of voter approval (simple majority).

Proponents admit that state law prohibits them from “dedicating” a sales
tax for any purpose. Such dedication would have required a 2/3 vote. This
should make it very clear to taxpayers that a “pledge" to use these funds
is unenforceable.

Other alternatives include an initiative sponsored by State Senator Jim
Nielsen and anti-tax crusader Paul Gann that would give an additional portion
of the existing state sales tax to counties and earmarking part of that money
for law enforcement and fire protection services which would then free up
monies for libraries.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE A AND TELL THE COUNTY TO FIND ANOTHER WAY. <rebutfavorend>









<rebutfavorsigs> s/ Ellen Coito. Chico
s/ Gordon Massae, Paradise
s/ Michael Schrader, Oroville <rebutfavorsigsend>










<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

The 1/2 cent sales tax is an additional tax to increase money in the general
fund. Even though a one half cent does not sound like much, it will take over
five million dollars a year out of the local economy and give it to County
government. Money that could be used by local merchants to provide much
needed jobs. The tax will place business people in a less than competitive
position with similar businesses in adjoining counties, which would drive
customers and money out of the County. The biggest problem with measure
A is that there is no guarantee that present and/or future County governments
would use this extra money for libraries, fire, and law enforcement. The
proposed tax is a general fund tax which can be used for any purpose. Even
for expenditures which the majority of taxpayers do not approve.

Sales Tax is not considered a “progressive tax" and is unfair to low and
moderate income people, especially senior citizens on fixed incomes.

This same proposal was recently rejected by the voters of Redding and
Sacramento. If we allow this sales tax increase now, when does it stop? Eight
percent? Ten percent? The state will continue forcing mandates on the counties
while the counties continue to increase sales taxes or threaten our vital
services. We must send a strong message to the county and the state,"Raising
taxes is not the answer!" VOTE NO ON MEASURE A. Committee Against Increased Sales Tax. <againstend>










<againstsigs> s/ Ellen Coito, Chico
s/ Gordon Massae, Paradise
s/ Michael Schrader, Oroville <againstsigsend>









<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

The opponents of the sales tax proposal agree that the State is the cause
of the County's financial problems and seem to agree that the State has not,
and probably will not, solve the problem. Therefore, the central issue is:

a.	Do we continue to suffer the loss of our vital local services to the
increasing costs of state mandated programs, or

b.	Do we act to protect our local services by taxing ourselves?

We feel that we must take care of ourselves. V\fe must also continue the
fight against state mandated programs, in court, if necessary.

The Board of Supervisors would dedicate the sales tax to libraries and other
local services if we could. We asked the legislature for this ability and, simply,
we were turned down.

The democratic system is alive and well in Butte County. The elected Board
of Supervisors knows that you will want us to use the new sales tax for
local services. We know you will hold us accountable for how we spend the
new money.

Vote yes and improve services and intensify the fight against state
mandates. Vote no and we will do our best to save what we can and fight
on against the state. <rebutagainstend>






<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Len Fulton, Paradise
s/ Jane Dolan, Chico <rebutagainstsigsend> 