GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 8, 1988

CHARLES WEISSBURD
REGISTRAR-RECORDER
5557 FERGUSON DRIVE
COMMERCE, CA 90022-5192
(213) 721-1100

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE
IS SHOWN ON THE BACK COVER

106

£

I

|

f

PLEASE DO NOT THROW THIS SAMPLE BALLOT AWAY
MARK AND TAKE IT TO YOUR POLLING PLACE

STATE MEASURES

DISCLOSURES TO CONSUMERS, VOTERS, INVESTORS. lUf) INITIATIVE. Requires disclosure concerning toxic products, i v v "Medigap’ insurance, initiatives, nursing homes, and South Africa connections. Fiscal Impact: The net annual state costs could be up to $550,000. Unknown revenue from fines.	158 yes-40
	159 no-pO
jaa ATTORNEY FEES LIMIT FOR TORT CLAIMS. INITIATIVE.  1 llo Limits amount °f contingency fees which an attorney may collect in 1 tort cases. Fiscal Impact: Net fiscal effect on state and local governments is unknown.	161 YES-PO
	162 no-pO
COUNTY MEASURE	
■ LOS ANGELES COUNTY BONO PROPOSITION J. BOND FOR J ADULT AND JUVENILE DETENTION FACILITIES. Shall Los Angeles v County issue bonds for One Hundred Ninety Seven Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($197,500,000) to pay for construction and related costs of jail and detention facilities?	166 yes-40
	167 no-pO
AZUSA CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION	
B PROPOSITION B. Shall Ordinance No. 2373 which provides for K establishing a tax on off-site, multi-user hazardous waste facilities in an " amount set by resolution of the City Council of up to ten percent (10%) of gross receipts be approved?	172 yes-pO
	173 no-pO
PROPOSITION C. Shall Ordinance No. 2374 which (1) increases the tax I. on Sanitary land Fills and Disposal Facilities from two percent (2%) to ten v percent (10%) and (2) increases the minimum tax from $35,000 to $100,000 per year be approved?	175 yes-pO
	176 no-pO
n PROPOSITION D. Shall Ordinance No. 2375 which provides for an U increase in the transient occupancy tax ('hotel tax') from seven ** and-one-half percent (7.5%) to ten percent (10%), be approved? ,	177 yes-pO
	178 no-pO
p PROPOSITION E. Shall Ordinance No. 2376, which provides (1) an H additional flat fee for certain business licenses, (2) a yearly increase in “ business licenses and certain taxes based upon the percentage increase of the consumer price index and business growth, and (3) provides for the deposit of taxes in the city's general fund, be approved?	179 yes-pO
	180 no-pO

07-004E

LA.106-09

AZUSA CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

PAGE

8

■■ PROPOSITION F. Shall Ordinance No. 2377 which (1) increases the f* admissions tax on swap meet vendors to $2.50, (2) establishes a 20® tax 1 on admissions to swap meets, and (3) establishes a tax of 10% of the admissions price on admissions to certain events and parking, be approved?	184 YES *40
	185 N0«4O
a PROPOSITION G. Shall Ordinance No. 2378, which provides for a yearly fjj increase of taxes for mining, excavation, and wood processing, in the ^ percentage of the consumer price index, be approved?	187 YES *40
	188 MO-40
II PROPOSITION H. ADVISORY VOTE ONLY. Shall safe and sane H fireworks be permitted within the City of Azusa for the Fourth of July 1 1 holiday?	189 YES "40
	190 N0-4O
yr PROPOSITION K. Shall Ordinance No. 2379 which increases the business K license tax of motion picture theaters to $11.65 per year per seat or space, 1 % be approved?	191 YES "40
	192 N0-4O
END OF BALLOT	

08-D08E

LA 106-10

i, would enact Ordinance No. 2374 which would (1)
increase the tax on sanitary landfillsto ten percent (10%), and (2) increase die
minimum tax to $100,000.00 per year.

Section 5.12.120 of the Azusa Municipal Code imposes upon all sanitary land'
fill and disposal facilities and sites a quarterly business license tax in an amount
equal to two percent (2%) of gross receipts received from disposal of waste mat-
ter on the site, provided that the total amount of the tax shall not be less than
Thirty-Five Thousand Dollars ($35,000.00) per calendar year.

Ordinance No. 2374, if enacted, would amend Section 5.12.120 and increase
the tax to ten percent (10%) of gross receipts and increase the minimum tax
to One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) per calendar year.

The ordinance would also allow the City Council to amend it without a vote
of the people but only to the extent necessary to implement the procedures
for the collection of the tax and to the extent permitted by Government Code
Section 53720, et seq.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 2374. If you
desire a copy of the Ordinance, please call the City Clerk’s Office at (818)
334-5125 and a copy of the Ordinance-will be mailed at no cost to you.

PETER M. THORSON
City Attorney

PR-004

LA 106-21

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OK PROPOSITION C

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF INCREASING THE SANITARY LANDFILL
TAX FROM TWO PERCENT TO TEN PERCENT

The vast majority of refuse disposed of in the Azusa sanitary landfill is from
neighboring cities that do not provide a landfill. A large loss in property valua-
tion is suffered by the City in neighborhoods surrounding the landfill due to
the inherent odors associated with the landfill. Due to its condition, the landfill
property will never produce in property tax revenue what it would produce
if the land were developed.

The landfill is expected to continue operation until it reaches its capacity in
the year 2007. Projections show that the City will be losing money on this due
to the added expense of maintenance involved with a sanitary landfill. This
deficit would have to be borne by Azusa residents.

The additional revenue generated by this tax increase will be used to offset
present and projected costs in maintaining streets in the surrounding area and
assist in providing other vital services to the City’s residents, such as police
protection, library services, senior programs, recreation programs, mainte-
nance of sewers, street lighting, etc.

An increase in the landfill tax from 2% to 10% of gross receipts will bring the
City into line with the only other landfill in the north San Gabriel Valley, which
is currently charging 10%.

The residential refuse collection rates within the City of Azusa can be main-
tained near current levels by adjustments to the franchise fee paid by Western
Disposal, thus this measure has no financial impact on the citizens of Azusa.

EUGENE F. MOSES, Mayor

ANTHONY NARANJO, Mayor Pro-Tem

BRUCE LATTA, Councilmember

JENNIE AVILA, Councilmember

HARRY STEMRICH, Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION C WAS SUBMITTED.

PR-004.002

LA 106-22

Proposition D. if-approved. wouldenaotOrdinance No. -2375 whiehwoutd
increase the transient occupancy tax to ten percent (10%).

Section 3.32.030 of the Azusa Municipal Code currently imposes a transient
occupancy tax in the amount of seven and one-half percent (7 1/2%) of the
rent charged by the operator of a hotel or motel. Ordinance No. 2375, if
enacted, would amend this section and provide that the tax would be ten per-
cent (10%) of the rent charged by the operator.

The ordinance would also amend the definition of “Tax Administrator” from
City Clerk to Director of Finance.

The ordinance would also allow the City Council to amend it without a vote
of the people, but only to the extent necessary to implement the procedures
for collection of the tax and to the extent permitted pursuant to Government
Code Sections 53720, et seq.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 2375. If you
desire a copy of the Ordinance, please call the City Clerk’s Office at (818)
334-5125 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

PETER M. THORSON
City Attorney

PfWWS

ARGUMENTINFAVOR OF AN INCREASE IN THE TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX FROM SEVEN AND ONE-HALF PERCENT TO TEN
PERCENT

This ballot measure does not apply to residents of the City of Azusa and is
confined solely to persons staying within the City on a temporary basis. Azusa
residents are having to “pick up the tab” for hotel customers who are .in and
out of the City in a matter of days.

The Transient Lodging Tax is authorized by Sections 7280 and 7281 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code. It is imposed for the privilege of occu-
pying a room or rooms in a hotel, inn, motel, tourist home or other lodging
facility, unless such occupancy is for more than thirty days or unless the tenant
is an employee of the owner.

The City’s current T.O. tax rate is seven and one-half percent (7.5%) while
many other cities charge ten percent (10%). To increase the Azusa T.O. tax
to ten percent (10%), an increase of two and one-half percent (2.5%), shifts
the responsibility for paying the costs of City services onto the hotel patrons
who actually receive and benefit from these services.

In recent years, the phase-out of Federal Revenue Sharing has caused a drop
of over $200,000 every year in lost revenues to the General Fund. This has
also served to stress the importance of other City revenues, such as the hotel
“bed tax” or “Transient Occupancy Tax (T.O.) Tax.” Increasing the T.O. Tax
would be good for Azusa.

ANTHONY NARANJO, Mayor Pro-Tern

BRUCE LATTA, Councilmember

JENNIE AVILA, Councilmember

HARRY STEMRICH, Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION D WAS SUBMITTED.

PR-005.002

LA 106-24

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION E

Proposition E, if approved, would enact Ordinance No. 2376 which provides
(1) an additional flat fee for certain business licenses, (2) a yearly increase in
business licenses and certain taxes based upon the percentage increase of the
Consumer Price Index and real growth and (3) for the deposit of taxes in the
City’s General Fund.

Currently, businesses are required to obtain a business license and to pay busi-
ness license taxes before conducting business within the City. This ordinance
if enacted, would also require such persons to pay an additional surcharge, or
flat fee, to the City in the amount of Forty Dollars ($40.00) which will be added
to the total of each and every business license effective on January 1, 1989.

This ordinance would also provide for an annual increase in the rates of busi-
ness licenses beginning January 1, 1989. The percentage of the increase shall
be the percentage increase in the California Consumer Price Index for the year
ended on the prior June 30 less the “real growth” in business license revenues.
“Real growth” in business license revenues would be the year-to-year percent
change in business license revenues, taking into consideration the minimum
annual increase in business licenses taxes, as per the financial statements of
the City at the prior June 30th.

The ordinance further provides that the revenues collected from the taxes
imposed and levied by Title 3, as well as Title 5, of the Azusa Municipal Code
shall be deposited into the General Fund of the City.

The ordinance would also allow the Council to amend the ordinance without
a vote of the people but only to the extent necessary to implement the proce-
dures for collection of the tax and to the extent permitted pursuant to Govern-
ment Code Sections 53720, et seq.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 2376. If you
desire a copy of the Ordinance, please call the City Clerk’s Office at (818)
334-5125 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

PETER M. THORSON
City Attorney

PR-006

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION E

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF AMENDING CHAPTEETOF THE AZUSA
MUNICIPAL CODE, BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS* BY
THE ADDITION THERETO OF SECTION 5.08.185 RELATING TO THE
ADDITION OF A FLAT FEE ON BUSINESS LICENSE TAXES

This ballot measure will in no way affect the residents of the City of Azusa.
This measure will only affect persons doing business within the City of Azusa,
many of which are physically located outside the City.

In recent years, the loss of Federal Revenue Sharing has caused the decrease
in revenues to the City in an amount of nearly $200,000 annually. This, in con-
junction with the passage of Proposition 62, has created a very serious problem
for the small general law cities, such as Azusa, in maintaining the services
required and needed by its citizens.

Azusa is continuing to grow. The demand for City services and maintenance
will rise along with the increase in population. The projected costs for mainte-
nance of streets, sewers, street lighting. Police protection, library services,
senior programs and recreation programs will escalate proportionately to the
new residents moving to our City.

The proposed flat fee of forty dollars ($40.00) will be placed in the General
Fund of the City and used to offset present and projected costs for these vital

services.

If approved, this measure will go into effect January 1, 1989.

ANTHONY D. NARANJO, Mayor Pro-Tern
BRUCE LATTA, Councilmember
JENNIE B. AVILA, Councilmember
HARRY L. STEMRICH, Councilmember
NO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION E WAS SUBMITTED.

PR-006.002

LA 106-26

Proposition F, if approved, would enact Ordinance No, 2377 which (1)
increases the admissions tax on swap meet vendors to Two Dollars and Fifty
Cents ($2.50), (2) establishes a Twenty Cent ($.20) tax on admissions to swap
meets, and (3) establishes a tax of ten percent (10%) of the admissions price
on admissions to certain events and paid parking.

Currently, Section 3.40.010 of the Azusa Municipal Code imposes an admis-
sions tax of One Dollar ($1.00) upon each admission of a vendor at a swap
meet held or conducted within the City. Ordinance No. 2377, if enacted, would
increase the admissions tax of a vendor at a swap meet to Two Dollars and
Fifty Cents ($2.50) and would impose an admissions tax of Twenty Cents
($.20) on each paid admission to a swap meet.

Additionally, the ordinance would impose an admissions tax of ten percent
(10%) of the admissions price of any event for which a fee is charged for admis-
sion, including, but not limited to, participation activities, exhibition, fair,
meeting, performance, sports event, race, dance, demonstration or attraction.
The ordinance would also impose an admissions tax of ten percent (10%) of
the admissions price paid for the right or privilege of parking a motor vehicle
for which right or privilege a separate or additional admissions price is
imposed.

Currently, Section 3.40.030 exempts from the admissions tax bonafide
employees of management, municipal, law enforcement or fire officers on offi-
cial business, members of the press in the performance of their duties and other
persons whose admission to the place is required for the performance of some
duty to or work for, the event or the facility. This ordinance would expand
the persons exempt from the admissions tax to include persons attending an
event or parking for an event of a bonafide religious organization and persons
attending motion picture performances.

The ordinance would also allow the City Council to amend the ordinance with-
out a vote of the pieople, but only to the extent necessary to implement the
procedures for collection of the tax, exempt certain events from the application
of the tax, adjust the rate of the tax but not to exceed the amount set forth
in the ordinance, and as permitted by Government Code Sections 53720, et
seq.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 2377. If yon
desire a copy of the Ordinance, please call the City Clerk’s Office at (818)
334-5125 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

PETER M. THORSON
City Attorney

PR-007

LA 106-27

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF AMENDING THE AZUSA MUNICIPAL
CODE TITLE 3, CHAPTER 3.40, SECTIONS 3.40.010 THROUGH 3.40.080
|	-	ADMISSIONS	TAX

Following the tax-reduction propositions, cities throughout California worked
hard to maintain adequate levels of police, fire and paramedic protection and
other basic services. They economized, dropped programs, laid off workers and
delayed repairs on streets and other public structures. In recent years, the loss
of Federal Revenue Sharing has caused a decrease of nearly $200,000 in annual
revenues to the City. All this severely limited your City Council’s flexibility
in maintaining the City’s infrastructure of streets, highways, medians, etc.

Each year the swap meet costs the City tens of thousands of dollars in
law-enforcement and other safety and maintenance charges. This measure
would increase the admissions price of the swap meet by 20C and would charge
each vendor $2.50. In addition, this measure amends the Admissions Tax to
include all events where a fee is charged for admittance, including, but not lim-
ited to, exhibition, fair, meeting, performance, race, dance, demonstration or
attraction, or for the right or privilege of parking a motor vehicle for which
a separate or additional admissions price is paid, a rate of ten percent (10%)
of the admissions price. Motion-picture theatres and drive-ins are categori-
cally exempt from the proposed Admissions Tax.

Approval of this measure by the voters will generate needed revenue for the
City and its residents. Plus, in the event the Raiders do come to Irwindale,
this measure will enable collection of the Admissions Tax on any parking facili-
ties that may be built as a result of the move..

Your approval of this measure will help to ensure that the costs to the City
generated by swap meets and other gatherings are paid by those in attendance
and not by other residents of the City of Azusa.

EUGENE F. MOSES, Mayor

ANTHONY NARANJO, Mayor Pro-Tern

BRUCE LATTA, Councilmember

JENNIE AVILA, Councilmember

HARRY STEMRICH, Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION F WAS SUBMITTED.

PR-007.002

LA 106-28

Proposition G, if approved, would enact Ordinance No. 2378 which would
provide for an annual increase in business licenses for mining, excavation and
wood processing.

Currently, every business within the City of Azusa doing business for the pur-
pose of mining, excavation and wood processing is charged a business license
tax.

Ordinance No. 2378, if enacted, would provide for an annual increase of such
taxes in the percentage increase in the California Consumer Price Index for
the year ending on the prior October 1. The increase would begin January 1,
1989 and each January 1 thereafter.

The ordinance would also allow the City Council to amend the ordinance with-
out a vote of the people but only to the extent necessary to implement the pro-
cedures for collection of the tax and to the extent permitted by Government
Code Sections 53720, et seq.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 2378. If you
desire a copy of the Ordinance, please call the City Clerk’s Office at (818)
334-5125 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

PETER M. THORSON
City Attorney

i

PR-008

LA 106-29

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION G

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF AN ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT IN RATES
ACCORDING TO THE CONSUMER PRICE INDEX FOR EXCAVATION
AND WOOD PROCESSING TAXES

This ballot measure will only affect excavation and wood processing taxes. It
will not affect the residents of the City of Azusa.

Establishing an annual adjustment of rates based upon the cost of living would
prevent the costly election process each time an urgent need arises. Your City
is continuing to grow from a population of 20,497 in 1960 to a current popula-
tion of37,587. The City will eventually have a built-out population of approxi-
mately 54,000. With the increase in population, the needs of its citizens will
rise along with the cost of providing services.

The City’s excavation/wood processing tax is set at a flat rate of 8.84 per ton.
This does not provide for any increases due to inflation. Nevertheless, the
City’s costs for street maintenance and other important services continue to
rise annually. Due to the effects of Proposition 62, under the State Constitution
charter cities have the constitutional authority to impose new or higher general
taxes by a majority vote of the City Council. However, for general law cities
such as Azusa such measures need to.be approved by a majority of the voters.

Elections are costly, an average of $16,000 per election. You pay for them. An
annual adjustment of rates according to the Consumer Price Index, is a fair
and equitable way of avoiding the cost of an election, thus providing the badly
needed revenue to help the City to continue to provide the social, economic,
recreational and safety services you require as your City continues to grow.

In recent years, the loss of Federal Revenue Sharing has caused a decrease of
nearly $200,000 in annual revenues to the City. These losses make the impor-
tance of other revenues such as those listed above, much more important in
keeping the City’s budget balanced.

EUGENE F. MOSES, Mayor

ANTHONY NARANJO, Mayor Pro-Tem

BRUCE LATTA, Countilmember

JENNIE AVILA, Councilmember

HARRY STEMRICH, Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION G WAS SUBMITTED.

PR-008.002

LA 106-30

Proposition K, if approved, would enact Ordinance No. 2379 which would
increase the business license tax of motion picture theaters.

Currently, Section 5.28.040 of the Azusa Municipal Code imposes upon every
person engaged in the business of conducting, managing or operating a motion
picture theater an annual license tax of Twelve Cents ($.12) per seat.

Ordinance No. 2379, if enacted, would increase the tax to Eleven Dollars and
Sixty-Five Cents ($11.65) per seat or parking space available for spectators at
a motion picture theater or drive-in motion picture theater.

The ordinance would also allow the City Council to amend the ordinance with-
out a vote of the people but only to the extent necessary to implement the pro-
cedures for collection of the tax, exempt certain events from the application
of the tax, adjust the rate of the tax, but not to exceed the amount set forth
in the ordinance, and as otherwise permitted by Government Code Sections
53720, et seq.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 2379. If yon
desire a copy of the Ordinance, please call the City Clerk’s Office at (818)
334-5125 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

PETER M. THORSON
City Attorney



PR-010

LA 106-33

:	ARGUMENT	IN	FAVOR OF INCREASING THE BUSINESS LICENSE

s TAX ON MOTION PICTURE THEATRES

Not many prices are the same today as they were in I960, At that time, a pound
f of coffee cost 49 cents, a gallon of gas sold for 32 cents and a beautiful home
in Azusa could be yours for $18,000. It is common knowledge that prices of
} these items have more than quadrupled. The City’s costs for goods and com-
modities used to provide quality services to the people of Azusa have also gone
up tremendously. However, one of the City’s revenue sources has remained
the same since 1960 and that is the business license fee on theatres.

Business license revenues are used to help pay for many of the services pro-
vided by the City in support of local businesses. Public safety services, road
maintenance and City beautification efforts are just a few of the costly services
I provided by the City. The only other revenue generated by the business opera-
tion at theatres is the small amount the City receives for sales tax on the retail
sales at their concession stands.

j The current business license fee paid in Azusa by the theatres does not generate
j sufficient funds to cover even tihe City’s basic business-related services.

I	By increasing the business license fee to $11.65 per seat per year, the first

|	increase in over twenty-five years, the voters of Azusa can ensure that local

I	businesses assume their share of the cost of services benefiting businesses.

This'measure was developed after lengthy meetings between local theatre own-
ers and the City Council and staff, all of whom are working towards maintain-
ing important City services and improving the quality of life in Azusa.

We strongly urge your “yes” vote on adjusting the business license tax to a
more reasonable rate, which appropriately reflects the costs of providing busi-
ness-related services in the 1980’s.

EUGENE F. MOSES, Mayor

ANTHONY NARANJO, Mayor Pro-Tem

BRUCE LATTA, Councilmember

JENNIE AVILA, Councilmember

HARRY STEMRICH, Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION K WAS SUBMITTED.

PB-<p,002

LA 106-34