CITY OF FREMONT CODE AMENDMENT	
MEASURE P: Shall the amendment of Section 2-6302 of the Uniform wJ Transient Occupancy Tax (Article 3, Chapter 6, Title II of the Fremont Municipal Code) which increased the rate of tax from six and one-half percent (6.5%) to seven percent (7%) on hotel occupants in the City of Fremont be approved to remain in effect?	YES
	NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE P

SECTION 2-6302. Tax Imposed.

(a) For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in
the amount of seven percent (7%) of the rent charged by the operator. Said tax constitutes a debt owed
by the transient to the city which is extinguished only by payment to the operator of the hotel at the
time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid
with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the
hotel. If, for any reason, the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the director of finance
may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the director of finance.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

BACKGROUND

Section 53727 of the Government Code added by Initiative Measure approved November 4, 1986,
requires that all taxes imposed by local governments on or after August 1, 1985 shall be submitted to
the voters for approval prior to November 15, 1988. On August 27, 1985, the City Council of the City
of Fremont adopted Ordinance No. 1685 which amended Section 2-6302 of Article 3, Chapter 6, Title
II of the Fremont Municipal Code to provide for an increase in the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax
rate from six and one-half percent (6.5%) to seven percent (7%). Therefore, if the City of Fremont is
to continue to impose the one-half percent (.5%) tax increase, it is necessary to obtain voter approval.
The tax is imposed on persons (transients) occupying hotels (and motels and other temporary lodgings)
for 30 days or less. The tax is added to the regular room charge and is collected by the operator of the
hotel and then paid over to the City.

PROPOSAL

This measure would authorize the City of Fremont to continue to impose the Uniform Transient
Occupancy Tax at its current rate of seven percent (7%).

FISCAL EFFECT

This measure will have a fiscal effect whether it is approved or rejected by the voters.

A.	Fiscal Effect if Approved by the Voters: If this measure is approved by the majority of voters,
the City of Fremont will continue to impose a Uniform Transient Occupancy at a tax rate of
seven percent (7%).

B.	Fiscal Effect if Not Approved by the Voters: If this measure is not approved by the voters, the
Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax rate will be reduced from seven percent (7%) to its prior
rate of six and one-half percent (6.5%).

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure P. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or
measure, please call the elections official’s office at (415) 745-2720 and a copy will be mailed at no
cost to you.

s/Allen E. Sprague
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

The residents of Fremont have long recognized the importance of promoting business and tourism
in the City of Fremont. It was the desire of the residents to see the business climate in the City improve.
Therefore, the City Council decided to increase the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax to increase the
available revenue in the general fund for promotion of business in our City. On August 27, 1985, the
City Council adopted an ordinance to provide an increase in the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax
from 6.5% to 7%, effective in 1985. While this is not a special tax dedicated for promoting business
and tourism in the City of Fremont, it has made revenue available for that purpose.

Now, as a result of Proposition 62 passed by the voters in 1986, all taxes enacted after August 1,
1985 must be approved by the majority of voters if they are to continue to be imposed. This measure
has been placed on the ballot to allow the City to continue to impose the one-half (0.5) percent tax
increase in effect since 1985. A yes vote will NOT increase the tax. It will avoid the loss of $34,166
in valuable revenue based on the Transient Occupancy Tax collected in the 1987/1988 fiscal year. This
tax is not collected from Fremont residents, but from visitors from around the country and world. The
current tax is modest when compared to most other areas.

“Vote Yes’’ to enable the City of Fremont to continue to impose the Uniform Transient Occupancy
Tax at the current rate and to avoid the needless loss of revenue to the City.

s/Gus Morrison, Mayor
s/Gary J. Mello, Vice-Mayor
S/Bill Ball, Councilman

No argument submitted against Measure P.

s/John Baker, Councilman
s/John Dutra, Councilman