<full> TULARE COUNTY TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS FINANCING
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX MEASURE A
(Full Text of Ordinance No. 1)

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the COUNTY OF TULARE RETAIL TRANSAC-
TIONS AND USE TAX ORDINANCE. This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County of Tulare, which territory shall be referred to herein as “County”.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. Pursuant to Public Utilities Code Section 131105(a), “operative
date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 120 days after adoption
of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other, purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code which authorizes
the Tulare County Transportation Authority, hereinafter referred to as the “Authority”, to adopt this
tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose,

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions identical
to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a manner
which will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes
and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under
the provisions of this ordinance,

E.	To improve, construct, maintain, and operate certain transportation projects and facilities
contained in the COUNTY OF TULARE RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TRANSPORTATION
EXPENDITURE PLAN adopted by the Authority, the Board of Supervisors of Tulare County and a
majority of the Cities containing a majority of the population in the County which plan is incorporated
herein by this reference as though fully set forth herein, and as that Plan may be amended from time to time pursuant to applicable law.

F. To set a maximum term of twenty years during which time this tax shall be imposed pursuant

to the authority granted by Section 131102(c) of the Public Utilities Code.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the Authority shall contract with
the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation
of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the Authority shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and
in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
, execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at
retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of
the County at the rate of one percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. BONDING AUTHORITY. Upon voter approval of the measure, the Authority shall have the authorization to issue bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax to accelerate the construction of needed transportation facility improvements. The Authority, in allocating the annual revenues
from the measure, shall meet all debt service requirements prior to allocating funds for other projects.

Section 7. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated
at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold, is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 8. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative
date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one
percent of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 9. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this
ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1,6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001}
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.

Section 10. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES, in
adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
the Authority shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State
of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the Authority
or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization,
in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	in those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions
of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provisions
of that code;

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof}, 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “County" shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase "retailer engaged
in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 11. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

Section 12. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. For purposes of Article XIIIB of the State Constitution, the
appropriations limit for the Authority shall be $880,718,930.

Section 13. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount
of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or
county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside of the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use
of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the iaws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a point outside the
County, pursuant to the contract of sales, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or
by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes
of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the County shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9850) of the Vehicle Code, by registration
to an out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-County
and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from
that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for
a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any
period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in the County of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under
any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws
of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6365 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance,

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of
time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purpose of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract of lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the County
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or participates within the County in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly
or indirectly, at a place of business of the canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County
under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the County” shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9850) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the County.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions
tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions
tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 14. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance
to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of
this ordinance; provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate
of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 15. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other
legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State,
the Authority or the County, or against any officer of the State, the Authority or the County, to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 16. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 17. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the Authority’s
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

Section 18. REDUCTION OF TAX RATE POSSIBLE. Upon voter approval of the measure, the
Authority shall have the authorization to reduce this tax rate to one half of one percent (1/2%), or
to zero percent (0%), depending upon availability of funding from federal, state, or other sources.
If additional revenues equivalent to that collected at the rate of one half of one percent (1/2%) is
made available from federal, state, or other sources, the authority shall reduce this tax rate to one
half of one percent (1/2%). If additional revenues equivalent to that collected at the rate of one
percent (1%) is made available from federal, state, or other sources, the authority shall reduce this
tax rate to zero percent (0%). "This Section shall not be applicable if the federal, state or other
sources of funding require the continued collection of revenues under this ordinance in order to
receive such funding.”

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Tulare County Transportation Authority, State of California, on
July 18,1988, by the following vote:

AYES: Conway, Mangine, Pither, Reed, Millard, Pruitt, Holscher, McLain, Sullivan,
Zimmerman, Vanderslice
NOES: None
ABSENT: Gould, Linville, Blyleven
ABSTAIN: Miller, Cairns

s/ Dolores E. (Lorie) Mangine
Chairperson, Tulare County Transportation Authority

Attest:

5/ Douglas Wilson

Executive Secretary, Tulare County Transportation Authority <fullend>












<summary> TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN
MEASURE A

TITLE

This expenditure plan shall be known as the COUNTY OF TULARE RETAIL TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN.

SALES TAX REVENUE

This is a ballot measure before the voters of Tulare County. The Measure, if approved by a
majority of the voters, will increase the sales tax in Tulare County by one percent (1%) for
a period of twenty (20) years. The revenue generated will provide funding for transportation
improvements during the twenty (20) year period.

AUTHORITY

The Tulare County Association of Governments, Transportation Planning Agency (TCAGYTPA)
has been designated by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Tulare to administer the
local option sales tax should it be approved by the county’s electors. The Tulare County
Association of Governments, Transportation Planning Agency shall be referred to as the
“Authority" herein.

Upon voter approval of the measure, the authority shall adopt an administrative code by
ordinance which describes the operation and management of the authority.

PURPOSE

The purpose of this expenditure plan is to identify and program transportation improvements
utilizing revenues from the proposed sales tax increase.

A.	The revenues available for the construction and improvement of state highways, the
construction, maintenance, improvement, and operation of local streets, roads, and high-
ways, and the construction, improvement, and operation of public transit systems shall
be allocated and expended pursuant to the following distribution formula and priorities:

1.	Up to ten percent (10%) shall be allocated to State Highways.

2.	The remaining revenues after the State Highway distribution, shall be distributed to
each local agency on the following basis:

a.	Seventy-five percent (75%) based on total population using the most recent Department of Finance population estimates.

b.	Twenty-five percent (25%) based on maintained street and road mileage.

PROJECT PROGRAMMING AND MONITORING

The Authority shall annually approve a project list containing a program of projects to be
funded during the succeeding fiscal year with all revenues made available under Section IV(A)
herein. The Authority may amend the program of projects as necessary in accordance with
Section XI. No projects shall be funded with the revenues made available under Section IV(A)
unless the projects are in the approved program of projects.

The Authority shall annually authorize that an audit be conducted on all agencies receiving
local option sales tax revenues. An annual report will also be prepared by the Authority.

MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT
it is the intent of the Legislature and the Authority that revenues provided from this measure
be used to supplement existing local revenues being used for the purposes set forth in
Section IV herein. Each local agency receiving revenues pursuant to Section IV(A) shall
annually maintain as a minimum the same, level of local discretionary funds expended for
street and road purposes as was reported in the State Controller’s Annual Report of Financial
Transactions for Streets and Roads - Fiscal Year 1987-88 (Maintenance of Effort requirement).
If any local agency had extraordinary local discretionary fund expenditures during FY1987-88,
it may use, as a base for determining the minimum level of local discretionary funds, the
average amount of such funds reported to the State Controller for the three-year period FY

1985-86 through FY 1987-88. The use of a three-year average for the base period shall be
subject to Authority approval.

Local discretionary funds that are no longer made available for the Local Agency shall not
be included in the Maintenance of Effort funding level. The Authority shall not allocate any

revenues pursuant to Section IV(A) to any eligible agency in any fiscal year until that Local
Agency has certified to the Authority the extent to which the Maintenance of Effort requirement
shall be included in its budget. Any Local Agency which does not certify that it will meet its
entire Maintenance of Effort requirement in any given year shall have its funding under Section
IV(A) reduced that year by the amount by which the agency will not meet its level of
Maintenance of Effort requirement.

An annual independent audit shall be conducted to verify that the level of the Maintenance
of Effort certified by the agency was met. If any audit indicates that any Local Agency does
not meet its certified level of Maintenance of Effort in any given year it shall have its funding
under Section iV(A) reduced in the following year by the amount by which the agency did
not meet its certified level of Maintenance of Effort.

Any local street and road revenues not allocated pursuant to the Maintenance of Effort
requirement shall be redistributed to the remaining eligible agencies according to the formula
described in Section IV(A).

VII.	PRIVATE SECTOR FUNDING

Revenues provided from this measure shall not be used to replace private developer funding
which has been or will be committed for any project.

Vili.	BONDING AUTHORITY

Upon voter approval of the measure, the Authority may have the authorization to issue bonds
payable from the proceeds of the tax to accelerate the construction of needed transportation
facility improvements. The Authority, in allocating the annual revenues from the measure,
shall meet all debt service requirements prior to allocating funds for other projects.

IX.	ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

Revenues may be expended by the Authority for salaries, wages, benefits, overhead, auditing
and those services including contractual services necessary to administer the Ordinance;
however, in no case shall such expenditures exceed one percent of the annual revenues
provided by the measure. Costs of performing or contracting for project related work shall
be paid from the revenues allocated to the appropriate purpose as set forth in Section IV
herein. An annual independent audit shall be conducted to assure that the revenues expended
by the Authority under this section are necessary and reasonable in carrying out its respon-
sibilities under the Ordinance.

X.	ESTABLISHMENT OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS

Each agency receiving funds pursuant to Section IV shall provide for appropriate accounting
procedures to properly account for these funds for auditing purposes. Interest earned on
funds allocated pursuant to this Ordinance shall be expended only for those purposes for
which the funds were allocated.

XI.	AMENDMENTS

This Expenditure Plan may be amended annually by roll call vote entered in the minutes, with
two-thirds of the Authority concurring.

Xli.	PROJECTS

The following Program of Projects includes candidate projects for maintenance and new
facility construction on State Highways, and on local streets and roads. These projects will
be completed as estimated revenues become available. The actual delivery of these projects
is subject to the amount of revenues actually received by the Authority. After revenues are
distributed to each agency, the amounts programmed for either maintenance or now facility
construction, will vary according to the needs of each agency.


PROGRAM OF PROJECTS
STATE HIGHWAYS

Local Sales tax revenues of up to 10% will be used to encourage the California Transportation
Commission to fully fund County Minimums in Tulare County which may accelerate the completion
of the projects listed below.

ROUTE	FROM	TO	PROJECT DESCRIPTION
SH216	Santa FeAve. (Visalia)	McAuliffRoad	Widening to four lanes
SH 65	Linda Vista Ave.	Beginning of adopted	Four lane conversion
	in Porterville	alignment in Lindsay	
SH 99	SHI 98	Fresno Co. Line	Widening to six lanes
SHI 98	Kings Co. Line	SH 99	Widening to four lanes
SH 198	SH99	SH63	Completion of freeway
SH 137	SH 63	Adopted alignment ofSH 65	Widening to four lanes
SH 65	SH 137	SH 198	Conversion to adopted alignment
SH63	Vine St. (Visalia)	Riggin Ave.	Widening to four lanes
SH 65			North Grand Interchange
SH 65			Westfield Overcrossing
SH 65	Kern Co. Line	Porterville	Widening to four lanes
		CITY OF DINU8A	
STREET/AVENUE	FROM	TO	PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Alta Ave.	El Monte Way	S.P.R.R.	Widening
El Monte Way	Alta Ave.	Tulare St.	Widening
“L" Street	Fresno St.	Ventura St.	Reconstruction
"L” Street	Fresno St.	Alta Ave.	Reconstruction
Tulare St.	S.P.R.R.	“1" Street	Reconstruction
Tulare St.	Alta Ave.	S.P.R.R.	Reconstruction
Tulare St.	“1” Street	El Monte Way	Reconstruction
Magnolia Way	Crawford Ave.	College/Kern St.	Reconstruction
Crawford Ave.	El Monte Way	Nebraska Ave.	Widening & Resurfacing
Alta Ave.	S.P.R.R.	Kamm Ave.	Widening
Saginaw Ave.	Hayes Ave.	Crawford Ave.	Widening
Preferred Streets and Avenues			Maintenance
		CITY OF EXETER	
STREET/AVENUE	FROM	TO	PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Palm St./ Visalia Road	SH65	Belmont Road	Resurfacing
Industrial Dr.	Firebaugh Ave.	Glaze Ave.	Resurfacing
Preferred Streets and Avenues			Maintenance

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares

5

FROM

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

CITY OF FARMERSViLLE

STREET/AVENUE

TO

Petunia St.	Farmersviile Blvd. Ventura Ave.

Ave. 288	Farmersviile Blvd. City Limits

N. Ventura Ave.	Petunia St.	Ave. 288

Farmersviile Blvd. @ Visalia Road

Preferred Streets and Avenues

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares

CITY OF LINDSAY

STREET/AVENUE FROM	TO

HermosaSt. @ S.P.R.R.

Honolulu St @ S.P.R.R.

LindmoreSt. @ S.P.R.R.

SH65 (tv HermosaSt.

HermosaSt. @ Westwood Ave.

HermosaSt (<T Mt. Vernon Ave.

HermosaSt, @ Elmwood Ave.

HermosaSt. @ Mirage Ave.

Various Arterial Streets

Various Intersections

Preferred Streets and Avenues

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares

CITY Of PORTERVILLE
STREET/AVENUE FROM	TO

Morton Ave. @ Porter Road
Newcomb St. @ Henderson Ave.

Morton Ave. @ DSt./SunnysideAve.

Newcomb St. @ MoilonAve.

Olive Ave. @ Westwood St.

Henderson Ave. @ SH 65 off-ramps

Main Street @ Tule River

JayeSt. @ Tule River

Plano St. <S> Tule River

Plano St.	SHI 90	Date St.

Newcomb St. @ Tule River

Indiana Ave.	Morton Ave.	Olive Ave.

Olive Ave.	“H” St.	Newcomb St.

Henderson Ave.	Main St.	Indiana Ave.

Preferred Streets and Avenues

Reconstruction
Wideningto fourlanes
Reconstruction
Signal Improvement
Maintenance

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Construction of Automatic
Cross Arms

Construction of Automatic
Cross Arms

Construction of Automatic

Cross Arms

Signaiization

Signalization

Signaiization

Signaiization

Signaiization

Widening

Site Distance Improvements
Maintenance

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Traffic Signal Installation
TrafficSignal Installation
TrafficSignal Installation
TrafficSignal Installation
TrafficSignal Installation
TrafficSignal Installation
Bridge Replacement
Bridge Widening
Bridge Widening
Widening to fourlanes
Bridge Construction
Road and Bridge Construction
Maintenance
Maintenance
Maintenance

CITY OF TULARE

STREET/AVENUE FROM	TO

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Cross Ave. @SH 99

BardsleyAve.	“K"Street	WestSt.

Blackstone St.	“K” Street	Paige Ave.

Tulare Ave.	“0” Street	Blackstone St.

Tulare Ave. @ “0” Street
“0” Street	TulareAve.	CrossAve.

WestSt.	Inyo Ave.	Prosperity

S.P.R.R. Grade Separation on west side of City
(Location currently undetermined)

Preferred Streets and Avenues

Reduction of Senior citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares

Bridge Construction
Reconstruction
Construction
Widening

Signalization Improvement

Widening

Widening

Bridge Construction

Miscellaneous Reconstruction
and Maintenance

CITY OF VISALIA

STREET/AVENUE FROM	TO

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Caldwell Ave. @ Mooney Blvd.

Whitendale Ave. @ Mooney Blvd.

Walnut Ave. @ Mooney Blvd.

Caldwell Ave.	Fairway Ave.	Lover’s Lane

Goshen Ave.	Road 80	Mooney Blvd.

Goshen/MurrayAve.	Mooney Blvd.	Santa Fe Ave.

Alta Way	SHI 98	Goshen Ave.

DemareeRoad	Goshen Ave.	Riggin Ave.

Mooney Blvd.	Caldwell Ave.	SH198

Court/Locust Connector

CourtSt.	WalnutAve.	TulareAve.

Santa Fe Ave.-Bridge Connectors

Houston Ave.	DemareeRoad	Santa Fe Ave.

Preferred Streets and Avenues

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares

Widening

Widening

Widening

Widening to 4 Lanes
Widening to A Lanes
Widening to 4 Lanes
Widening to 4 Lanes
Widening to 4 Lanes
Widening to 6 Lanes
Construction of Connector
Widening to 4 Lanes
Construction of Connectors
Widening to 4 Lanes
Maintenance

CITY OF WOODLAKE

STREET/AVENUE FROM	TO

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

PepperSt.	Naranjo Blvd.	LakeViewAve.

Sierra Ave.	Valencia Blvd.	Palm St.

Preferred Streets and Avenues

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares

Reconstruction

Reconstruction

Maintenance


It is anticipated that approximately 75% of local revenues will be applied to maintenance projects
with 25% of the local revenues allocated to new facility construction projects.

ROAD/AVENUE/

DIAGONAL	FROM	TO	PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Road 108	Ave. 242	Ave. 280	Reconstruction to 4 Lanes
(Blackstone St.)			
D99	Ave. 236	Ave. 256	Reconstruction to 4 Lanes
Road 80 {Alta Ave.	) Ave. 308	Ave. 408	Reconstruction to 4 Lanes
Ave. 280	Road 169	Road 188	Reconstruction to 4 Lanes
(Caldwell Ave.)			(Excluding City of Visalia portions)
Road 80	Ave. 420	Ave. 432	Reconstruction to 4 Lanes
Ave. 280	Road 128	Road 160	Reconstruction to 4 Lanes
Ave. 280	SH 99	Road 100	Reconstruction to 4 Lanes
Road 252	SH190	Ave. 148	Reconstruction to 4 Lanes
Ave. 416	Fresno Co. Line	Alta Ave. (in Dinuba)	Widening to 4 Lanes
{El Monte Way)			
Road 144 @ St. John’s River			Bridge Widening
(McAuliffRoad)			(Funding shared with

City of Visalia)

Preferred Roads/Bridges	Maintenance

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares

XIII.	TRANSIT

Revenues obtained from the sales tax will be utilized to discount senior citizen and handicapped
transit fares on some transit services. All discounted fare programs to senior citizens and
the handicapped as provided for in this plan will remain in effect, providing a minimum
farebox ratio required by the Transportation Development Act is maintained. All new unmet
transit need requests must also demonstrate the ability to meet the required minimum farebox
ratio. Transit services which do not meet their minimum farebox ratio due to the discounted
fares, will be funded entirely from local option sales tax revenues.

XIV.	APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

A spending limit is established not to exceed the amount of $880,718,930.00.

AGENCY APPROVAL

The Expenditure Plan must be approved by a majority of the incorporated cities which
represent a majority of the incorporated population. The County of Tulare, which represents
the unincorporated area of the county must also approve the Expenditure Plan.

The following agencies named below, hereby approve the COUNTY OF TULARE RETAIL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN.

CiTY/COUNTY		DATE
City of Dinuba	s/ Frank J. Gomez	7-13-88
City of Lindsay	s/ Wayman L. Roberson	8-01-88
City of Porterville	s/ John T. Rankin, Jr.	8-09-88
City of Visalia	s/ Donald R. Duckworth	8-11-88
City ofWoodlake	s/ Bill Diamond	8-02-88
County of Tulare	s/ LeRoy Swiney	8-23-88

Chairman, Board of Supervisors <summaryend>










<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
TULARE COUNTY TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS FINANCING
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX MEASURE A

Measure A, the Tulare County Transportation Authority Ordinance (hereinafter referred to as the
“Ordinance”) imposes a one percent (1%) Countywide transactions and use tax for the financing
of street, road, highway and other transportation projects and improvements in Tulare County;
authorizes the Tulare County Transportation Authority (hereinafter referred to as the ‘'Authority”} to
issue bonds for such purposes, payable from the proceeds of the transactions and use tax; establishes
the Constitutional appropriations limit for the Authority; and authorizes the Authority to eliminate
the tax if other adequate funding is received from Federal, State or other sources.

The Ordinance imposes a transaction and use tax of one percent (1%) in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of Tulare County for a period not to exceed twenty (20) years. The proceeds
of the tax shall be used to supplement and not replace existing local revenues used for transportation
purposes and shall be used only in accordance with an Expenditure Plan which was approved by
the Tulare County Board of Supervisors and certain cities within Tulare County.

The Ordinance, the authorization to issue bonds and the establishment of an appropriations limit
will become effective only if approved by a majority vote of the electors voting on the ballot
proposition, if Measure A is approved, the Ordinance will become effective on November 8, 1988
and collection of the transactions and use tax authorized by the Ordinance will commence on April
1, 1989.

If Measure A is not approved, the Authority will not be authorized to levy a transactions and use
tax or to issue limited tax bonds for the above-stated purposes.

This transactions and use tax measure has no effect on the existing law. The electors who will
be entitled to vote on the measure will be those qualified electors who reside within the boundaries
of the County of Tulare. <impartialend>











<impartialsigs> LITA O’NEILL 8LATNER
County Counsel
s/ Ronald K. Uchiumi
Assistant County Counsel <impartialsigsend>










<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Measure A is proposed to finance needed maintenance and improvements of the transportation
system within the county. Approval of this measure will institute a one percent sales tax for 20
years or less.

Poorly maintained roads impact all citizens of Tulare County. Travel over poorly maintained roads
not only increases the direct cost but also increases the deferred maintenance and environmental
costs of dust and other pollutants.

Passage of this measure will benefit all citizens of Tulare County. It will reduce transit fare for
senior and handicapped citizens; decrease operating cost and increase the safety of motorists;
increase safety by funding needed overcrossings and bridges; increase the employment opportunities
directly in construction and maintenance; and provide the needed roads which will encourage the
development of employment opportunities.

Passage of this measure is estimated to cost $59 per capita, it cost a motorist, who drives 10,000
miles per year, $320 more to drive on poorly maintained roads than on properly maintained roads.

State revenues cannot be depended upon to solve the transportation problems in Tulare County.
Tulare County has not received an appropriate share of state funding. The State has not indicated
a willingness to undertake the task and recently adopted legislation requiring local agencies to
provide new local funds to match state funds.

This measure directs that the tax must be reduced or eliminated if additional state revenues
become available.

Ail the revenues generated by the passage of this measure will be restricted to use on the
transportation system in Tulare County. All agencies will be required to maintain the level of local
financial support for transportation in order to qualify for it’s share of funding under this measure. <favorend>












<favorsigs> s/ leRoy Swiney
Chairman, Tulare County
Board of Supervisors
s/ John T. Rankin, Jr.

Mayor, City of Porterville
s/Gregory F. Collins
Mayor, City of Visalia
s/ Dolores E. (Lone) Mangine
Chair, Tulare County
Transportation Authority
s/ Maurice M. Green
Mayor, City of Tulare <favorsigsend>













<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

The residents of Tulare County are not the only people who use Tulare County roads.

The appropriate tax, if needed, would be a state-wide gasoline tax and not a local Tulare County
sales tax. 

Vote NAY on A. <rebutfavorend>










<rebutfavorsigs> AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE COUNCILS, CHAPTER 26
s/ Margaret E. Petersen, Secretary
TULARE-KiNGS INDEPENDENT AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION
s/ Greg Hodges, Vice President <rebutfavorsigsend>










<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

ARGUMENTS AGAINST:

1.	The taxpayers would not get proportionate benefits.

2.	The history of taxation shows that once a tax is imposed it takes a long time (if ever) to
get it removed. <againstend> 









<againstsigs> AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE COUNCILS, CHAPTER 26
s/ Margaret E. Petersen, Secretary
TULARE-KINGS INDEPENDENT AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION
s/ Greg Hodges, Vice President <againstsigsend>













<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Measure A will actually lower motorists costs. Good roads cost less to drive on than poorly
maintained roads. Critically needed street and roadway improvements will also serve to maintain
and enhance our quality of life. That is why Measure A directs that at least 90 percent of the new
revenues be used for city street and county roadway improvements in Tulare County. The remaining
10 percent is earmarked for State Highway projects.

Ail revenues from Measure A will be used in Tulare County.

Voters in several other California counties have chosen to impose similar taxes in order to meet
their transportation needs. The streets and highways in those counties are now being improved.

The law says the tax must stop after twenty years. Only the public, not the elected officials, may
vote to retain the tax. <rebutagainstend>











<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Robert F. Stocker
Automobile Club of Southern California
s/ Raymond J. Muller
Tulare County Supervisor, Retired
s/ Bob Wiley
Tulare County Sheriff <rebutagainstsigsend>


