<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

MEASURE A

A VOTE on Measure A will approve imposing a transaction and use tax in Humboldt County
and raising the spending limit of the County, as follows:

1.	The Transaction and Use Tax. If Measure A is approved, a transaction and use tax will be applied
to the sales price of personal property sold within Humboldt County or purchased for storage, use
or other consumption within Humboldt County. The rate of the tax will be one-half of one percent
of the sale price of taxable property.

The transaction and use tax will apply to goods now subject to the state sales and use tax. Goods
exempt from the state tax will also be exempt from the transaction and use tax.

The transaction and use tax will apply to retail sales in both the incorporated and unincorporated
areas of the County.

2.	The Spending Limit. The California Constitution imposes a spending limit on some of the money
received by the County from various sources, including taxes. The constitution authorizes the voters
of Humboldt County to increase the amount of money that the County may lawfully spend from these
revenues.

The Humboldt County Auditor-Controller has estimated that the transaction and use tax will raise
approximately $4,345,000.00 in new general fund revenue for Humboldt County during the first year
the tax is imposed. In addition, the County Administrative Officer has estimated that the County will
receive an additional $1,800,000.00 during the first fiscal year (1989-1990) as a result of the County’s
decision to opt into the State’s Trial Court funding program.

If Measure A is approved, the spending limit of Humboldt County will be increased by $7,500,000.

A "no” vote on Measure A will disapprove imposing the transaction and use tax and increasing
the County’s spending limit, as described in paragraphs 1 and 2, above. <impartialend>







<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

We live in Humboldt County because of the quality of life here on the northcoast. But that quality
of life is being threatened. Why? Because every day, criminals - drug dealers, burglars, drunk drivers
with repeat offenses - are being released due to our over-crowded, delapidated jail. Many are back
in our neighborhoods before the ink on the arrest report is dry. Others serve as little as 50% of their
sentences. It’s true that many of the non-violent offenders do qualify for our alternative-to-incarceration
programs; however, jail space needs to be available to lock up dangerous criminals - space our jail
presently does not have.

Humboldt County is in a race with crime that we cannot afford to lose.

MEASURE A will put an end to this revolving door system and help our law enforcement personnel
KEEP criminals off the streets and BEHIND BARS! For pennies a day we can have the kind of jail
we need to protect our homes, businesses and families. It's a small price to pay for a safe community.

Why a sales tax? Because it's fair and everyone pays their share - even the tourists. There are
no loopholes or unfair burdens on property owners and no debts to leave our children and grandchildren.
There’s simply no better way to finance the safety of our community.

Our entire justice system is in crisis because we can’t properly punish lawbreakers. Putting criminals
on the streets because there’s no room in our jail makes a mockery of our justice system. Criminals
learn quickly that they won’t be punished severely, so they freely commit more crime - making each
law-abiding citizen more at risk of losing life, limb or property.

We can't continue to release criminals back into our community without punishment. Vote
YES on Measure A. <favorend>









<favorsigs> s/ Harry Pritchard, Chairman
Humboldt County Board of Supervisors
s/ Dorothy Wormington, Vice President
Mothers Against Drunk Driving
s/ David A. Renner, Sheriff
s/ Bruce A. Breckner,

Certified Public Accountant
s/ Arthur C. Eddy, Executive Director
Humboldt Taxpayer’s League <favorsigsend>








NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED