OFFICIAL BALLOT

GENERAL ELECTION

Lake County

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1988

This ballot stub shall be tom off by precinct board
member and handed to the voter.

; MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)1
' IN THIS MANNER

I ONLY

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

CITY

CITY OF CLEARLAKE
UTILITY USERS TAX. MEASURE 8

B Miull the citizens of the City of Clear*
lukr adopt proposed Ordinance No.
oMIMI-HM imposing a (t% Utility Users
las »n telephone, gas. electricity and cable
«r<ki?

YES

NO (=□



17-sb22

Sample Ballot

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE B

Background

Under current state law, general law cities, including the City of Clearlake,
may only impose new or higher general taxes if approved by two-thirds of
the City Council and a majority of the voters.

Proposal

This measure establishes a six percent (6%) utility tax to be collected by
the City for general revenue purposes. The proceeds of the tax will be used
in the General Fund of the City. In particular, this measure:

1.	Imposes a six percent (6%) utility users tax on users of telephone,
gas, electricity and television cable services.

2.	Requires each utility provider (telephone, gas, electricity and cable
television) to collect the tax upon the regular charges made for such
utility service provided.

3.	Establishes a procedure whereby the City Council can adopt an exemp-
tion or provide a waiver for those utility users who cannot afford to
pay the tax because of age or disability and low income or other
conditions of hardship.

4.	Establishes a procedure by which the City will collect the utility tax
and sets forth an administrative remedy regarding assessments.

5.	Establishes a utility users committee to conduct public hearings regard-
ing the provisions of the measure.

6.	Provides the right to any aggrieved person to appeal.

Because the measure may constitute the imposition of a new or higher
general tax for general fund purposes, it requires the approval of a majority
of the voters.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance
No. 11-88 of the City of Clearlake. If you desire a copy of the
ordinance, please call the elections officials office (City Clerk)
at (707) 994-8201 and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost
or you may pick up a copy at City Hall.

s/ Kenneth A. Wilson
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The City, like other Cities, is now feeling the long term effect of Proposition
13. The major revenue sources for the City are Sales and Property Taxes
which do not provide enough revenue to maintain the current level of services.

The Council has taken steps to tighten the City’s belt and eliminated 10
positions, without a direct impact on services. If this Tax is not passed, 11
more positions will be lost. This will have a direct impact on service levels
in the City. The impacts will be felt in all departments, particularly in Police
services.

On the positive side, a “Yes” vote on Measure B will provide funds necessary
to maintain services which are vital to the health and safety of the community
and provide a sound economic base for our community which will allow us
to move forward in a positive fashion and protect the future of our City.

The Utility Users Tax is a fair and equitable way for residents and businesses
to fund services they require.

As development occurs, new homes and businesses will pay their fair
share of services.

Utility users may reduce their tax amount by initiating energy conservation
measures which could result in no increase to the user.

The Measure requires that a tax exemption program be established which
would provide an avenue to exempt residents, such as low-income senior or
disabled, for which the tax would create a financial hardship.

The alternative to Measure B is less police protection, further deterioration
of streets, no progress in drainage improvements and further reductions in
services as development occurs.

We have come a long way in the last 8 years. Let’s not surrender now,
when our goals are insight. Vote “YES” on Measure B and give our community
a bright future.

s/ Edward L. Martin, Retired
s/ Robert D. Moran, Retired
s/ Mary L. Hale, Retired Principal
s/ Denver Worthington, Police Officer
s/ Michael Hiss, Banker

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

VOTE NO on measure B and tell the City Council that they must live within
their budget. According to figures submitted by the City Finance Director,
the revenue for fiscal year 1988-89 will be $3.7 million without the Utility
Users Tax. Compare this to the last four fiscal years’ revenues which ranged
from $2.4 million to $2.9 million. And remember, the city does not provide
for fire protection, parks and recreation facilities, water service, sewer service
or health services, like many cities do.

After running up an $800,000 deficit, much of the City Councils’ belt
tightening involved the elimination of “paper positions” or jobs that were not
filled in the first place. They also rejected a wage freeze and approved a 5%
increase in wages for some employees. Not until it was pointed out that this
measure might not pass, did they seriously consider some real belt tightening.

Hopefully, the November election will produce a new city council that will
eliminate duplication and waste, keep a viable and efficient Police Department
in force, and make the necessary changes to stay within our budget.

Remember, a NO vote will be a vote for fiscal responsibility. Tell our new
City Council that they must stop going into debt each year and live within
their budget. We citizens must do this at home, they must do it for the city.

s/ William C. Levy, Retired
Auditor and Accountant
s/ George F. Goldner, Salesman
s/ Howard L, Corwin, Retired
Telephoneman

—-—— 	■ -------------- ---------------------------- -------------

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

We urge you to vote NO on the ordinance of the City of Clearlake that
provides for a telephone, gas, electricity and television cable users tax. A
'NO" vote will be a vote for fiscal responsibility. We must tell the City Council
that we do not approve of spending more than revenues collected and running
up excessive debts.

Over the past four fiscal years, the City Council has increased spending
Vtir liter year. Last fiscal year, expenditures had exceeded revenues by over
1100,000. Most of the city's cash reserves were used upta payforthis deficit.

The administration of this tax ordinance could be a bureaucratic nightmare.
It gives assorted powers to the Tax Administrator and Utility Users Committee.
The ordinance mentions penalties of 25%, filing fees for appeals of $25.00
ind vague provisions for those not paying the tax.

this Is a permanent tax which could last indefinitely. Only a new proposition
and majority vote of Clearlake citizens could terminate this tax. There is no
"lUftlet" provision.

Remember, a NO vote will be a vote for fiscal responsibility. Tell our City
Council that they must stop going into debt each year and Jvp within their
budget. We citizens must do this at home, they must do it for the city.

s/ William C. Levy
"/George F. Goldner
s/ Howard L. Corwin

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

The opposition claims that a “no” vote is a vote for “fiscal responsibility".
Actually a “no” vote means the end of effective city government. It would
bind us to the lower level of service provided at the beginning of incorporation.
A step backward to a time of high crime and less services; just when the
city is growing and improving.

The lack of revenues provided by the Tax would handicap the city-not make
it more responsible. When you don’t have money for basic services, no
amount of fiscal management will provide it. it’s fantasy to assume that the
same level of service can be maintained when costs have gone up 5 to 10%
per year; while existing revenue sources have not.

The only choices are to raise revenues or cut services. At hearings the
citizens spoke against cutting services.

The provisions for relief by the Tax Administrator and Utility Users Commit-
tee are not weaknesses. They are strengths allowing the community to provide
relief to the truly needy while maintaining a fair system. Changes would come
about the same democratic way the tax is created - by voting.

The reserves have been used up; that is what a “savings account” is; to
carry us through lard times. The problem is hard times are lasting longer
than reserve funds.

The choice offered by the opposition is a choice to see the community
decline at a time when improvement is needed. Your “YES” vote is a vote
for community improvement.

s/ Robert D. Moran
s/ Michael Hiss
s/ Edward L. Martin
sf Mary Hale
s/ Denver Worthington

'NOT ADOPTED*

DEFEATED BY'THE VOTERS AT THE'. NOVEMBER 8 / 1988
__________________ ELECTION■	_______________

CITY OF CLEARLAKE
ORDINANCE NO. ORD-11-88

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CLEARLAKE
PROVIDING FOR A TELEPHONE, GAS, ELECTRICTY
AND TELEVISION CABLE USERS TAX.

The people of the City of Clearlake do ordain as follows:

1. The Clearlake Municipal Code is amended by adding thereto

the following Chapter:

CHAPTER III 3-5

TELEPHONE, GAS, ELECTRICITY AND TELEVISION
CABLE USERS TAX
SECTION 1. Definitions:	Except where the context otherwise

requires, the definitions contained in this Section shall govern
the construction of this Chapter:

(a)	"Cable television corporation", "electrical
corporation", "gas corporation", and "telephone corporation"
shall have the same meanings as defined in Sections 215.5, 218,
222, and 234, respectively, of the Public Utilities Code of the
State of California. "Electrical corporation" shall be construed
to include any municipality or governmental agency engaged in the
selling or supplying of electrical power to a service user.

(b)	"City" shall mean the City of Clearlake.

(c)	"Month" shall mean a calendar month.

(d)	"Person" shall mean all domestic and foreign
corporations, associations, syndicates, joint stock companies,
partnerships of every kind, joint ventures, clubs, Massachusetts
business or common law trusts, societies, and individuals.

(e)	"Service supplier" shall mean a person required to
collect and remit a tax imposed under the provisions of this
Chapter.

(f)	"Service user" shall mean a person required to pay
a tax imposed under the provisions of this Chapter.

(g)	"Tax Administrator" shall mean the Finance Director

of City;

(h)	"Finance Director" shall mean the Director of
Finance of the City of Clearlake.

SECTION 2. Telephone Users Tax:

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax on the amounts paid for any
intrastate telephone communication services by every person in the
City other than a telephone corporation using such services.

The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of six percent
(6%) of the charges made for such services and shall be paid by the
person paying for such services.

B.	As used in this section, the term "charges" shall not
include charges for services paid for by inserting coins in a
coin-operated telephone except that where such coin-operated
service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid
under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other periodic
charge shall be included in the base for computing the amount of
tax due; nor shall the term "charges" include charges for any
type of service or equipment furnished by a service supplier
subject to Public Utility regulations during any period in which
the same or similar services or equipment are also available for

Page 2

ORD—11-88

sale or lease from persons other than a service supplier subject
to Public Utility regulation; nor shall the words "telephone
communication services" include land mobile services or maritime
mobile services as defined in Section 2.1 of Title 47 of the Code
of Federal Regulations, as said section existed on June 1, 1988.

The term "telephone communication services" refers to that
service which provides access to a telephone system and the
privilege of telephonic quality communication with substantially
all persons having telephone stations which are part of such
telephone system. The Telephone Users Tax is intended to, and
does, apply to all charges billed to a telephone account having a
situs in the City, irrespective of whether a particular
communication service originates and/or terminates within the
City. In other words, the utility users tax shall apply to the
"service" address regardless of where the call originates. If
there is no service address or it is not known, then the tax is
applied on the basis of the billing address.

C.	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from
the service user by the person providing the intrastate telephone
communication services, or the person receiving payment for such
services. The amount of the tax collected in one (1) month shall
be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of
the following month; or at the option of the person required to
collect and remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax collected,
measured by the tax billed in the previous month, shall be remitted
to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of each month.

Page 3

D.	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A, the tax
imposed under this section shall not be imposed upon any person
for using intrastate telephone communication services to the
extent that the amounts paid for such services are exempt from or
not subject to the tax imposed under Division 2, Part 20 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code, or the tax imposed under
Section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code.

SECTION 3. Gas Users Tax:

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the
City, other than a gas corporation or elected corporation using
in the City gas which is delivered through mains or pipes. The
tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate six percent (6%)
of the charges made for such gas and shall be paid by the person
paying for such gas.

B.	As used in this section, the term "charges" shall
include:

(1)	Gas which is delivered through mains or pipes, and

(2)	Minimum charges for such services, including, but
not limited to, customer charges, service charges, and annual and
monthly charges.

C.	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax
imposed by this section is computed:

(1) Charges made for gas which is to be resold and
delivered through mains and pipes,

Page 4

ORD-11-88

(2)	Charges made for gas sold for use in the generation
of electrical energy or for the production or distribution of
water by a public utility or governmental agency,

(3)	Charges made by a gas public utility for gas used
and consumed in the conduct of the business of gas public
utilities, and

(4)	Charges made for gas used in the propulsion of .
motor vehicles, as the same is defined in the California Vehicle
Code, utilizing natural gas.

D. The tax imposed under this section shall be collected
from the service user by the person selling the gas. The person
selling the gas shall, on or before the twentieth day of each
calendar month, commencing on the twentieth day of the- calendar
month after the .effective date of the ordinance adopting this
chapter, make a return to the Director of Finance stating the
amount of taxes billed during the preceding calendar month. At
the time such returns are filed, the person selling the gas shall
remit tax payments to the Director of Finance in accordance with
schedules established or approved by the Director of Finance.

The Director of Finance is authorized to require such further
information as he deems necessary to properly determine if the
tax imposed hereby is being levied and collected in accordance
with this chapter. Returns and remittances are due from the
person selling the gas immediately upon cessation of business,
for any reason.

E.	For the purpose of this ordinance, "propane" is not
included as a gas.

Page 5

SECTION 4. Electricity Users Tax:

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the
City using electrical energy in the City. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of six percent (6%) of the
charges made for such energy and shall be paid by the person
paying for such energy.

B.	As used in this Section, the term "charges" shall include
charges made for:

(a)	Metered energy, and

(b)	Minimum charges for service, including, but not
limited to, customer charges, service charges, demand charges,
standby charges and annual and monthly charges, fuel, cost
adjustments, etc.

C.	As used in this section, the term "using electrical
energy" shall not be construed to mean the use of such energy

by a person in a battery owned or possessed by him for use in an
automobile or other machinery or device apart from the premises
upon which the energy was received provided, however, that the
term shall include the receiving of such energy for the purpose
of using it in the charging of batteries. In addition, the term
"using electrical energy" shall not include (1) electricity used
and consumed by an electric utility supplier in the conduct of
this business as a public utility, (2) the mere receiving of such
energy by an electric public utility or governmental agency at a
point within the city for resale, or (3) the use of such energy
in the production or distribution of water by a public utility or
a governmental agency.

Page 6

D.	The tax imposed under this section shall be collected
from the service user by the person supplying such energy. The
amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted to the
Director of Finance on or before the last day of the following
month. Remittance of tax may be predicated on a formula based
upon the payment pattern of the supplier's customers.

SECTION 5. Cable Television Users Tax:

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the
City using cable television service in the City. The tax imposed
by this section shall be at the rate of six percent (6%) of the
charges made for such service, and shall be paid by the person
paying for such service.

B.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from
the service user by the person providing such cable television
service. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of
the following month.

SECTION 6. Actions to Collect;

A.	Any tax and/or penalty required to be paid by a service
user under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt
owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected
from a service user which has not been remitted to the Tax
Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the
person required to collect and remit. Any person owing money to
the City under the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable to

v

Page 7

an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of
such amount.

B.	The collection as a debt is not an exclusive method of
action to collect. As stated in this ordinance and as provided
for in law, the Tax Administrator may make an assessment for
taxes not paid or remitted by a person required to pay or remit.

SECTION 7. Duty to Collect - Procedures:	The	duty	to	collect

and remit the taxes imposed by this Chapter shall be performed as
follows:

(a)	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the
same time as and along with the charges made in accordance with
regular billing practice of the service supplier. Except in
those cases where a service user pays the full amount of said
charges but does not pay any portion of a tax imposed by this
Chapter, if the amount paid by a service user is less than the
full amount of the charge and tax which has accrued for the
billing period, a proportionate share of both the charge and the
tax shall be deemed to have been paid.

(b)	The duty to collect the tax from a service user shall
commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period
applicable to that person who starts on or after the operative
date of this Chapter. Where a person receives more than one
billing, one or more being for different periods than another,
the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing
period.

v

Page 8

SECTION 8. Additional Powers and Duties of Tax
Administrator:

A.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty and
is hereby directed to enforce each and all of the provisions of
this ordinance.

B.	The Tax Administrator shall have power to adopt rules and
regulations not inconsistent wiht provisions of this ordinance
for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing the payment,
collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of
such rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax
Administrator's office.

C.	The Tax Administrator may make administrative agreements
to vary the strict requirements of this ordinance so that
collection of any tax imposed herein may be made in conformance
with the billing procedures of a particular service supplier so
long as said agreements result in collection of the tax in
conformance with the general purpose and scope of this ordinance.

A copy of each agreement shall be on file in the Tax
Administrator's office.

SECTION 9. Collection of Tax by Tax Administrator -
Penalty:

A.	The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes
not paid or remitted by a person, service supplier, or service
user required.

v.

Page 9

ORD-11-88

B.	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service
user has deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by him
from the amounts remitted to a person required to collect the tax
for a period of four (4) or more billing periods, or that a
service user has refused to pay the amount of the tax to such
person; or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best
interest.of the City, he may relieve service supplier of the
obligation to collect taxes due under this ordinance from certain
named service users for specific billing periods.

C.	The service supplier shall provide the City with a report
of the amounts refused along with the names and addresses of the
service users refusing to pay the tax.

D.	The Tax Administrator shall notify the service user that
he has assumed responsibility to collect the taxes due for the
stated periods and demand payment of such taxes. The notice
shall be served on the service user by handing it to him
personally or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail,
postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user at the
address to which billing was made by the person required to
collect the tax; or, should the service user have changed his
address, to his last known address. If a service user fails to
pay the tax to the Tax Administrator within fifteen (15) days
from the date of the service of the notice upon him, which shall
be the date of mailing if service is not accomplished in person,

a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax
set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than

Page 10

$5.00. The penalty shall become part of the tax herein required
to be paid.

SECTION 10. Exemptions:

A.	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed imposing a tax
upon the City or any of its departments, agencies, boards or
commissions or upon any School Districts or upon any other person
when impositioning such tax upon that person would be in
violation of the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of the State of California.

B.	Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section,
whenever a service supplier, pursuant to an order of the
California Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent
jurisdiction makes a refund to service users of charges for past
utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to this Chapter on the
amount of such refunded charges shall also be refunded to service
users by the service supplier, and the service supplier shall be
entitled to claim a credit for such refunded taxes against the
amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly return. In the
event the ordinance enacting this Chapter is repealed, the amount
of any refundable taxes will be borne by the City; provided,
however, the same have been remitted to the City by the service
supplier and have been received by the City.

C.	Council may, by resolution, upon recommendation of the
utility users committee provided for in Section 12 of the
ordinance, adopt conditions of exemption or waiver for those
utility users who refuse to, or can not, pay the-utility tax and

Page 11

meet certain age and income requirements or other conditions of
hardship as so established.

SECTION 11. Refunds:

A.	A service supplier who has collected any amount of tax
illegally, erroneously, or more than once may refund such amount
to the service user and claim credit for such overpayment against
the amount of tax which is due upon any other monthly returns,
providing such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than
three (3) years from the date of overpayment.

B. Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has
been overpaid or paid more than once, or has been erroneously or
illegally collected or received by the City under this Chapter,
it may be refunded to a service supplier or service user by the
City provided a claim in writing therefor, stating under penalty
of perjury the specified grounds upon which the claim is founded
is filed with the Tax Administrator within three (3) years of the
date of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the
Tax Administrator. No refund shall be paid under the provisions
of this section unless the claimant establishes his right thereto
by written records, and, in the case of a service user, that the
service user has been unable to obtain a refund or adjustment
from the service supplier who collected the tax.

C.	Notwithstanding other provisions of this section,
whenever a service supplier, pursuant to an order of the
California Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent
jurisdiction, makes a refund to service users of charges for past

Page 12

utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to this ordinance on
the amount of such refunded service charges may also be refunded
to service users by the service supplier and the service supplier
can claim credit for such refunded taxes against the amount which
is due upon any monthly returns. In the event this ordinance is
repealed, amounts of any refundable taxes will be borne by the
City.

SECTION 12. Utility Users Committee:	A	utility users

committee, composed of the City Administrator or his. designee
and the Director of Finance is hereby created to serve without
additional compensation. It shall be the duty of this committee
to conduct the public hearing required by the provisions of this
Chapter. The committee shall have the power to revoke, confirm,
or modify any assessments levied pursuant to Sections 2, 3, 4 and
5; to summon witnesses; take testimony; direct investigations; and •
to do and perform all other acts which may be necessary or proper
within the scope of its duties and functions.

SECTION 13. Appeals;

A. Right of Appeal. Any person aggrieved by any ruling of
any officer enforcing any of the provisions of this Chapter or by
any assessment made pursuant to Section 12 may appeal such ruling
or assessment to the utilities users committee by filing an appeal
therefrom in writing in the office of the Director of Finance
within fifteen (15) days from the date of such ruling or assessment
is made.

Page 13

B.	Fee. The fee for filing any such appeal shall be
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) which fee shall be paid at the time
of filing such written appeal and shall be nonrefundable. The
purpose of such fee is to partially defray the expense to the
City for processing such appeal and conducting the hearing
necessitated thereby.

C.	Hearing. The Director of Finance shall set a date for
hearing the appeal which date shall not be more than thirty (30)
days from the date of filing, and shall give written notice of
the date thereof to the appellant at least five (5) days before
the date of such hearing. Such hearing may be continued from
time to time.

D.	Action. At the conclusion of the hearing, the utility
users committee shall either sustain or deny the appeal, and such
decision of the utility users committee shall be final.

SECTION 14. Severability:	If	any	section,	subsection,

subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
ordinance or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portion of this ordinance or any part thereof, the
City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each
section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional.

Page 14

SECTION 15. California Public Utilities Commission
Jurisdiction:	Nothing contained in this Chapter is intended to

conflict with applicable rules, regulations and tariffs of any
service supplier subject to the jurisdiction of the California
Public Utilities Commission. In the event of any conflict, the
provisions of said rules, regulations and tariffs shall control.

SECTION 16. Records:	It	shall	be the duty of every service

supplier required to collect and remit to the City any tax
imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of
three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of such tax such service supplier may have been required
to collect and remit to the City, which records the Tax
Administrator shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable
times.

SECTION 17. Operative Date:	This	ordinance	shall become

effective on the 1st day of December. The tax imposed under this
ordinance shall be applied to bills issued for billing periods
beginning on or after the 1st day of December, 1988.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the people of the City of Clearlake,
County of Lake, State of California, on this 8th day of
November, 1988.

CERTIFIED

SHARON L. GOODE, CITY CLERK

Page 15