MEASURE “R”

ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY*

BACKGROUND

Existing law requires that any business charging an admission fee must assess and collect
a tax on the price of admission in an amount equal to the greater of the following: (1) six
percent; or (2) the integrated sales tax rate in San Bernardino County attributable to all state
and local sales tax. This rate presently stands at six percent, and can only be changed by
consent of the voters or two-thirds of the state legislature.

The law establishing an admissions tax was adopted by ordinance of the Montclair City
Council on September 15, 1986. Incorporated in the law is a system of procedures for
assessing and collecting the tax and paying it to the City of Montclair. California state law
requires that the ordinance be voted upon by the electorate of the City of Montclair prior
to November 15,1988.

PROPOSAL

This measure requests voter approval of existing law with respect to the admissions tax
rate, collection and assessment of the tax, and its payment to the City of Montclair. The
operational effect of this measure would be identical to that ordinance of the Montclair City
Council, presently in effect, establishihg an admissions tax.

if approved by the voters of Montclair, this measure will require each business operator
charging an admission fee to continue assessing and collecting the admissions tax for the
City of Montclair. If this measure fails to receive voter approval, the ordinance establishing
the admissions tax will cease to be law.

FISCAL EFFECT

The existing admissions tax ordinance has been in place for approximately two years. This
measure requests voter approval to continue collection of the admissions tax. Montclair
City Hail records indicate that fifteen businesses are affected by the admissions tax
j ordinance.

Voter approval of this measure will not result in any increased taxes to residents or business
oparators, and will not result in any additonai municipal costs. Failure to approve this
measure will result in an annual estimated loss of $300,000 to the City’s general operating
fund.

I THE ABOVE STATEMENT SS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF ORDINANCE
NO. 86-630. IF YOU DESIRE A COMPLETE COPY OF THE ORDINANCE,
PLEASE CALL THE CITY CLERK’S OFFICE AT (714)626-8571 AND A
COPY WILL BE MAILED AT NO COST TO YOU.

* Section 5011 of the Elections Code requires the City Attorney to prepare an impartial analysis
of measures appearing on the ballot.

PR-006.003

SB 087-12

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “R”

Enacted in 1986, Montclair’s Admissions Tax is intended to raise revenue to offset the cost
of meeting the heavy demand for public services by certain businesses—primarily those
businesses in the entertainment category that charge an admission price. Continuation of
the tax beyond November 15f 1988 requires voter approval.

Sales tax revenue serves as Montclair’s primary source of funding for public service
programs and general operations. Entertainment category businesses generate little or no
sales tax revenue.

Prior to adoption of the admissions tax, entertainment businesses and their customers
enjoyed the use of public services while contributing very little towards the cost for such
services. The tax guarantees a fair division of costs associated with the provision of public
services. Failure to approve continuation of the tax means these businesses will again enjoy
the full benefit of municipal services without proportional obligation to their cost.

Montclair’s admissions tax does not unduly interfere in the personal economies of
residents. First, operators of most businesses required to collect the tax deduct it directly
from business profits rather that passing it on to customers. Second, a substantial majority
of Montclair’s entertainment business customers reside outside the City.

One survey conducted by Montclair theater operators several years ago showed that over
80% of theater patrons live in other communities. This statistic indicates that in those few
instances where customers pay the admissions tax, such payment is generally made by
nonresidents.

Montclair has long served as host to residents of surrounding cities who enjoy the
entertainment experiences our community offers; and Montclair taxpayers have long
shouldered the cost of providing the public services required by these business
establishments. The admissions tax offers you some relief from this burden.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE “R” !

s/Larry L. Rhinehart
Mayor

s/Loren L. Pettis
Fire Chief

s/Gregory C. Caldwell
Chief of Police

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “R” WAS FILED

PR-006.D04

SB 087-13

ORDINANCE NO. 86-630

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF MONTCLAIR ADDING ARTICLE 5 TO
CHAPTER 5 OF TITLE 3 OF THE MONTCLAIR
MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO AN ADMISSIONS
TAX

The City Council of the City of Montclair does ordain as follows:

Section 1:	Amendment of Code - Chapter 5 of Title 3 of the Montclair

Municipal Code is hereby amended by adding Article 5 thereto to read as
follows:

Article 5. Admissions Tax

Section 3-5.501. Title.

This article shall be known as the "Admissions Tax Law of
the City of Montclair."

Section 3-5.502. Purpose.

It is hereby declared as a matter of public policy that the
provision of adequate municipal services is in the interest of the public
health, safety and general welfare. The purpose of this article is to raise
revenue to assist in covering the cost of providing municipal services
required by businesses covered under this article.

Section 3-5.503. Definitions.

(1)	"Admission ticket" shall mean any charge whether or not so
designated for the right or privilege to enter and occupy a seat or space as
hereinafter defined.

(2)	"Event"	shall mean motion pictures, theatrical

performances, musical performance, operas, athletic contests, exhibitions of
art or handicrafts or products, lectures, speeches, fairs, circuses,
carnivals, menageries, or any other activity conducted for which an admission
ticket is sold.

(3) "Operator" shall mean persons conducting, operating, or
maintaining in whole or in part as principal, agent, officer, employee and/or
independent contractor any event, admission to which is taxable under this
chapter.

(4)	"Patron" shall mean any person who pays or on account of
whom is paid any charge or admission price for the right or privilege of being
admitted for the purpose of attending any event.

(5)	"Premises" shall mean and include any building, structure
or place or location wherein or at which an event as defined herein can be
held.

Section 3-5.504. Tax Imposed.

When a charge or admission price for admission is paid for the
right or privilege of being admitted to any premises, there is hereby levied
and assessed, and there shall be paid and collected, a tax in an amount equal
to six percent (6%), or the integrated sales tax rate in San Bernardino County
attributable to all state and local sales taxes, whichever is greater, on the
price of an admission ticket for the privilege of admission to any event held.

Section 3-5.505. Passes/Tax Imposed.

(a)	When admittance is allowed by free pass to any premises for
the purpose of attending any event thereat, there is hereby levied and
assessed, and there shall be paid and collected, a tax of twenty-five cents
(25c) for each admittance by free pass.

ORDINANCE NO. 86-630

(b)	If admission to any premises or event is under or by virtue
of a season pass for which any charge or admission price has been paid, the
tax due thereon shall be paid and collected at the time and place that such
season pass is purchased. The rate of the tax on each such season pass shall
be that rate which is made applicable by Section 3-5.504 hereinabove to the
quotient of the total amount paid for such season pass divided by the total
number of events to which such season pass entitles the holder or owner
thereof to be admitted. The amount of the tax on such season pass shall be
the product of such rate multiplied by the total number of events to which
such season pass entitled the holder or owner thereof to be admitted, and
shall be due and payable and paid and collected at the time such season pass
is purchased.

(c)	In the case of persons having permanent access to any
premises for the purpose of attending any event thereat, a tax equivalent to
the tax imposed by Section 3-5.504 hereinabove based on the amount for which a
similar seat is sold for each event, is hereby levied and assessed and shall
be collected and paid for each event for which the seat is thus reserved.

Section 3-5.506. Payable by Whom.

The tax levied and assessed by or under this article is hereby
imposed upon each person or patron by or on account of whom payment is made
for admission or a free pass granted to any premises or portion thereof, and
shall be paid by or on account of such person at the time and at the place
when the charge or admission price is paid, or if admittance is by a free
pass, before entry is allowed.

Section 3-5.507. Collectible by Whom.

The tax imposed by this article shall be collected for the City
by the operator at the time and place where the tax is due and payable, and
thereafter shall be accounted for and paid over to the City by such operator
at the time and in the manner in this article hereinafter specified.

Section 3-5.508. Time of Accounting.

Every operator shall account for all taxes imposed or collected
under this article at the time or times set forth in the following:

(a)	If an event subject to the tax imposed by this article is
scheduled by the operator to be held for a period of less than seven (7) days,
the operator shall account to the City in the manner specified in this article
within twenty-four (24) hours after the completion of each such single event.

(b)	If any event subject to the tax imposed by this article is
scheduled by the operator to be held for a period of more than seven (7) days
but less than thirty (30) days, the operator shall account to the City in like
manner on each Monday for all preceding events for which no accounting has
been made as herein provided.

(c)	If any event subject to the tax imposed by this article is
scheduled by the operator to be held for a period of more than thirty (30)
days, the operator shall account to the City in like manner on the twentieth
(20th) day of each calendar month for all events thus conducted by him/her
from the first (1st) to the fifteenth (15th) calendar days of such month, and
on the fifth (5th) day of each calendar month for all events thus conducted by
him/her from the sixteenth (16th) calendar day to the last calendar day of the
preceding calendar month.

(d)	Nothing in the preceding subsections shall preclude an
operator from accounting more frequently or upon a date earlier than herein
specified.

Section 3-5.509. Manner of Accounting/Statement.

At the times required by the preceding subsections, every
operator shall file with the City Treasurer a written statement setting forth
the number of admissions to the premises for which a charge or admission price
was paid, the number of season passes and the price or admission charge paid
for such season passes to the premises, the total number of leased seats at
the premises or leases of any portion of the premises purchased or paid for.

ORDINANCE NO. 86-630

the total number of events to which such season passes entitled the owner or
holder thereof to admission, the total number of free passes issued and the
total number of events to which such free passes entitled the owner or holder
thereof to admission, the total number of events at which such leased seats
entitle the purchaser or holder thereof to the use of accommodations or any
portion of the premises, and a statement of the total taxes due under the
terms of this article upon each of the foregoing, the period of time covered
by the accounting and such other information as may be required by the City
Treasurer for a proper understanding of such statement and a complete audit of
the taxes due thereunder.

Such accounting statement shall be dated, subscribed by the
individual making the statement, stating the capacity in which the signer
makes the same, and the signer shall certify, under penalty of perjury, that
the statements made therein are, to the best of his/her information, knowledge
and belief , true and correct.

Section 3-5.510. Payment with Statement.

Such accounting statement shall be accompanied by payment, in
legal tender or in other form approved by the City Treasurer, of the total
amount of taxes shown in said statement to be due and payable under the terms
of this article for the period thus accounted for, plus all penalties that may
be due thereon as prescribed in this article.

Section 3-5.511. Alternate Procedure.

Upon the filing by an operator with the City Administrator of a
written application setting forth good cause for a modification of the time
and manner of accounting for and payment of taxes due under this article, the
City Administrator may, in writing, authorize such operator to account for and
to pay over to the City Treasurer all taxes due, payable or paid under the
provisions of this article at a time or times and in a manner other than those
specified in this article.

Section 3-5.512. Penalties and Interest.

(a)	The failure of an operator to pay to the City Treasurer the
entire amount of taxes due under the provisions of this article at the time
and in the manner herein prescribed, shall automatically cause the amount of
such taxes then unpaid forthwith to become and be delinquent, and a penalty of
ten percent (10%) of the taxes so delinquent shall be added and paid by the
operator to the City Treasurer at the time of accounting or payment.

(b)	Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent remittance
on or before a period of thirty (30) days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay an additional delinquency penalty
of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the tax and for each thirty- (30-) day
period or fraction thereof of delinquency thereafter. The total delinquency
shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the tax imposed.

(c)	If the City Treasurer determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five
percent (25%) of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to
the penalties stated in subsections (a) and (b) hereinabove.

(d)	In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who
fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate
of one half of one percent (1/2%) per month or fraction thereof on the amount
of the tax exclusive of penalties and interest from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent until paid.

(e)	Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under
the provisions of this chapter shall become a part of the tax herein required
to be paid.

ORDINANCE NO. 86-630

Section 3-5.513. Posting of Bonds.

Every operator shall, before engaging in any business, event or
admission to any premises, any portion of which is subject to the tax imposed
by this article, post with the City Treasurer a cash bond equal to the amount
of the maximum tax payable by patrons thereof multiplied by the total seating
capacity of the premises, multiplied by the number of events scheduled
thereat.

(a)	In computing the cash bond, no more than the total number
of events within any one accounting period shall be used.

(b)	No such bond shall be required in the event the operator
owns the premises upon which such business is to be conducted.

Section 3-5.514. Forfeiture of Bond.

If the operator fails to account at the time and in the manner
required by this article, or if the operator fails to permit inspection of
his/her records when demand for such inspection is made by the City Treasurer,
the City Council may, upon notification of any such facts, declare such
operator's cash deposit forfeited.

Such forfeiture shall not relieve the operator from liability
for any taxes due upon admissions to any event conducted by him/her.

Section 3-5.515. Return of Bond.

Upon the expiration of the period for which any event shall have
been scheduled by the operator, and upon certification by the City Treasurer
that all accounts required of an operator under this article have been made by
the operator and audited by the City Treasurer and that all taxes and
penalties due thereunder have been paid over to the City, the City Council
shall cause all cash bonds theretofore deposited by the operator with the City
under this article and not previously declared forfeited as hereinbefore
provided, to be refunded to the operator in the manner and form provided for
other City warrants.

Section 3-5.516. Duty of Performance.

Any act required by this article to be performed by an operator
shall be performed by each person included in the definition of operator;
provided, however, that performance by any one such person conducting an event
covered by this article shall be deemed performance by all such persons
conducting such event.

Section 3-5.517. Tax Deemed a Debt.

The amount of any tax or any penalty imposed by this article
shall be deemed a debt to the City, and any operator violating any of the
provisions of the article shall be liable to an action in the name of the City
in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of taxes and penalties
imposed by this article, and attachment shall issue on verified complaint
without any bond or affidavit given or required on behalf of plaintiff.

Section 3-5.518. Tax/Not In Lieu.

The tax imposed by this article is in addition to any other tax,
license or permit fee that may be required of any person by any ordinance or
other section of this Code.

Section 3-5.519. Failure to Collect.

If any operator required to collect and remit the tax imposed by
this chapter fails to file a return and a remittance, the City Treasurer shall
proceed in such manner as deemed best to obtain facts and information on which
to base an estimate of the tax due. As soon as the City Treasurer obtains
such facts and information on which to base the assessment of any tax imposed
by this article and payable by any operator who has failed or refused to
collect the same and to make such report and remittance, the City Treasurer

ORDINANCE NO. 86-630

shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the tax, interest
and penalties provided for by this article.

Section 3-5.520. Deficiency Determination.

If the City Treasurer has reasonable cause to believe the return
or returns of the amount of tax required to be paid to the city by any
operator are erroneous, the City Treasurer shall compute and determine the
amount required to be paid upon the basis of the facts contained in the return
or returns or upon the basis of any information available or that may come
into the City Treasurer's possession. One or more deficiency determinations
may be made of the amount due for one or more periods.

Section 3-5.521. Offsetting of Overpayment.

In making a determination pursuant to Sections 3-5.519 and
3-5.520, the City Treasurer may offset any overpayments for a period or
periods against underpayments for another period or periods, against
penalties, and against the interest on underpayments.

Section 3-5.522. Notice of Determination.

The City Treasurer shall give to the operator written notice of
any determinations made pursuant to Sections 3-5.519, 3-5.520 and 3-5.524.
This notice may be served personally or by depositing in the United States
Postal Service, postage prepaid, and addressed to the operator at his address
as it appears in the records of the City Treasurer. In case of service by
mail of any notice required under this chapter, the service is complete at the
time of deposit of the notice.

Section 3-5.523. Hearing.

Any operator served pursuant to Section 3-5.522 may, within
fifteen (15) days after service or mailing of such notice, make application in
writing to the City Treasurer for a hearing to review the amounts determined
and assessed under Sections 3-5.519 and 3-5.520. If application by the
operator for a hearing is not made within the time prescribed, the tax,
interest, and penalties, if any, determined by the City Treasurer shall become
final and conclusive and immediately due. Any operator against whom interest
or penalties have been assessed pursuant to Section 3-5.512 may make an
application in writing for a hearing with the City Treasurer to review the
amounts of tax owing and accrued penalties and interest thereon within thirty,
(30) days after notice of delinquency. If such application is made, the City
Treasurer shall give not less than five (5) days' written notice in the manner
prescribed by Section 3-5.522 to the operator to show cause at a time and
place fixed in such notice why such amount specified therein should not be
assessed including such tax, interest and penalties, if any. At such hearing,
the operator may appear and offer evidence why such specified tax, interest
and penalties should not be so fixed. After such hearing the City Treasurer
shall determine the proper tax together with interest and penalties thereon to
be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice thereof to the operator
in the manner prescribed in Section 3-5.522. The amount determined to be due
shall be payable after fifteen (15) days unless an appeal is taken as provided
in Section 3-5.524.

Section 3-5.524. Appeal.

Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the City Treasurer
with respect to the amount of such tax or interest and penalties, if any, may
appeal to the City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk
within fifteen (15) days of the serving or mailing of the determination of tax
due. The Council shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the
City Clerk shall give notice in writing to such operator at his/her last known
place of address. The decision of the Council shall be final and conclusive.
Any amounts determined, shall be due and payable upon the service of notice of
the decision pursuant to Section 3-5.522.

Section 3-5.525. Records.

Every operator liable for the collection and payment to the city
of any tax imposed by this article shall keep and preserve all records as may
be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have been

ORDINANCE NO. 86-630

liable for the collection of and payment to the city. The City Treasurer may
examine the books, papers, records and equipment of any operator liable for
the tax imposed by this chapter and may investigate the character of the
business of the operator in order to verify the accuracy of any return made,
or if no return is made by the operator, to ascertain and determine the amount
required to be paid.

Section 3-5.526. Refund.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has
been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the city under this chapter, it may be refunded as
provided herein; provided, that a claim in writing therefor, stating under
penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is
filed with the City Treasurer within one year of the date of payment.

(b)	Any operator may claim a refund or take as credit against
taxes collected and remitted any amount overpaid, paid more than once or
erroneously collected or received. Neither a refund nor a credit shall be
allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either been refunded to
the patron or credited to admission subsequently payable by the patron to the
operator.

(c)	A patron may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid, or paid
more than once, or erroneously collected or received by the city by filing a
claim in the manner provided in subsection (a), but only when the tax was paid
by the patron directly to the City Treasurer or when the patron, having paid
the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction of the City Treasurer
that the patron has been unable to obtain a refund from the operator who
collected the tax.

(d)	No refund shall be paid unless the claimant establishes his
or her right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

Section 3-5.527. Compliance Not Excused by Prosecution.

The conviction or punishment of any person for the violation of
any provision of this article shall not excuse or exempt such person from
payment of any license, tax, fee or penalty due or unpaid under this article
or under any other provision of this Code or any ordinance.

Section 3-5.528. Waiver of Tax.

The City Council may at any time, by minute action, waive any or
all of the requirements of this article with respect to any business or event
which is conducted or sponsored within the City.

Section 3-5.529. Exemptions.

The provisions of this article shall not be deemed or construed
to require the	payment	of an admissions	tax when	the conduct	of the activity

is by an institution	or organization	existing	wholly for	the	benefit of

charitable	purposes; nor	shall any admissions	tax	be	required of	any

entertainment,	concert, exhibition, or	lecture	on scientific,	historical,

literary, religious, or moral subject within the City from which the receipts
are to be	appropriated to	any church or school	or	for	any religious	or

benevolent	purpose; nor	shall an admissions	tax	be	required if	an

entertainment,	dance,	concert, exhibition, or	lecture by	any	religious,

charitable,	fraternal, educational, military, state,	county, or municipal

organization or association conducts the activity and the receipts of such
entertainment, dance, concert, exhibition, or lecture are to be appropriated
for the purpose and objects for which such organization or association was
formed and from which profit is not derived, either directly or indirectly, by
any individual; provided, however, nothing in this section shall be deemed to
exempt any such organization or association from complying with any of the
provisions of the Montclair Municipal Code requiring a permit from the Council
or any commission or officer to conduct, manage, or carry on any activity.

Section 3-5.530. Disposition of Funds.

All taxes and penalties thus received shall be deposited in the

General Fund.

ORDINANCE NO. 86-630

Section 2:	Validity - If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase

of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such holding or
holdings shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
ordinance. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this
ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.

Section 3:	Publication - The City Clerk shall cause this ordinance to be

published in The Daily Report at least once within fifteen (15) days after its
passage.

I,	Margaret A. Crawford, City Clerk of the City of Montclair, DO HEREBY
CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Ordinance No. 86-630
of said City which was introduced at a regular meeting of the City Council
held on the 2nd day of September, 1986, and finally passed not less than five

(5)	days thereafter on the 15th day of September, 1986, by the following vote,
to-wit:

AYES:	Oldfield, Hackett, Paulitz, Lewman, Rhinehart

NOES:	None

ABSTAIN: None
ABSENT:	None

APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 15th day of September, 1986.

ATTEST:

ORDINANCE NO. 86-630

RESOLUTION NO. 88-1740

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
MONTCLAIR CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF A SPECIAL
MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD IN SAID CITY ON TUESDAY,

NOVEMBER 8, 1988, FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO THE
QUALIFIED VOTERS OF SAID CITY TWO TAX MEASURES; AND
REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH THE STATEWIDE GENERAL
ELECTION TO BE HELD ON SAID DATE; AND SETTING OF LAST
DAY FOR SUBMISSION OF ARGUMENTS; AND DIRECTING THE
CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF EACH
MEASURE

WHEREAS, in November of 1986, the voters of California approved an
initiative statute (Proposition 62) which imposes restrictions on the
enactment of "general taxes” by local governments. The statute added
Article 3.7 to Chapter 4 of Division 2 under Title 5 of the Government Code.
The restrictions include a requirement that all local agencies stop collecting
any new or higher general tax adopted after July 31, 1985 unless a majority of
the voters approve the tax within two years of the effective date of said
Article; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that said Special Municipal Election be
consolidated with the statewide election to be held on the same date and that
within the City, the precincts, polling places, and election officers of the
two elections be the same, and that the Registrar of Voters of the County of
San Bernardino canvass the returns of the Special Municipal Election and that
said statewide General Election and Special Municipal Election be held in all
respects as if there were only one election, pursuant to Election Code
Sections 23300 et. seq.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Montclair,
California, does hereby resolve, declare, determine, and order as follows:

Section 1.	That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the

State of California relating to general law cities within the State, there
shall be, and there is hereby called and ordered to be held in the City of
Montclair, County of San Bernardino, State of California, on Tuesday the
eighth (8th) day of November, 1988, a Special Municipal Election for the
purpose of submitting two tax measures to the qualified voters of said City.

Section 2.	That the polls for said election shall be opened at

7:00 a.m. on the day of said election and shall remain open continuously from
said time until 8:00 p.m. of the same day when said polls shall be closed,
except as provided in Section 14436 of the Elections Code of the State of
California.

Section 3. That pursuant to the requirements of Section 23302 of
the California Elections Code, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San
Bernardino is hereby requested to consent and agree to the consolidation of
said Special Municipal Election with the statewide General Election on
Tuesday, November 8, 1988.

Section 4. That said Board of Supervisors is hereby requested to
issue instructions to the Registrar of Voters to take any and all steps
necessary for the holding of said consolidated election.

Section 5. That the City of Montclair recognizes that additional
costs will be incurred by the County of San Bernardino by reason of this
consolidation and agrees to reimburse County for any such costs.

RESOLUTION NO. 88-1740

follows:

Section 6.

That said Measures are to appear on the ballot as

MEASURES TO BE VOTED ON

Yes No

Shall the resolution now in effect relating to the Business License Fee Schedule be confirmed?		
Shall the ordinance now in effect relating to the Admissions Tax be confirmed?		

Section 7. That the City Clerk is hereby directed by the City
Council to provide the City Attorney with a copy of this Resolution and the
City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis on each measure, pursuant to
California Elections Code Section 5011.

Section 8. That arguments in favor of or opposition to a measure,
not exceeding 300 words, shall be filed by 5:00 p.m. on Tuesday, August 9,
1988 in the City Clerk's Office, City Hall, 5111 Benito Street, Montclair,
California.

Section 9. That notice of the time and place of holding said
election is hereby given and the City Clerk is hereby authorized, instructed,
and directed to give such further or additional notice of said election in
time, form, and manner required by law.

Section 10. That the City Clerk of the City of Montclair is hereby
directed to file a certified copy of this Resolution with the Board of
Supervisors and the Registrar of Voters of the County of San Bernardino.

Section 11. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and
adoption of this Resolution; shall enter the same in the book of original
resolutions of said City; and shall make a minute entry of the passage and
adoption thereof in the records of the proceedings of the City Council of said
city, in the minutes of the meeting at which the same is passed and adopted.

Section 12. That this Resolution shall take effect immediately.

PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED this 18th day of July, 1988.

ATTEST:

.

!

•'	/	Lf*

City Clerk

//'

RESOLUTION NO. 88-1740

I, Margaret A. Crawford, City Clerk of the City of Montclair, DO HEREBY
CERTIFY that Resolution No. 88-1740 was duly adopted by the City Council of
said city and was approved by the Mayor of said city at a regular meeting of
said City Council, held on the 18th day of July, 1988, and that it was adopted
by the following vote, to-wit:

AYES:	Lewman,

NOES:	None

ABSTAIN: None
ABSENT:	None

Hackett, Paulitz,

Rhinehart

1

/

/’ /' ’ ,

/

/ • .. . . -//, . ' -
/ /L ■-	.	^	‘	W	•	^	'

Margaret A. Crawford
City Clerk



RESOLUTION NO. 88-1740