IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF ANGELS TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX INCREASE
MEASURE B

At the present time, the City of Angels levies a 4% transient occupancy tax.
The City of Angels proposes to increase this transient occupancy tax from 4%
to 6%. This tax is also called the hotel/motel tax and is levied upon the bills of
persons who stay at hotels, motels, bed and breakfast businesses and similar
type businesses. The funds from this tax are paid directly to the City of
Angels and are deposited in the General Fund.

A “Yes" vote on this measure would increase the transient occupancy tax
from 4% to 6%. A "No” vote on this measure would leave the transient

occupancy tax at 4%. A simple majority of the vote cast is necessary to
increase the transient occupancy tax from 4% to 6%.

s/ George A. Huberty
City Attorney

The above statement Is an impartial analysis of Measure
“B”. If you desire a copy of the measure, please call the
Elections Office at 754-6376, and a copy will be mailed to you
at no cost.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The City of Angels has not increased its Transient Occupancy Tax since it
was first adopted in 1965. An increase to 6% levied on those using our
hotels, motels, bed and breakfast, is still low compared to most areas.
However, this increase in our General Funds will better enable us to maintain
our Parks, Museum, Police and Fire Departments. An increase in the Tran-
sient Occupancy Tax will allow the tourists who enjoy these services to share
in their costs. The City Council was unanimous in its endorsement of this
measure and we ask your support by voting yes at the polls.

s/ Jacqueline L. Heintz

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The government apparently believes since it has not increased the Tran-
sient Occupancy Tax recently, and since the tax is low compared to most
areas, the government should raise the tax immediately. The government
must feel its primary responsibility is to maximize taxes! The proceeds from
this tax increase would go directly to the general fund, yet the government
does not suggest there are insufficient general funds to provide essential
services. The sole reason for this tax increase proposal is the government
feels the tax is too low!

Those individuals who service the tourist industry are already paying
substantial property taxes in addition to the current 4% transient tax; and the
government is currently receiving substantial revenues from the tourists in
the form of sales taxes. Let’s not kill the goose that lays the golden egg for
the sake of greed. Let the good citizens’ voice be heard with a NO vote on
Measure B.

Sincerely,
s/ Thomas M. Tryon

it

e

u •

IT

fr

o

1 S
»n

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

Another tax increase proposal! Why don’t government bodies ever put tax
decrease proposals on the ballot? The hotel/mote! tax should not be in-
creased but abolished.

This tax is an onerous tax which directly burdens the hotel/motei owners
and operators within the City. If one assumes the owners/operators are
charging a competitive market rate for their services, then an increase in a
room charge can only result in fewer rooms being occupied, if there were no
decrease in occupied rooms, the owners/operators would already be charg-
ing the higher rate.

There are two additional negative economic impacts besides the detrimen-
tal effects to the owners/operators:

(a)	Fewer rooms occupied means fewer visitors and less economic activity
for the community as a whole. The complementary economic effects of a
vigorous motel/hotel industry are significant and vital.

(b)	The hotel/motei industry provides substantial employment opportunities
for the less skilled and economically disadvantaged of our society. This
industry has historically provided one of the first rungs on the ladder to
upward mobility and success. For government to weaken this ladder (higher
tax burden) or take out its lower rungs (minimum wage laws) is morally
reprehensible.

Both county and city government are constantly stating they wish to foster
economic growth within our community. Measure B would accomplish just
the opposite by destroying the competitive economic advantage currently
enjoyed by the hotel/motei industry; increase the tax burden on the citizenry
(the tax burden is inversely related to economic well being); and provide for
an increase in the level of government (also inversely related to economic
well being -- and social, too).

The good citizens would be well advised to thoroughly, totally, completely,
and resoundingly defeat the proposed Measure B.

Sincerely,

s/Thomas M. Tryon
Libertarian

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

The proposed increase to the Angels transient occupancy tax would bring
the city up to the level of the rest of the County. This same tax would then still
be 4% to 6% lower than most other areas throughout California. The 6% tax
already being charged by Calaveras County has not decreased occupancy in
the county and there is no reason to believe it would cause a decrease in the
city.

A 2% additional tax on a $34 room would amount to only 68 cents.

More beautiful surroundings, better museum facilities, restrooms, walking
maps and other tourist related accoutrements would add to the joy of our
visitors. This would in fact encourage tourism which is recognized as an
economic factor both in our city and in our county. It is inconceivable that a
person would cancel a visit because of 68 cents.

Of the motel and bed and breakfast owners interviewed, they either stated
the tax would not harm their business or spoke in favor of it.

Let your visitors help to maintain the facilities they enjoy. Vote yes on
measure B.

s/ Jacqueline L. Heintz