Sample Ballot

r

SIDE 1

CARD E

E

OFFICIAL BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED

GENERAL ELECTION

BUTTE COUNTY	NOVEMBER	8,	1988

AJQv/. V, I9Q2

SIDE 2

This ballot stub shall be torn off by precinct board
member and handed to the voter.

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

CITY

CITY OF CHICO

MEASURE K - INCREASE OF
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX FROM 6% TO 9%

K

Shall an ordinance be adopted amending
the provisions of Chapter 3.52 of the Chico
Municipal Code, entitled “Transient Occupancy
Tax”, to increase the City transient occupancy
tax from six percent to nine percent and to re-
quire all revenues derived from such increase in
the transient occupancy tax to be deposited in a
special fund and thereafter appropriated only for
the purpose of promoting tourism and economic
development, for supporting a community center
and community art projects, and for any
other similar community programs or pro-
jects; and repealing Ordinance No. 1737 of
the City Council of Chico adopted by the
City Council on June 21, 1988, which in-
creased the City transient occupancy tax
from six percent to nine percent, which set forth
the preference that any revenues from such tax
increase be appropriated for the promotion of
tourism and economic development, the support
of a community center and community art pro-
jects, and other similar community programs or
projects, but which nevertheless permitted the
revenues from such tax increase to be used for
any general municipal purpose?

YES	-f
NO	+

MEASURE L - GENERAL OBLIGATION
BONDS FOR STREET FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS

L Shall the City Council of the City of Chico
be authorized to issue general obligation
bonds in an amount not to exceed $5,000,000 for
the purpose of acquiring and constructing
street facility improvements on and within
certain arterial and collector streets at vari-
ous locations within the City of Chico, and
be authorized to levy an ad valorem tax on
property within the City of Chico in an
amount sufficient to pay the principal and inter-
est on such bonds over a period of time not to
exceed 20 years?

YES	+
NO	+

04505

AlO\l. v, )9&

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF CHICO
MEASURE K - INCREASE OF TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
FROM 6% TO 9%

On June 21, 1988, the Chico City Council adopted Ordinance #1737, which
increased the City’s transient occupancy tax from 6% of the rent charged by
the operator of a hotel to 9%. This ordinance stated a preference that the
revenues from the increase be appropriated for the promotion of tourism and
economic development, the support of a community center, community art
projects and other similar community programs or projects, but nonetheless
allowed the revenues generated from the tax increase to be used for any
general municipal purpose.

On July 25, 1988, the Chico City Council adopted Resolution #6 88-89
proposing a ballot measure for adoption of an ordinance which, like Ordinance
#1737, would increase the transient occupancy tax from 6% of the rent
charged by the operator of a hotel to 9%. However, unlike Ordinance # 1737,
this proposed ordinance would require that all of the revenues derived from
the 3% tax increase be appropriated exclusively for the promotion of tourism
and economic development, the support of a community center, community
art projects and for other similar community programs or projects. If adopted,
this proposed ordinance would replace Ordinance #1737. This measure
proposes a special tax, since the 3% increase would be levied for a specific
purpose, and therefore requires approval by two-thirds of the qualified electors
voting on the measure.

A yes vote on Measure K would be a vote in favor of adopting an ordinance
which would increase the City’s transient occupancy tax from 6% to 9% and
which would require that the revenues generated from the tax increase be
used for certain specified purposes relating to tourism, economic development
and community programs or projects. A no vote would be a vote against the
measure. If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote
in favor of the measure, then the ordinance will be adopted, and the revenues
generated from the 3% tax increase must be used exclusively for the purposes
specified above. If less than two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this
measure vote for the measure, then the previous ordinance adopted by the
Chico City Council on June 21, 1988 will remain in effect, and the revenues
generated from the 3% increase may be used for any general municipal
purpose.

ROBERT G. BOEHM
City Attorney, City of Chico

by/ Elizabeth E. McGie
Assistant City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure K. If you
desire a copy of the measure or ordinance, please call the City
Clerk's office at 895-4800 and a copy will be mailed at no cost
to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

Monies from the Transient Occupancy Tax are presently allocated to the
General Fund. This ordinance change will require the City of Chico to separately
fund 1/3 of the present tax monies to support tourism, economic development,
a community center, public art projects, and other tourism related activities.

For a complete explanation concerning Measure K, the Council recommends
that you review the City Attorney’s Impartial Analysis which is included in
the sample ballot.

The Chico City Council urges your support of this Measure.

CHICO CITY COUNCIL
si Charles W. Nelson, Mayor

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

04-71