No. 12345

SAMPLE BALLOT

SPECIAL ELECTION
TAHOE-TRUCKEE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

Counties of Placer and El Dorado

TUESDAY - MARCH 7, 1989

This ballot stub shall be removed by a precinct
board member and handed to the voter before
the ballot is placed in the ballot container.

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

S Shall the Tahoe Truckee Unified
School District be authorized to levy
a special tax to provide revenue for those
educational and related needs approved
by the Governing Board as set forth in
Paragraph 8 of Resolution No. 21-88/89
incorporated herein by reference, and
adopted by the Board after having
reviewed and studied the report entitled
“Needs Assessment of the Tahoe Truckee
Unified School District,” dated November
19&8, prepared by the Budget and Long
Term Planning Subcommmittee of the
Save Our Schools Citizen Committee; and
shall the special tax be levied for a period
of four years beginning July 1,1989, in the
amount of $48.00 per year {$4,00 per
month) per Assessor’s Parcel within the
District; and shall the appropriations limit
of the District be increased for a period
of four years from July 1, 1989, in an
amount equal to the revenue raised by the
special tax; and shall all taxpayers who
have attained age 65 by July 1st of each
year be exempt from this special tax upon
approval of an application for
exemption submitted in accordance
with the rules and regulations of the
District?

YES

NO

031-101

VOTE THIS SIDE ONLY

VOTER'S

PAMPHLET

TABLE OF CONTENTS

The following pages contain
this voter information:

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
ARGUMENT(S)

Measures or Propositions

i

An impartial analysis of the local measure,
prepared by the County Counsel, has been
included.

Arguments in support of or in opposition to
the proposed laws are the opinions of the
authors.

P

V-75

Impartial Analysis of Measure S	Argument	in	Favor	of	Measure	S

This analysis of the special tax to support the Tahoe-
Truckee schools is prepared and submitted to the voters in
accordance with Section 5321 of the Elections Code.

The Legislature added Sections 50075 50077 and 50079 to
the Government Code to implement the provisions of Article
XIIIA of the California Constitution. These statutes authorize
school districts to submit to the voters for approval or rejection
a measure authorizing the levy of a special tax.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on the measure
vote for approval, the Board of Trustees of the Tahoe-Truckee
Unified School District will be authorized to levy a special tax
of $48.00 per year per assessor’s parcel upon parcels of real
property located within the boundaries of the Tahoe-Truckee
Unified School District. Taxpayers 65 years of age or older who
own parcels otherwise subject to the tax, will be entitled to
an exemption from the special tax subject to submitting proof
of entitlement to the exemption pursuant to rules and
regulations to be adopted by the governing board of the school
district. This special tax will be authorized to remain in effect
for a maximum period of four (4) years and the proceeds thereof
shall only be used for the purposes as set forth in the measure.

If the measure passes, the appropriations limit of the
District will be increased for a period of four (4) years from
July X, 1989, in an amount equal to the revenue raised by the
special tax.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on the measure
do not vote for approval, the measure will fail and the proposed
special tax will not be levied.

The electors who will be entitled to vote on the measure
will be those qualified electors who reside within the boundaries
of the Tahoe-Truckee Unified School District.

This special tax has no effect on the existing law other than
described above.

Isl Joan Dowis

Placer County Counsel

Over a six-month period the Save Our Schools Citizens
Committee has carefully examined the unmet needs of the
Tahoe-Truckee Unified School District. We discovered that
because of budget cuts following Proposition 13:

There are insufficient academic course offerings to meet
the needs of college prep students;

Vocational educational programs are severely limited;

There are no librarians in the entire school district and the
district has not purchased library books in ten years;

There is no computer literacy curriculum;

The elementary school supply budgets are minimal and are
generally spent before the school year starts;

A pressing need for additional counselors exists particularly
at the intermediate school level;

There is only one nurse for the entire school district and
there is a lack of testing equipment for State mandated
programs;

There is an inadequate number of buses to satisfy the
transportation needs of the district;

Of the school buses operated by the district, over two-thirds
exceed the State requirements for replacement on the basis
of mileage;

Critical maintenance of buildings and asphalt areas has been
deferred.

The special tax of $4 per month per parcel would remain
in effect for only four years. The tax proceeds would be used
solely to correct these problems and would not be available for
general use of the district. The Committee has carefully
considered all available funding sources and has concluded that
the special tax is the only way to provide the needed programs
and equipment.

In the November 1989 election four of the five school board
positions will be filled. With adequate new funding our school
board will have the means to ensure that the youth of our
community receive a quality education in a reasonably safe and
nurturing environment.

Save Our Schools Committee
Isl Bob Maddox
(Co-Chairman)

/s/Ron Estabrook
(Co-Chairman)

Isl Bobbie Specht

(Campaign Coordinator)

Isl Zoey Todd

(Campaign Coordinator)

Isl Sally Frazier
(Teacher/Liaison)

Argument Against Measure S

No Argument Against Measure S
was Submitted

page i

Printed on 83/09/89 at ii:£l am

SPECIAL TAHOE-TRUCKEE UNIFIED ELECTION
iflRC^T, 1989
^Final Report **
lumber 10,

MEASURE "S“	11/	11*

100.0*

O

Autht-. *ze Special	YES	3118	78.2*
Tax	NO	BBS	21. B*
COUNTY TURNOUT			*
			*
El Dorado Accusi Reg.		456	*
Precinct Turnout		15B	34.2*
Pet Reporting	1	1	*
			#
Nevada Accum Reg,		4829	*
Precinct Turnout		1445	29.9*
Pet Reporting	4	4	*
			*
Placer ftecuw Reg.		5947	*
Precinct Turnout		1907	32.1*
Pet Reporting	6	6	*
			
* TOTAL TURNOUT *			*

*

TOTAL ACCOM. REG. - -)	11232	*  *
TOTAL PREC. TURNOUT )	3508	31.2*
TOTAL CO. REGISTRATION •	11232	*
TOTAL A.V. TURNOUT -)  if	481	4.3*  *
* TV.,.iC0. TURNOUT ->	3989	35.5*