DIXIE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT



Resolution No. 1988/89-5

In the Matter of a )	RESOLUTION AND ORDER OF

Special Tax Election )	ELECTION

_____________________)

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide
adequate and necessary funding for the continued operations and instructional
programs of Dixie Elementary School, Vallecito Elementary School, and Miller
Creek Middle School of the Dixie Elementary School District; and as a result
of this lack of funding and financial support for the schools, the Dixie
Elementary School.District has eliminated important programs beneficial and
necessary to the children who attend schools of the District; and continued
reliance solely on the State funding will result in further loss of critical
programs; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program delivers
many long-lasting benefits and advantages to all of the residents of our
community; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article X111A of the California Constitution
and Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077 and 53720 et seq. authorize
school districts to levy a "special tax" to raise funds for the purpose of
providing funds to run the schoois of the district upon approval of two-
thirds of the votes cast by voters upon such special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, it is the intention of the 'governing board of the Dixie
'Elementary District to conduct a special election on March 7, 1989, at which
will be submitted to the qualified voters of the Dixie Elementary School
District a measure to authorize a special tax for the purpose of continuing
and also reinstating vital, educational programs critical to the educational
process in the schools of the Dixie Elementary School District; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
THE DIXIE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the
boundaries of the Dixie Elementary School District at which election
shall be submitted to the qualified voters the following measure, to wit:

MEASURE

Shall the Dixie Elementary School District, serving the children
within, the boundaries of the Dixie Elementary School District, provide funds
for the continuance and reinstatement of the specific educational programs
described below by levying a special tax assessment of $60.00 per year
($30.00 per semiannual payment) per assessor's parcel for a limited period
of 5 years, beginning July 1, 1989, with an exemption for any beneficial
owner of a parcel who has attained the age of 65 on or before May 1 of any
applicable year and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of
residence?



The specific educational programs are:
•- MAINTAIN REDUCED CLASS SIZE.

•	MAINTAIN INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAMS at approximately their
current level.

•	RESTORE INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAMS eliminated or significantly
reduced because of financial cut-backs such as:

K-5 SCIENCE SPECIALIST PROGRAM

K-8 MUSIC PROGRAM

K-5 PHYSICAL EDUCATION PROGRAM

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of $60.00 per year for
each assessor's parcel. An exemption will be made available to each individual
in the district who will attain the age of 65 years prior to May 1 of the
assessment year, who owns a beneficial interest in the residence, who uses
that parcel as his or her principal place of residence, and who applies to the
district on or before May 1, 1989 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year.
Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for
the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as the applicant
continues to use the parcel as his or her principal residence.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual
ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

DIXIE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR ••

EDUCATION PROGRAMS

"Shall the Dixie Elementary School District, serving the children
within the boundaries of the Dixie Elementary School District, provide funds
for the continuance and reinstatement of the specific educational programs
described below by levying a special tax assessment of $60.00 per year ($30.00
per semiannual payment) per assessor's parcel for a limited period of 5 years,
beginning July 1, 1989, and increase its appropriations 1imit accordingly, with
an exemption for any beneficial owner of a parcel who has attained the age of
65 oh or before May 1 of any applicable year and who uses that parcel as his
or her principal place of residence?"

YES

NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1,- 1989, the special tax collected
annually on all assessor's parcels at the rate specified above, shall be
collected and administered in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes
are fixed and collected under the provisions of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Marin County is hereby
requested to call a special election of the said "special tax" to be held on
March 7, 1989. .The County Clerk is hereby requested and authorized to 1) set
forth on all sample ballots relating to said election to be mailed to
qualified electors of the Dixie Elementary School District said measure;
and 2) to provide absent voter ballots for said "special tax" election for use
by.qualified electors of the Dixie Elementary School District who are entitled
thereto in the manner provided by law.	  ------

Section 5. If any section, sub-section, phrase or clause of this
resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such, decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portion of this resolution. This
Governing Board declares that it would have adopted this resolution, and each
section, sub-section, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, sub-sections, sentences, phrases or clauses shall be
declared invalid.

Section 6. The Clerk of the Dixie Elementary School District
Governing Board is hereby authorized and directed to certify to the due
adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to
the Superintendent of Schools of Marin County and to file a copy hereof so
certified with the County Clerk of Marin County.

The foregoing resolution was moved by Board Member	•___________

and adopted on roll call on October 25, 1988 by the following vote:

AYES :

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

ATTEST:

WHEREUPON, The President declared the foregoing; resolution duly
adopted and

SO ORDERED,

Gary Phillips, President
Governing Board of Dixie
Elementary School District

I,	Larry Lyon, Secretary to the Board of Trustees, do hereby certify that
the foregoing is a true and correct copy of a Resolution adopted by the
'Board of Trustees of the DIXIE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT at a regular
meeting on October 25, 1988, which Resolution is on file in the office of
said Board.

Date '	Larry	Lyon,	Superintendent

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Date

Deputy County Counsel