MEASURE 0

CITY ATTORNEY S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE 0

This measure asks the voters of Mountain View whether they approve participation in the Ballpark
Joint Powers Finance Authority of Santa Clara County (“Authority”), and whether the Authority
should build and operate a major league baseball stadium (“Ballpark”) financed with a 1% tax
on utility services.

It you vote YES on this measure, then the City will continue to be a member of the Authority,
and the Authority will be authorized to levy a 1% utility tax in Mountain View to build and operate
the Ballpark.

If you vote NO on this measure, then the City no longer will be a member of the Authority and
the Authority will not collect the 1% utility tax in Mountain View.

On August 8, 1990. several cities in Santa Clara County (including Mountain View) and the
County government formed the Authority by signing a joint powers agreement (the Agreement).

1 he Authority is an agency formed under State law which collectively may exercise the powers
of its members.

The Authority was formed to finance, construct and operate a Ballpark in the City of Santa Clara,
with some parking facilities in the City of San Jose. The Ballpark will be leased for use by the
San Francisco Giants baseball team.

The Authority has proposed to levy a 1% tax on all utility services provided in the member cities
and unincorporated county territory, in order to finance the construction of the Ballpark. The tax
would be used to pay off revenue bonds (“Bonds”) issued to raise the necessary construction
funds, and would continue until the Bonds were paid off (probably in 30 years).

The City of Mountain View is a conditional member of the Authority. The City Council approved
participation in the Authority, but made such participation and the 1% utility tax subject to voter
approval. This measure submits the question to the voters.

The Authority has placed a similar tax measure on the ballot for the remainder of its territory,
and the Cities of Santa Clara and San Jose each have local ballot measures which will determine
those cities' participation. All of these other measures must be passed if the Ballpark is to be
constructed. Whether the Ballpark could proceed without the financial participation of the City
of Mountain View is not certain.

If the necessary ballot measures pass, the Authority would conclude negotiations with the Giants
baseball organization to lease the Ballpark, issue the Bonds (if a lease were agreed upon), and
build the Ballpark.

The Agreement provides that the utility tax will end when the Bonds are paid. Projections
prepared by the Authority indicate that revenues will not equal expenditures for the first 12 years
of operation; thereafter, the Authority projects a surplus. The Agreement provides that a surplus,
if not used to pay the Bonds, must be returned to the participating agencies in proportion to the
amount of utility tax contributed. There is no limitation on the use of surplus funds which are
returned to the member agencies.

P. LAWRENCE KLOSE

City Attorney

City of Mountain View

Santa Clara County's New Ballpark for Giants’ Baseball brings benefits at little or no cost to
Mtn. View citizens.

great economic benefits.

■	Generates millions of dollars of additional revenue for Mtn. View to support financial needs
of the City.

■	Creates hundreds of jobs for our residents.

■	Provides business opportunities for restaurants, shops, hotels.

■	Profits from other special events scheduled in addition to baseball.

■	We can support both the Library as the Heart of our City and the Ballpark a Hub of our Region.
LOW COST TO US. LITTLE OR NONE.

■	Major Businesses and Corporations will pay majority of Ballpark costs.

■	Most Mtn. View residents will pay little more than a dollar a month. The utility tax sunsets in
8-12 years.

■	$50 Exemption on electricity and total Lifeline Exemption on all utilities for low income residents
and those who conserve.

GIANTS TO PAY MILLIONS. PUT MILLIONS INTO LOCAL ECONOMY.

■	Giants to pay highest rent of any Major League ball club in USA.

■	Giants to contribute $1 million each year to local charities.

■	New baseball related businesses will add to County tax base.

A YES VOTE on Measure O is OUR INVESTMENT IN A
FAMILY-ORIENTED COMMUNITY ASSET, A REGIONAL GATHERING PLACE
FOR MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL AND OTHER EVENTS.

II

SUSAN S. CLARKE
Homemaker

STUART A. MATHESON
Banker

J. J. LAZARO

President, Mountain View Little League
FAYE I. CLACK
Senior Citizen

EARL B. JOHNSON

Past President Chamber of Commerce

Mountain View

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O

Mountain View taxpayers are being asked by the Ballpark Authority to pay a 1 % tax in addition
to the existing 3% city utilities tax for the purpose of financing a baseball stadium in another city.

The proposed tax will be levied on Mountain View citizens and businesses for 30 years and
construction overruns would have to be paid by increasing this public subsidy.

The primary purpose of city taxes is to pay for services for its residents, not to finance private
profit-making commercial ventures. If the ballpark enterprise is such a good investment, why
haven’t venture capitalists and financial institutions come forward to invest in it? The Ballpark
Authority has no business receiving subsidies from Mountain View taxpayers. It’s not ethical,
and possibly not even legal.

For two years, Mountain View’s sales tax revenues have been declining. City-generated funds
should be directed at improving real-life priorities such as library expansion, new fire station,
parks, and retiring the city’s existing debts.

Boosters claim that the stadium will somehow add excitement and color to South Bay life.
The same line was pitched over 20 years ago when New York City put $25 million into a new
Yankee Stadium which ballooned into $125 million before it was all over. What has this done
for the Bronx? Has baseball saved Detroit from urban decay?





f



ga



M6&





ftSSK p

MW





<<1 ^
. fs> &$£
JS-iwS*

SswK



Kfisna

:5C>

___________________ARGUMENT	AGAINST MEASURE O — continued____________________

Historically, the use of public funds has often been abused. Those responsible for the disburse-
ment of taxpayers' money tend to be less careful with these funds. A deep-pocket mentality
prevails whenever tax money is readily available.

The issue is simple. This is not a vote for or against the Giants. This is a vote to tax essential
ser\ ices in order to support a private commercial venture. That is wrong.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE O.

EVANGELO “GERRY” GERONTINOS
President

Salco Acres Civic Association

HANK SCHADE
Former Chairman

Environmental Planning Commission
City of Mountain View

MATT ALLEN
Former Mayor
City of Mountain View