CHARTER AMENDMENT U

SECTION 1210. REVENUE BONDS.

Bonds which are payable only out of such
revenues as may be specified in such bonds may be
issued when the City Council by ordinance shall have
established a procedure for the issuance of such
bonds. Such bonds, payable only out of revenues,
shall not constitute an indebtedness or general
obligation of the City. No such bonds payable out of
revenues shall be issued without the assent of a
majority of the voters voting upon the proposition for
issuing the same at an election at which such
proposition shall have been duly submitted to the
qualified electors of the City. As used in this Section
1210, the term "bonds" shall mean bonds, notes
and other evidences of indebtedness.

It shall be competent for the City to make
contracts and covenants for the benefit of the holders
of any such bonds payable only from revenues and
which shall not constitute a general obligation of the
City for the establishment of/A/MMIM funds, for the
maintaining of adequate rates or charges, for
restrictions upon further indebtedness payable out of
the same funds or revenues, for restrictions upon
transfer out of such funds, and other appropriate
covenants. Money placed in any such	fund	for

the payment of principal and/or interest on any of
such bonds or to assure the application thereof to a
specific purpose shall not be expended for any other
purpose whatever except for the purpose for which
such	fund was established and shall be

deemed segregated from all other funds of the City
and resen/ed exclusively for the purpose for which
such	fund was established until the purpose of

its establishment shall have been fully accomplished.

hm mtmwfl imuvw mw> mu mm tmm
umimmmityiMimmiMiuuiniwui
mmwMMwmtw&timtmiMtMtimuw
tmmiuuimmmHuiu/mttmmiumi

im i*/mmt im/mm m am /urn im /
mmm /u /m/m mmw mi imutmm /
mihhm	/mi	am	//mm	/\/>m	i

ttimtwimmwtiimimiiMiMuwmiMi

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City
may sell and issue at any time and from time to
time, without the assent of the voters,

(a)	revenue bonds (including renewal
or refunding revenue bonds) payable out of
revenues of the City’s water utility,

(b)	revenue bond anticipation notes
(including renewal revenue bond anticipation
notes) payable out of (i) revenues of the City’s
water utility or (ii) the proceeds of revenue
bonds payable out of revenues of the City’s
water utility or (iii) both,

(c)	revenue bonds (including renewal
or refunding revenue bonds) payable out of
revenues of the City’s electric utility, and

(d)	revenue bond anticipation notes
(including renewal revenue bond anticipation
notes) payable out of (i) revenues of the City’s
electric utility or (ii) the proceeds of revenue
bonds payable out of revenues of the City’s
electric utility or (iii) both.

Such revenue bonds and revenue bond
anticipation notes may be sold, issued and
secured in such manner and subject to such terms
and conditions as the City Council shall prescribe
by ordinance; provided that such revenue bonds
and revenue bond anticipation notes (A) shall not
constitute an indebtedness or general obligation of
the City of Anaheim, and (B) shall not be secured
by the taxing power of said City.

It shall be a precondition to the issuance of
any revenue bonds without the assent of the voters
pursuant to the immediately preceding paragraph
of this Section 1210 that the City Council shall have
adopted a resolution of intention with respect
thereto and such resolution shall have become
effective. Each such resolution of intention shall
set forth the formal designation, the source or
sources of payment, the maximum principal
amount and the maximum true interest cost of the
particular revenue bonds intended to be issued,
and shall state that the resolution of intention is
subject to referendum in accordance with this
paragraph. The City Council shall direct the City
Clerk to publish any such resolution of intention at
least once, within fifteen days of the passage
thereof, in the official newspaper. At any time
within thirty days after such publication a
referendary petition signed by not less than ten
percent of the voters of the City according to the
County Clerk’s last official report of registration to
the Secretary of State demanding the submission
of such resolution of intention to a vote of the
qualified electors of the City for their assent, may
be filed with the City Clerk. If such a referendary
petition shall be filed with the City Clerk within
such thirty day period, the resolution of intention
shall not become effective unless and until the
same shall have been assented to by the voters.

If no such referendary petition shall be filed with the City Clerk within such thirty day period, the resolution of intention shall become effective upon the expiration of such thirty day period. Except as provided in this paragraph, all other provisions of this Charter relating to referendum shall apply to any referendum hereunder, as if the resolution of intention constituted an ordinance.  mmutmtoyMiwuMMimmiftM  tmmmuimtimuimMiimmmiuu^ui  mum im mut itmm turn immmu im i wmmmmMmMMMimMMtmmM mtHuuMmmimmiMmuimumimmu uuimumu /um tm imimumimuu / uuiiwmmmtiummiimimmtitmmi uui mumui ummu/mu m mummiui mmmtiMwmuiwrhtimMimyufrtiimimi mMflmMMmimmiMimwmmtimmti UMiimMfMflwimmMtiUflfflimmtHu# MiMtyM UrhMM IM mu IMUt lUiMM IMU I imimMimuimimimMitmuMummi mumu im mm um mut nmm mu / uumuiu tutu mtt mum lutmuiu iu / Mmm&MwtmiumiimuiutinrhtiiMimi  umimMtMflwimnuwiiuwMmiiMM  im ifruut im imm iu am turn tm / mmm iu im tm tumn mi imutm /w / mmmmm /jbumu tuu mu uuum imm i mmma umumumumm imumumn mumimumittim/mi&imMw mm mm ummmmmmmmimmmtimumm  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City may also sell and issue at any time and from time to time revenue anticipation notes (including renewal revenue 11 anticipation notes) in anticipation of the receipt of If revenues of the City's water and electric utilities; f provided that the aggregate principal amount of such | revenue anticipation notes outstanding in accordance | with their terms at any one time shall not exceed, for each of such utilities, an amount equal to 25% of the p gross revenue earned by the respective utility during 1 the immediately preceding fiscal year as set forth in I the audited financial statements of such utility for such 1 year. Such revenue anticipation notes may be sold, 1 issued, and secured in such manner and subject to t such terms and conditions as the City Council may 1 prescribe by ordinance; provided that such revenue 1 anticipation notes shall not constitute an indebtedness i or general obligation of the City of Anaheim and are Knot to be secured by the taxing power of said City.	SECTION 1210.1 ELECTRIC AND WATER RE- FUNDING REVENUE BONDS.  Electric and water refunding revenue bonds may be issued to purchase, redeem or retire any bonds heretofore or hereafter issued pursuant to Section 1210 or this Section 1210.1, whenever the City Council determines that (1) costs of the City will be reduced by the refunding of any bonds, or (2) issuance of the refunding bonds will otherwise be financially advantageous to the City.  If as a result of the issuing of refunding bonds pursuant to this Section 1210.1, the water or electric utility of the City shall, in any Fiscal Year, realize a reduction in principal and interest on debt issued to finance such utility when the principal and interest paid on the refunding bonds in such Fiscal Year is compared to the principal and interest that would have been payable on the refunded bonds in such Fiscal Year, the City Council shall, not later than the last day of the next succeeding Fiscal Year, adjust rates of such utility, if necessary, to reflect fully such reduction in principal and interest payments as a reduction in costs of service of such utility.  All provisions of Section 1210 are applicable to refunding bonds, except that notwithstanding Section 1210 no additional election shall be required to authorize their issuance.  SECTION 1210.2 LIMITATION ON ISSUANCE OF ELECTRIC REVENUE BONDS.  (a)	The City shall not issue Electric Revenue Bonds unless, on the date of issuance thereof, the Net revenues of the Electric Enterprise, calculated on sound accounting principles, as shown by the books of the City for each of the last two completed Fiscal Years prior to the adoption of the resolution approving the sale of such Electric Revenue Bonds as shown by an audit certificate or opinion of an independent certified public accountant or firm of certified public accountants employed by the City, plus, at the option of the City, the allowance for earnings hereinafter set forth in subparagraph (b) of this Section 1210.2, shall have amounted to at least 1.10 times the Annual Debt Service in the Fiscal Year next succeeding the Fiscal Year in which such Electric Revenue Bonds are issued on all outstanding Electric Revenue Bonds.  (b)	For the purposes of this Section 1210.2, the following may be added to the Gross Revenues of the Electric Enterprise for the purpose of applying the restrictions contained in subparagraph (a) of this Section 1210.2:

An allowance for earnings arising from any
increase in the charges made for service from the
Electric Enterprise which has become effective
prior to the issuance of such Electric Revenue
Bonds but which, during all or any part of said last
two completed Fiscal Years, was not in effect, in an
amount equal to 95% of the amount by which the
Gross Revenues should have been increased if
such increase in charges had been in effect during
the whole of said last two completed Fiscal Years,
as shown by the certificate or opinion of an
independent certified accountant or firm of
certified public accountants employed by the City.

(c)	For purposes of this Section 1210.2, Net
Revenues of the Electric Enterprise shall include
all investment income on all accounts established
in the Electric Revenue Fund and on all other
funds established for the benefit of the holders of
Electric Revenue Bonds.

(d)	As used in this Section 1210.2, the
following terms shall have the following meanings:

“Annual Debt Service” as computed from
time to time with respect to any Fiscal Year means
the amount of principal (including required
payments into any sinking account established for
the Electric Revenue Bonds) and interest which
will become due and payable or will accrue in such
Fiscal Year on outstanding Electric Revenue
Bonds.

“Electric Enterprise” means the entire
electric system of the City, including all
improvements and extensions later constructed or
acquired.

“Electric Revenue Bonds" means electric
revenue bonds payable from the revenues of the
Electric Enterprise, ranking prior to or on a parity
with the Electric Revenue Bonds, Second Issue of
1986, or, if the Electric Revenues Bonds, Second
Issue of 1986, are no longer outstanding, electric
revenue bonds which would have ranked prior to
or on a parity with the Electric Revenue Bonds,
Second Issue of 1986, if such Bonds were still
outstanding.

"Fiscal Year” means the year period
beginning on July 1 and ending on the next
following June 30.

"Gross Revenues” means ail rates, fees
and charges for providing electric service to
persons and reai property and all other fees, rents
and charges and other income derived by the City,
from the ownership, operation, use or services of
the Electric Enterprise.

"Maintenance and Operation Expenses”
means the reasonable and necessary current
expenses of maintaining, repairing and operating
the Electric Enterprise, including City
administrative expenses directly attributable to
electric system functions, but excluding
depreciation, interest and amortization, all
computed in accordance with sound accounting
principles and consistent with existing accounting
practices of the City.

"Net Revenues of the Electric Enterprise"
means the amount of the Gross Revenues less the
Maintenance and Operation Expenses.

(e)	The provisions of this Section 1210.2 shall
not apply to Electric Revenue Bonds issued to
purchase, redeem or retire any bonds heretofore
or hereafter issued pursuant to Section 1210 or
Section 1210.1.

SECTION 1210.3 LIMITATION ON ISSUANCE OF
WATER REVENUE BONDS.

(a)	The	City	shall	not	issue Water

Revenue Bonds unless, on the date of issuance
thereof, the Net Revenues of the Water Enterprise,
calculated on sound accounting principles, as
shown by the books of the City for each of the last
two completed Fiscal Years prior to the adoption of
the resolution approving the sale of such Water
Revenue Bonds as shown by an audit certificate or
opinion of an independent certified public
accountant or firm of certified public accountants
employed by the City, plus, at the option of the
City, the allowance for earnings hereinafter set
forth in subparagraph (b) of this Section 1210.3,
shall have amounted to at least 1.10 times the
Maximum Annual Debt Service in any Fiscal Year
thereafter on all Water Revenue Bonds to be
outstanding immediately subsequent to the
issuance of such Water Revenue Bonds.

(b)	For the purposes of this Section
1210.3, the following may be added to the Net
Revenues of the Water Enterprise for the purpose
of applying the restrictions contained in
subparagraph (a) of this Section 1210.3:

An allowance for earnings arising from any
increase in the charges made for service from the
Water Enterprise which has become effective prior
to the issuance of such Water Revenue Bonds but
which, during ail or any part of said last two
completed Fiscal Years, was not in effect, in an
amount equal to 75% of the amount by which the
Net Revenues of the Water Enterprise should have
been increased if such increase in charges had
been in effect during the whole of said last two
completed Fiscal Years, as shown by the certificate
or opinion of an independent certified accountant
or firm of certified public accountants employed
by the City.

(c)	For purposes of this Section 1210.3,
Net Revenues of the Water Enterprise shall include
all investment income on all accounts established
in the Water Enterprise Fund and on all other funds
established for the benefit of the holders of the
Water Revenue Bonds.

(d)	As used in this Section 1210,3, the
following terms shall have the following meanings:

"Fiscal Year" means the year period
beginning on July 1 and ending on the next
following June 30.



"Maximum Annual Debt Service" as
computed from time to time means the largest of
the sums obtained for the Fiscal Year of
computation or any Fiscal Year thereafter by
totaling the following for each such Fiscal Year:

(1)	The principal amount of all serial
Water Revenue Bonds payable in such Fiscal Year
and outstanding at the date of such computation;

(2)	The minimum sinking account
payments, if any, payable in such Fiscal Year with
respect to the term Water Revenue Bonds
outstanding at the date of such computation; and

(3)	The interest which would be due
during such Ftecal Year on the aggregate principal
amount of the Water Revenue Bonds which would
be outstanding in such Fiscal Year if the serial
Water Revenue Bonds outstanding on the date of
such computation are retired as they mature and if
the term Water Revenue Bonds outstanding on the
date of such computation, if any, are retired as
scheduled in the resolution providing for the
issuance of such term Water Revenue Bonds.

"Net Revenues of the Water Enterprise”
means the amount of the Revenues less the
Operating Expenses.

"Operating Expenses" of the Water
Enterprise means the reasonable and necessary
current expenses of maintaining, repairing and
operating the Water Enterprise, including City
administrative expenses directly attributable to
water system functions, but excluding
depreciation and amortization, and debt service
requirements of the City’s general obligation water
bonds, ail computed in accordance with sound
accounting principles and consistent with existing
accounting practices of the City.

"Water Enterprise” means the entire
waterworks system of the City, including ail
additions to, and improvements and extensions of,
said system later constructed or acquired.

"Water Revenue Bonds" means water
revenue bonds payable from the revenues of the
Water Enterprise, ranking prior to or on a parity
with the Water Revenue Bonds, 1988 Series, or, if
the Water Revenue Bonds, 1988 Series are no
longer outstanding, water revenue bonds which
would have ranked prior to or on a parity with the
Water Revenue Bonds, 1988 Series, if such Bonds
were still outstanding.

(e)	The provisions of this Section
1210.3 shall not apply to Water Revenue Bonds
issued to purchase, redeem or retire any bonds
heretofore or hereafter issued pursuant to Section
1210 or Section 1210.1.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U
BY CITY ATTORNEY

Section 1210 of the City Charter authorizes the City
to issue revenue bonds provided such bond
proposition is submitted to a City election and is
approved by a majority of the voters voting on such
proposition. Revenue bonds are not paid from
property taxes and do not constitute an indebtedness
or general obligation of the City but are payable solely
out of those utility revenues specified in the bonds.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, Sections 1210 and
1210.1 of the City Charter currently authorize the City
Council to issue certain revenue bond anticipation
notes and refunding revenue bonds (to purchase,
redeem or retire any existing bonds), payable solely
from revenues of the City's electric or water utilities,
without an election.

This proposed measure would amend Section 1210
of the City Charter to authorize the City Council to
issue revenue bonds (including renewal or refunding
revenue bonds) and revenue bond anticipation notes
(including renewal revenue bond anticipation notes),
payable solely out of revenues of the City’s water or
electric utilities, without the assent of the voters at an
election. Any such bonds would be subject to the
power of the voters to require an election thereon by
referendum and further subject to the financial
limitations and restrictions set forth in proposed
Charter Sections 1210.2 and 1210.3.	These

restrictions would provide that Electric Revenue
Bonds or Water Revenue Bonds shall not be issued
unless, on the date of issuance, the Net Revenues of
the Electric Enterprise or Water Enterprise (whichever
is applicable) for each of the prior two fiscal years,
together with a certain allowance for earnings as
described therein, shall be at least 1.10 times the total
Annual Debt Service on all outstanding Electric
Revenue Bonds or Water Revenue Bonds (whichever
is applicable) which will become due or accrue in the
Fiscal Year immediately following the Fiscal Year in
which such bonds are issued. (All capitalized words
are defined terms in the proposed measure.)

JACK L. WHITE
City Attorney of Anaheim

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

If you want continued reliable and low cost
water and electric service for Anaheim consumers in
the future, vote YES on Measure U.

Your Water and Electric utilities have combined
assets of more than $540 million and together make
up one of the largest businesses in Anaheim. Your
YES vote on Measure U will help assure that your
Water and Electric utilities are able to operate like a
business an(f continue to provide you with reliable
service at the lowest practical rates in keeping with
sound business practices.

Because California law allows only three elections a
year, your YES vote will give the City Council the
opportunity to make more timely decisions on critical
water and electric projects. Your YES vote will assure:

*	Anaheim will not be forced out of
critical water or electric projects
because timely bond financing could
not be arranged.

*	Anaheim win be able to quickly take full
advantage of lower interest rates in the
bond market.

A YES vote on Measure U will allow the City to
borrow money that bv law can be repaid only out of
revenues from the sale of water or electricity.

Payments will NOT increase taxes!

The use of long-term bonds to pay for critically
needed improvements spreads the benefits and
costs of projects over 20 to 30 years. This means
present rate payers will not pay 100 percent of the
cost of facilities that also will be used by future
customers.

Your YES vote on Measure U means:

YES. I want my utilities run like a
business;

YES. I want timely financial decisions;
YES. I want quality water and electric
service; and...

YES. 1 want to help hold down water
and electric rates!

Vote YES for good business.

Vote YES for lower costs.

Vote YES on Measure U.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT
IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

The argument in favor of MEASURE U is a hoax.
Voting to hand the City Council a blank check so they
can go deeper in debt to raise funds to meet bond
payments borders on insanity. It won’t do a thing to
promote reliable and low cost service to future
consumers, but it sure will give the politicians and the
utility department a way to save face.

In the next year Anaheim must come up with an
additional $90 million to meet current bond
repayments. Even with two rate increases in the past
seven months, there isn’t enough funds to pay back
bond money owed to the money lenders. Either utility
rates must be increased still further or the city has got
to borrow (via bonds) more money to pay the millions
owed this fiscal year. A yes vote puts the fox in the
henhouse or to put it a different way, the politician’s
hand in your wallet. Remember the Utility department
must raise enough money from its users to payback
$2,908,726,000.00 to bond holders...and that’s you
and me baby. .	j.'/V

If I owed almost three billion dollars, I wouldn’t brag
about having assets of only Five Hundred Forty Million
dollars. •	V:;

The argument for MEASURE U doesn’t make any
more sense than does the language on your
November 6, 1990 ballot. Don’t be fooled with the
promises of low utility rates. VOTE NO!

JIM TOWNSEND, Chairman > \
Telephone Taxpayers Committee

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U

The City Council has placed a number of measures
on the Nov. 6, 1990 ballot that would change the
present Charter. I was a member of the committee
that drafted the present City Charter and I can find
nothing in the proposed Charter changes that would
benefit Anaheim voters.

Included in said Charter changes is Measure No. U
that would give the City Council the right to issue and
sell water and electric bonds without voter’s approval.
Due to previous bond sales that has indebted Anaheim
utility users $2,908,726,000 (two billion, nine hundred
eight thousand, seven hundred twenty six dollars)
Anaheim is in financial trouble. With two hikes in our
utility rates In the past seven months, this may be only
a sign of things of things to come.

I served for 12 years as the Vice Chairman of the
Anaheim Public Utility Board and I can’t think of a
single way to pay off these utility bonds without rate
increases to both businesses and private users, you
and me. This fiscal year Anaheim must find an
additional $90,000,000.00 just to meet bond
repayment. Up to now, bond repayments have been
met out of refunds from overpayments to Edison and
with funds left over from previous authorized bond
sales. The Edison refunds are gone and so are most
of the excess bonds. Since said bonds are revenue
bonds, and only business and users (you and me)
provide such revenue, its anyones guess how high
utility rate may go.

If you vote to give the City Council the freedom to
issue and sell bonds whenever they choose, then
please don’t squak if your utility rates double and
triple. Retain control of bond sales, VOTE NO on
Measure U. Vote NO on all Charter changes.

JIM TOWNSEND, Chairman
Telephone Taxpayers Committee

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT
AGAINST MEASURE U

The argument against Measure U is misleading and
contains confusing and inaccurate statements. Here
are the Facts:	... : •	\;•	'.

FACT - Anaheim’s water and electric utilities
are not in financial trouble. Yearly
audits by independent international
accounting firms confirm the utilities’
financial strength.

FACT - Anaheim water and electric bonds are
among the highest rated revenue
bonds in the United States, further
proof of financial strength and good
financial planning.

FACT - According to the most recent audit,
long-term utilities debt is $297 million,
NOT 2.9 billion. Annual repayments
are $28 million, NOT $90 million.

FACT - Bond repayments are NOT made out of
refunds from Edison or funds left over
from previous bond sales. As required
by Anaheim’s Charter, bond
repayments are made only from the
sale of electricity and water

Proof of financial strength and economical
operations,

the BOTTOM LINE.

FACT - Current residential electricity bills are
up an average of only 1.5 percent a
year since 1985, well below the
average annual inflation rate of 4
percent since 1985.

FACT - Anaheim residential consumers on the
average pay about 15 percent less for
electricity than residents of other
Orange County cities. .....

FACT ~ Anaheim water bills are among the
lowest in Orange County.

Your YES vote on Measure U is a vote for reliable
and low cost water and electric service for Anaheim
consumers.

Your YES vote will assure adequate water supplies
in drought years and electric supplies free of ties to
expensive oil from the unstable Middle East.

Vote YES on Measure U,

FRED HUNTER, Mayor
1RV PICKLER, Mayor Pro Tern '1
MIRIAM KAYWOOD, CouncilwomaiiV
BILL EHRLE, Council Member
TOM DALY, Council Member