OFFICIAL
SAMPLE
BALLOT

AND VOTER INFORMATION

GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 6, 1990

REGISTRAR-RECORDER
5557 FERGUSON DRIVE
COMMERCE, CA 90022-5192
(213) 721-1100

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE
IS SHOWN ON THE BACK COVER

236



PLEASE DO NOT THROW THIS SAMPLE BALLOT AWAY
MARK AND TAKE IT TO YOUR POLLING PLACE

COUNTY MEASURES

PAGE

11

. LOCAL COMMUNITIES SAFETY ACT - LOS ANGELES COUNTY A REGIONAL JUSTICE FACILITIES FINANCING AGENCY. To finance ™ the construction, acquisition, maintenance, furnishing, and operation of jails, juvenile detention and law enforcement facilities, and to finance intermediate punishments and crime prevention programs in the County, this proposition autt adopt a one-half of 1 percent sales tax and to issue bonds payable from the pro proposition also establishes an appropriations limit for the Agency of an amoi one-half times its proceeds of taxes levied or allocated in its first full fiscal year.	261	YES *40  262	no-40  orizes the Agency to ceeds of the tax. This nt equal to one and
_ LOS ANGELES COUNTY BOND PROPOSITION B. BONDS FOR H SAFER NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS, TREE-PLANTING, GANG u PREVENTION, SENIOR RECREATION, BEACHES AND WILDLIFE.  For the purpose of improving the quality of life in Los Angeles County by improving neighborhood and regional parks, planting trees, providing safer recreation for citizens, preventing gangs and acquiring, restoring and preserving beach, wild cultural resources, shall Los Angeles County issue bonds in the amount of eight h eight hundred ninety thousand dollars ($816,890,000), in accordance with the order	266	yes-40  267	no-40  children and senior life, open space and undred sixteen million of the Board?
^ LOS ANGELES COUNTY TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION 1990 r FAST-TRACK ANTI-GRIDLOCK TRANSIT IMPROVEMENT * PROPOSITION: To fund improved frequency, speed, and reliability of rail and bus service, additional transit security, graffiti removal, and clean-air transit vehicles, shall a 1/2 percent Countywide sales tax increase and an appropriations 1	271	yes-40  272	no-40  mit be established?

CENTRAL AND WEST BASIN WATER REPLENISHMENT DISTRICT

Member, Board
of Directors,

Division 3
Vote for One

ROBERT G. WAGNER
Engineor/Councilmember

OAN L. GLASGOW

Water Reclamation Engineer

278

279*0

LOS ANGELES CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

J POLICE C0MMUNICATI0NS/9-1-1 SYSTEM BOND TAX 284 YES >40

ORDINANCE. PROPOSITION J: Shall an ordinance levying a real------------------------  —

property-related 20-year special tax to repay proposed $235,000,000 in 285	no-*o

bonds tor the expansion and enhancement of the police communication system,-----------------

including the police/fire 9-1-1 component, be adopted?

11-027E

LA 236-12

cV1Y CLE**

%

/£>

Pc770N OW'

;<x

★★★★★★★★★★★★★

VOTER

INFORMATION

PAMPHLET

★★★★★★★★★★★★★

-COMPILED BY ELIAS MARTINEZ, CITY CLERK

★ SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION ★
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1990

TITLE:

Special Tax for Police Communications/911 System Improvements
THE ISSUE:

Should the City be allowed to impose a special tax to repay up to $235
million in bonds to expand and improve the police radio dispatch and
communications/911 system?

THE SITUATION:

The City’s police radio dispatch and communications system is out-
dated. During busy times, there are delays to citizen requests for
emergency services. The dispatch system is unable to meet the grow-
ing demand for emergency services. The system has no back-up
facility.

THE PROPOSAL:

This measure would allow the City to impose a special tax to pay for
up to $235 million in bonds to expand and improve the City's Police
communication systems. These bonds would be used to:

—	replace and expand the Police Department’s radio system,
which includes 911 calls

—	move the current dispatch center to a new facility

—	build a new back-up dispatch center

—	increase the number of 911 telephone operators, police dis-
patchers, and police radio channels.

This special tax will be imposed on residential, business and commer-
cial property within the City. The amount of tax for each parcel of
property would be based primarily on the size of the buildings and
improvements on the property.

The average, annual tax is estimated to be about 97$ for each 100
square feet of improvement. The owner of a 1500 square foot home
would pay about $14.00 each year over the 20-year life of the tax.

This measure will become law only if two-thirds of the voters
approve it.

ARGUMENT FOR:

The City’s 911 emergency telephone system is overloaded and out-
dated. Many citizens are unable to reach an emergency operator.

3

This measure will build a new 911dispatch center in the San Fernando
Valley. The existing center downtown will be relocated and expanded.

A back-up system will be available in case of a major disaster.

This measure will also expand the number of radio frequencies. It will
allow patrol officers to communicate with each other during emergen-
cies. This will result in shorter response times.

I

This measure will ensure that citizens throughout the City will be able |
to reach police, fire, and paramedic services when they dial 911.	?

ARGUMENT AGAINST:

None submitted.

A YES VOTE MEANS:

You want the City to be allowed to impose a special tax to repay up to
$235 million in bonds to expand and improve the police radio dispatch
and communications/911 system.

A NO VOTE MEANS:

You do not want the City to be allowed to impose a special tax to repay
up to $235 million in bonds to expand and improve the police radio
dispatch and communications/911 system.

THE FULL TEXT OF THIS MEASURE BEGINS ON PAGE 14.

4



=B0I3EE C0MMUNIGMI0N8/9-1-1 SYSTEM BOND TAX—
ORDINANCE. PROPOSITION J:

Shall an ordinance levying a real property-related 20-year special tax to
repay proposed $235,000,000 in bonds for the expansion and enhance-
ment of the police communication system, including the police/fire 9-1-1
component, be adopted?

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION J

The City's 9-1-1 emergency telephone system is seriously
overloaded.

The increasing number of calls for fire and police service often
exceeds the capacity of existing obsolete equipment and citizens are
unable to summon help when they desperately need it because they
cannot get through to an operator. Also, the existing dispatch center has
no room for additional operators, even if the system could use them.

While more than 4,600,000 calls were handled by the Central Dispatch
Center during 1989, more than 500,000 callers were unable to get
through to an emergency operator.

Proposition J will provide $235,000,000 for the development and
implementation of an expanded and enhanced emergency services
communications system for the citizens of Los Angeles.

Proposition J will build a new 9-1 -1 dispatch center in the San Fer-
nando Valley and relocate and expand the existing center downtown.
The creation of two such centers will not only provide better service to
residents throughout the City but will also ensure that an adequate back-
up system will be available in the event that a major disaster, such as an
earthquake, were to destroy the downtown center or otherwise curtail
its operation.

Proposition J will also expand the communications capabilities of
patrol officers in the field. At present, patrol officers in one area must
share radio frequencies with officers in other areas. This results in

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are
not checked for accuracy by any City agency.

12

delays in dispatching-
expand the number of radio frequencies available for use by field
officers. It would also provide the capability for officers in neighboring
agencies to communicate directly with one another during emergencies.
This would result in greater operational efficiency and shorter response'
time in emergencies.

Proposition J will ensure that citizens throughout the City will be able
to summon police, fire or paramedic assistance as soon as they dial
9-1-1.

Vote YES on Proposition J.

TOM BRADLEY
Mayor

JOHN FERRARO
President, Los Angeles
City Council

JAMES K. HAHN
City Attorney

RICHARD ALATORRE
Chairman, Public
Safety Committee
Los Angeles City Council

HAL BERNSON	MICHAEL WOO

Councilman, 12th District	Councilman, 13th District

ZEV YAROSLAVSKY
Chairman, Budget & Finance
Committee

Los Angeles City Council

DONALD O. MANNING
Fire Chief, Los Angeles
Fire Department

DARYL F. GATES
Chief of Police
Los Angeles Police
Department

ROBERT J. ABERNETHY
Chairman, Citizens Committee
Supporting Proposition J

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are
not checked for accuracy by any City agency.

13

PROPOSITION J

PROPOSED POLICE COMMUNICATIONS/9-1 -1 SYSTEM BOND
TAX ORDINANCE

An ordinance adding Article 1.16 to Chapter II of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code imposing a Special Police Communications/9-1 -1 Sys-
tem Tax, subject to the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters
voting upon the proposal within the City of Los Angeles.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES
DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS;

Section 1. Article 1.16 is hereby added to Chapter II of the Los Ange-
les Municipal Code to read as follows:

ARTICLE 1.16

SPECIAL POLICE COMMUNICATIONS/9-1-1 SYSTEM TAX
SEC. 21.16.1. DEFINITIONS:

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Article shall
be construed as defined in this Section:

(a)	“building" shall mean any structure having a roof supported by
columns or walls, for the housing, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind;

(b)	“improvement to property” shall mean a building or other
improvement erected on or affixed to a parcel;

(c)	“parcel” shall mean a unit of real property as shown on the last
equalized assessment roll of Los Angeles County; and

(d)	“System” shall mean a police dispatch system, known as the
Police Emergency Command Control Communications System, which
includes the following: a replacement and enhanced voice and digital
radio system component; the replacement of the Police Department’s
computer-aided dispatch system and the associated police dispatch
center located in the metropolitan area; hand-held radios and mobile
data terminals; and the addition of a new police/fire 9-1 -1 communica-
tions component, and a new police communications and dispatch
center to be located in the San Fernando Valley.

SEC. 21.16.2. EXEMPTIONS:

(a)	Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon
any person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in
violation of either the Constitution of the United States or the Constitu-
tion of the State of California.

14

(b)	The tax imposed by this Article shall not be levied upon the	I

federal government, the state government, any state agency, or any
tocalgovemmentalagency........

(c)	The tax imposed by this Article shall not be levied upon a parcel
of property or improvement which is owned by an organization
described in Sections 401(a), 501(c), or 501(d) of Title 26 of the United
States Code. All sections of the United States Code shall mean those
sections as they exist on the effective date of this Article and as they
may be amended thereafter.

SEC. 21.16.3. SPECIAL TAX:

(a)	There is hereby imposed a special tax on each parcel, improve-
ment to property, and the use of property within the City of Los
Angeles (hereafter “City") for the purposes set forth in this Article.

The special tax shall be for a period not greater than 20 fiscal years,
commencing with the fiscal year 1991-92 as set forth in Section	f

21.16.6 hereof.	I

(b)	This tax is enacted under the authority of Subdivision (d) of j

Subsection (11) of Section 2 of Article 1 of the Los Angeles City
Charter, other authority held as a charter city, and, independently
thereof, under the authority of California Government Code Sections
50075-50077.5 and California	Government Code Sections 53970-	I

53979.	J

SEC. 21.16.4. PURPOSE:	J

|

(a)	The purpose of this special tax is to provide funds to the City to f
pay or fund:	j

1.	lease payments to be made by the City pursuant to any lease of
the System or any component thereof, including any land or building

to be acquired or constructed;	^

2.	expenses incurred incident to the authorization, issuance or
sale of the bonds referred to below (including refunding bonds);

3.	costs or expenses incurred by any lessor of any component of
the System in connection with the execution, performance or
enforcement of any such lease or any assignment thereof, the
acquisition, construction or ownership of any such component or
the lease thereof to the City, including, but not limited to, fees,
costs, expenses or administrative costs of any such lessor in con-
nection with any such component;

15



4.	costs or expenses (including attorneys’ fees and disburse- «
ments) of any trustee under any trust agreement or indenture under |
which any of the bonds referred to below are issued, including but
nbOmitecTto compensation and iiio'emnifieatien of any such
trustee;

5.	any amounts required to be paid into any reserve fund created i
under any such trust agreement or indenture, or amounts to be set j
aside for deposit into reserve funds for bonds referred to below [-
(including refunding bonds) theretofore or thereafter issued;

6.	any insurance premiums payable on account of any component \
of the System or its use or operation, as well as amounts paid to or f
to be set aside in any self-insurance fund or risk retention account, {
or amounts to be set aside to provide for payment of any deductible f
under any insurance policy;

7.	any amounts payable incident to obtaining or maintaining, or
otherwise pursuant to, any credit enhancement or liquidity agree-
ments or arrangements with respect to any of such bonds or lease;

8.	any amounts required to be paid to the United States of
America as a rebate in order for interest payments on any of such
bonds to be exempt from federal income taxes;

9.	any amounts to be set aside for payment or prepayment of f
future lease payments in respect of any component of the System I
(whether then leased or expected to be leased thereafter) or for the |
defeasance, payment, prepayment or redemption of any of the s
bonds referred to below (including refunding bonds), including the
payment of any prepayment penalty or premium;

10.	the costs of collecting and administering the tax; and

11.	any amounts required to reimburse the General Fund of the s
City for amounts withdrawn from the General Fund and used for any i
of the purposes set forth in this Section 21.16.4.

The lease payments will serve as collateral for and the source of
repayment of not to exceed $235,000,000 aggregate principal amount j
of lease revenue bonds to be issued as a single issue, or in two or j
more issues or series of an issue, by a nonprofit corporation, joint |
powers authority or other financing medium. The lease payments may f
also serve as collateral for and the source of repayment of refunding f
bonds issued to refund lease revenue bonds; provided, however, that
refunding bonds shall not be issued if the total net interest cost to j
maturity on the refunding bonds plus the principal amount of the j

16



refunding bonds exceeds the total net interest cost to maturity on the
bonds to be refunded plus the principal amount of the bonds to be
refunded-

The net proceeds of the lease revenue bonds are to be used to
acquire, construct or install components of the System. The System is
required to provide more rapid, efficient delivery of response of
police, fire, paramedic and other emergency services in the City. In the
event the City shall lease any components of the System under a
lease that is payable from the General Fund as well as from the special
| tax, and such lease provides for abatement of rent or other payments
either in whole or in part in the event of damage to or destruction of
any such components, then, in the event there is any such abatement,
j payments from the special tax permitted by this Section 21.16.4 shall
be allocated first to, or in respect of, any component of the System for
which payment from the General Fund has abated due to such dam-
age or destruction, and thereafter to the balance of the components.

(b)	The Los Angeles City Council (hereafter “City Council”) may
provide for the collection of the special tax in the same manner and
subject to the same penalties as, or with, other charges and taxes
fixed and collected by the City, or by the County of Los Angeles on
behalf of the City of Los Angeles. If the special tax is collected by the
County on behalf of the City, the County may deduct its reasonable
costs incurred for such service.

(c)	City Clerk of Los Angeles (hereafter “City Clerk") and other
costs of enforcement and administration of the tax, including refunds,
shall be paid from the special tax revenues.

(d)	No more than $235,000,000 of lease revenue bonds shall be
issued under the authority of this Ordinance, unless a greater amount

I shall be approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds of the votes
j cast by voters voting on a proposition to increase the bonding author-
• ity; provided, however, that without such voter approval, refunding
bonds may be issued as specified in Section 21.16.4 (a) hereof; and
provided further that approval for additional bonding authority shall
not constitute approval of any increase in the maximum tax rate
authorized by Section 21.16.6 hereof, nor shall it extend the period
during which the tax may be imposed, unless expressly approved by a
vote of not less than two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting on a
proposition to so change the tax rate or to extend the period during
which the tax may be imposed.

t

I

j

IT

SEC, 21,16,5,.SPECIAL FUND:	  I

(a)	There is hereby established a special fund in the City Treasury-

entitled Special Police Communications/9-1 -1 System Tax Fund.
Money collected pursuanftoihis Article shall be deposited into said
special fund and shall be used exclusively as provided in this Article}
for the purpose for which the tax is imposed, and for no other pur-l
pose. Money deposited into this special fund shall not be subject tcf
reversion to the Reserve Fund of the City, established under Charter*
Section 380. Nothing in this Section shall prevent disbursements from:
this special fund to reimburse the General Fund when money has
been advanced from the General Fund to pay the uses provided for in
this Article.	J

(b)	The City Treasurer and Controller shall establish within the Spef
cial Police Communications/9-1-1 System Tax Fund separate
accounts or accounting controls so as to enable the City Treasure!
and Controller to account for the uses for which the moneys deposf
ited into the Special Police Communications/9-1-1 System Tax Fund
are to be used.

(c)	Except as hereinafter provided in Subsection (d) of this Section,
(i) during each fiscal year, any money raised by the special tax thaf
remains or (by resolution of the City Council) becomes unencumbered
for any of the purposes set forth in Section 21.16.4 hereof may be
reallocated to other purposes authorized by this Article by resolution
of the City Council and (ii) at the end of any fiscal year any mone|
raised by the special tax that remains unencumbered for any of thf
purposes set forth in Section 21.16.4 hereof may only be used i§
succeeding fiscal years for the purposes stated in this Article at
authorized by resolution by the City Council; provided, however, tha’
the City Administrative Officer may reallocate moneys raised by tht
special tax to other purposes set forth in Section 21.16.4 hereof anc
may authorize the use of moneys raised by the special tax that art
unencumbered or unallocated for any of the purposes set forth ir
Section 21.16.4 hereof so long as the amount so reallocated a
authorized shall not be greater than the amount referred to in Charts
Section 355 (as amended from time to time) as the amount which tht
City Administrative Officer is empowered to authorize the Controlle
to transfer without the approval of the Mayor and the City Counci
upon the request of the head of any department. The availability o
unencumbered moneys for any succeeding year shall be considerec
by the City Council when fixing the rates of tax for that year.

18

(d)	Any amount remaining in the Special Police Communications/
9-1-1 System Tax Fund after all lease revenue bonds issued to finance
the System have been repaid in Ml, shall be used solely and exclu-
sively for maintatning7feplacing or irrtproving police communicatioos
, and dispatch equipment and systems.

SEC. 21.16.6. TAX RATE:

(a)	The tax imposed on each parcel, improvement to property, and
use of property shall be computed for each parcel by applying a rate
to the gross square footage area of any improvements on the parcel.
If there are no improvements on a parcel, the tax shall be computed by
applying the rate established for improvements to 500 square feet
regardless of the size of the parcel. For a period of not more than 20
fiscal years, commencing with fiscal year 1991-92 and continuing
through fiscal year 2010-11, the City Council, by ordinance, shall
impose a rate applicable to unimproved parcels and, for each parcel
upon which there is an improvement to property, shall impose a rate
applicable to the gross square footage area of such improvements,
regardless of the use of the parcel or improvements. The rate shall be
established to provide revenue for each fiscal year sufficient to make
the payments estimated to be needed, or to fund amounts to be set
aside, for the purposes enumerated in Section 21.16.4 hereof prior to
receipt of tax revenues derived from the tax to be imposed in the
subsequent fiscal year, and in setting the rate, the City Council shall
take into account possible delinquencies in payments, so that the
amount expected to be collected, net of delinquencies, will be suffi-
cient to make the estimated needed payments.

(b)	Commencing with the 1991-92 fiscal year, and for each of the
succeeding fiscal years during which the special tax may be imposed,
the maximum tax rate for the improvements on a parcel shall be $1.75
per one hundred square feet of improvement area or fraction thereof.

(c)	For any fiscal year the City may, by ordinance, adjust the tax rate
below the maximum amount. Such a reduction shall not prevent a
subsequent levy of taxes for any succeeding fiscal year up to the
limits set forth in this Section 21.16.6; however, in no case shall the
amount of the tax rate to be levied exceed the maximum amount
established by this Article without the approval of the voters by two-
thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon such change in the tax
rate maximum.

19

SEC. 21.16.7. ADJUSTMENTS AND REFUNDS:

I

(a) Requests tor adjustment	of this tax may be

of error in the com -

putation of the tax the City Clerk or a designee of the City Clerk shal I
cause the tax to be recalculated, and shall so advise the Los Angeles
County Tax Collector or other appropriate official.

(b)	Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any tax has been
overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the City under this Article, the refund proce-
dure shall be as follows:

1. No claim for refund of tax payment shall be allowed in whole or
in part unless filed with the City Clerk within a period of three years
from the date of the claimed overpayment. All such claims for
refund of the amount of the overpayment must be filed on forms
furnished, and in the manner prescribed, by the City Clerk. Refunds
may be made from the Special Police Communications/ 9-1-1 Sys-
tem Tax Fund.

2. In the event the City Clerk or the City Council denies the claim,
the City Clerk shall notify the claimant pursuant to California Gov-
ernment Code Section 913.

(c)	The City Clerk shall have the same power to compromise claims
involving the special tax, and the same power to accept and record
underpayments or overpayments of such tax, as granted to the City
Clerk under subsections (f) and (g) of Section 21.15 of the Los Ange-
les Municipal Code with respect to Business Taxes. The City Clerk
shall have the same authority to make refunds of this tax as is pro-
vided in Section 22.12 and 22.13 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.

(d)	If the County of Los Angeles does not collect any tax due under
this Article, then the City Clerk shall have the power and duty to
enforce all of the provisions of this Article. In such cases the City
Clerk, for taxes not paid, may make an assessment against the owner
of a parcel and improvements, or against the owner of improvements
on another’s land, in the manner provided in Section 21.16 of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code. Any unpaid tax due under this Article shall
be subject to Sections 21.19, 21.20, and 21.21 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code.

(e)	The special tax shall be due in two equal installments in accor-
dance with the collection procedures of the Los Angeles County Tax
Collector with the first installment due November 1, and the second
installment due the next succeeding February 1, in each fiscal year.

20

The owner of the land, land and improvements, or improvements, at

the time set forth in California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections
405 and 2192 for each fiscal year, shall have a personal obligation to

(f) The City Clerk may prepare a questionnaire to be served on the

owner of a parcel or improvements subject to the tax imposed by this
Article. The failure by an owner to provide the information requested
within 30 days of receipt of the request, or the act of an owner in
knowingly providing false information, shall be a misdemeanor.

1	(g) In determining the gross square footage area of improvements

the City may use County Assessor’s records, City records, question-
naires and any other records the City Clerk deems reliable.

SEC. 21.16.8. AMENDMENTS:

Procedural provisions of this Article may be amended by ordinance
passed by the City Council.

SEC. 21.16.9. SAVINGS CLAUSE:

If any Section, Subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase of this
Article or the application thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction,
the validity of the remaining portions of the Article, the application
thereof, and the tax imposed shall not be affected thereby but shall
remain in full force and effect, it being the intention of the City Council
and the voters to adopt each and every Section, Subsection, part,
clause, sentence or phrase, regardless of whether any other Section,
Subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase or the application
thereof is held to be invalid or unconstitutional.

Sec. 2. This ordinance enacting Article 1.16 as a part of Chapter II of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code and levying the special tax described
therein shall be submitted to the voters of the City at a Special Election
to be consolidated with the State General Election to be held on Novem-
ber 6,1990. The taxes determined and proposed by this Article shall be
levied only if this ordinance is approved by a vote of not less than two-
thirds of the votes cast by the voters voting on the special tax proposal
set forth in the ordinance. If the ordinance is approved by the requisite
number of votes, Article 1.16 shall thereafter be considered a part of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.

	BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED:  L jl 	 i. That the City Clerk is hereby directed, to enclose copies of the  proposed Ordinance to btT sufermftecTtoTfte electors at said Special Election in a voter information pamphlet, and to cause the mailing i thereof to each of the qualified electors of the City of Los Angeles.  2. That the City Clerk file a duly certified copy of this resolution forthwith with the Board of Supervisors of the County of Los Angeles and also a copy with the Registrar-Recorder of said County.

I

22

