Sample Ballot

COUNTY OF ORANGE

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6. 1990

^ CITY OF HUNTINGTON BEACH		
050 f* Should the City of Huntington Beach wC w City Charter be amended to require XX? that no City park or beach may be sold, Svv leased, exchanged or transferred or Im- 5yv proved with a golf course, driving range, ® road, building over 3.000 square feet In floor area, nor structure costing more than 005 $100,000 without the affirmative rotes of at i&6£ least a majority of the total membership of 005 its City Council and of the electors voting on <00 such proposition at a general or special XX? election?		
	YES	+
	NO	+
		
xx> n Should the City of Huntington Beach 50X U Charter he amended to require that no		
XX? City park or bench may be sold without the <00 affirmative votes of at least a majority of the XX? total membership of Its City Council and of <00 the electors voting on such sale?	YES	+
	NO	+

	CITY OF IRVINE		
	C Shall the Charter of the City of Irvine k be amended to repeal the provisions of the Charter providing for the direct election of the Mayor, and to provide for a five- member City Council?		
		YES	+
		NO	+
	C Shall the Charter or the City of Irvine 1 be amended to change the month of the general municipal election from June to		
		YES	+
	November of even years?	NO	+

		
	CITY OF LAGUNA BEACH	

G Shall the people of the City of Laguna
Beach adopt an ordinance prohibiting p
onshore support facilities in the city for off- YES +
shore oil development unless approved by a —
majority vote of the electorate?	■

HBond Proposition; Shall the City of
Laguna Beach incur bonded indebted-
ness in the principal amount of up to
$20,000,000 to acquire lands in Laguna
Canyon for permanent open space/
conservation, wetlands and wildlife habitat
preservation purposes, which lands shall
not be used or disposed of for other pur-
poses without first being approved by a ma-
jority vote of the electorate?

YES +
NO +

CITY OF LA PALMA

I Should Section 8-2(b) of the La Palma
City Code, which provides that the
City shall not use lease-purchase financing
for the acquisition of municipal improve-
ments, be repealed?

CITY OF ORANGE		
<XX 1 Shall the Office of City Treasurer be 5yy W appointed by the City Council?	YES	+
	NO	+
500 1/ Shall the current tax rate of 8% for J00S V\ hotel/motel occupancies of 30 calendar 500 days or less be changed to I0%?	YES	+
	NO	+
J005 1 Shall an Ordinance be adopted pro- 500 hlbitlng the existing sale of State Safety 005 Approved fireworks by non-profit organfza- 500J tions In the City of Orange?	YES	+
	NO	+

CfTY OF SANTA ANA

M Shall Section 411 of the Charier be -
amended to clarify that any mem-
ber of the City Council may place items on
the City Council agenda?

D D Shall Section 421 of the Charter be
LID amended to Increase the limit on
City contracts which may he approved by
the City Manager from $10,000 to $15,000,
with the contract limit to be increased annu-
ally by a cost of living adjustment?

P P Shall Section 424 he added to the
W V Charter to require the City Council
to appoint a Charter review committee after
each federal census?

R n Shall Section 614 of the Charter be
U U amended to allow for a period long-
er than 90 days for the filing of claims
against the City when a longer period is
provided by State iaw?

C C Shall Sections 501 and 700 of the
tt Charter be amended to require
City Council approval for the appointments
of City officers and department heads by the
City Manager?

C C Shall Section 702 of the Charter be
I I amended to remove a requirement
that the Clerk of the Council attach certifi-
cates to ordinances and resolutions?

R ft Section 705 be added to the
U U Charter to require the City Council
to review annually the performance of the
City Manager, the City Attorney, and the
Clerk of the Council?

UU Shall Section 1107 of the Charter
II n he amended to change the limit on
permissible gifts to City officers and employ-
ees from $25.00 to an amount set by State
law?

YES +
NO

YES +
NO +

H Shall Section 150! of the Charter

be amended to conform the punish- P
ment for violations of the Charter to the YES +
punishment established for misdemeanors -
under State law?	jqg

I I Shall Section 701 of the Charter be
tltl amended to require the same num-
ber of votes to remove the Clerk of the
Council as required for removal of the City
Manager and City Attorney?

	CITY OF WESTMINSTER		
	UU ESTABLISHMENT OF A ONE l\l\ TIME ONLY TWO-YEAR TERM FOR CITY COUNCILM EMBER- ORDINANCE #2140		
	Shall the ordinance stating that from the City Council offices appearing on the next general municipal ballot, in November, 1992, that one City Council seat be desig- nated as a two-year term; and at all subse- quent municipal elections, each member of the City Council elected shall serve a four- year term, be adopted?	YES	+
		NO	+
			
	1 1 ORDINANCE NO. 2142 - ESTAB- kL LISHING A TAX RATE IN-		
	CREASE FOR BUSINESS LICENSES Shall the ordinance establishing an in- crease in the business license tax rate within the City of Westminster, be adopted?	YES	+
		NO	+