MEASURE L ROCKRIDGE LIBRARY	
■ MEASURE L: Shall a permanent Rockridge Library be financed in part I by authorizing the City Council of the City of Oakland, by and through the Rockridge Community Facilities District No. I, to levy a special tax of an amount up to and not to exceed S25.00 per taxable living unit per year for a period of up to 30 years within such District, all as set forth in its Resolution No. 67202 C.M.S., adopted on June 12, 1990 (as amended by Resolution No. 67359 C.M.S. adopted July 24. 1990): and shall the annual appropriations limit of such District for fiscal year 1991-1992 be set at S25.00 in accordance therewith?	YES
	NO

The Council of the City of Oakland does hereby submit on its own motion the following measure
to be voted on by the qualified electors of the City of Oakland at the General Municipal Election (Run-
Off) consolidated with the Statewide General Election to be held in the City on Tuesday, November 6,
1990.

CITY OF OAKLAND PROPOSED ORDINANCE

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE L

FORMATION OF THE ROCKRIDGE COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT
AND LEVYING OF A SPECIAL TAX PURSUANT TO MELLO-ROOS
COMMUNITY FACILITIES ACT

THE PROPOSED MEASURE READS AS FOLLOWS:

WHEREAS, the California Government Code, section 53311 et seq., known as the Mello-Roos
Community Facilities Act of 1982 ("Act of 1982”) provides for the establishment of a community
facilities district ("CFD"); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 53222 through 53325 of the Act of 1982, the City has taken
actions preliminary to the formation of such a CFD in the Rockridge community, for which reference
thereto is found in Resolution No. 67087 C.M.S.; and

WHEREAS, a portion of the construction costs of this public branch library is intended to be
funded by the levying of a special tax on the qualified residents within the Rockridge community; and
WHEREAS, on June 12. 1990, by Resolution No. 67202 C.M.S., amended by Resolution No.
67359 C.M.S.. July 24, 1990, the City Council did form Rockridge Community Facilities District
No. I (the “District") to become effective upon obtaining two-thirds voter approval with the District;
and

WHEREAS, the measure submitted to District voters be subject to the following conditions and
findings:

Section I. The boundaries of the proposed district, to be designated as the "Rockridge Community
Facilities District No. 1 ("the District"), shall be the area within the following voter precincts (a map
of which is on tile in the Office of the City Clerk):

21400	21460	21512
21420	21470	21521
21430	21480	21530
21440	21500	.21540
21450	21510	21550

A map has been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder of Alameda County in the Book of
Maps of Assessment and Community Facilities Districts.

Section 2. The Office of the City Manager prepared a report ("Staff Report") that was submitted
to and reviewed by the City Council on May 8. 1990. containing estimates of costs associated with
the construction and maintenance of the library facility in question, along with the special tax spread
and timetable among Rockridge neighborhood residents, which is available through the City Clerk.

Section 3. Except where funds are otherwise available, a special tax to pay for a portion of library
facilities, will be annually levied within the District. Upon recordation of a notice of special tax lien
pursuant to Section 3114.5 of the California Streets and Highways Code, a continuing lien to secure
each levy of the special tax shall attach to all nonexempt real property within the District, and this
lien shall continue in force and effect until the special tax obligation is prepaid and permanently
satisfied and the lien cancelled in accordance with law or until collection of the tax by the District
ceases. The rate and method of apportionment of the special tax is hereby established at an amount
not to exceed S25 per taxable living unit per year for a period up to 30 years.

Section 4. The Office of the Director of Finance, City of Oakland, I City Hall Plaza, Oakland.
Ca. 94612, (415) 273-3201, is designated as the office responsible for preparing annually a current
roll of special tax levy obligations by assessor's parcel number, and for responding to inquiries regarding
estimates of future special tax levies. Any taxpayer who feels that the amount or formula of the special
tax is in error may file an Application with the Director of Finance contesting the levy of the special
tax. The Director of Finance, or his or appointee, shall promptly review the application, and if
necessary, meet with the applicant. If the findings of the Director of Finance or the appointee verify
that the special tax should be modified or changed, a recommendation to that effect will be made to
the City Council, and as appropriate, the special tax levy shall be corrected and, if applicable in any
case, a refund shall be granted. If the Director of Finance or the appointee denies the application, the
taxpayer may appeal that determination within 14 days of the mailing of notification of denial, to the
City Council under such procedures as the City Council shall establish. The determination of the City
Council of the appeal shall be final for all purposes. The filing of an application or an appeal shall
not relieve the taxpayer of the obligation to pay the special tax when due.

Section 5. Interpretations may be made bv Resolution of the City Council for purposes of clarifying
any vagueness or ambiguity as it relates to any of the terms or provisions of the special tax.

Section 6. This special tax and authority to issue bonds shall apply only to the designated Rockridge
neighborhood residents within the boundaries in the District.

Section 7. In addition to restricting the use of the tax proceeds raised under this special levy, the
City will also restrict the use of the entire parcel on which the library is to be constructed to public,
i.e., non-private developmental, use.

Section 8. The maintenance costs to be funded by the proceeds of the special tax levy will be
limited to financing major structural repairs such as roof and permanent fixtures but not routine
building maintenance services such as janitorial work.

Section 9. This City Council also established the annual appropriations limit of the District at
S25.00 for the 1990-91 fiscal year, subject to voter approval.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

Measure L submits to voters of the Rockridge Commmunity Facilities District No. I the question of
whether or not the City should construct a permanent Rockridge Branch public library with related
library services to be financed by a special tax. By approving the measure, the City would be authorized
to levy a special tax of no more than $25.00 annually on each living unit in the District.

A “Yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing this special tax.

A "No” vote is a vote against such authorization.

Measure L has been proposed in order to contribute approximately one-third towards the costs of
construction of a permanent library facility. The construction includes planning, design and construction
of a permanent library structure together with planning, design, construction, acquisition and instal-
lation of related furniture and other necessary appurtenances. Related library services includes books,
and structural maintenance services, and shall not include janitorial and routine maintenance services.
The parcel on which the library is to be constructed will be devoted to public purposes only.

The remainder of the construction and acquisition costs are proposed to be funded by California
Library Construction and Renovation Bond Act of 1988 (Proposition 85) monies through a grant
application process, and by City of Oakland funds.

The maximum amount of tax per parcel shall be up to and not to exceed S25.00 annually. This special
tax shall be levied for each fiscal year by the City Council of Oakland for a period not to exceed 30
years. Certain property shall be exempt from the tax, such as parcels in public ownership used for
public purposes, commercial properties and properly exempt from regular ad valorem property taxes.
Measure L proposes a "special tax" within the meaning of Article XlllAof the California Constitution.
For that reason. Measure L will be approved only if it receives a "Yes" vote from two-thirds or more
of the qualified electors voting on the measure.

s/Jayne Williams
City Attorney

The above is an impartial analysis of MEASURE L. If you desire copies of
Oakland Resolutions No. 67087 C.M.S., 67202 C.M.S., and 67359 C.M.S.
please call the office of the City Clerk at (415) 273-3611, and copies will be
mailed at no cost to you.

CITY AUDITOR’S FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

Adoption of Measure L will increase the cost of City government by approximately $210,000 per year.
Election costs of $13,000 will be incurred whether or not the measure is adopted.

BACKGROUND

Measure L authorizes the City to levy a special annual tax of no more than $25.00 on each living unit
not exempt from property tax in the Rockridge Community Facilities District No. 1. This lax would
be in effect for not more than 30 years. These tax monies will be used to help finance the construction
costs of the Rockridge Branch Library and related library services.

FINANCIAL IMPACT ON CITY GOVERNMENT
• One Time Costs
Election Costs for this Measure

• Annual Costs

Additional Operating and Maintenance Costs at Rockridge Branch
Library for Expanded Space and Staff

Office of Finance Operating Cost to Administer this Tax Levy
Alameda County Tax Collection Charge

Amount
$	13,000

$ 200,000
S 10,000
Unknown

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

•	Cost Components	Amount

Land, Purchased with Monies Advanced from City’s Off-Street Park-
ing Fund	S	614,000

Estimated Costs for: Construction	$	1,425,000

Landscaping	S	300,000

Site Development	S	160,000

Furniture, Shelving and Outfitting	$	190,000

Additional Land to	be Purchased	Unknown

•	Sources of Funds

Anticipated Grant from California Library Construction and Reno-
vation Bond Act of 1988 to pay 65% of Eligible Construction Costs	S	1,586,106

Special Property Tax Levy to Pay for Approximately One-Third of

Construction Costs	S1,200,000

Contribution from Off-Stret Parking Fund to Pay for Parking Component	S	500,000

If the grant from the California Library Construction & Renovation
Bond Act of 1988 is not approved, construction will not proceed until
other funds are made available.

The annual tax levy from this measure is approximately SI26,000, adjusted for estimated uncollectible
accounts. It is anticipated that either a tax exempt financing through bonds will be arranged or that a
loan will be made from the City's capital improvement funds to meet the construction costs pending
the collection of this annual special tax levy. If a loan is made from the City’s capital improvement
funds, it will be repaid at an interest rale adequate to cover the City’s cost of funds.

Neither the method of using tax exempt financing through bonds nor that of obtaining a loan from the
City’s capital improvement funds would have a financial impact on City government.

s/Norm a Ng Lau
City Auditor

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

WE NEED A PERMANENT LIBRARY IN ROCKRIDGE

We lost our permanent library in 1987. The temporary mobile unit at the middle school is too small
to accommodate community needs.

MEASURE L PROVIDES FOR A PUBLIC LIBRARY EXCLUSIVELY

Measure L funds can be used only for a library on a public parcel, which will include parking.
There can be no private development mixed with the library.

MEASURE L DEMONSTRATES COMMUNITY SUPPORT NECESSARY FOR KEY STATE
FUNDING

Cily funding has been committed to purchase the property and will operate the library. No City
funds are available for construction. The City is applying for State bond funds which can pay for only
a portion of conduction costs. The remainder of the construction funds are up to the community.
Competition for State monies is fierce. Our community support will strengthen our application greatly.
These State monies are available one time only. This is our chance to get a library now.

MEASURE L IS REASONABLE AND FAIR

The modest amount of S25.00 a year, or less than 7 cents a day, is reasonable to build a new library
so our community can begin enjoying its benefits right away.

WE WILL ALL BENEFIT FROM A PERMANENT LIBRARY

A single-purpose library will add to the value of our community. It will be easily accessible and
will maintain the character and scale of the neighborhood. A permanent library will be a safe and
friendly place that provides: the latest best sellers and old favorites; reading and meeting rooms for
people of all ages; newspapers and magazines; large print books; records, cassettes, CDs, and books
on tape; reference help; and entertainment programs for children.

YES ON MEASURE L.	YES	FOR	OUR	LIBRARY.

s/Nancy Dutcher, Co-Chairperson,	s/Lelia	White,	Retired

Neighbors for a Rockridge Library	Oakland	Library	Director

s/Randy H. Hamilton, President,
Claremont Pines Association

s/August Scomaienchi. Associate
Superintendent of Curriculum &

Instruction, Alameda County Schools

s/Marge Gibson Haskell
Oakland City Councilmember

No argument submitted against Measure L.