<summary> 
SONOMA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
EXPENDITURE PLAN

Section 1. PROJECT CATEGORIES AND REVENUE ALLOCATIONS.

Bikeways $  NWP Rail Corridor 60M Transit/Paratransit 87M Commute Alternatives/Congestion Management Program 20M Local Streets and Roads 50M State Highways 305M Administration 4M ■  TOTAL 543M  Section 2. STATE HIGHWAY PROJECTS LISTED BY PRIORITY.		
ROUTE	LOCATION	PROJECT+ INTERCHANGE COST
101	Route 12 to North of Wilfred Ave.	$ 80.28M
101	Petaluma River to County Line	45.61M
101	Wilfred Avenue l/C and Road Segment	19.71 M
101	South of Wilfred Ave. to Route 116 W.	20.51M
101	Old Redwood Highway to Route 116 East	52.81 M
101	Route 116 East to Petaluma River,	
	Including Bridge	17.50M
101	Railroad Avenue to Old Redwood Highway	67.18M
101	North of College Avenue to Route 12	29.13M
101	North of Sierra Ave. to Railroad Ave.	19.96M
101	Route 116 West to North of Sierra Ave.	16.14M
101	River Road to North of College Ave.	43.14M
116	Sebastopol Bypass	10.69M
12	Llano Road to West of Fulton Rd.	6.38M
12	Agua Caliente Road to W. Thomson Ave.	11.68M
12	West Thomson Ave. to Fifth St. West	5.17M
116	Stony Point Road to US 101	7.05M
12	Melita Road to Pythian Road	16.96M
12	Pythian Road to Agua Caliente	3.78M
116	US 101 to Frates Road	6.01M
101	River Road to Windsor	23.38M
1	Bodega Bay Bypass	5.17M
12	l/C at Fulton Rd., Stony Point Rd.,	
	and Farmers Lane	28.38M
101	l/C at Dry Creek Rd. & Mill St.	4.06M
	Petaluma Hill Road Widening	10.00M
	Stony Point Road Widening	20.00M

Section 3. ALLOCATION AND EXPENDITURE OF SALES TAX REVE-
NUE. The Authority’s sales tax revenue shall be allocated and expended in
accordance with this Plan subject to the following provisions:

A.	Funds For Projects Specified In Section 2.	__	t

(1)	If the Authority finances the construction of transportation facilities by the issuance of bonds or any similar financing device, the Authority
shall first allocate the funds necessary to meet all debt service requirements. 

(2)	Each project shall have a local jurisdiction(s) as a sponsor of the	

project. If there is no local jurisdiction to act as a project sponsor for the

specific Project, the Authority shall be the sponsor for that Project.

(3)	All state improvements to be funded with revenues as provided in

this Plan, including project development and overall project management,
shall be a joint responsibility of Caltrans, the Authority and the affected local
jurisdiction(s). All major project approval actions including the project con-
cept, the project location and any subsequent change in project scope shall	

be jointly agreed upon by Caltrans, the Authority and the project sponsors,	

and where appropriate, by the Federal Highway Administration and/or the	

California Transportation Commission.

(4)	The Authority may use the sales tax revenue to accelerate projects which are anticipated to be funded through the State Transportation Improve-
ment Program (STIP). It must be demonstrated by Caltrans that a meaningful
acceleration can be accomplished using Authority funds and the State must
commit to refunding those proceeds in dollars or in the acceleration or

completion of other Expenditure Plan Projects and/or STIP projects. In the

event that the refund of acceleration funds impacts the implementation of any

Expenditure Plan Project, the Authority shall amend this Plan pursuant to

section 12.

(5)	Any local funds already allocated, committed or otherwise includ-

ed in the financial plan for any project listed in this Plan shall be made

available for project development and implementation as required in the	
project’s financial and implementation program. All local jurisdictions are	

encouraged to seek all available funding from private and public sources to

further the purposes of this Plan.

(6)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, no sales tax

revenue of the Authority shall be expended for the planning, design, con-

struction or maintenance of a highway project that connects Highway 12 at
Farmers Lane with Highway 12 at Melita Road if any portion of the project is
within Spring Lake Park.

(7)	Additional traffic lanes on US 101, funded in whole or in part by

the Authority, shall be designated for high occupancy vehicles (HOV) during

the peak commute hours as determined by the Authority.

B.	Funds For Bikeway Projects:

(1)	Funds allocated for the construction of bicycle and/or pedestrian
facilities shall be used for facilities as allowed under Sections 99233.3 and
99234 of the Public Utilities Code. Funds shall be apportioned to each of the
cities in the County based on the ratio of each of their population to the total
population of the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the County and to

the County on the basis of the ratio of the population of the unincorporated
areas to the total population of the incorporated and unincorporated areas of
the County.

(2) Nothing in this Plan precludes the jurisdictions from agreeing to

allocate the funds for bicycle and pedestrian facilities on a project basis, so

long as the effort is made that each jurisdiction receives approximately its 
apportionment under (1) above, over the term of this tax. Such allocations s
are to be made by the Authority.

(3)	Funds shall be allocated annually to each local jurisdiction, pro-

vided that the Authority finds the jurisdiction in compliance with the Conges- 
tion Management Program.

(4)	Prior to the construction of any bikeway facility or usable portion
thereof, the Authority, in cooperation with affected agencies, shall determine ;
the entity(ies) to be responsible for the maintenance and operation thereof. !

C.	Funds For The NWPRR Corridor. Funds allocated in this category

shall be used for:

(1)	the complete acquisition and the preservation of the Northwestern
Pacific Railroad (NWPRR) right-of-way throughout Sonoma County (as de-
scribed in the agreement between the Golden Gate Bridge and Highway
District and the Southern Pacific Transportation Company dated June 1,

1990);

(2)	the purchase of additional land for stations and park-and-ride lots 
serving the NWPRR Corridor, if deemed necessary by the Authority; and 

(3)	the funding of study(ies) required to address alternatives and

choices that would have to be determined in order to develop the NWPRR
right-of-way into a successful	public transit	corridor.

(4)	Surplus funds, in excess of those needed for (1), (2) and (3) 
above, may be allocated for operational expenses or other rail projects associated with the NWPRR Corridor if acquisition funding is adequate and
there is then a surplus in the sales tax allocation for this category.

Funds allocated pursuant to this part shall not be used for passenger rail
facilities which would not be available to the general public or whose primary
purpose would be to benefit a private entity or individual. Further, considera-
tion, initiation and/or implementation of any new use or expansion or any
existing use of the rail facilities that would be a benefit to a private entity or
individual would require a fair share investment in the rail facilities and be
subject to the approval of the Authority.

D.	Funds For Transit And Paratransit.

(1)	Funds allocated in the Expenditure Plan for transit and paratransit
shall be apportioned to each of the cities in the County based on the ratio of
each of their populations to the total population of the incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the County and to the County on the basis of the ratio
of the population of the unincorporated area to the total population of the
incorporated and unincorporated areas of the County. Provided, however,
that, the funds shall be distributed only if the Authority finds that their
expenditure will further a comprehensive and integrated transit and paratran-
sit system for Sonoma County.

(2)	At least five percent (5%) of the funds allocated under this section
shall be used for paratransit services as provided in section 99275 of the
Public Utilities Code. Each jurisdiction shall set the standards for paratransit
services and shall administer these funds.

(3)	Funds allocated for transit services shall be used for public transit
purposes as provided in section 99262 of the Public Utilities Code.

(4)	Funds shall be allocated annually to each local jurisdiction pro-
vided that the Authority finds the jurisdiction in compliance with the Conges-
tion Management Program.

(5)	Funds shall be distributed to each jurisdiction for uses as spe-
cified in this section. Each jurisdiction’s annual audit shall include a statement
of compliance in the use of funds allocated under this section.

E.	Funds For Commute Alternatives. Funds allocated for commute al-
ternatives shall be used to develop, implement and maintain a countywide
program to encourage the use of commute alternatives and to provide
technical support to local jurisdictions to develop, implement and maintain
programs to encourage use of commute alternatives. The programs may be
operated directly by the Authority or under agreements with other govern-
mental or non-governmental entities.

F.	Funds For Local Streets And Roads. Funds made available for local
street and road purposes shall be allocated annually to all local jurisdictions
on a formula basis for local street and road projects and maintenance.
Available funds will be allocated to eligible jurisdictions as follows:

(1)	The funds will be allocated to jurisdictions by formula based fifty
percent (50%) on current population and fifty percent (50%) on maintained
street and road mileage. The local streets maintenance and improvement
share shall be allocated to the County and to each incorporated city within the
-County on the following basis:

(a)	Fifty percent (50%) shall be allocated to each entity in the
proportion that that entity’s population bears to the total incorporated and
unincorporated population of the County;

(b)	Fifty percent (50%) shall be allocated to each entity in the
proportion that that entity’s maintained street and road-mileage bears to the
total County and city maintained road mileage.

(2)	Population figures used shall be the most current figures available
from the Department of Finance. Street and road mileage figures shall be the
most current figures from the State Controller’s Annual Report of Financial
Transactions for Streets and Roads.

(3)	Any new incorporations or annexations which take place after July
1 of any fiscal year shall be incorporated into the formula beginning with the
subsequent fiscal year, providing there is full compliance by the annexing
jurisdiction with this Plan.

(4)	Full compliance with the Congestion Management Program and
section 7 are conditions precedent to the receipt of funds under this section

Section 4. MAINTENANCE OF LOCAL FUNDING EFFORT. It is the intent
of the Legislature and the Authority that revenues provided to finance this
Plan be used to supplement existing revenues being used for transportation
improvements and programs. Each local jurisdiction receiving funds pursuant
to Section 3 shall meet the requirements in that section.

Under state enabling legislation, a jurisdiction cannot redirect monies
currently being used for transportation purposes to other uses, and then

replace the redirected funds with local street maintenance and improvement
funds from the retail transactions and use tax. To meet the requirements of
state law, a jurisdiction must demonstrate maintenance of a minimum level of
local street and road expenditures in conformance with one of the following
requirements:

A.	The same level of local discretionary funds expended for street and
road purposes as was reported in the State Controller’s Annual Report of
Financial Transactions for Streets and Roads - Fiscal Year 1988-89.

B.	If any local jurisdiction had extraordinary local discretionary fund
expenditures during Fiscal Year 1988-89, it may use, as a base for determin-
ing the minimum level of local discretionary funds:

(1)	the average amount of such funds reported to the State Controller
forthe three-year period Fiscal Year 1986-87 through Fiscal Year 1988-89; or

(2)	the net contribution obtained by subtracting those extraordinary
expenses (including but not limited to SB 300 funds, assessment district
contributions, development impact funds, redevelopment agency contribu-
tions, or other non-recurring contributions) from its total expenditure; or

(3)	a petition to the Authority for special consideration. A local
jurisdiction may need to revise its minimum expenditure base beyond the
subtraction of extraordinary expenses. In this instance, the Authority may
allow the establishment of a new base for that jurisdiction’s maintenance of
effort requirement. A local jurisdiction petitioning the Authority under this
provision must supply evidence of the need for special consideration.

The use of provisions B. (1), (2), or (3) of this section by a local
jurisdiction shall be subject to Authority approval.

An annual independent audit may be conducted to verify that the Mainte-
nance of Effort requirements were met by the local jurisdictions. Any local
jurisdiction which does not meet its Maintenance of Effort requirement in any
given year may have its Local Street Maintenance and Improvements funding
reduced in the following years by the amount by which the jurisdiction did not
meet its required Maintenance of Effort. Such funds shall be redistributed to
the remaining eligible jurisdictions.

Section 5. ADOPTION OF A CONGESTION MANAGEMENT PRO-
GRAM. The Sonoma County Board of Supervisors and city councils repre-
senting a majority of the cities of Sonoma County and a majority of its
incorporated population have designated the Authority as the agency to
propose, adopt, and administer a Congestion Management Program meeting
the requirements of law. Notwithstanding any other provision contained in
this plan, the preparation and administration of the Congestion Management
Program shall be a separate project. The Congestion Management Program
shall be the Authority's Growth Management Plan. The Congestion Manage-
ment Program shall contain a requirement that the County and each city shall
enact and maintain in effect a traffic mitigation program that requires private
development to mitigate its traffic impacts by the payment of fees, in kind
services or other means.

Section 6. LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS. Revenues may be
expended by the Authority for salaries, wages, benefits, overhead, auditing
and those services including contractual services necessary to administer this
plan; however, in no case shall the annual expenditures for the salaries and
benefits of the staff of the Authority exceed one percent (1%) of the annual
sales tax revenues of the Authority. Costs of performing or contracting for
project related work shall be paid from the revenues allocated to the appropri-
ate purpose as set forth herein.

Section 7. PRIVATE SECTOR FUNDING. Revenues provided by this Ex-
penditure Plan shall not be used to replace private developer funding that has
been or should reasonably be expected to be required to mitigate both local
and countywide impacts of growth. The County and each city shall adopt and
implement traffic mitigation fee programs to assure compliance with this
section and as a condition to receiving local street and road funds pursuant to
section 3.F.

Section 8. BONDING AUTHORITY. “Pay as you go” is the preferred
method of financing transportation improvements and programs. However,
the Authority may use bond financing as an alternative method for an
individual project in the event that the scope of planned expenditures makes
“pay as you go” financing infeasible. Upon majority voter approval at the
November 6, 1990 election, the Authority is authorized to issue bonds
payable from the proceeds of the tax for the construction of needed transpor-
tation improvements, provided that each sale has the prior approval of the
Board of Supervisors and a majority of the cities representing a majority of.
the incorporated population of Sonoma County. The Authority, in allocating
the annual sales tax revenues, shall meet all debt service requirements prior to allocating funds for other projects. The costs of any bond election shall be
borne by the Authority.

Section 9. ALLOCATION OF STATE AND FEDERAL FUNDS. With the
recent voter approval of statewide highway taxes, there may be additional
state funds for the improvement of state highways and local streets and
roads. To the extent that the Authority is the recipient of state or federal
transportation funds, displaced sales tax revenue shall be reallocated based
on priorities established by this Plan or by the Authority.

Section 10. ADJUSTMENTS FOR CHANGES IN SALES TAX REVENUES
AND ALLOCATION OF EXCESS FUNDS. To the extent that sales tax revenues
exceed estimates, the first $91 million of such excess shall be allocated to the
projects listed in section 2 and thereafter any such additional excess shall be
allocated, within the discretion of the Authority, to the categories listed in
section 1. With respect to state highway projects and to the extent that sales
tax revenues fall short of estimates, the shortage shall be deducted from
projects having the lowest priority established by this Plan. With respect to
other projects and to the extent that sales tax revenues fall short of estimates,
the shortage shall be deducted from projects having the lowest priority as
determined by the Authority. In the event that a project is infeasible, the
Authority shall reallocate the funds for that project to other projects in
accordance with the provisions of this Plan. Other excess funds of the
Authority shall be reallocated as provided in section 3 and this section. If all
projects are completed or fully funded prior to the twentieth anniversary of the
operative date of the ordinance imposing the Authority’s sales tax, then the
Authority shall terminate the tax.

Section 11. ASSURANCE OF FAIR SHARE OF STATE AND FEDERAL
HIGHWAY FUNDING. In the allocation of sales tax revenues, the Authority
shall make every effort to maximize state and federal transportation funding to
the region. The Authority may amend this Plan, in accordance with section
12, as needed, to maximize transportation for funding to the cities and the
County.

Section 12. ' PROCEDURE FOR AMENDING THE EXPENDITURE
PLAN. Any amendment to this Plan must first have approval of the Sonoma
County Board of Supervisors and the city councils of cities representing a
majority of the cities of Sonoma County and a majority of the population of
those cities. This section shall not be operative until the Public Utilities Code
is amended by the Legislature to ratify this procedure for amendments. Any
proposed amendment shall take into consideration such factors as public
safety, the growth enducing aspects of the amendment, the availability of
State or federal funding and other relevant matters.

Section 13. ESTABLISHMENT OF SEPARATE ACCOUNTS. Except as
otherwise required by a bond indenture, the Authority shall allocate funds to
this Plan’s projects and programs as necessary to meet contractual and
program obligations. The Authority may allocate funds as described but may
reserve the right not to disburse monies until needed to meet contractual
project or program obligations, exclusive of the Local Streets and Mainte-
nance Improvement Funds, Transit, and Bikeway Funds. Subject to any
restrictions in a bond indenture, each agency receiving funds from this Plan
shall deposit .said funds in a separate interest bearing Transportation Im-
provement Account. Any interest earned on funds allocated pursuant to this
Plan shall be expended only for those purposes for which the funds were
allocated or shall be returned to the Authority. The Authority shall reserve the
right to audit such accounts.

Section 14. IMPLEMENTING ACTIONS. Upon approval of a sales tax by
the voters to fund this Plan, the Authority shall, in addition to the local rules
required to be provided pursuant to this Plan, adopt implementing ordi-
nances, rules and administrative procedures, including Authority terms of
office, and take such other actions as may be necessary and appropriate to
carry out its responsibilities to implement this Plan.

Section 15. DISSOLUTION OF THE AUTHORITY. In the event that the
sales tax measure does not receive a majority of the vote of the electorate at
the November, 1990 election, the legal entity known as the Sonoma County
Transportation Authority shall continue for the sole purpose of proposing,
adopting and administering a Congestion Management Program as provided
in section 5.

Section 16. DESIGNATION OF FACILITIES. Each project in excess of
$250,000 funded in whole or in part by the Authority's sales tax revenues
shall be clearly designated in writing via signs and/or documents, during its
construction or implementation as being so funded.

Section 17. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. The annual appropria-
tions limit of the Authority shall be $75 million.

Section 18. COORDINATION WITH OTHER AGENCIES. The Authority
shall consult and coordinate its actions to secure funding for the completion
and improvement of the priority regional projects with the California Trans-
portation Commission, and other interested and affected parties for the
purpose of integrating its transportation improvements with other planned
improvements and operations impacting Sonoma County region. In addition,
the Authority shall seek all ways to expedite the completion of this Plan’s
projects, the implementation of which is the responsibility of other agencies.
Use of acceleration as described in section 3.A.(4) as well as supporting and
advocating for Caltrans to contract out are both means through which the
Authority can work to achieve timely project implementation.

Section 19. DEFINITIONS. When used in this Plan the following words
and phrases shall have the following meanings:

A.	Authority means the Sonoma County Transportation Authority.

_ B. Bicycle Facilities means all purposes necessary and convenient to the
design, right-of-way acquisition and construction of facilities intended for use
by bicycles. Bicycle facilities shall also mean facilities and programs which
help to encourage the use of bicycles such as secure bicycle parking facilities,
bicycle promotion programs and bicycle safety education programs.

C.	Bonds means indebtedness and securities of any kind or class,
including but not limited to bonds, notes, revenue anticipation notes, com-
mercial paper, and certificates of participation.

D.	Commute Alternatives means a comprehensive organizational effort
which is designed to reduce the number of vehicles on the highways during
peak travel periods within a defined area. The effort would include encourag-
ing the planning and marketing of high occupancy vehicle facilities, increas-
ing the numbers of passengers per vehicle in vehicles used for ridesharing,
alternative work schedules, and other transportation demand management
strategies among employers and commuters.

E.	Congestion Management Program means a program to prevent in-
creased traffic congestion by improving highways, establishing transit stand-
ards, analyzing the impact of land use decisions on transportation, encourag-
ing commute alternatives and improving the balance between jobs and
housing.

F.	Local Street Maintenance and Improvements means all purposes
necessary and convenient to the maintenance, operation and construction of
local street and roads and transit purposes. Local street and road purposes
shall include all purposes allowable under article XIX, section 1 (a) of the State
Constitution.

G.	Local Transit means all purposes necessary and convenient to the
construction, operation and maintenance of local transit services and facilities
including the acquisition of vehicles and right-of-way. <summaryend>











<full> AN ORDINANCE OF THE SONOMA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
IMPOSING A RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX, SUBJECT TO VOTER
APPROVAL, IN THE INCORPORATED AND UNINCORPORATED TERRITORY
OF SONOMA COUNTY FOR A PERIOD OF TWENTY YEARS AND ESTABLISH-
ING AN ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT.

The Board of Directors of the Sonoma County Transportation Authority
ordains as follows:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Sonoma County
Transportation Authority Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The Sonoma
County Transportation Authority hereinafter shall be called “District.” This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory
of the County of Sonoma, which territory shall be referred to herein as
“District.”

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative date” means the first day of the
first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after adoption of this
ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below. For purposes
of this section, the ordinance is adopted on the day following its approval by
the voters as required by Public Utilities Code section 180201.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the follow-
ing, among other, purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code which authorizes the District to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.


B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorpo-
rates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the require-
ments and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a
tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by
the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and’ administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.,

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be
administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes
and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which will
produce revenue to finance the Expenditure Plan adopted by this Board of
Directors on August 9,1990 by its resolution no. 2.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the
District shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and
use tax ordinance; provided, that if the District shall not have contracted with
the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall neverthe-
less^ contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tang-
ible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the District at the maximum rate of one half of one percent (0.5 percent) of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place, of business of the retailer unless the
tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the District of tangible personal proper-
ty purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordi-
nance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one
half of one percent (0.5 percent) of the sales price of the property. The sales
price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as other-
wise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued
to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 10, LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLEC-
TION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this District shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equaliza-
tion, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against this District or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than
by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sec-
tions referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would
not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject
to tax by the state under the said provisions of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “District” shall be substituted for the word "State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the
•definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county.pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transac-
tions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped
to a point outside the District, pursuant to the contract of sales, by delivery to
such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this para-
graph, delivery to a point outside the District shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles other than commercial vehicles subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9850) of the
Vehicle Code, by registration to an out-of-District address and by a declara-
tion under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address
is, in fact, his principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-District and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior
to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this District of tangible personal
property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.	

3. If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed		
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
	
4. If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the		
chase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.	

5. For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,		
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any	
right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be	
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.	

6. Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the District shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the District or participates within the District in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the canvasser,	
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the District under the authority of the
retailer.	

7. “A retailer engaged in business in the District” shall also include	
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to	
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,	aircraft licensed in compliance with Section, 21411 of the Public Utilities	
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5	
(commencing with Section 9850) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the	
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the District.	

D. Any person subject to a use tax under this ordinance may credit	
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax	
paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to	
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the	
sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of	which is subject to the use tax.  

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective		
date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation	
Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance; provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.		
Section 13. TERMINATION OF TAXES. The taxes imposed by this ordinance shall remain in effect for not longer than 20 years but may be reimposed with a majority vote of the County’s electors.		



Section 14. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the District, or against any officer of the State or the District, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.		


Section 15. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Subiect to voter approval, the		
annual appropriations limit of the District shall be $75 million.		
Section 16. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the		
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remain-		
der of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or		
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.		
Section 17. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levvina and		
collecting of the District transactions and use taxes and shall take effect		
immediately.		I
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Directors of the Sonoma County		
Transportation Authority, State of California, on August 9, 1990, by the		
following vote:		
AYES: 10 NOES: 0 ABSENT: 1 ABSTAIN: 0		
s/ James L. Harberson		
Chairperson  Attest:		
s/ Eeve T. Lewis	<fullend> 	












<favor> argument in favor of measure B

SONOMA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B
SONOMA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS

Finally, we the people of Sonoma County can take action to expand public
transit, relieve traffic congestion, and protect our quality of life. We can
achieve these goals by voting yes on Measure B.

Measure B, the Sonoma County Transportation Improvement Projects
Measure, is the result of two years of work by Sonoma County citizens
representing business, environmentalists, agriculture and elected officials.
This measure is a positive step toward meeting today’s transportation needs
.and planning to avoid future problems.

Measure B-will:

Provide funds to purchase the Northwest Pacific Railroad right-of-way
...through Sonoma County and to begin planning to use it for rail or other public
transit.

Widen Highway 101 from four to six lanes, from River Road north of Santa
Rosa, south through Petaluma to the county line.

Provide funding to improve interchanges along 101.

. provide more than $80 million for expanded bus service, public transporta-
tion, transit for seniors and the disabled.

•..Require better management and control of future traffic growth in the
...county.

' • Provide $50 million to fix city and county streets and roads.

• Result in the construction of safe bicycle paths throughout the county.

'• Prohibit use of these funds for construction of any roadway through Spring
Lake Park'.

Every dollar raised by Measure B will be spent in Sonoma County and
only for those projects listed in the measure.

Measure B is a balanced and sensible solution. Measure B will begin to
solve problems now, before inflation and rising costs make it impossible to
ever improve transportation and public transit.

This is our best chance to address the critical problem of transportation in Sonoma County. Let’s take advantage of this opportunity and vote yes on Measure B. <favorend>







<favorsigs> s/ Timothy G. Staples
. Chair, Sonoma County
Manufacturing Group
s/ Dante B. Benedetti
Clover-Stornetta Farms
s/ Sharon Wright
Executive Director
Sonoma County Alliance <favorsigsend>










<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B
SONOMA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS

Despite proponents’ claims, Measure B is neither “balanced” nor
“sensible.”

With American lives at stake in the Mideast, with global warming and ozone depletion threatening our future, with oil prices rising, we must curb our
addiction to oil. We can only do that by reducing our dependence on
automobiles, and that means mass transit.

Yet for the next 20 years if Measure B passes 56% of the sales tax revenue
would be spent for pavement to accommodate more automobiles and only
11% to. purchase the Northwestern Pacific Railroad right of way and—here’s
the tipoff—to begin planning to use it for “rail or other transit.”

What other transit? Two freight trains run every day on that line. Any
removal of track will create economic and environmental disaster.

While other California counties are getting on board, Sonoma County is
missing the train.

...We are missing the train that can move more people at lower cost and
higher speeds, using less fuel, and with less pollution, on a right of way
occupying less land area.

A balanced and sensible solution would be to get trains running first, then
reassess freeway needs. Trains could be running in two years from the go-
ahead and at a fraction of the cost of freeway widening.

So if you’re tired of missing the train, tired of seeing your tax money used
to buy more of the problem instead of a solution, vote no on Measure B. <rebutfavorend>










<rebutfavorsigs> s/ Robert L. Wise
District Representative
Operating Engineers
Local Union No. 3
s/ Earl F. Osborn
Citizens for Transportation Solutions
Senior Citizen Advisory Panel <rebutfavorsigsend>










<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

Measure B, instead of solving transportation problems, repeats past mis-
takes by forcing us into continued dependence on automobiles. It will only
add to air pollution, urban sprawl, global warming, energy crises, and
pressure for offshore oil drilling.

Mislabeled a “transit” tax, Measure B is a highway subsidy tax. It is badly
flawed in several ways:

•	It delays implementation of rail transit by diverting tax revenues to highway
projects, reducing chances of obtaining state funding for rail through Propo-
sitions 116 and 108, both passed overwhelmingly by Sonoma County voters.
With all its mile-by-mile detail on highway expenditures, Measure B contains
no plan for rail transit.

•	It won’t cure congestion. Pavement never does. It can only briefly interrupt
congestion or shift it to other locations.

•	Voters have no assurance any of the highway projects can ever be built. A
recent federal court ruling puts local officials on notice that any increase in
highway capacity will be seen as an increase in sources of air pollution and
probably a violation of the federal Clean Air Act.

•	Voters will have little say on how the tax money is spent, since amendments
to transportation plans do not require voter approval.

if you want to save the quality of life that makes Sonoma County a paradise
on earth, if you want to have an alternative to using your own car every time
you need to go anywhere, and especially if you want the option of riding a
fast, comfortable train instead of sweating out the traffic on 101, vote NO on
Measure B. Then maybe we can make some progress toward a transportation
system that serves the needs of all the people. <againstend>









<againstsigs> s/ Lionel Gambill
People for Sensible Transportation
s/ Charmian Kulka <againstsigsend>









<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B
SONOMA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS

Don’t be confused. Measure B deserves the support of all Sonoma County
voters: it gives us a well-balanced transportation network that will be a
model for other communities; it provides increased safety on our local
streets, roads, bikeways and highways; and it takes an important step toward
keeping our air quality high.

A “YES” vote on Measure B makes sense.

It’s time for us to have the diverse transportation systems we need to
encourage use of good public transit. Measure B will give us those choices.

It’s time we make the improvements to roadways that will make them
safer for all of us, particularly our senior citizens. Better turn lanes, bicycle
paths and highway on-ramps can save lives.

It’s time we eliminate traffic congestion that has worsened air quality in
other regions. With people able to use rail, buses, and bicycles, as well as
autos, we can continue to keep Sonoma County air clean.

All eight City Councils - in Petaluma, Cotati, Rohnert Park, Santa Rosa,
Healdsburg, Cloverdale, Sonoma and Sebastopol - are supporting Measure

B.	The County Board of Supervisors endorsed it unanimously. And business
groups, labor organizations, senior citizens, and countless others throughout
the County are backing Measure B as a great opportunity to stay one step
ahead of the problems that have hurt the quality of life in other communities.

It’s time to take a positive step for Sonoma County. It’s time for Measure

B. <rebutagainstend>











<rebutagainstsigs> s/ David W. Benson
President, Sonoma State University

s/ Beverly Wasson
Grape Grower

s/ F. V. Mattel
Former Mayor, Petaluma

s/ Clint Wilson, Chair
Citizens for Transportation Solutions

s/ Lionel Gambill
People for Sensible Transportation
si Charmian Kulka

s/ Janet Condron, Member
Sonoma County Planning Commission
<rebutagainstsigsend>













<impartial> 

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL	
State law (the "Local Transportation Authority and Improvement Act”)	
ordinance.	allows the creation of county transportation authorities to raise additional local revenues to meet local transportation needs. The revenue can be raised tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purpose through a voter approved increase in sales and use taxes.

The creation of a transportation authority requires the agreement of a county and a county’s cities on the composition of the authority’s governing body and an expenditure plan for spending the revenue raised by the proposed tax increase.

In August of this year, the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors and each	of the County’s eight cities agreed on the creation of the Sonoma County Transportation Authority with a governing body consisting of three elected members of the Board of Supervisors and an elected councilmember from each city. The County and the cities also agreed on an expenditure plan. The expenditure plan is set forth above as part of the full text of Measure B.

At the first meeting of the Authority, its Board of Directors adopted Measure B in the form of an ordinance imposing a sales and use tax at the rate of 0.5 percent ($0,005 cents per dollar). Measure B cannot take effect	unless it receives majority voter approval of the County’s voters. The tax would end after 20 years unless it is again renewed by the voters.

It is estimated that the tax would raise $543 million dollars over 20 years.	The expenditure plan allocates that money to a variety of transportation projects for both highway and public transit needs. Under current law, the expenditure plan can be amended by the Authority's Board of Directors. However, the Board of Supervisors and the city councils have agreed to request legislation that would require any amendments to the expenditure plan to have city-county concurrence.

Measure B would also allow the Authority to sell up to $300 million in bonds. Bond financing could only be used when “pay-as-you-go" financing was not feasible. The obligation to repay the bonds would be limited to revenue from the sales and use tax.	

The California Constitution requires that the voters also approve a spending limit for the Authority. Measure B proposes an annual limit of $75 million. The Authority would be prohibited from spending tax revenue in excess of the limit, as adjusted according to law, without additional voter approval. <impartialend>









<impartialsigs> s/ James P. Botz, County Counsel <impartialsigsend>