MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

STATE

191 HIGHER EDUCATION FACILITIES BOND ACT OF JUNE 1990. This act pro- i LI vides for a bond issue of four hundred fifty miiiion dollars ($459,000,600) to provide funds for the construction or improvement of facilities of California’s public higher education institutions, which include the University of Califor- nia’s nine camouses, the California State University's 20 camouses. the 71	
districts of the California Community Colleges, the Hastings College of the Law, the California Maritime Academy, and off-campus facilities of the Cali- forma State University approved by the Trustees of the California State University on or before July 1, 1990. The use of funds authorized under this act includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the construction or improve- raent of classrooms, laboratories, and. libraries, and the implementation of earthquake and other health or safety improvements.	YES 240^
	no 241
	
199 EARTHQUAKE SAFETY AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS REHA- 1LL BILITATION BOND ACT OF 1990. This act provides for a bond issue of three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000) to provide funds tor the reconstruction, seismic retrofitting, repair, replacement, and relocation of state and local government buildings which are unsafe primarily due to earthquake-related dangers.	
	YES 245
	NO 246 “#*•
	
1 1990 SCHOOL FACILITIES BOND ACT. This act provides for a bond l£i issue of eight hundred million dollars ($800,000,000), to provide capi- tal outlay for construction or improvement of public schools.	YES 248
	NO 249
SCHOOL	
QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT RiCHGBOVE SCHOOL DISTRICT	
It Shall the Richgrove Elementary School District provide funds For class- §% room, restroom and library facilities by levying a qualified special tax assessment of 55 dollars per year (27.50 dollars per semiannual payment) per assessor’s parcel for a limited period of 5 years, beginning July I, 1990 with an exemption for any beneficial owner of a parcel who has attained the age of 65 on or before the May I of any applicable year and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence and, if necessary, exceed its appropria- tions limit pursuant to Article X1IIB of the California Constitution?	
	YES 255 Hfr*
	NO 256
	



54N1002-23.

ME DID AS SOMETIDAS AL VOTO DE LOS ELECTORES

ESTADO

240 Si

241 no

ACTA DE BONOS PARA INSTALACIONES DE EDUCACION SUPERIOR DE
JUNIO DE 1990. Esta acta dispone una emision de bon os por cuatrorientos

cincuenta miiiones de dolares ($450,000,000) para proporcionar fondos para
in construction o mejoramiento de las instalaciones de education superior
publics de California, las cuales inciuyen los nueve recintos de la Universidad
de California, los 20 recintos de la Universidad Estatal de California, los 71
distritos de los Colegios Superiores de Comunidad de California, el Colegio
Superior de Lcyes “Hastings,” la Academia Maritime de California, y las
instalaciones fiiera de los recintos de la Universidad Estatal de California
aprohadas por e! Consejo Administrative de la Universidad Estatal de Califor-
nia para el 1° de Julio de 1990 inclusive. El uso de los fondos autorizados bajo
esta acta incluye, pero no se limita necesariamente a, la construction o
mejoramiento de los salones de ciase, laboratories y bibliotecas, y el eslableti-
mien to de medidas de seguridad contra terremotos y niejorfas para la sa-
lubridad y seguridad.

^*245	SI
^246	NO
	
248	SI
249	NO

ACTA DE BONOS PARA SEGURIDAD CONTRA SISMOS Y REHA- 1QQ
BILITACION DE EDIFICIOS PUBLICOS DE 1990. Esta acta dis- ILL
pone una emision de bonos por trescientos miiiones de dolares ($300,000,000)
para proporcionar fondos para la reconstruccidn, aditamentos a prueba de
sismos, reparation, reemplazo y reubicacion de edifictos gubernamentales
esta tales y locales que scan inseguros principalmente en cuanto a los peiigros
reiacionados con terremotos.

ACTA DE BONOS PARA INSTALACIONES ESCOLARES DE 1990. 1QQ
Esta acta dispone una emision de bonos por ochocientos miiiones de I bU

dolares ($800,000,000) para proporcionar desemboiso de capital para cons-
truction o mejonas de escuelas publicas.

ESCOLAR

VAL0RAC10N DE IMPUESTO ESPECIAL CAUFICADO
DISTRITO DE ESCUELA PRIMARIA DE RiCHGROVE

*4* 255 si

256 no

iDebe el Distrito de Escuela Primaria de Richgrove proveer fondos para A
las instalaciones de salas de ciase, banos y biblioteca descritas abajo por

recimdar una vaioracion de un impuesto especial ealificado de 55 dolares por
ano (tin pago semestral de 27.50 dblarcs) por parcela tasada por un perfodo
Hmitado de 5 anos, comenzando e! 1 de Julio de 1990, con una exencion para
cualquier dueno beneficial de una parcela que haya cumplido la edad de 65
anos en o antes del 1 de mayo en cualquier ano aplicable y que utilize esta
parcela como su Sugar principal de restdencia v, si es necesario, exceder de su
Hmite de asignactones conforme con el Artfculo XIIIB de la Constitucibn de
California?

S54N1002-23.

QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT
RICHGROVE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE A
(Full Text of Measure)

Shall the Richgrove Elementary School District provide funds for classroom, restroom and library
facilities described below by levying a qualified special tax assessment of 55 dollars per year (27.50
dollars per semiannual payment} per assessor’s parcel for a limited period of 5 years, beginning July
1,1990 with an exemption for any beneficial owner of a parcel who has attained the age of 65 on or
before May 1 of any applicable year and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of
residence and, if necessary, exceed its appropriations limit pursuant to Article XIIIB of the California
Constitution?

The structures needed are: portable classroom, restroom and library facilities with the plumbing,
pad, wiring, insulation and other necessary incidents and improvements thereto.

The qualified special tax will be imposed in the amount of 55 dollars per year for each assessor's
parcel. An exemption from the assessment wilt be made available to each individual in the Richgrove
Elementary School District who will attain age 65 years prior to May 1 of the assessment year, who
owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of
residence, and who applies to the Richgrove Elementary School District on or before August 1,1990
or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will
provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such
applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her principal residence.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE A

This Analysis of the Special Tax- Assessment for Classroom Restroom and Library Facilities
Measure is prepared and submitted to the voters in accordance with section 5321 of the Elections
Code.

Sections 50075-50077.5 of the Government Code authorize school districts to submit to the voters
for approval or rejection a measure authorizing the levying of a special tax and specifying procedures.
In 1988, the Legislature added section 50079 to the Government Code, authorizing school Districts
to impose ‘‘qualified special taxes” pursuant to the procedures of Section 50075 - 50077.5. Such
“qualified special taxes" apply uniformly to all real property within the school District but may
provide for an exemption for those 65 years of age or older.

if two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the Board of
Trustees of the Richgrove School District will be authorized to levy a qualified special parcel tax in the
amount of 55 dollars per year for each assessor's parcel, upon ali parcels of land located within the
boundaries of the Richgrove School District. This qualified special tax, if approved, will remain in
effect for a period of five years, beginning on July 1,1990, and the proceeds thereof shall only be
used for the purpose of constructing and furnishing portable classroom, restroom and library
facilities, with the plumbing, pad, wiring, insulation and other necessary incidents and improvements
thereto.

An exemption from the assessment will be made available to each individual in the Richgrove
School District who will attain age 65 prior to May 1 of the assessment year, who owns a beneficial
interest in the parcel, who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence, and who applies
to the Richgrove School District on or before August 1,1990 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment
year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the
remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her
principal residence.

If two-thsrds of the qualified electors voting on the measure do not vote for approval, the measure
will fail and no qualified special tax assessment will be imposed.

This special tax has no effect on the existing law and the electors who will be entitled to vote on the
measure will be those qualified electors who reside within the boundaries of the Richgrove School
District.

s/ Lita O’Neill Blatner, County Counsel