SAMPLE BALLOT

OFFICIAL BALLOT

NON-PARTISAN
DIRECT PRIMARY ELECTION
COUNTY OF NEVADA
TUESDAY, JUNE 5,1990

HAVE VOTED - HAVE YOU?

This ballot stub shall be removed by a precinct board
member and handed to the voter before the ballot Is
placed In the ballot container.

TO VOTE. FILL IN THE WHITE RECTANGLE	SI			TO VOTE. HU IN THE WHriE RECTANGLE f5S1
OPPOSITE YOUR SELECTION IN THE VOTING COLUMN:	1*J			OPPOSITE YOUR SELECTION IN THE VOTING COLUMN: 155U

1990 SCHOOL FACILITIES BOND
14.0 ACT. This act provides for a bond issue of 1—1
eight hundred minion dollars
($800,000,000), to provide capital
outlay for construction or improve-
ment of public schools.

YES-

NO

COUNTY

M

Advisory Vote Only

siting a State Prison within the County of Nevada?	YES"*
	NO -t

□

□

□

□

□

N

Shall an ordinance be adopted to prohibit r—i
the use and development of nuclear —
material in the unincorporated
territory of the County of Nevada?

YES-

NO

DISTRICT

a

□

a

P Shall the ordinance of the Truckee- r—i
Donner Recreation and Park District 1—
Imposing a special tax for the purpose of providing .—.
revenue for the operation and maintenance of the *—*

Truckee-Donner Community Swimming Pool be _____

approved?	i I

This special tax shall be levied upon the parcels
within the district and shall not exceed the following I I
rate:

A. Assessor's Parcel	$3.00 |—|

B. Multi-Family
Residential Parcel

$3.00 per dwelling unit
C. Mobile Home Parcel $3.00 per mobile home

□

□

	YES- □ m	□
Hi	no — a 91	□
|fl|	□ 91	□
■1	□ 91	□
89	□ 91	a
fll	□ 91	
991	□ 91	□

□
□
□
□
□
□
I 1

□
□
□
I I
I I
□
□
□
□
□
□

VOTE BOTH SIDES



MEASURE P
ORDINANCE NO. 9

ORDINANCE OF THE TRUCKEE-DONNER
RECREATION AND PARK DISTRICT
IMPOSING A SPECIAL TAX FOR THE OPERATION
AND MAINTENANCE OF THE TRUCKEE-DONNER
COMMUNITY SWIMMING POOL

The Board of Directors of the Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District does ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. PURPOSE OF REGULATION, it is the purpose of this ordinance to authorize the levy of a
special tax on parcels of real property within the Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District in order to
augment funding for operation and maintenance of the Truckee-Donner Community Swimming Pool. The
Board of Directors finds that present and anticipated revenues are insufficient to continue funding the Truckee-
Donner Community Swimming Pool. The revenues raised by this tax are to be used solely for the purpose of
operating and maintaining the swimming pool and appendages associated with the pool.

SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS. The following definitions shall apply throughout this ordinance;

a)	"Assessor’s parcel" means the land and any improvements thereon designated by an assessor’s
parcel map and parcel number and carried on the secured property tax roll of Nevada County. For purposes of
this ordinance, Assessor’s parcel does not include any land or improvement located outside the boundaries of
the Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District, property owned by another governmental entity, or property
shown as exempt on the said secured property tax roll.

b)	"Multi-Family Residential Parcel" means any improved parcel containing more than one dwelling

unit.

c)	"Mobile Home Parcel" means a parcel containing sites used for mobile homes.

SECTION 3. SPECIAL TAX. The Board of Directors of the Truckee-Donner Recreation and park District is
authorized to levy a special tax each year for purposes stated in Section 1, on all parcels of land within the
boundaries of the district The amount of such tax shall not exceed the following:

A.	Assessor’s Parcel	$3.00
B.	Multi-Family Residential Parcel	$3.00 per dwelling unit
C.	Mobile Home Parcel	$3.00 per mobile home site

The Board of Directors is authorized to levy less than the special tax indicated above. In the event such
lesser amount is levied, the same percentage reduction shall be applied to each class of the special tax.

The special taxes imposed under this ordinance in accordance with Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the
California Constitution may amend the appropriation limit established therein.

SECTION 4. COLLECTION AND ADMINISTRATION.

a)	The special taxes imposed under this ordinance shall constitute a lien on real property in
accordance with Revenue and Taxation Code Section 2187 and shall have the same effect as an ad valorem
real property tax until fully paid. For fiscal year 1990-91 the lien shall attach at 12:01 a.m, on July 1,1990, and
for subsequent years, the lien shall attach at 12:01 a.m. on November 1 preceding the fiscal year for which the
taxes are levied.

b)	The special tax shall be collected by the tax collector of the County of Nevada at the same time as
and along with, and shall be subject to the same interest, penalties, and costs as general ad valorem property
taxes. The taxes on each parcel shall be billed on the secured roll tax bills. For fiscal year 1990-91, the special
taxes shall be separately billed and shall be due February 1,1991, and shalj be delinquent if not paid by April
10, 1991. For subsequent years the special taxes shall be billed with the secured roll bills and shall be
collected in the same manner as ad valorem county taxes on the secured roll. Failure to pay on or before the
delinquency date will result in the imposition of penalties, interest, and costs in the same manner as if the
taxes were ad valorem property taxes.

c)	The County of Nevada shall be entitled to deduct the reasonable costs of collection and
administration of this ordinance before remitting the tax revenues collected to the district.

d)	The governing board of the Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District may from time to time,
after a properly noticed public hearing, adopt regulations necessary for the enforcement and administration of
the special tax provided herein. Such regulations shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of this
ordinance.

TRUCKEE-DONNER RECREATION AND PARK DISTRICT MEASURE

MEASURE ( )	ORDINANCE - YES 

TRUCKEE-DONNER REC. &	ORDINANCE - NO  

PARK DISTRICT ORDINANCE

Shall the ordinance of the Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District imposing a special tax for the purpose
of providing revenue for the operation and maintenance of the Truckee-Donner Community Swimming Pool
be approved?

This special tax shall be levied upon the parcels within the district and shall not exceed the following rate:

A.	Assessor’s Parcel	$3.00
B.	Multi-Family Residential Parcel	$3.00 per dwelling unit
C.	Mobile Home Parcel	$3.00 per mobile home site

b)	The Board of Directors of the Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District does hereby submit to
the qualified electors of the Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District at said special Recreation and Park
District election said measure, and hereby designates and refers to said measure in the form hereinabove set
forth as the measure to be set forth on ballots hereinafter prescribed for use at said special Recreation and
Park District election.

c)	Said special Recreation and Park District election shall be held and conducted, and the votes
thereat received and canvassed, and the returns thereof made and the result thereof ascertained and
determined as herein provided, and in all particulars not prescribed by this ordinance said special Recreation
and Park District election shall be held as nearly as practicable in conformity with the general election laws of
the State of California, and only qualified voters of the said Recreation and Park District may vote thereat

d)	Said special Recreation and Park District election hereby called shall be consolidated with the
direct primary election to be held June 5,1990.

e)	The County Clerk is authorized and directed to charge to the District the actual costs which accrue
for such election, such costs to be calculated by the pro-ration method set forth in the County’s current
election cost allocation procedures on the basis of service provided to the District.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Truckee-Donner Recreation
and Park District on this 8th day of February, 1990, by the following vote:

AYES:	Mawhar, Dillon, Krieger

NOES:	McKechnie

ABSENT: Fish

Kathy Krieger, Chairperson

ATTEST: Sally Dillon

29/803-3

SECTION 5. APPEALS

a)	Within ten (10) days after the tax bills containing the special taxes imposed by this ordinance have
been mailed, the governing board of the district shall cause a notice of right to appeal to be published once a
week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation within the district Such notice shall be
headed "Notice of Appeals and Procedure for Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District Special Tax for
Truckee-Donner Community Swimming Pool" and shall contain the precise wording of subparagraph (b) of
this section.

b)	Appeals of the amount of the special tax for Truckee-Donner Community Swimming Pool
maintenance and operation services for a parcel or any component of the tax must be made in accordance
with the following:

1)	Appeal shall be initiated by taxpayer by written application addressed to “Board of Directors
of the Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District, P.O. Box 1087, Truckee, CA 95734“. The application must
be received no later than April 1,1990 for the 1990-91 tax year and no later than December 31, for subsequent
years.

Any such application for reduction shall set forth all facte upon which the taxpayer relies as support for the
tax reduction sought. The application must give the mailing address of the taxpayer, must specify by precise
address or assessor’s parcel number, the location of the parcel for which the taxes are being appealed and
must contain a statement made under penalty of perjury that the facts set forth in the application are true. If
the district's staff and the appealing taxpayer do not agree on a resolution of the matters presented by the
appeal, an application which complies with the requirements stated above shall be set for hearing before the
Board of Directors of the Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District as soon as reasonably possible. Notice
of such hearing shall be mailed to the appealing taxpayer at least fourteen (14) days in advance of the date of
the hearing. Filing of an appeal is not grounds for failing to timely pay the entire amount of taxes specified as
due on the tax bill. A record of ail appeals will be available as a public record.

2)	The taxpayer is not required to be present at the hearing. If present, the taxpayer may
present any relevant evidence and may be examined under oath by the district’s representative and by
members of the governing board. The district’s representative may also present any relevant evidence and
may be examined under oath by the taxpayer and by members of the governing board. The burden of proof
on any factual questions shall be on the taxpayer. Within forty (40) days after the hearing, the governing
board, by majority vote, shall determine if any component of the tax bill shall be adjusted and by how much. If
taxes are reduced or increased as a result of the decision of the governing board of the district, the taxes shall
be refunded or collected, insofar as feasible, in the same manner as the secured roll ad valorem property
taxes.

SECTION 6. SEVERABILITY CLAUSE. If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase or clause of this
ordinance is, for any reason, held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion of this ordinance. The Board of Directors of the Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District hereby
declares that it would have adopted this ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, phrase or clause
thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more section, subsections, sentences, phrases or clauses be
declared invalid.

SECTION 7. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its confirmation by
two-thirds of the voters within the district in an election to be held June 5,1990.

SECTION 8. EXPIRATION. This ordinance shall expire on the effective date of any reorganization or
consolidation affecting this district.

SECTION 9. ELECTION.

a)	A special Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District election shall be and the same is hereby
called to be held in the Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District on Tuesday, June 5, 1990, for the
purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of said district the proposition set forth in the following
measure, to wit:

2S/803-2

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL
ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

The Truckee-Donner Recreation and Park District
seeks voter approval of an ordinance imposing a
special tax upon real property located within the
boundaries of the District. The revenues raised by this
tax are to be used solely for the purpose of operating
and maintaining the Truckee-Donner Community
swimming pool and its associated appendages.

The District is authorized by California Government
Code Section 50077 to impose the proposed special
tax if approved by no less than two-thirds of the voters
casting votes thereon. If approved by the voters, the
special tax will be levied upon all real property within
the District which is subject to taxation in the following
manner

Each parcel of land designated by an assessor’s
parcel map and assigned a parcel number shall be
assessed an amount not to exceed three dollars
($3.00) per year.

Each "multi-family residential parcel" which is
improved with two or more dwelling units shall be
assessed an amount not to exceed three dollars
($3.00) per dwelling unit each year.

Each parcel developed with sites used for mobile
homes shall be assessed an amount not to exceed
three dollars ($3.00) per mobile home site each year.

The ordinance authorizes the District Board of
Directors to levy less than the maximum amount (as
described above). If the tax for any year is levied at
less than the maximum amount, the same percentage
of reduction shall be applied to each of the three
classes of property to be taxed.

The ordinance provides for an appeal process for any
affected taxpayer. However, the ordinance fails to
state the basis upon which relief from the special tax
may be granted.

The ordinance will take effect immediately upon
approval by two-thirds of the voters voting thereon at
the June 5,1990, election.

The ordinance will also authorize an increase in the
District’s spending limit as established pursuant to
California Constitution Article XIII B in an amount which
coincides with the special taxes to be levied pursuant
to the ordinance. By law this appropriations increase
would be valid for four years.

The ordinance authorizes the Nevada County Tax
Collector to collect the special tax at the same time
and in the same manner as the general ad valorem
property taxes within the County. The County is
authorized to deduct its reasonable expenses incurred
in the collection and administration of the tax.

BRIAN A. BISHOP
Assistant County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

In 1981 the voters in the Truckee Donner
Recreation and Park District overwhelmingly passed
an initiative for the purpose of providing revenue for
the operation and maintenance of the Truckee Donner
Community Swimming Pool. This special tax was
again passed in 1986. In order to continue running the
community pool at its present level the Board of
Directors of the Truckee Donner Recreation & Park
District again asks the voters to authorize this special
tax for a period of four years, or less, in order to
augment funding for operation and maintenance of the
community pool. These revenues are to be used for
the sole purpose of operating and maintaining the pool
and its appendages.

The Community Swimming pool is a source of
enjoyment and recreation for an increasing number in
the community and provides a source of therapy for
people recovering from disabilities. All ages in the
community take advantage of the many swim
programs offered at the pool. It would be a great loss
to the community if the use of such a valuable facility
was severely limited. Three dollars a year is a small
price to pay for the many hours of enjoyment that the
Community Swimming Pool offers to the residents of
this area.

By supporting a tax for maintenance and
operation, the Recreation & Park District will be able to
continue quality programming and staffing.

KATHY KRIEGER
SALLY DILLON
MARIGREY FISH
DON McKECHNIE
DEBORAH MAWHAR
TDRPD Board of Directors

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

None Filed