CONTRACT FOR SHARING OF SALES TAX PROCEEDS
CITY OF CAPITOLA MEASURE B

For the text of the contract and related information, see the contract
and other information printed in this voter’s pamphlet as part of the
election materials for County of Santa Cruz Measure E.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
OFFICE OF CITY CLERK
CITY OF CAPITOLA, MEASURE C

The Office of City Clerk is presently elective. Passage of this Measure
would result in the next and future City Clerks being appointed by the City
Council (or the City Council could delegate to the City Manager the authority
to appoint the City Clerk).

The duties of the City Clerk, as detailed in Government Code Section 40301
and following, include: keeping records of City Council proceedings; record-
ing in a special book every ordinance and attaching thereto a certificate
stating that it is a correct copy and has been published or posted pursuant to
law; keeping custody of the City seal; and performing such additional duties
as may be prescribed by ordinance.

s/ Richard M. Manning, City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

“Shall the Office of City Clerk be appointive?"

The City Clerk position is responsible for taking and keeping records of City
Council proceedings, recording all ordinances and other actions of the City
Council, as well as additional records and duties as assigned. The position
does not have any policy making role, as the City Clerk primarily performs
administrative and clerical duties. These duties would be performed by a staff
member if the position is made appointive. A number of the functions are now
performed by staff members. This would continue and would ensure the
same high level of service received now from the combination of these duties
by staff. The City Council believes that this change would allow a more
efficient operation than we now have and would urge you to vote “YES".

THE CAPITOLA CITY COUNCIL
s/ Stephanie Harlan, Mayor
s/ Robert Bucher, Council Member
s/ Jerry Clarke, Council Member
s/ Ronald Graves, Council Member
s/ Michael Routh, Council Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
OFFICE OF CITY TREASURER
Cin OF CAPITOLA, MEASURE 0

The Office of City Treasurer is presently elective. Passage of this Measure
would result in the next and future City Treasurers being appointed by the City
Council (or the City Council could delegate to the City Manager the authority
to appoint the City Treasurer).

The duties of the City Treasurer, as detailed in Government Code Section
41001 and following, include: receiving and keeping safely all monies coming
info the Treasurer's hands; complying with all laws governing deposit and
securing of public funds and handling of trust funds in the Treasurer's
possession; paying out money on warrants signed by legally designated
persons; submitting the City Clerk and City Council a written report and
accounting of all receipts, disbursements, and fund balances; and performing
such duties relative to the collection of City taxes and license fees as may be
prescribed by ordinance.

s) Richard M. Manning, City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

"Shall the Office of City Treasurer be appointive?"

"The City Treasurer position and its limited administrative duties have been
filled by a staff member for several years. No one has run for the Office of City
Treasurer since 1980. A staff member was appointed to fill the vacancy. The
position of City Treasurer does not have any policy making authority and only
limited administrative duties that are now performed by City staff.

The highly computerized financial records, transactions and reporting
requirements are handled by a professional Finance Department headed by
the Finance Officer. City finance records are audited each year by professional
independent CPA firms, as well as several state and federal agencies, and are
available to the public.

The functional duties are and have been performed very well by staff, and
we believe that it would be in the best interest of the City to have the position
of City Treasurer made appointive and the duties and functions handled by the
Finance Department. A "Yes" vote on Measure "D" is urged by the City
Council.

THE CAPITOLA CITY COUNCIL

s/ Stephanie Harlan, Mayor
s/ Robert Bucher, Council Member
si Jerry Clarke, Council Member
s/ Ronald Graves, Council Member
s/ Michael Routh, Council Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE

WAS SUBMITTED

i ijjo

44-55