<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
CALAVERAS COUNTY MEASURE A
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FOR LIBRARY CONSTRUCTION

SHALL A ONE-TIME SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FOR THE CON-
STRUCTION OF A NEW COUNTY LIBRARY BUILDING IN THE
AMOUNT OF $19.00 PER PARCEL BE IMPOSED ON THE OWN

ERS OF REAL PROPERTY IN CALAVERAS COUNTY?

This measure would authorize a one-time assessment in the amount of
$19.00 on each assessor’s parcel in Calaveras County.The funds generated
by the assessment must be used to finance the construction of library
facilities. The funds are proposed to be used as matching funds to qualify for
additional funding from a state grant program for library construction.

The following property would be exempt from the assessment: 

(1)	Property exempt from the ad valorem property tax;

(2)	Parcels created for segregating mineral rights;

(3)	Specified unimproved property used for the commercial production of an
agricultural commodity.

Property owned and occupied by persons of low income who are eligible for
the Senior Citizens Property Tax Assistance Program administered by the
California Franchise Tax Board are eligible for exemption if the landowner
applies for exemption by December 10,1991.

Parcels created by the Assessor for mapping convenience will be considered
as one parcel if the property owner submits proof of qualification by Decem-
ber 10,1991.

A “YES” vote is a vote to authorize the assessment.

A “NO” vote is a vote in opposition to the assessment.

This Measure requires a 2/3 “YES” vote for adoption. <impartialend>








<impartialsigs> s/ Jeffrey Tuttie
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>












<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Measure A provides an opportunity for Calaveras County voters to obtain a
new $2 million, 15,000 square foot central library to meet the needs of the
second fastest growing county California. A state grant for 65% of the cost is available; this measure, plus committed county land, will provide the
remaining 35%. Measure A imposes a onetime special assessment of $19 per
parcel of real property with exceptions including many, unimproved agri-
cultural parcels, parcels owned by low income senior citizens, etc. An
appeals procedure is also provided to consider special cases. The assessment can only be used for new library construction; it would raise $650,000,
making Calaveras County eligible to apply for the 2:1 state grant of approximately $1.4 million.	

The existing library was built in 1852. Inadequate parking, limited access and
a small public restroom inconvenience ail and severely restrict use by hand-
icapped patrons. Book stacks are crowded, and books have been water
damaged by a leaky roof. The reference section provides excellent resource
materials, newspapers and periodicals, but seats only eight patrons in crowd-
ed conditions. The children’s area is too tiny for children’s library programs
and there is no public meeting room or exhibit space. Staff and volunteers
work in cramped quarters.

These deficiencies and others will be corrected with the construction of a new
library. Improved services to patrons of the branches throughout the county
can be anticipated.

This measure affords Calaveras: County voters the opportunity to upgrade
their library system at a bargain price - the equivalent of purchasing one
hardcover book. If we do not pass Measure A, another county benefits at our
expense. We urge passage of Measure A to benefit all Calaveras County
citizens. For further information call 785-2530, 754-4468, or 772-2933. <favorend>









<favorsigs> s/ Robert F. Bach
s/ Mike Dell’Orto
s/ Kathleen M. Zancaneila
s/ David J. Silveira
s/ Thomas A. Taylor <favorsigsend>







NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED
