<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S ANALYSIS OF THE CHILDREN AND FAMILY PROTECTION
FUND AND VOLUNTEER CREDIT MEASURE, ORDINANCE NO. 90-67

The Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County has approved Ordinance No. 90-67
which will provide authorization for annual charges to provide essential law enforcement and
public health services to protect and support children and families and implementation of the
Community Drug and Alcohol Action Plan throughout the County, if approved by 2/3 of those
voting on this ordinance measure. Procedures will be established to allow charge refunds for
payers volunteering in the provision of the services noted above.

The ordinance requires that the proceeds of these charges be used solely for the purposes
set forth above. Article XIII A of the California Constitution requires that any such new local
agency charges be approved by 2/3 of those voting on the proposed charges.

The charges authorized by this measure are not based upon the value of property. The
charges or taxes, if approved by the voters, are to be on a parcel and use of property basis.
Under the ordinance the annual charges levied per year on parcels in the County would be
approximately $59.32 on single family residential uses (a detached single family home, con-
dominium, or townhouse) with higher charges for different commercial and industrial uses.

Insofar as feasible, any charges levied would be collected and administered in the same
manner as secured roll ad valorem property taxes.
<impartialend> 










<summary> SYNOPSIS OF CHILDREN AND FAMILY PROTECTION FUND AND VOLUNTARY
CREDIT MEASURE, ORDINANCE NO. 90-67

The purpose ofOrdinance No. 90-67, approved August 7,1990 by the Board of Supervisors
of Contra Costa County, is to authorize the levy of annual charges on parcels of real property
on the secured property tax roll for all of Contra Costa County in order to augment and provide
funding for essential law enforcement and public health services to protect and support children
and families and implementation of the Community Drug and Alcohol Action Plan (Partnership
for a Ding-Free Contra Costa) and related miscellaneous extended governmental services. This
ordinance provides for the establishment of procedures requiring that payers of the charge
shall be allowed tax credit refunds for volunteering in the implementation of the said Prevention
Plan and other County services as specified in the ordinance and by the Board of Supervisors.
The ordinance will only become effective if approved by % of those voting in the County.

Revenues authorized by this ordinance would have to be used solely for the purposes of
funding essential law enforcement and public health services to protect children and families
and to provide the programs contained within the Community Drug and Alcohol Action Plan
(Measure D> approved by County voters on June 5, 1990. in accordance with the following
schedule;

*	20% to prevention/education programs in the schools and other related programs.

20% to city and County law enforcement agencies for drug enforcement and human

service activities.

15% to countywide law enforcement activities such as detention facilitiesS, probation,

crime laboratory and juvenile rehabilitation programs.

40% for drug and alcohol treatment programs.

5% for other programs identified in the Community Drug and Alcohol Action Plan which

are designed to assist children and their families who are in need of such services.

Also, the revenues could be used to provide tax payers credits and refunds for volunteering in
specified ordinance activities.

The special charges authorized by the ordinance are special property charges within the
meaning of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution (Proposition 13). Although these charges
are not determined according to value, they are a special tax because the burden of the charge
falls upon property. Because it is such a special tax, the ordinance provides that, insofar as
possible, the charges shall be administered in the same manner as secured roll ad valorem
property taxes.

The charges authorized by the ordinance would be levied for each fiscal year (July 1
through June 30) on each parcel of property in the County. The charges would be imposed but
not to exceed the amount of $59.32 for each residential or multiple unit with higher annual
charges for commercial and industrial properties depending on ordinance classification. Ordinance 90-67 classifies each parcel of property in the County into a category according to
information contained in current County records for the involved property. For example, the
property use category designated as “single residential*’ would include any parcel shown on
the current records as having a detached single family home, condominium or townhouse.

Charges on each parcel for each year would constitute a lien on the parcel just as in the
case of the secured roll ad valorem property taxes and would be due the County of Contra
Costa. The secured roll tax bills would be the only notices for the charges.

Insofar as applicable, the times and procedures regulating exemptions, due dates, installment payments, corrections, cancellations, refunds, late payments, penalties, liens and collections for secured roll ad valorem taxes would apply to these charges.

County officials collecting the charge would deduct reasonable costs of administering
the charge from the collected charges and remit the balance to be used only for the purposes
set forth above.

If approved by a 2/3 vote in the November 6, 1990 election, taxes could thereafter be
collected pursuant to the ordinance.
<summaryend> 











<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
CHILDREN AND FAMILY PROTECTION FUND AND VOLUNTEER CREDIT

MEASURE D ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1990

The use of illegal drugs and the misuse of alcohol are among the most serious problems facing
our community. That s why 78% of voters approved the Action Plan for a Drug-Free Contra
Costa. But the challenge has been made even greater by the massive state cuts in funding for
local services to combat drugs.

If you agree that we need to help save our young people and families and you want to help the war on drugs, vote YES on Measure “D”!

Measure “D” is a modest charge to help pay for the services we need to fight the war on drugs.
The charge equals 16 cents a day for the average homeowner. But you don’t even have to
pay this very modest charge if you are willing to volunteer a few hours of your time to fight
the war on drugs. We would actually rather have your time than your money. But the choice
is yours. You can get involved in your Drug-Free Schools Task Force. You can join a committee
to make your community drug-free. Many community non-profit agencies need your help in
fighting the war on drugs. There will be many opportunities for you to volunteer in lieu of
paying the charge.

The money from this charge will go to prevention and education, law enforcement, and treatment
services. Related children and family protection programs, and public and mental health services cut by the state will be saved. Schools, cities and County will share the revenue. It cannot
be used for any other purpose read the measure itself!

If you agree that illegal use and abuse of drugs and alcohol is a serious problem and if you
want to do something about it vote Y?:S on Measure UD". Cities, schools and taxpayers win! <favorend>









<favorsigs> MarkFinucane	Contra Costa County

Health Services Director

Richard K. Rainey	Contra Costa County

Sheriff-Coroner

James M.Nordlie

Chair, Alcoholism
Advisory Board

Richard Aubry, Ph.D.

Chair, Contractors’
Alliance of Contra Costa
County <favorsigsend>










<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
CHILDREN AND FAMILY PROTECTION FUND AND VOLUNTEER CREDIT

MEASURE D ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1990

New answers need to be developed for addressing the budget difficulties faced by the County.
The proposed parcel tax increase fails to meet this test in that it does not generate sufficient
funds to meet immediate needs.

Like most communities, our County is in the position of cutting back on or eliminating its
mental health, children’s services, health services. AIDS and other programs to meet projected
state deficiencies. If these cutbacks are to be averted, a new and large source of income to the
County must be identified. The current proposal for a parcel revenue increase is insufficient
to address these shortfalls.

Measure D will raise even less money if people volunteer instead of paying the tax as proposed
by the Board of Supervisors. In addition, the majority of the funds could go uncollected until
late in 1991 making the revenue increases of little value for immediate needs.

Measure D will allocate significant portions of the proceeds to cities and schools for law enforcement and public education. The county should not be giving away this money but should keep
it for county programs.

We need a larger tax increase to seriously address many community concerns.

In addition. Measure D sets the tone for future increases. We believe it would be better to be
taxed all at once for the immediate urgency rather than to prolong the increases over an
extended period of time. Tobacco and gasoline users have already agreed to raise taxes for
specific needs; the parcel increase will only address the needs that we are all concerned about
it it is realistic to the scope of the problem.

Larger and graduated parcel increases, tied to the value of the property in question, would be
a better response.

Vote NO on D.

A fair response is needed for everyone. <againstend>














<againstsigs> Contra Costans for A Fair Tax Increase

Steve Crovo

Jane Lodder

Chris Perez

Sara Russell

Wesley P. Folkman, III <againstsigsend>
