Sample Ballot

p

■SIDE 1

---%

CARD E

SIDE 2

E

OFFICIAL BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED
PRIMARY ELECTION
JUNE 5, 1990

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)

L

IN THIS MANNER ONLY:

STATE MEASURES SUBMITTED
TO VOTE OF VOTERS

NF.W PRISON CONSTRUCTION BOND ACT
| OK 1990 This act provides for a bond
I ZU issue of four hundred fifty million
dollars IS4SO.OOO.OOO) to provide funds lo VES
relieve overcrowding in the state's prisons
and the Youth Authority facilities through NO
new construction

O

ia

Occ

><

HIGHER EDUCATION FACILITIES BOND
| A | ACT OK JUNE 1990. This act provides
I / I for a bond issue of four hundred fifty
million dollars (S4$0,000,000) to provide funds for
the construction or improvement of facilities
of California's public higher education insti- YES
tutions, which include the University of
California's nine campuses, (he California NO
State University's 20 campuses, the 71 districts of
the California Community Colleges, the Hastings
College of the law. the California Maritime Acad-
emy, and off-campus facilities of the California
State University approved by the Trustees of the
California State University on or before July I.
1990. The use of funds authorised under this act
includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the
construction or improvement of classrooms, labor-
atories, and libraries, and the implementation of
earthquake and other health or safety improve-
ments

EARTHQUAKE SAFETY AND PUBLIC
1 aa BUILDINGS REHABILITATION
\ L L BOND ACT OK 1990. This act provides
for a bond issue of three hundred million dollars
($300,000,000) to provide funds for the recon-
struction. seismic retrofitting, repair, replace- Y ES

ment. and relocation of state and local -1

government buildings which arc unsafe NO j
primarily due to earthquake-related dangers

1990 SCHOOL FACILITIES BOND I

Inn \< I	Du act provides for a bond YES

i issue of eight hundred million	I

dollars ($800,000,000). to provide capital NO |
outlay for construction or improvement of
public schools.

MUNICIPAL MEASURE

Shall the City of La Quinta be authorized to levy a

Q special tax pursuant to Ordinance No. 166
on each parcel of real property in the City not
to exceed $ 10.00 per month for each equiva-
lent dwelling unit for the purpose of provid- YES
ingfire protection and prevention and related
paramedic and community safety services? NO

VOTE FRONT AND BACK

I HAVE VOTED HAVE YOU

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)

L

IN THIS MANNER ONLY:

O

SCHOOL MEASURE SUBMITTED
TO VOTE OF VOTERS

Shall the Governing Board of the Desert Sands

O Unified School District purchase sites (where
the sites are not presently owned by the
District), prepare plans and specifications and lease
sites and buildings to be constructed and
renovated for use by the school district YES |
consisting of the hereinafter specified fully
furnished, equipped and landscaped facilities NO
to be located on the following sites:

NEW FACILITIES

New Middle School, on Miles Avenue between
Madison & Clinton, Indio; New Elementary
School, La Quinta; New High School, near
extension of Avenue 46 & Dune Palms, La
Quinta; New Elementary School, near intersec-
tion of Fred Waring Drive & Warner Trail. Palm
Desert Country Club area; and New Elementary
School, Palm Desert

RENOVATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES

Andrew Jackson School, 82-850 Kenner Ave-
nue, Indio; Martin Van Buren School, 47-733
Van Buren, Indio; Herbert Hoover School, 44-
300 Monroe, Indio; Thomas Jefferson Middle
School, 83-089 Avenue 46. Indio; Woodrow
Wilson Middle School, 83-501 Dillon Avenue,
Indio; Indio High School, 81-750 Avenue 46,
Indio; and George Washington School, 45-768
Portola. Palm Desert

ADDITIONS TO EXISTING FACILITIES

John F. Kennedy School, 45-100 Clinton, Indio;
Martin Van Buren School, 47-733 Van Buren,
Indio; Dwight Eisenhower School, 83-391 Dillon
Avenue, Indio; Woodrow Wilson Middle
School, 83-501 Dillon Avenue, Indio; Indio
High School, 81-750 Avenue 46, Indio; John
Adams School, 78-880 Avenue 50, La Quinta;
Harry S. Truman School, 78-870 Avenue 50, La
Quinta; George Washington School, 45-768
Portola, Palm Desert; Abraham Lincoln School,
74-100 Rutledge Way, Palm Desert; Palm Desert
Middle School, 74-200 Rutledge Way, Palm
Desert; and Palm Desert High School, 43-570
Phyllis Jackson Lane, Palm Desert

and, for those purposes, shall the tax rate increase
(not to exceed 9.75 cents per $100.00 assessed
valuation) authorized on March 4, 1975, be used
solely and exclusively for those purposes in addition
to those approved by the majority of electors at the
election held pursuant to the predecessor to Section
39308 of the Education Code on March 4, 1975, the
District reserving the right to lease less than all of the
proposed facilities if circumstances shall so require?

VOTE FRONT AND BACK



33-SB12

Sample Ballot

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS IY JRE Q

This Measure ts designed to permit the voters of the City of La
Quinta to adopt a special tax for the sole and express purpose of
upgrading fire protection and prevention and related paramedic and
community safety services.

At present, fire protection to the City of La Quinta is provided by the
County of Riverside, funded through a "structural fire tax'', collected by
the County, and forming a portion of the total allowable property tax as
limited by the passage of Proposition 13, the Jarvis Amendment, by
California voters in Jane, 1978. Since the passage of Proposition 13,
the County has found it impossible to generate the funds needed to
provide adequate fireprotection services in La Quinta, as well as in other
desert communities where growth is occurring.

Because Proposition 13 generally does not permit property tax
increases, the State Legislature has enacted certain statutes giving
citizens the opportunity to adopt a "special tax” for fire protection
services. The requirements for such adoption are rigid:

(a)	Passage requires a 2/3 voter approval;

(b)	The City must adopt an ordinance stating the maximum amount of
the specific parcel charges to be made;

(c)	Charges may be levied on a parcel basis, bn a formula related to
the use of the property, or on the basis of' improvement on the
property, or any combination thereof; and

(dj The annual assessment per parcel cannot be higher than the
maximum amount stated as a "not to exceed" figure in the
Measure.

A copy of the Ordinance adopted:by;'the La, Quinta City Council
proposing adoption by election is available at City Hall. The Ordinance
provides that the special tax be levied on an equivalent dwelling unit
basis. Residential parcels with one dwelling unit shall pot be charged
more than Ten Dollars ($10.00) per month. (The equivalent dwelling
unit factor for such parcels is 1.0.) However, residential parcels with
more than one dwelling unit and non-residential parcels in the City will
incur higher charges after calculation of the applicable equivalent
dwelling unit charge.

By: DAWN C. HONEYWELL
CITY ATTORNEY

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure Q. If you
desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the City Clerk at
(619) 564-2246 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUM IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

Dear La Quinta Voter -

La Quinta is becoming a vibrant and dynamic City one of the fastest
growing and progressive in California. We, as a City Council represent-
ing you, by working together, plan for the current and projected future
needs for all residents.

One area in which this is particularly true is that of public health and
safety. Once a quiet little village, these issuetttrere not of great
concern. Now we must address our current and future needs. The
truth is, our prevailing levels of service and funding are woefully
inadequate.

This proposal is a well thought-out plan to provide you a thoroughly
professional fire prevention and fire suppression service as well as
24-hour-a-day paramedic services.

We are proposing that on each shift, there will be a minimum of two
additional full-time fully qualified paramedics. Initially, the cost is
anticipated to be less than $ 10.00 per month, hut we are askiftgfor that
amount in order to provide for future growth needs. This amount can
never be raised without going to a vote of the people. The Council will
review the budget and costs each spring prior to the assessment being
levied.

In an effort to keep costs to a minimum, we will continue to utilize our
dedicated volunteer firefighters as we have in the past.

We believe this special tax will provide for the service we require and is
the fairest and most equitable distribution of the costs. Together, let's
plan for our future in a thoughtful and prudent way.

We urge you to vote "YES" on Emergency Services Upgrading —
Measure "Q", on June 5th. THANK YOU.

By: JOHN J. PENA, Mayor

DALE B0HNEN8ERGER, Council Member

JOYCE BOSWQRTH, Council Member

WILLIAM RUSHWQRTH, Council Member

STANLEY SNIFF, Council Member

33-61