Sample Ballot

Stre

2. I

Strei

City

MUJ
TO I

SIDE 1

CARD F

SIDE 2JK/VI6 5 Jwo

TOP

OFFICIAL BALLOT

NONPARTISAN

BALLOT

COUNTY OF BUTTE

TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 1990

This ballot stub shall be torn off by precinct board
member and handed to the voter.

F

D Should County Service Area No. 122 D be established to provide struc- tural fire protection services?	YES	+
	NO	-F
COUNTY SERVICE AREA 122 - FIRE SUPPRESSION ASSESSMENT		
O Should the Board of Supervisors of the County of Butte be authorized to levy an assessment for fire suppression ser- vices within County Service Area No. 122, effective commencing with the 1990-91 fiscal year?		
	YES	+
	NO	+

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

COUNTY

COUNTY SERVICE AREA 122 •
STRUCTURAL FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES

COUNTY SERVICE AREA 121 •
ANIMAL CONTROL SERVICES

D Should County Service Area No. 121
be established and an annual ser-
vice charge levied therein to provide animal
control services, said service charge not to
initially exceed $4.95 per parcel of real
property and not to be increased annually
thereafter bv more than 10%?

YES	+
NO	+

GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS
FOR JAIL FACILITIES

E Shall the County of Butte be authorized to
issue general obligation bonds in a principal
amount not to exceed Thirty-Eight Million Dol-
lars ($38,000,000) for the purpose of the
acquisition, construction and completion of
a new county jail to house up to 770 in-
mates, including all related administrative
and support facilities, to be located at the
County Center in Oroville, California, all as
more particularlv described in Resolution
No. 90-35?

BONOS  YES	*F
BONOS  NO	

04601

o

04-SB851

Ju»\j6 5,1990

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE C
COUNTY SERVICE AREA 122-
FIRE SUPPRESSION ASSESSMENT

The Fire Suppression Assessment Measure is being submitted to the voters
within the boundaries of proposed Service Area 122 pursuant to existing law.
It would not change the existing law.

If a majority of the voters cast on both this measure and on Measure "B”
pertaining to the establishment of County Service Area 122 are "Yes”, then
the Board of Supervisors may adopt an ordinance levying a fire suppression
assessment. The text of the ordinance which would be adopted is as contain-
ed in the Fire Suppression Assessment Report adopted by the Board of
Supervisors on August 29, 1989. The assessment would be in accordance
with said report and with Board of Supervisors Resolution No. 89-145.

The assessment would commence with the 1990-91 fiscal year. It would be
levied only upon property within County Service Area 122 with combustible or
flammable improvements valued at SI ,500 or more as shown on the latest
Assessor's rolls. The maximum permissible assessment for the 1990-91
fiscal year would be as follows:

Description (Structure Type)	Maximum 1990-91 Assessment

Residential:

Single family	S	67.92

Multi-family	33.96

(per dwelling unit)

Commercial:	135.84

Industrial:	339.60

Agricultural:	84.90

Institutional:	84.90

Miscellaneous:	67.92

Commencing with fiscal year 1991-92 the maximum permissible assess-
ment shall be adjusted by a percentage equal to the percentage increase in
Butte County’s spending limit pursuant to Section 1 of Article XIII.B. of the
California Constitution (Gann limit). During the 11 years for which such
spending limit has been calculated (fiscal years 1979-80 through 1989-90),

the average annual increase was 8.80%. The average increase for the five
years ending 1989-90 was 6.38%. It is not known what the percentage
increase will be in future years.

The assessment shall be collected in the same manner as county property
taxes are collected. Any funds collected from the assessment could only be
expended for fire suppression services within County Service Area 122.

If a majority of the votes on this measure or on Measure "B" are "No”,
then the Board of Supervisors cannot adopt the ordinance levying the fire
suppression assessment.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance or
Measure C. If you desire a copy ot the ordinance or measure,
please call the elections officials office at 538-7761 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you.

s/ Neil H. McCabe
Acting County Counsel

TAX RATE STATEMENT

	MEASURE C		
	RATE	UNITS OF	MAXIMUM
	PER	BENEFIT	1989-90
DESCRIPTION	UNIT	FACTOR	ASSESSMENT
Residential:			
Single family	16.98	4	S 67.92
Multi-family	16.98	2	33.96
(per dwelling unit)			
Commercial:	16.98	8	135.84
Industrial:	16.98	20	339 60
Agricultural:	16.98	5	84.90
Institutional:	16.98	5	84.90
Miscellaneous:	16.98	4	67.92

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Take the battle out of fire protection! Eliminate the annual agony over how
many and which fire stations must be closed. Keep your fire insurance rates
from skyrocketing! By voting YES on Measure C, you will give your Fire
Department a permanent funding base that cannot be diverted to any other
use. This funding base cannot be increased over the Gann Spending Limit.

Our 60 fire engines are expected to last 100 years at the current replace-
ment rate. You know that isn't possible! A YES vote on this measure will
allow your firefighters to acquire new reliable fire engines tor our full-time and
volunteer fire stations. Your volunteers will also begin to receive greatly
improved repair service through the use of mobile fire mechanics. Your 14
full-time engine companies will be able to respond out of the stations within
90 seconds of your call for help.

Your Fire Department is a caring and hardworking group of your neigh-
bors. We hope you think the service we would bring to you is worth the 19
cents per day this measure could cost to protect your home and family

Please mark your ballot YES on Measure C. The life or home you save
could be your own.

s/ Ken Brower
Magalia Volunteers
s/ Steve Brown
Fire Chief
s/ James Derington
North Chico Volunteers
s/ Bill Green
Bangor Volunteers
s/ Ed McLaughlin
Chair, Board ot Supervisors

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

There is no credible proof that fire insurance rates will increase if Measure
C fails. Passage simply increases your tax burden and assesses the same fee
to a remote residence, that won't be saved, as it does to one next to the fire
station.

Examination of equipment acquisitions shows that the volunteer depart-
ments regularly acquire equipment without tax funding. A new tax that will
cause rural residents to subsidize fire service for the urban areas is not the
solution. Existing fire companies should be allowed to form fire protection
districts so that the support level and amount of tax can be controlled by local
people in the district.

The proposed tax is the result of the failure of county administrators to plan
ahead and explore other solutions. This tax is a fundamental shift of the tax
burden and nothing else.

The state is exploring solutions to county problems and numerous bills are
in the legislature. If Measure C passes you will continue to pay the tax even if
Sacramento provides financial assistance and even if a complete solution to
county fund shortages is found. Other solutions will be adopted.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE C!

s/ Willard W. Shinner
Ridge Taxpayers Association
s/ Jack Cahill
s/ George Rusinko
s/ Lance R. Smith
President, Alliance of Butte County
Taxpayers
si Nell Lind
Pres. Butte Co. Taxpayers Assoc.

JUNC 'n.lVVU

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

DEFEAT MEASURE C.

Last September property owners resoundingly opposed the imposition of
an assessment for fire suppression assessments without a vote. The assess-
ment would replace funding from general tax revenues and provide a way to
substantially increase the per parcel cost of paying for county services. This
need for a new source of revenue results from services mandated by the State
but not adequately funded.

Since September the State has examined County operations, determined
that many problems were caused by the State and should be State funded.
Steps have been taken to provide relief. Payment to the State for fire service
has been delayed. Bills have been introduced into the legislature to provide
State funding and to increase County share of property tax revenues. State
actions are the result of taxpayer opposition to an increasing burden.

Several outstanding volunteer fire departments exist in the County. These
can be the nucleus of fire protection districts that would give local control of
tax authority and use. Assessments would be approved at District level and be
related to the benefit.

Measure C would assess the same fee to residences of different value and
receiving different benefits. Residential fires in remote locations usually result
in total destruction, as do fires in lower value homes.

Service provided, and to be provided, vary substantially throughout the
county. Benefit to specific residences varies substantially. It is unrealistic to
suggest that benefit to specific residences is not related to location and value.
This measure would result in owners of homes receiving little benefit subsi-
dizing fire protection.

Defeat Measure C and insist that County develop plans based on new State
actions and promoting greater local control of fire services

DEFEAT MEASURE C.

s/ Willard W. Shinners
Ridge Taxpayers Association
s/ Lance R. Smith, President
Alliance of Butte County
s/ Nell Lind, President
Butte County Taxpayers Association

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

PLEASE VOTE YES ON MEASURE C.

For sixty years your firefighters have worked very hard to develop a strong,
consolidated Fire Department to serve you. We are proud of the service we
provide to every community and of the insurance rating we have achieved.
We are proud that we have been able to make every one of your dollars go as
far as humanly possible.

Now, due to circumstances beyond our controLafl of this js at risk.
Mandates and law suits have wiped out our funding. Our fire engines are
falling apart and your insurance rating is teetering in th&balance.

It is argued that we provide vastly different levels of service throughout the
County. That is simply untrue. The number of fire engines sent to each type of
emergency is identical everywhere. Less than 1% of the population is over 8
minutes from the nearest fire station. The two main insurance ratings are
primarily distinguished by the existence of fire hydrants.

To suggest that we respond less vigorously to lower value homes demeans
those firefighters who risk their lives day after day combatting these emergen-
cies. The precarious position of fire protection in this County would be
destroyed by forming twenty new fire protection bureaucracies. None would
be able to handle a significant fire with their limited resources and their
inevitable financial weakness would lead to unending turf battles.

Please join with us in keeping fire services as a top priority by voting YES
on Measure C.

s/ Ken Brower
Magalia Volunteers
s/ Steve Brown
Fire Chief
s/ James Derington
North Chico Volunteers
s/ Bill Green
Bangor Volunteers
s/ Ed McLaughlin
Chair, Board of Supervisors

JUNi 5,1990

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE D
COUNTY SERVICE AREA 121 -
ANIMAL CONTROL SERVICES

The County Service Area No. 121 Measure is being submitted to the voters
within the boundaries of the proposed service area pursuant to existing law, It
would not change the existing law.

If a majority of the votes cast on the measure are ‘Yes", the measure will
be approved, and the service area shall be established. The service area
would include all of the property located within the unincorporated territory of
the County of Butte; it would not include any property within the incorporated
territory of the County. Thus, no property within the cities of Biggs, Chico.
Gridley or Oroville or the Town of Paradise would be included within the
service area.

If the service area is established, it would be authorized to provide animal
control services (as specified in Board of Supervisors Resolution 89-155),
and the Board of Supervisors would be authorized to levy an annual service
charge on the real property within it to fund such services. The service charge
could not exceed S4.95 per parcel of real property in fiscal year 1990-91.

Commencing with the fiscal year 1991-92 the maximum permissible ser-
vice charge would be increased annually by a percentage equal to the annual
percentage increase in Butte County’s spending limit pursuant to Section 1 of
Article XIII.B. of the California Constitution (Gann limit); however, such
increases shall not exceed 10% annually. During the 11 years for which such
spending limit has been calculated (fiscal years 1979-80 through 1989-90),
the average annual increase was 8.80%, The average increase for the five

years ending 1989-90 was 6.38%. It is not known what the percentage
increase will be in future years.

The actual annual service charge could be less than the maximum permis-
sible charge. The actual charge could not exceed the maximum permissible
charge. The actual charge would be determined by the Board of Supervisors
and adopted after a report was filed according to law specifying the proposed
service charge for each parcel of property and a public hearing was held to
hear and consider all objections or protests. The service charges adopted
would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as county
property taxes are collected.

If a majority of the votes on measure “D" are "No", the county service
area shall not be established, and the county may not be able thereafter under
current law to provide some or all of the animal control services in question,
within the boundaries of the proposed service area, from general funds of the
county.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance or
Measure D. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure,
please call the elections officials office at 538-7761 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you.

si Neil H. McCabe
Acting County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

This is an important public service proposition for unincorporated area Butte
County citizens. Budget restrictions have severely limited the ability of Butte
County to provide essential services including animal control services.

Present animal related services are limited to Health Department investigation
of animal bites and rabies related incidents and the issuance of animal related
permits and licenses. For a nominal per parcel fee, animal control services
will be restored to an acceptable level necessary to protect our citizens from
roving, marauding, and biting dogs. Restored services will reduce the trans-
mission of disease from animals to humans and between animals as well as
control animal nuisances such as noise, harassment, uncontrolled multiplica-
tion and untended dead animals. Citizens of a developed society deserve
decent animal control.

Improved services needed for general health safety and quality of our com-
munity will include:

•	Rabies prevention enhancement & expansion.

•	Stray animal pickup and sheltering.

•	Support an adoption program for unclaimed and/or unwanted animals.

•	Pickup, removal, and disposal of unowned dead animals.

•	Nuisance animal investigations & appropriate actions.

•	Spay/neuter programs encouraged and supported.

•	Support and work with community groups such as the Humane society.
PAWS, and the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.

All of these activities will be provided for a thrifty $4.95 per parcel per year. A
bargain for both pets and people.

s/ Ed McLaughlin
Chairman of the Board of Supervisors
s/ William Lyman, DVM
s/ Lewis Robert Plumb
President. PAWS, Inc.
s/ Matthew Fine, M.D.

President, Butte-Glenn Medical Society
s/ W. Loffthus
Law Enforcement

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Budget restrictions were NOT a factor in the cancellation of Butte County
Animal Control Services in November, 1989. County government initiated a
new department, Rabies Control, spending more money providing less ser-
vice than costs of prior contractor. Doing this the county took direct control
of the animal control services, limiting them to rabies only. WHY, YOU MAY
ASK? Butte County is a state designated Rabies county. State Health and
Safety Codes and Food and Agriculture codes spell out mandated rabies
control services including a pound system and control of stray animals.
County officials are ignoring state mandates, risking our health merely to
force another tax on us. You are again being asked to tax yourself for state
mandates. Proponents admit people "deserve decent animal control" in their
argument favoring new taxes, which can and will be increased yearly forever.
Pass this measure and lose your right to vote on this issue forever.

The above mentioned services were cancelled in 1989, one year after the
cost for dog licenses was raised 4 fold. What did you get for the extra cash?
County bureacrats prefer reasoning everyone benefits, yet fail to recognize
not everyone pays. They insist on foisting more state mandated programs
down our throats and the main beneficiary will be the state

This is another unequal tax already paid once. Until property taxes, even a
"mere $5.00" are used, as intended, to benefit your property. .

JUST SAY NO TO MEASURE D

s/ Nell Lind
President Butte County
Taxpayers Association

JUMt 5, IWG

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

Any extra tax you agree to pay in addition to property taxes you now pay
(even $5.00) only frees up that much more to be used for state social service
programs. To approve any county service area that has been funded by Butte
County until after the state of California pays for mandated programs, the cost
of which they foist off on county taxpayers, results in stealing the taxes you
already paid for animal control in order to pay for the state of California social
service programs.

To approve this new tax will only encourage the state and Butte County
government to continue as usual, DIGGING INTO YOUR POCKET as a proper-
ty owner. This service district will benefit everyone but as usual only property
owners have to pay. California and Butte County government have stolen your
animal control services away. Until property taxes are used, as intended, to
benefit your property. . . .

JUST SAY NO TO MEASURE D

s/ Nell Lind, President
Butte County Taxpayers Association

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

The argument against Measure D is an understandable expression of State
mandated program frustrations. -

It is inconceivable however, to believe that a vote against a small assess-,
ment ($4.95) will in any way improve the quality of life or enhance current
efforts to obtain State recognition of County problems.

A vote for Measure D will result in a dollar for dollar transfer of approved
funding to local services. County Service Area protection against stray and
vicious animals as well as the provision of other animal related services is an
affordable solution to animal control problems for caring people.

Even the opponents agree "This service district will benefit everyone.''

si W. Loffthus, Law Enforcement
si Ed McLaughlin. Chairman of the
Board of Supervisors
s/ William Lyman, DVM