<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

MEASURE M

Measure M is being submitted to the voters of Orange County according to the requirements of the Local Transportation Authority and Improvement Act enacted by the Legislature in 1987. Measure M is a proposal to supplement existing local revenues for public transportation purposes. The revenues proposed to be raised by this measure will be allocated by the Orange County Local Transportation Authority for the construction and improvement of State highways, the
construction, maintenance, improvement and operation of local streets, roads and highways, and the construction, improvement and operation of public transit
systems (including bus, light rail, rapid transit and commuter rail services and facilities), all within the County of Orange, described in the Revised Traffic
Improvement and Growth Management Plan.

Currently Orange County residents are paying a 6 1/4% retail transactions and use tax for purchases subject to such tax throughout Orange County. Those taxes are allocated in the amount of 5 1/4% to the State of California and 1% to the County of Orange and the cities within Orange County. (The amount of 1/4% to the State of California is authorized from December 31,1989. to December 31,1990 for earthquake relief.)

Measure M would provide that there would be, for a period of 20 years, a 1/2 of 1% retail transactions and use tax above the existing 6 1/4% tax. Measure M
would provide that the proceeds of such 1/2 of 1% tax would be placed in a trust fund to be used solely for the transportation projects and programs detailed in
the Revised Traffic improvement and Growth Management Plan. The Plan was adopted by the Local Transportation Authority after receiving approval by the
Orange County Board of Supervisors and the city councils of a majority of the cities in the County as required by law. Measure M would authorize the Local
Transportation Authority to issue bonds payable solely from the proceeds of the tax, with the proceeds of such bonds being used to finance capital outlay
expenditures for those transportation projects.

This measure required an affirmative vote of a majority of the electors voting on the measure. <impartialend> 