SAN MATEO CITY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

MEASURE B

“Shall the San Mateo City (elementary) School District, for the benefit of students in San Mateo and Foster City, be authorized to
impose a qualified special tax (a) to reduce class size; (b) to upgrade library materials and equipment; (c) to improve the art and
music programs; (d) to improve the physical education program; and (e) to acquire classroom equipment at the rate of $55 per year
per parcel of land (with exemptions for parcels owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older, upon application, and
certain other property exempted by law) and, in connection therewith, shall the appropriations limit of the District be raised each
year in an amount equal to the levy of said tax for said year?”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE B

Section 4 of article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Gov-
ernment Code section 50079, et seq., authorize a school district, upon
approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified special
tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the San Mateo City
School District proposes to levy a qualified special tax. This tax shall
be in an amount not to exceed $55.00 per year assessed against each
parcel of taxable land in the District. A parcel shall be defined as any
unit of land in the District which now receives a separate tax bill from
the San Mateo County Assessor's Office. Upon application, an exemp-
tion will be granted for parcels owned and occupied by a person 65
years or older. All property which would otherwise be exempt from
property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of the special tax.

In connection with the proposal of the special tax, this measure
would also increase the District’s appropriations limit per fiscal year,
in an amount equal to the levy of special taxes for that year, as permitted
by article XIIIB, section 4 of the California Constitution.

The Board of Trustees has listed the specific purposes of the tax
as (a) to reduce class size; (b) to upgrade library materials and equipment;
(c) to improve the art and music programs; (d) to improve the physical
education program; and (e) to acquire classroom equipment.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax
to be levied on property within the boundaries of the San
Mateo City School District at an amount not to exceed
$55.00 per parcel. It would also allow the appropriations
(spending) limit of the District to be raised each year in
an amount equal to the levy of the tax for that year.

A “no" vote on this measure would not allow the special
tax to be levied and it would not allow the appropriations
limit to be raised.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The San Mateo City Elementary School District needs your support
for Measure B to reduce class size and improve libraries and classroom
programs in elementary and middle schools in San Mateo and Foster
City.

The facts are;

*	Class size in the San Mateo City Elementary District is higher than
in neighboring districts.

*	Our library budget is inadequate. The average book in our library
is more than 10 years old. Our libraries cannot support the programs
our students need to prepare for the competitive world of the future.

*	Funds are not available in the existing budget to reduce class size
and to improve classroom and library programs.

Passage of Measure B will provide funds annually.

*	to reduce class size.

*	to provide library books and instructional equipment.

*	to improve classroom instructional programs including music, arts,
and physical education.

Passage of Measure B cannot do the job alone.

*	Passage of Measure B will raise funds to reduce class size and
improve our instructional program. It is essential, however, that
Measure C also pass. Measure C will raise the funds needed to
rehabilitate our classrooms. Without adequate classrooms, we can-
not reduce class size.

These are the facts. Help reduce class size, improve libraries and im-
prove classroom programs. Good schools mean good communities.
Vote yes on Measure B.

The cost is reasonable. Passage of Measure B will cost homeowners
in our community $55 per year (that's less than $4.60 per month). A
full exemption from this cost is available for senior citizens.

Vote Yes on Measure B.

The measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure
vote “yes."

/s/

Is!

/s/

/s/

/si

Gwen Stimson, President, Board of Trustees
Roger Chinn, Mayor of Foster City
Thomas Mack, Mayor of San Mateo
Glenn Smith, Chancellor, San Mateo

Community College District
Jennifer Stuppi, President, San Mateo-

Foster City PTA Council

August 10, 1990
August 10, 1990
August 10, 1990

August 1 3, 1990

August 10, 1990

NO ARGUMENT SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE B