<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE C

A majority of voters voting “yes” on this measure will authorize an
increase from six percent (6%) to ten percent (10%) in the tax rate charged
on room rental in hotels, motels and similar establishments located in the
unincorporated area of the County of Kern (“County"). Revenue generated
from the increased tax will be deposited in the County’s General Fund, which
pays for the various services which the County provides to its residents. The
tax is collected in a manner similar to sales taxes; that is, the operators of
hotels, motels, inns, and similar establishments generally collect the tax from
persons who rent rooms for thirty (30) days or less. The amount collected is
forwarded to the County.

California statutes authorize counties and cities to levy this charge, which
is called a transient occupancy tax. This measure, affects only the transient
occupancy tax. rate charged in the unincorporated areas of the County; cities
have independent authority to determine the transient occupancy tax rate
charged in their respective jurisdictions. If this measure is approved, the ten
percent (10%) rate charged in the unincorporated areas in the County will be
equal to the transient occupancy tax rate charged in the County's largest cities
of Ridgecrest and Bakersfield.

Proposition 62, adopted by the voters in 1986, requires voter approval of
any measure which proposes a new tax or a tax increase. Accordingly, the
proposed increase in the transient occupancy tax rate from 6% to 10% will
not be effective unless it is approved by a majority vote of the electors voting
on this measure. <impartialend>










<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Approval of this measure will provide an efficient means for visitors and
travelers passing through Kern County to pay their fair share of the cost of the
local County services which they use. This will partially relieve Kern County
taxpayers of the burden of paying a disproportionate and unfair share of the
cost of County services which directly benefit pass-thru travelers, out-of-
County visitors, and other transient motel/hotel users. County services which
benefit non-resident motel/hotel users include law enforcement, jails, courts,
fire response, emergency medical services, solid waste disposal, air pollution
control, public health services, parks, museums, and road construc-
tion/maintenance. It is appropriate and consistent with the user-pay principle
for persons residing outside of our County who impact the cost of these
services to share in their cost. The proposed increase in the transient
occupancy tax, which is applied to hotel/motel room charges, from 6% to
10% will generate more than $550,000 annually for use in maintaining quality
local County Government services. The 6% transient occupancy tax currently
in effect in Kern’s unincorporated area is far below the rate charged in most
other California counties and cities, and is also below the 10% rate which is
already in effect within the City of Bakersfield. When Kern County citizens visit
other cities and counties, they frequently must pay a hotel/motel room tax of
10%, or even more, to support local public services in those jurisdictions
(City of Los Angeles 12%, City of San Francisco 1i%, City of Sacramento
10%). It is only fair for Kern County to reciprocate, and for Kern County
residents to receive the same financial benefit and outside support enjoyed by
the residents of those jurisdictions levying higher hotel/motel room tax rates.
A “yes” vote will indicate your support for correcting this inequity. <favorend>









<favorsigs> s/ Geary Taylor
County Administrative Officer
s/ Joyce Robinson
President - Kern County Board of
Trade

s/ Keliey Brown, President
The Greater Bakersfield Convention &
Visitors Bureau Board
s/ Laverne Howell, President
Greater Frazier Park Chamber of
Commerce
s/BobMyrann-
President - Kern River Valley Visitors
Council <favorsigsend>







NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED
