IIIIBIIIlSIlllllllllllllll

SAMPLE BALLOT

OFFICIAL BALLOT

GENERAL ELECTION
COUNTY OF NEVADA
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6,1990

I HAVE VOTED - HAVE YOU?

This ballot stub shall be removed by a precinct board
member and handed to the voter before the ballot is
placed In the ballot container.

TO VOTE. FILL IN THE WHITE RECTANGLE IS]		TO VOTE, FILL IN THE WHITE RECTANGLE [=1
OPPOSITE YOUR SELECTION IN THE VOTING COLUMN: 1 — 1		OPPOSITE YOUR SELECTION IN THE VOTING COLUMN: g"l

DISTRICT		m		■
PENN VALLEY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT □		Hi	a	
Q Shall a change be made in the n appropriations limitation established for		H	□	fli
the Penn Valley Fire Protection District under *		mmmmm	H	■■1
Article XIII B of the California Constitution for a 1		mam		HU
period of four (4) years, in order to allow the District __			1—1	hhh
to retain and expend a sum equal to all revenues 1-1		■1		HHi
generated and received by the District during the next four years?	YES~+ O	fli	in	fli
	NO “♦ C3	■	□	fli
T Shall the special taxes authorized by r—i		■■	a	HI
Ordinance No. 81-1 and Resolution No.				
85-5 of the Penn Valley Fire Protection District be _			r-i	HH
repealed and be replaced with a special tax of the		■■		i^H
Penn Valley Fire Protection District forth© purpose __		■■	n	■■
of fire protection, fire prevention, rescue and other *—1		m		HHI
emergency services, with an annual tax rate of $90 .				■■I
for each residential structure, $45	for each	EE	LhJ	HH
unimproved lot, and $45 per 1,000 sq. ft. of commercial or industrial	YES-^a	fli	a	■i
structure?	no n	■	a	Hi
	a	fli	in	Hi
	EH	fli	tn	Hi
	in	■	a	■
	□	■	in	■1
	a	fli	a	■
	in	■	in	■1
	in	■	in	■1
	m	fli	a	■
	a	■	□	1
	a	■	in	HI
	a	■	a	fli
	o	m	a	Hi

MEASURES S AND T

RESOLUTION NO, 90-6
IMPOSITION OF SPECIAL TAXES FOR FIRE
PROTECTION & PREVENTION AND RESCUE /
EMERGENCY SERVICES

THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE PENN
VALLEY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT, COUNTY OF
NEVADA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, RESCINDS
RESOLUTION 90-5 AND RESOLVES AS FOLLOWS:

WHEREAS, Section 50077 of the Government Code
provides the District with the mechanics to impose a
special tax for fire protection and rescue services,

WHEREAS, the Penn Valley Fire Protection District
has an inadequate source of funding to support the
operations of the district and has therefore, a need to
impose a special tax to provide such funding for fire
protection and prevention services and
rescue/emergency services.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Commissioners of
the Penn Valley Fire Protection District of the County of
Nevada, State of California, does hereby RESOLVE,
DETERMINE AND ORDER THE FOLLOWING:

I.	That a special election be held on November
6, 1990 in the Penn Valley Fire Protection District,
requesting that the voters adopt a tax for the purpose
of financing fire protection, fire prevention, rescue and
other emergency services.

II.	Whereas, the Board of Directors of the Penn
Valley Fire Protection District has determined that the
appropriation limits under Proposition 4 (Article XIII B
of the CAlifornia Constitution) will not cover the costs
of providing fire protection and rescue services in the
district, that at said election heretofore state, there
shall also be submitted to the voters the following
proposition in the event that Article XIII B of the
California Constitution is to be applicable to the
expenditure of funds derived from this special tax:
"Shall a change be made in the appropriations
limitation established for the Penn Valley Fire
Protection District under Article XIII B of the California
Constitution for a period of four (4) years, in order to
allow the District to retain and expend a sum equal to
all revenues generated and received by the District
during the next four years?"

III.	Further, the special tax would be levied and
collected in the same manner as other taxes of the
District.

IV.	That the Board of Supervisors consolidate the
special election with the regular school district and
special district elections which are scheduled for
November 6,1990.

V.	That the Board of Supervisors instruct the
County Clerk to administer all aspects of the election
pursuant to the provisions of Elections Code Section
22003.

VI.	That the precincts, polling places, and
precinct election board members shall be the same as
those provided for in the November 6,1990 regular
school district and special district elections pursuant
to Election Code Sections, 23300, 23301.5, 23306, and
23312.

VII.	That the Board of Supervisors is authorized to
canvass the results of the election pursuant to
Elections Code Section 23306.

VIII.	That the provisions of Elections Code
Section 5157.5(a) are hereby adopted so that the
rebuttal arguments may appear in the sample ballot in
addition to direct arguments.

IX.	That the language of the measure shall be as
follows: Shall the special taxes authorized by
Ordinance No. 81-1 and Resolution No. 85-5 of the
Penn Valley Fire Protection District be repealed and be
replaced with a special tax of the Penn Valley Fire
Protection District for the purpose of fire protection, fire
prevention, rescue and other emergency services,
with an annual tax rate of $90 for each residential
structure, $45 for each unimproved lot, and $45 per

1,000	sq. ft. of commercial or industrial structure?

X.	Under the provisions of Elections Code
Sections 22003 and 23311, the Penn Valley Fire
Protection District shall reimburse the County of
Nevada for the conduct of the election.

XI.	RATE AND METHOD OF ASSESSMENT

The rate and method of assessment for the special tax
authorized herein shall be as follows:

(a)	Each residential structure, including single-family
house, mobile homes, and each and every living unit
in duplexes, mobile home parks, apartments,
condominiums, and campground/recreational facilities
shall be assessed at a rate of $90.00 per year.

(b)	Each unimproved lot shall be assessed at a rate of
$45.00 per year.

(c)	Each commercial structure shall be assessed at a
rate of $45.00 per 1,000 square feet or any portion
thereof.

(d)	Each industrial structure shall be assessed at a rate
of $45.00 per 1,000 square feet or any portion thereof.

XII.	ADOPTION, AMENDMENT AND REPEAL

The special tax described in Paragraph XI herein shall
be adopted if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on
it. If adopted, the special tax may only be amended or
repealed by approval of 2/3 of the voters voting on
such measure. In the event the special taxes
described in Paragraph XI herein are adopted by the
voters at the election on November 6, 1990, the
special taxes authorized by Ordinance #81-1 and
resolution #85-5 of the Penn Valley Fire Protection
District shall be repealed.

The County records as of July 1 of each year shall
determine for the next fiscal year whether a residential,
unimproved lot, commercial or industrial structure
exists (and the size thereof), for the purpose of taxing
by this ordinance.

CARRY OVER OF REMAINING FUNDS

Any unexpended residue of any funds raised by this
tax remaining at the end of any fiscal year shall be
carried over by the district to the next succeeding year.

PASSED AND ADOPTED AS A RESOLUTION of the
Penn Valley Fire Protection District of the County of
Nevada, State of California, at a special board meeting
thereof held on the 3rd day of July, 1990 by the
following vote:

AYES:	Carlton Dutra, Bob Nix, Judy Ten	Eyck

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	George Mueller, Ed Bourne

Abstain:	None

B.H. NIX, BOARD CHAIRMAN

ATTEST:

BARBARA E. FALETTI
Clerk to the Board

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL
ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S

The Penn Valley Fire Protection District seeks voter
approval to increase the District’s existing spending
limit as established by California Constitution Article
XIII B for an additional four years in order to allow the
District to retain and expend all of the proceeds of
taxes which the District is currently entitled to receive.

California Constitution Article XIII B adopted in 1979
established a spending limit on all public agencies in
California. If in any given year an agency's proceeds
from taxes exceed its spending limit, the agency is
required to return the excess amount by reducing the
taxes and/or fees levied by it in the next two fiscal
years.

Approval of this measure would allow the District to
increase its spending limit by the amount of revenue
generated and received by the District during the next
four years. The new spending limit will be established
if approved by a simple majority of the voters casting
votes thereon.

Dated: September 10,1990

JAMES A. CURTIS
County Counsel

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL
ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T

The Penn Valley Fire Protection District seeks voter
approval for the imposition of a special tax as
authorized by California Government Code Section
50077. This measure requires a two-thirds majority of
those voting before the proposed special tax will
become effective.

The proposed special tax would provide funds for the
express purpose of operating a fire department, and to
provide fire -protection, fire prevention, rescue, and
other emergency services. The proposed tax would be
levied only upon that real property within the District.
The proposed special tax will be levied based upon
four different categories of real property as defined in
Resolution No. 90-6. The tax would be levied as
follows:

Each residential structure, including single-family
house, mobilehomes, and each and every living unit
in duplexes, mobilehomes parks, apartments,
condominiums, and campground/recreational
facilities shall be assessed at a rate of $90.00 per
year.

Each unimproved lot shall be assessed at a rate of
$45.00 per year.

Each commercial structure shall be assessed at a
rate of $45.00 per 1,000 square feet or any portion
thereof.

Each industrial structure shall be assessed at a rate
of $45.00 per 1,000 square feet or any portion
thereof.

The proposed special tax may be collected by the
County of Nevada as other taxes are normally
collected, and the County would then be authorized to
retain a nominal administrative fee for such collection.
Passage of this measure will have the effect of
repealing special taxes previously approved and
authorized by Ordinance 81-1 and Resolution 85-5 of
the Penn Valley Fire Protection District.

Dated: September 10,1990

JAMES A. CURTIS
County Counsel

, fe	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S	ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T
A "YES" vote is needed to enable the Penn Valley Fire Protection District to fully utilize tax monies already available and those which become available during the next four years. These monies are needed to continue to provide adequate fire and rescue services for the District.  The criteria of Article XIIIB (Proposition 4) of the California Constitution does not adequately provide for the increased growth and commercial expansion that is currently taking place within the Penn Valley Fire Protection District.  A "YES" vote on this measure WILL NOT cause an increase in taxes.  B.H. (Bob) Nix Chairman of the Board  Judith A. Ten Eyck Commissioner  Robert E. Paulus Administrative Captain	The Penn Valley Fire Protection District is seeking voter approval for a combined Fire and Rescue/Ambulance special tax initiative amounting to a total of ninety dollars ($90.00) per year which, if approved, would eliminate the now existing tax base of thirty-three dollars and 22/100 ($33.22) per year, resulting in a total cost to each taxpayer of twenty-five cents (.25) per day.  The monies generated by this proposed special tax are desperately needed to fund the current level of services the District provides. Currently, the Penn Valley Fire Protection District is the only fire service in Nevada County to provide an ambulance service to its local residents. If this service is to continue, we need your support.  Since the 49er Fire, the Penn Valley Fire Protection District has undergone many changes and is now looking towards the future. The 49er Fire brought to light may needs the District must meet in order to provide necessary fire protection to its residents. Currently, the Board of Commissioners is working on a ten-year plan to address this community’s needs for Fire and Rescue/Ambulance Services to the year 2000. Under this proposed special tax, construction and equipment for the Bitney Springs and Big Oak Valley fire stations would be made possible years sooner than could be realized by current District funding.  The Penn Valley Fire Protection District provides fire protection and ambulance transport service to its residents. This is vour Fire Department. Your vote now will determine what type of services we will provide in the future. Your support is needed.  Please Vote YES!  B.H. (Bob) Nix Chairman of the Board  Judith A. Ten Eyck Commissioner  Robert E. Paulus Administrative Captain
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S	
NONE FILED	
	ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T
	NONE FILED

29/603-3