Sample Ballot

■SIDE 1

CARD J

SIDE 2'

OFFICIAL BALLOT

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE
CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 6, 1990

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)

U

IN THIS MANNER ONLY:

MUNICIPAL MEASURES
SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS



Shall Ordinance No. 967 be adopted to increase the

TCity'j Transient Occupancy Occupancy l ax
paid by hotel and motel visitors from
six percent (6%) to ten percent (10%) for the V ES
purpose of raising revenue to defray the costs
of providing City services and to supplement NO
the City's general fund?

Shall the office of City Clerk be appointed by the

UCity Council, rather than elected by the (fl]
citizens of Banning effective upon the v,.t [r-
expiration of the current term of the City *	|

Clerk in November 1992?

NO

Shall the office of City Trcasurer be appointed by the

VCity Council, rather than elected by the
citizens of Banning effective upon the
expiration of the current term of the City
Treasurer in November 1991?

YES

NO CD

ADVISORY VOTE ONLY:	If	the	Riverside

Z County ballot measure for establishing a
county-wide regional park district is
approved by the voters at this general election, do
you favor the City of Banning taking steps to
include itself within this regional park YES
district? This is an advisory non-binding
vote only.	NO



r—i
I

33-005J

33-SB113

Sample Ballot

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE "T"

. ♦	ORDINANCE	NO,	987

Pursuant to Chapter 23, Article III of the Banning City Code, the City
of Banning imposes a transient occupancy tax upon all persons who rent
rooms in hotels located within the City, The amount of the tax is six
percent (6%) of the rent charged by the operator of the hotel. The
revenue generated by the tax is deposited into the City's general fund to
raise revenue to defray the costs of providing City services.

If approved, Ordinance No. 967 will increase the transient
occupancy tax from six percent (6%) to ten percent (10%) of the rent
charged by the operator of a hotel. The City estimates that the
revenues generated to supplement the City's general fund by this
proposed tax increase will be forty thousand dollars ($40,000) per year.

The above statment is an impartial analysis of Measure "T" (Ordinance
No. 967). If you desire a copy of the ordinance, please call the City
Clerk's office at (714) 922-1200 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to

you-

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "T"

Your YES vote to increase the Transient Occupancy Tax will provide
additional tax revenues to fund city services in Banning. The tax will be
paid for by hotel and motel visitors in Banning with no additional tax
being levied on Banning residents.

Several new motels have been constructed in Banning and
additional motel and hotel rooms will be built in the future. These units
are occupied by visitors to our community. These people place
significant demands on city services and utilize many city facilities.

The additional funds obtained by increasing the Transient Occupancy Tax
from 6% to 10% will be used to supplement the essential public services
these visitors receive, such as police and fire protection, street
maintenance, and park maintenance. In essence, with this additional
tax revenue, the visitors are helping defray the cost of providing these
city services and amenities, from which they derive benefit and
enjoyment during their stay in Banning.

Over 325 cities in California have a Transient Occupancy Tax
(T.O.T.) At 6%, Banning has one of the lowest T.O.T. rates in the
state. Increasing the tax rate up to 10% will bring Banning more in line
with other cities in the area.

The Banning City Council urges you to vote YES on this Transient
Occupancy Tax. It will not mean an additional tax burden on you, the
residents of Banning, but will be paid for by visitors who use our city
facilities and services. It will benefit our community as a whole.

Vote YES to receive additional tax revenues to fund city
services...at no additional cost to you.

By: Barbara H. Sheldon	Roosevelt Williams

Larry Higgins	Terry Holbert

Robert L. Hanson

33-55

Sample Ballot

•SIDE 1

CARD

SIDE 2-

I

OFFICIAL BALLOT

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE
CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 6, 1990

33 9091

VOTE FRONT AND BACK

I HAVE VOTED - HAVE YOU?

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)

L

IN THIS MANNER ONLY:

■]

STATE - MEASURES
SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS!

149

i:

rLS

\i>



150

151

ES

YES

NO

DISTRICT - MEASURE
SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTER

Shall a Riverside County Regional Park and Open
DlrfT Space District he created to preserve,

I IV protect and maintain open space, green belt
areas and wildlile habitat, and to provide and main-
tain horse, hiking and bicycle trails, regional parks
and public recreation facilities, such as playgrounds,
neighborhood parks, senior citizen activity . ,
centers, and youth sports facilities subject to *
the terms and conditions of Resolution No.

90-396 adopted by the Board of Supervisors
of Riverside County on July 31. 1990, and with the
Riverside County Regional Park and Open Space
District, pursuant to Article X.1I1R of the California
( onstiumon, having an annual appropriations limit
of S25.000.000.00'.’

Shall the Riverside County Regional Park and Open

K Space District have the authority to assess l‘|
an annual fee of from SO to $26 per parcel if
for the purpose, of carrying out its enumerated ||]j
responsibilities with eaeh parcel holdei being	;	-

allotted reduced fees tor use of specified T ES
District facilities up to the amount of any
assessment paid by such parcel holder ’	NO

33-9081

VOTE FRONTAND BACK

B.TSB78

Sample Ballot

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE PK

The proposed measure is for the formation of the Riverside Count?
Regional Park and Open Space District,

The District is to be formed for the following purposes:

To plan, adopt, lay out, plant, develop, and otherwise improve, extend,
control, operate, and maintain a system of public parks, playgrounds, golf
courses, trails, natural complexes, scenic areas, and other facilities for
public recreation, for the use and enjoyment of all the inhabitants of the
District, and it may select, designate, and acquire land, or rights in land,
within or without the District, to be used and appropriated for such
purposes. The District may conduct programs and classes in outdoor
science education and conservation education, and may do all other
things necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of this District

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Riverside shall act ex officio,

as the governing body of the District,

The territory to be included within the District shall include ail

unincorporated areas of the County of Riverside, lying west of a north'
south line passing through Chiriaco Summit, and the incorporated
municipalities of Cathedral City, Coachella, Desert Hot Springs, Indian
Wells, Lake Elsinore, Palm Desert, Palm Springs. Rancho Mirage and

Riverside with specified exceptions.

The measure also provides that the appropriations limit for the District
will not exceed $25 million.

By: LOCAL AGENCY FORMATION COMMISSION
COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE
George J. Spiliotrs

Executive Officer

The above statement is an impartial analysis of the Measure "PI" (The
formation of the Riverside County Regional Park and Open Space
District). If you desire a copy of this measure, please call the
Registrar of Voters' office at (714) 275-8700, and a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE PK

Riverside County residents have an unprecedented opportunity to

preserve our natural heritage and protect our county's creeks and
streams, wildlife habitats, scenic open space, hillsides and historic and
archaeological sites for future generations to enjoy.

Measure PK creates a Riverside County Region?-1 D"'s- "id Open
Space District empowered to acquire and protect environmentally
sensitive lands as well as provide member cities and unincorporated
areas with community and neighborhood parks; recreation centers for
seniors and handicapped persons; equestrian, hiking and bicycle trails;
and athletic facilities.

Riverside County is one of the fastest growing counties m the U,S,
Measure PK will allow us to act now to protect native Bighorn Sheep,
the Santa Rosa Plateau, Indian Canyons and ;»ur rsmaining natural
heritage as well as preserve open space and acquire parkland before
these are lost to development forever.

For the first time, a long list of county organizations has joined |
together with concerned residents to urge voters to vote YES on Measure
PK. This unprecedented coalition includes the Sierra Club, Audubon
Society, Building industry Association of Riverside County, Riverside
Chamber of Commerce, the AFL-CIO, Desert Riders, Riverside Area Board
of Realtors, Friends of the Indian Canyons and Preserve Our Plateau plus
hundreds of concerned individuals.

Measure PK will help keep Riverside County a place in which we,
uur children and grandchildren will want to live.

Don't let Riverside County become another los Angeles or Orange |
County.

Please Vote YES on Measure PK.

By:	Corky	Larson,	Riverside	County	Supervise.

Frank Mott, San Bernardino-Riverside : .m wes Central Labor

Council, AFL-CIO

Andrew C. Sanders, Museum Scientist (Botany), University ol j
California, Riverside	|

Andres L. Soto, Greater River	sber	of	Commerce	j

Gary Gray, Friends of the Ina; i .	i

ARGUMENT fi FAVOR OF MEASURE K

The task of acquiring, and protecting creeks and streams, wildlife habitats and sensitive wetlands..before they are devr.

preserving our quality of (if,

Measure K creates an independent funding source for the Riversicie Comity Regional Park and Open Space District,
PK. Measure K provides the District with the wherewithal to acquire and protect:

open space lands and environmentally sensitive lands such as the Santa Rasa Plateau;
important wildlife habitats like those for Bighorn Sleep;

historic"’ .. ' ■■■chaeological sites such as Indian Canyons:
recreati	tries	and community centers;

recreati " ^	:$ for seniors and the handicapped;

""••-■strian and bicycle trails;
acifities.

creates a special Trust Fund to fund specific park and open space projects
spe - -	,	Advisory	Panel.

An independent annual audit is also required by Measure K to assure that all fun
Parcel holders would pay the equivalent of 50 cents per week and receive a free pas
$26 at county parks.

would he entitled to apply for an remptic
concerned about preserving our natural he
he business community and citizens from
ay in preserving and protecting the envin
ther Los Angeles or Orange County. V

: essential!

lorized m Measure

came senior citizens and o
time, an unprecedented coa
jo - .vironmental	mlr

Passage of Mens
Don't let Rivereii

W the district's governing board alter consulting wifi; a
ed for their w h

them or their families to enjoy waivers on user fees of

this fee. Church and farmland would also be exempt.
ias come together to support Measure K The coalition
■ of the county,
sources that make Riverside County so unique.
Measure K.

8y: Janet L. Goeske. Senior Citizen/Handicapped Advocate

Arturo Franco, Southern California Vice-Chair, Golden St	-	.	Son	.own

Ronald B. Raven, Chairman at the Board, Greater Rivers	of	mum

Clayton Record, Chairman. Growth Management Task Ft	sm	i

Nancy Backstrand, Conservationist/Murrieta resident

i

j