FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G
Special Emergency Medical Services Tax

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASUREG

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MORRO BAY DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: The City Council of the City of Morro Bay is hereby authorized
to impose a special tax not to exceed eight dollars ($8.00) per unit of benefit
per year in the first year, on all real property improvements (except federal,
state, or local governmental agencies) within the City of Morro Bay, for the
purpose of acquiring, furnishing, operating, maintaining, and replacing
emergency medical service equipment or vehicles, for paying salaries and
benefits to fire fighting personnel, and for other necessary emergency medi-
cal expenses, including upgrading EMT-ll’s to Paramedic’s within said City.

SECTION 2: The amount of the tax shall be determined according to the
number of units of benefits as set forth below:

Improved Actual Land Use
Single Family Residence
Condominiums & Townhouses
Duplex, Triplex, Fourplex
Apartments
Mobile Home
Commercial

Industrial

Maximum Number of Units of Benefit

2.5	Units ($20) per dwelling per year

2.5	Units ($20) per dwelling per year

2.5	Units ($20) per dwelling per year
2 Units ($16) per dwelling per year
2 Units ($16) per dwelling per year

1 Unit ($ 8) per 1000 square feet
or less of structure
1 Unit ($ 8) per 1000 square feet
or less of structure

The per unit of benefit tax may only be increased once in any twelve month
period to reflect annual fluctuations in the Los Angeles-Long Beach Consumer
Price Index - All Urban Consumers, and in that event the tax may exceed the
initial maximum charge of $8.00 per unit of benefit in subsequent years. The
Consumer Price Index referred to herein is the Consumer Price Index (all
items indexes, all urban consumers) for Los Angeles - Long Beach - An-
aheim, California, complied and published by the United States Department of
Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, 1967 Base Year = 100 (hereafter called
Index). If the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics,
shall cease to compile and make public the Index as now constituted and
issued, but shall substitute another Index in its place, then said substituted
Index shall be used in place of the Consumer Price Index referenced herein.
The percentage adjustment for any given year shall be based upon the
average monthly index for twelve months ending December 31st.

SECTION 3: Subsequent to the end of each fiscal year, but prior to August
10th of the ensuing fiscal year, the City Council of the City of Morro Bay, at a
public hearing, shall determine the precise amount of the special tax to be
evied during the ensuing fiscal year, provided that such special tax rate shall
lot exceed the maximum adjusted amounts as set forth in Sections 1 and 2
hereof. Each year prior to the Council setting the rate for the next year, an
tnnual expenditure report shall be made available to the public, setting forth
he expenditures, appropriations and/or encumbrances of the tax monies
ollected pursuant to this measure in the previous year.

SECTION 4: The special tax imposed by this ordinance shall be collected
y the San Luis Obispo County Tax Collector at the same time as, and along
rith, and shall be subject to the same penalties as property tax collected by
aid Tax Collector.

SECTION 5: The appropriation limit set for fiscal year 90/91 and all
jbsequent years, pursuant to Article 13B of the California Constitution is
ereby increased by the annual amount of the emergency medical services
x set forth in this ordinance.

SECTION 6: If any sections, subsections, sentence, phrase or clause of
is ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not
led the validity of the remaining portion of this ordinance. The people of
orro Bay hereby declare that they have adopted the ordinance and each
ction, subsection, sentence, phrase or clause therefore irrespective of the
d that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases or
uses be declared invalid.

This measure authorizes the City of Morro Bay to assess and collect a new
special tax. The tax will be billed on the annual property tax bill and will be
collected by the County Tax Collector at the same time and subject to the
same penalties as the property tax. The proceeds from this new special tax
will be used to pay for better and upgraded emergency medical services
within the City of Morro Bay. The taxes will be used for such things as
purchasing medical service equipment, supplies or vehicles, salary incentives
for fire fighting personnel to become Paramedics and additional emergency
medical training.

Each year a public report will be issued listing the uses made of the previous
year’s tax after which the City Council will determine the exact amount of the
tax to be assessed for the following year. The measure establishes maximum
amounts which the tax cannot exceed. The maximum amount for the first
year is eight dollars ($8.00) for each unit of benefit. The number of units of
benefit for different types of improvement to property is set forth in the
measure but the typical number of units of benefit is 2.5 per dwelling for a
single family residence which would mean the maximum amount of the new
tax for the first year for a property on which one single family residence is
located would be twenty dollars ($20.00). The maximum allowable amount
may be adjusted each year by the City Council in an amount not to exceed the
Consumer Price Index.

The appropriation limit established by the California Constitution Article 13 B
will be increased by the amount of the special tax.

s/ Judy Skousen
City Attorney

I

!

'	ARGUMENT	IN	FAVOR	OF MEASURE G

There is no argument about the urgent need for quick professional, advanced,
emergency medical aid in Morro Bay. About 75% of all Fire Department calls
are for emergency medical services. These life-saving responses are vital for
old and young alike.

This measure provides for total Emergency Service Upgrade and enables the
Fire Department to provide more life saving procedures and give new medica-
tions once only available at the hospital.

Unfortunately, these services were not part of our Fire Departments original
mission or funding. When a new level of service is needed for our benefit, we
must come up with a new method of supporting it. We can have these
services if we all vote YES ON MEASURE G. The $20.00 a year cost is
minimal considering the life-saving, 24-hour a day protection it supports.

We are also protected from the cost getting out of control in two ways. The
law limits any future increase to the rise in Cost of Living Index, AND each
and every such increase can only come by public action of the City Council
after a full public hearing. (If the cost of living was 4%, then the maximum
increase would be $0.80 for the YEAR.)

Instead of seeking employee advancement elsewhere, providing paramedic
training will help keep our professionals here in Morro Bay.

Critical illness or injury can strike at any time without warning. The life saved
by having emergency services available could be your own or a loved one.
Because our emergency personnel do not transport to the hospital - they will
always be available for vital emergency medical care.

Please join us, and a broad coalition of community leaders and groups who
are united, in supporting paramedics for our town.

s/ John Lemons, Councilmember
s/ Tom Wuriu, Councilmember
s/ Rose Marie Sheetz, Mayor
s/ John C. Baker, Councilmember

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

No doubt, there is a need for emergency medical aid in Morro Bay. The
question is, who is going to pay for it?. Should not the user pay if able to do
so?. We all have to pay for our medical needs. We pay either through payroll
deductions, private insurance, Medicare, Medicaid, and our taxes. Why do
we want to further tax our homes, business in order to give away free medical
service to someone who already has medical coverage.

This new proposed forever property tax of approximately $126,000 a year
if passed, will serve as a role model for other city departments to imitate.
Taxpayer paid free training to upgrade to paramedic’s will encourage the later
to shop the highest paying city.

The fine print of measure— allows for the tax to be used for increasing
salaries and benefits to all fire department personnel. Also for the purchase of
a new or used ladder truck.

In summary, it is a raid on the taxpayer’s pocket book, to increase the Fire
Department Budget that they failed to get through the regular budget process.
It is not a grass root movement. On the contrary, it is being pushed by four
council members and the Fire Department.

If passed, rents and prices in Morro Bay will increase.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE G.

s/ Howard Gaines
Resident and taxpayer of Morro Bay
for over 18 years

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

Don’t be fooled by the camouflage “Emergency Medical Services Tax”. It
will not be exclusively spent on emergency medical services. It’s main
purpose is to collect permanently, funds to increase salaries, wages, bene-
fit’s for all fire fighting personnel, expand free medical services, build up an
ever expanding bureaucracy that will be partially independent of the budget
process.

This free medical service to any and all callers is being abused. It is now
costing $470,000 of the present 1989-90 Fire Department budget of,
$671,000 leaving a mere $201,000 for fire fighting and fire prevention
inspections.

Perhaps better housekeeping inspections might have prevented the tragic
loss of lives and multi million property damage to the T-Pier that occurred
December 1, 1988.

This property tax will result in higher rents and prices for services in Morro
Bay, as it effects all residential homes, even mobile homes, and all improved
commercial property. If not paid when due will result in property tax liens.
Once enacted, it will take a 2/3 vote of the people to remove it.

There is a better way to control and spread the cost. Presently the
California Senate is legislating a universal health care insurance bill to insure
all California residents. Coverage would include ambulance and paramedic
services. It would be financed mainly by a one cent sales tax and a 10%
payroll tax on all employees.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE G.

s/ Howard Gaines
Resident and taxpayer of Morro Bay
for over 18 years.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

Nothing is camouflaged in MEASURE G.

The funds collected will be used to enable the Fire Department to upgrade the
emergency medical services provided to the community to full paramedic
level.

There is no abuse of the present emergency medical service.

Fire Department personnel responded to calls for emergency medical services
involving 452 persons in the six month period Nov 1989 - Feb 1990.

Less than 10% of these were non-residents. Several people are alive today
only because of the prompt and capable treatment provided by Fire Depart-
ment personnel.

Upgrading the service to full paramedic level will improve this life saving
capability.

We believe it would be less than humane to refuse emergency treatment to
any person simply because they were not residents. Would you want to be
treated that way if you were having a heart attack or were injured away from
home?

The special tax collected under MEASURE G is a bargain.

The cost of a single family home owner is $20 per year. For a family of two
this equates to less than three cents per person each day. Hardly an unbear-
able burden for a home owner.

The statement that the California legislature has legislation pending which will
somehow handle this need is not factual. There is no state legislation which
will provide funds for the Fire Department to upgrade the emergency medical
service.

Vote YES on MEASURE G.

si John Lemons, Councilmember
s/Tom Wuriu, Councilmember
s/ John Baker, Councilmember
si Rose Marie Sheetz, Mayor