peu- t-LUWefZ ■■ c -	/nAjon.y	^

OFFICIAL

AND VOTER INFORMATION

GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 6, 1990

REGISTRAR-RECORDER
5557 FERGUSON DRIVE
COMMERCE, CA 90022-5192
(213) 721-1100

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE
IS SHOWN ON THE BACK COVER

273

i

PLEASE DO NOT THROW THIS SAMPLE BALLOT AWAY
MARK AND TAKE IT TO YOUR POLLING PLACE

BELLFLOWER CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

Shall Ordinance No. 751 increasing the business license to on specified
businesses in the City of Bellflower be adopted?

m

262

END OF BALLOT

YE$*0
NO *40

11-039E

LA 273-13

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OP PROPOSITION E

ORDINANCE NO. 751

Ordinance No. 751 is a proposal to amend die existing business license
schedule by increasing the license fee on all businesses in the City of Bellflower.

The Bellflower Municipal Code presently provides a license fee on businesses
in the City, however. State Law requires that an increase in tax must be
approved by the voters of the City.

The revenues generated from these taxes are for general revenue purposes and
requires approval of the majority of votes cast at an election. The revenues are
not special purpose funds and will be expended for general public uses.

The proposed Ordinance No. 751 does not change, alter or modify die
regulations of any business in the City. The proposed Ordinance amends the
amount of fee to be charged for business licenses. The proposed Ordinance will
provide that the fleense tax JatMl new businesses shall be due and payable on
the. anniversary date of issuance of license each year. Businesses currently
paying their annual business license tax on July 1 of each year will continue
to do so.

Businesses, unless specifically provided otherwise in the Ordinance, will have
a basic fee of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00j annually plus a variable per
employee charge.

Annually, on July 1, the rate or fee schedule will be adjusted by applying the
percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the Los Angeles/
Long Beach/Anaheim Schedule as further set out in the Ordinance, not to
exceed ten percent (10%) in any one year.

The Ordinance further provides for license fees for certain businesses,
professions, trades and occupations which are specifically set forth by schedule
and reference should be made to the Ordinance text as to any particular
business. The fee and duration as to those specific businesses varies annually,
monthly or daily and, as such, are so set forth in the Ordinance.

The implementation of this Ordinance will not result in additional costs to the
City of Bellflower.

Reference to the text of Ordinance No. 751 is recommended concerning any
particular business, profession, trade or occupation to determine the fee for
each.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to increase the business license tax.

A “No” vote is a vote to not increase the business license tax.

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 751. If you
desire a copy of the Ordinance or measure, please call, the City Clerk’s Office
at Bellflower City Hall, telephone number: (213) 804-1424, extension 216, and
a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.”

Maurice F. O’Shea
City Attorney
City of Bellflower

PR-004

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION E

Bellflower’s business license fee has been $25.00 since 1973. Few, if any,
expenses are completely exempt from inflation. The cost of services has risen
since 1973 and residents have shouldered the full burden of those increases.

This measure asks you to authorize the collection of an annual basic fee of
$100.00 to do business in your city. The increase represents less than 1/10 of
1% of City sales revenue, and is only 20.5 cents a day per business.

Many businesses in this City are operated by residents of other communities.
We appreciate what they bring to our community, but they should pay then-
fair share for the City services they receive. These services include law
enforcement, street maintenance, Are protection, street lighting, public parking
facilities, and graffiti removal, among others.

This fee is really a very small cost for doing business in your community. We
cannot keep saying “No” or our City will suffer. Vote “Yes” for a fair sharing
of expenses by businesses and residents of our City.

Mayor Randy Bomgaars

Councilman Robert E. Stone

PR-004.002

LA 273-38

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION E

VOTE NO!

Since when do we pit residents against businesses in the Friendly City of
Bellflower? There is no direct taxation by the City of Bellflower on its residents.
Yet this proposition intends to have the businesses pay a more “fair share” of
City services. They are ignoring the fact that our businesses already pay sales
tax, property tax, and a tax on their employees. They have always paid more
than their fair share.

This tax is such a small portion of our City’s revenue, don’t let it be the deciding
factor for a business being located here. Business is the lifeblood of a healthy
community. It would be wiser to develop a good relationship with them instead
of driving them away with excessive up front costs.

The voters said yes to Redevelopment in 1988 so our City wouldn’t suffer. It
has the potential of generating a lot of money into Bellflower. Redevelopment
is just getting started. Give it a chance to work. VOTE NO on this proposition.

Ruth Gilson

PR-004.003

LA 273-38

VOTE NO ON THIS PROPOSITION.

At a time when Bellflower is struggling for sales tax revenues, why does the
City want to do something that will discourage businesses from locating in
Bellflower? A good incentive to attract businesses here has been our low
Business License Tax. This enticement will be lost if this Proposition passes.

It is also outrageous that the passage of this ordinance allows the City to
automatically raise the Business License Tax every year without the consent
of the voters. How dare our City ask us to give up our right to vote on every
increase? This coupled with raising the tax from $25 to $100 at one time will
make it unacceptable for businesses starting out. Must the little guy always be
gouged?	I

About half of the businesses in Bellflower are owned by Bellflower residents.	|

This is a direct tax on those Bellflower residents. No matter what it’s called,	?

a tax is still a tax. And, we can expect that this tax will be passed along to all
of us in higher prices. No thank you.	i

In comparison to other cities, our $25 tax is low but $100 is too high. We don’t
have to keep up with or exceed them. After all, the voters of Bellflower have
already voted NO on this tax increase twice. They are trying to wear us down
by asking us to vote on it again. What part of NO don’t they understand? We
don’t want a Tax increase. Make them listen. VOTE NO!

Ruth Gilson

9

PR-004.004

LA 273-40

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION E

How can we continue to pay 1973 dollars for 1990 services? The cost of a
Sheriffs patrol unit has increased 359% during that time. City programs,
services and facilities must be maintained and improved.

Don’t be fooled by the low fee incentive argument. Smart businesses locate
where people want to shop. The City has an obligation, through providing
services, to help businesses grow. Businesses are turned off by bad locations,
not an insignificant $100 fee.

Don’t be fooled by the argument that this tax will be passed along to consumers
in higher prices. The truth is this amount is too insignificant to effect price
increases. Gross sales in Bellflower exceed $500 million. For every dollar spent
in this city, this increase represents less than 1/10 of every penny.

Finally, by voting “YES,” you’re not giving up any rights. This measure allows
the Council the option for ah annual increase, limited by the Consumer Price
Index. Simply put, this allows for inflation adjustments only. The City will not
be permitted arbitrary increases.

The Chamber of Commerce supports this measure, because they understand
the importance of maintaining Bellflower as an attractive place to do business.

Let’s make Bellflower a place where our children wish to stay after they grow
up. Bellflower needs 1990 resources to do the job.

At one time, Bellflower was “the” place to shop. Let’s make it that place again.
Tell the nosayers that Bellflower is moving forward. Vote “YES!”

Mayor Randy Bomgaars

Councilman Robert E. Stone

LA 273-41

PR-004.005