<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY

LOCAL AGENCY FORMATION COMMISSION
PROPOSED LASSEN COUNTY HOSPITAL DISTRICT
MEASURES A and B

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS: PROPOSED FORMATION OF LASSEN COMMUNITY
HOSPITAL DISTRICT IN RESPONSE TO BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS RESOLUTION NO. 90-49, AND
PURSUANT TO HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE SEC-
TION 32002,

This measure, if adopted by a majority of voters voting thereon, would form a
local hospital district for the purposes of establishing or maintaining one or
more hospitals within its boundaries as provided in Health and Safety Code
Sections 32000 and following. The district so created would be empowered to
provide all services currently provided by Lassen Community Hospital.

The proposed Lassen Community Hospital District would contain ail those
lands which are currently located within the Lassen Union High School
District, including the territory of the following elementary school dis-
tricts: Susanville, Johnstonville, Janesville, Shaffer, and Ravendale.

The proposed hospital district would be governed by a five-member board of
directors, each of whom must be a registered voter residing in the district.
The initial board of directors is proposed to be appointed by the Board of
Supervisors to staggered terms; future members of the board of directors are
elected at-large by the registered voters of the district to four-year terms.

The district board of directors would be responsible for the conduct and
administration of the district’s obligations, including all business transac-
tions. A board of directors may appoint a hospital administrator to oversee
these duties.

Local hospital districts may secure revenue from a number of sources
including, but not limited to, hospital use charges, and special tax assess-
ments, bond sales, etc. In the event that a local hospital district finds it
necessary to levy a special tax, a two-thirds voter majority of the registered
voters within the district must approve the assessment. A separate measure
would be required to authorize tax assessments, which must be submitted to
the voters for a two-thirds favorable vote in order to take effect.

At the conclusion of two public hearings, the Lassen County Board of
Supervisors called a formation election on the question of formation of the
Lassen Community Hospital District. In its resolution calling the election, the
Board found that the District could be economically feasible, and that its
formation would be for the public interest. Upon approval of the formation by
the registered voters of the proposed district, the Board of Supervisors would
appoint the initial district board of directors.

Thereafter, the board of directors would be in a position to consider alterna-
tives for the long-term provision of health care within the area of the proposed
district. Alternatives available to the board include a negotiated purchase of
the Lassen Community Hospital from St. Mary’s Central Health Care Corpora-
tion. This process could involve the sale of bonds, backed by the hospital’s
revenue stream, to purchase the facility. <impartialend>








<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

There are two November ballot proposals that offer district voters the
opportunity to assume the responsibility and control the destiny of our local
hospital service.

Measure B provides the authority for the district hospital’s board to levy a
special tax on residences as specified in the Measure, in an amount not to
exceed $85.00 per year, for no more than five years. The tax assessment is
estimated to generate approximately $500,000 annually.

The LCH Board-appointed Citizen’s Advisory Council and Assessment
Determination Committee (hereinafter “Proponent Committees”) determined
that the proposed hospital district will require additional funds (other than
hospital operating revenues) in order for the hospital’s self-sufficiency. Las-
sen Community Hospital has two parts: an acute care hospital which is not
currently profitable and a skilled nursing facility (SNF), which significantly
contributes to hospital revenues and helps to offset the losses from the acute
care. Without this income, the hospital would probably not be able to
continue. Unfortunately, the SNF is 65 years old and needs to be replaced or
completely renovated. So, the assessment monies would be used to fund a
SNF construction project and/or to replace revenue lost during the rebuilding
or remodeling period.

Hence, the formation of a district is essential to keep LCH open. (Measure
A) The assessment (Measure B) is needed to fund the replacement of the SNF
which subsidizes the rest of the hospital. Without that, the hospital will
continue to lose money and may have to close. That would mean a loss of
physicians and cutbacks in other local medical services, as well as the loss of
nearly 200 jobs and the resulting negative impact on the entire local
economy.

SAVE OUR HOSPITAL. VOTE YES ON MEASURE B. <favorend>









<favorsigs> s/ Mary L. Bengard
s/ Kenneth G. Theobald <favorsigsend>








NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED
