Sample Ballot

& Voter Information Pamphlet

DIRECT PRIMARY ELECTION

TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 1990



36FC-62646

36FC-6/5

_ I	UrriL-IHL DMLLU I

11 I COUNTY of	NONPARTISAN

H a I SAN BERNARDINO_____________________  JUNE	5,1990

11Q CHIROPRACTIC PRACTICE. LEGISLATIVE INITIATIVE 110 AMENDMENT. Amends Chiropractic Act. Requires license renewal during month of birth. Increases penalties for violating Act. Fiscal impact: Minor costs in 1990-91 to Chiropractic Examiners Fund to modify license renewal system. Additional state and local government revenues from increas- ed Ones.	
	YES 262 -►
	NO 263 ^
11 R MURDER OF A PEACE OFFICER. CRIMINAL PENALTIES. LEG- 1 l*f ISLATIVE INITIATIVE AMENDMENT. Redefines, expands “peace officer” definitions imposing penalty for murder/ Fiscal impact: Unknown state costs as a result of the expansion of the coverage of special circumstance for first degree murder.	
	YES 265 -»>
	NO 266
11C CRIMINAL LAW. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMEND- 1 ID MENT AND STATUTE. Limits constitutional rights of accused to those afforded by federal Constitution; statutory changes. Fiscal impact: The net fiscal effect of this measure is unknown. Hie measure makes several significant changes to the criminal justice system. How the measure will be implemented and interpreted is unknown. There may be only a minor fiscal impact on state and local governments, or there may be a major fiscal impact.	
	YES 268
	no 269^-
	
110 RAIL TRANSPORTATION. BOND ACT. INITIATIVE STATUTE. 110 Authorizes $1,990,000,000 general obligation bond issue principally to provide passenger and commuter rail systems. Fiscal impact: Repayment over 20 years would require from the General Fund about $2 billion for principal and $1.6 billion for interest (annual average total of $180 million).	
	YES 272 ^
	NO 273
117 WILDLIFE PROTECTION. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Transfers $30 111 million to Habitat Conservation Fund, principally to acquire habitat. Restricts taking of mountain lions. Fiscal impact: Estimated annual transfers of $18 million from cigarette and tobacco products surtax; $12 million from General Fund, unless Legislature makes other transfers. Annual $1 million property management costs.	
	YES 275 -►
	NO 276

IIP LEGISLATURE. REAPPORTIONMENT. ETHICS. INITIATIVE
110 CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Redistricting
subject to 2/3 legislative vote, voter approval. Legislative Ethics Committee
created. Fiscal impact: Savings from limit on reapportionment expenditures
could be all or partially offset by costs of public vote and possible court
redistricting. Costs of ethics provisions are probably minor.

YES 279 ^
NO 280

m REAPPORTIONMENT BY COMMISSION. INITIATIVE CONSTI-
TUTIONAL AMENDMENT, STATUTE. Establishes rcapportion-
ment by Commission, district population criteria, 1992 election for all legisla-
tive seats. Fiscal impact: Limit on funding would reduce reapportionment
costs by several millions of dollars each decade. If undertaken by Supreme
Court, state costs would increase, offsetting savings.

YES 282
NO 283

inn NEW PRISON CONSTRUCTION BOND ACT OF 1990. This act
I £.11 provides for a bond issue of four hundred fifty million dollars
($450,600.0001 to nrovide funds to relieve overcrowding in the state’s orisons

yes 285

__ TOC ~

_ ^ I	UrribiHl. DMLL.U I

121 COUNTY of	NONPARTISAN

B 158881 g SAN BERNARDINO______________    JUNE	5,1990

\ 9*1 HIGHER EDUCATION FACILITIES BOND ACT OF JUNE 1990. This act pro- 1L1 vides for a bond issue of four hundred fifty million dollars ($450,000,000) to provide funds for the construction or improvement of facilities of California’s	
nia’s nine campuses, the California State University’s 20 campuses, the 71 districts of the California Community Colleges, the Hastings College of the	YES 28.9
Law, the California Maritime Academy, and off-campus facilities of the Cali- fornia State University approved by the Trustees of the California State University on or before July 1, 1990. The use of funds authorized under this act includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the construction or improve- ment of classrooms, laboratories, and libraries, and the implementation of earthquake and other health or safety improvements.	NO 290
	
■J99 EARTHQUAKE SAFETY AND PUBLIC BUILDINGS REHA- 1LL BILITATION BOND ACT OF 1990. This act provides for a bond issue of three hundred million dollars ($300,000,000) to provide funds for the reconstruction, seismic retrofitting, repair, replacement, and relocation of	J1  YES 293
	NO 294^
state and local government buildings which are unsafe primarily due to earthquake-related dangers.	
1QO 1990 SCHOOL FACILITIES BOND ACT. This act provides for a bond iCU issue of eight hundred million dollars ($800,000,000), to provide capi- tai outlay for construction or improvement of public schools.	yes 296
	NO 297
CITY	
CITY OF REDLANDS SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION	

Shall Ordinance No. 2111 be adopted to levy a utility users tax on the
citizens of Redlands in an amount not to exceed two and one-half percent
(2f/2%), and with exemptions for seniors and low income persons, to: increase
personnel in Police and Fire Departments, maintain competitive salaries,
based upon a survey of surrounding communities, to attract and retain highly
qualified public safety personnel; establish an anti-gang/drug task force,
enhance its D.A.R.E. program, and purchase earthquake and disaster pre-
paredness equipment; expand paramedic services; fund other emergency and
public safety related services; and shall the City’s appropriation limit be
increased by the amount of revenue derived from the paid tax?

YES 302
NO 303 ->r\

v.J

MEASURE“M”
ORDINANCE

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Redlands {“this City Council’’) has adopted Resolution
No. 4805 which submitted to the qualified voters of the City of Redlands a proposal to levy a utility
users tax of up to four percent (4%) within the City for the purpose of raising revenue for emergency
and public safety related facilities and services within the City; and
WHEREAS, at a special municipal election held on June 5,1990 the proposal to levy a utility users
tax was approved by an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes cast upon the proposal; and
WHEREAS, it is the desire of this City Council to levy a utility users tax in accordance with the
approval of the voters of the City;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF REDLANDS AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Chapter 3.64 shall be added to the Redlands Municipal Code to read as follows:

_“Chapte_r_3.64

Sections:

3.64.010

3.64.020

3.64.030

3,64.040

3.64.050

3.64.060

3.64.070

3.64.080

3.64.090

3.64.100

3.64.110

3.64.120

3.64.130

3.64.140

3.64.150
3.64.160
3.64.170

3.64.010	DEFINITIONS.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Chapter shall have the following
meanings:

A.	"Director” means the Director of Finance, or his or her designee.

B.	“Month" means a calendar month.

C.	“Non-utility supplier" shall mean a service supplier, other than an electrical corporation franchise
to serve the City, which generates electrical energy in capacities of at least 50 kilowatts for its own
use or for sale to others.

D.	“Person” means all domestic and foreign corporations, associations, syndicates, joint stock
companies, partnerships of every kind, joint ventures, clubs, Massachusetts business or com-
mon law trusts, societies, and individuals.

E.	“Service supplier” means a person required to collect or self-impose and remit a tax as imposed
by this Chapter.

F.	"Service user" means a person required to pay a tax imposed under the provisions of this Chapter.

3.64.020	TELEPHONE USERS TAX.

A.	A tax is imposed upon every person in the City using intrastate telephone communication services
in the City. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two and one-half percent
(2-1/2%) of the charges made for such services and shall be paid by the person paying for the
services.

B.	As used in this section, "charges” shall not include charges for services paid for by inserting
rnins in rnin-nnfiratfld tfilfinhnnes excent where such coin-ODerated teleDhone service is furnished

Definitions.

Telephone users tax.

CATV users tax.

Electricity users tax.

Natural gas users tax.

Constitutional exemption.

Delinquent Taxes.

Duty to collect - Procedures.

Powers and duties of the Director with respect to the Utilities Users Tax.
Assessment - Administrative remedy.

Records.

Refunds.

Exemption for household service users - Low income and senior citizens.
Use of tax revenues.

Violation - Penalty.

Maintenance of effort.

Amendment.

similar services or equipment are also available for sale or lease from person other than a service
supplier subject to Public Utility regulation; nor shall the words "telephone communication
services" include land mobile services or maritime mobile services as defined in Section 2.1 of
Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The term "telephone communication services" refers
to that service which provides access to a telephone system and the privilege of telephone quality
communication with substantially all persons having telephone stations which are part of such
system. The Telephone Users tax is intended to, and does, apply to all charges billed to a
telephone account having a situs in the City, irrespective of whether a particular communication
service originates and/or terminates within the City.

C.	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the person providing
the intrastate telephone communication services, or the person receiving payment for such
services. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted by the service supplier to the
Director on or before the last day of the following month; or at the option of the person required to
collect and remit the tax, and estimated amount of tax collected, measured by the tax bill in the
previous month, shall be remitted to the Director on or before the last day of the following month,

D.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection A of this section, the tax imposed under,' )
section shall not be imposed upon any person for using intrastate telephone communication
services to the extent that under Section 4251 of Title 26 of the United States Code, the amounts
paid for such services are exempt from or not subject to the tax.

3.64.030	CATV USERS TAX.

A.	A tax is imposed upon every person in the City using cable television services {CATV services) in
the City. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two and one-half percent (2-1/2%)
of the charges made for such services and shall be paid by the person paying for such services.

B.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by the person providing
the CATV services. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be remitted by the service
provider to the Director on or before the twentieth day of the following month.

3.64.040	ELECTRICITY USERS TAX.

A.	A tax is imposed upon every person in the City using electrical energy in the City. The tax imposed
by this section shall be at the rate of two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of the charge made for
such energy and shall be paid by the person paying for such energy. The tax applicable to
electrical energy provided by a non-utility supplier shall be determined by applying the tax rate to
the equivalent charges the service user would have incurred if the energy used had been provided
by the electrical corporation franchise by the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be
available from the City. Non-utility suppliers shall install and maintain an appropriate utility-type
metering system which will enable compliance with this section. “Charges" as used in this
section shall include charges made for (1) metered energy and (2) services, including custompf
charges, service charges, demand charges, standby charges and annual and monthly charg j;
fuel and cost adjustments.

8. As used in this section, the phrase “using electrical energy" shall not include the storage of
electrical energy by a person in a battery owned or possessed by him for use in an automobile or
other machinery or devise apart from the premises upon which the energy was received;
provided, however, that the phrase shall include the receiving of such energy for the purpose of
using it in the charging of batteries; nor shall the terms include electricity used and consumed by
an electric utility supplier in the conduct of its business as an electric public utility; nor shall the
term include the mere receiving of such energy by an electric public utility or governmental
agency at a point within the City for resale; or the use of such energy in a production or
distribution of water by a public utility or a governmental agency.

C.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by any energy service
supplier. The tax shall be self-imposed by non-utility suppliers as to tbeir own use. The amount of
tax collected or self-imposed in one (1) month shall be remitted by U.S. mail, to the Director,
postmarked on or before the last day of the following month; or at the option of the person
required to collect and remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax, measured by the tax billed in the
previous month, shall be remitted by U.S. mail, to the Director, postmarked on or before the last

FULL TEXT, continued

D.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.64.090, if the amount paid by a service user is less
than the full amount of the energy charge in tax which has accrued for the billing period, such
amount and any subsequent payments by a service user shall be applied to the energy charge first
until such charge has been fully satisfied. Any remaining balance shall be applied to taxes due.

3.64.050	NATURAL GAS USERS TAX.

A.	A tax is imposed upon every person in the City using natural gas which is delivered through mains
or pipes. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two and one-half percent (2-1/2%)
of the charges made for such gas and shall be paid by the person paying such gas.

B.	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this section is computed: (1)
charges made for natural gas which is to be resold and delivered through mains or pipes; (2)
charges made for natural gas sold for use in the generation of electrical energy or for the
production or distribution of water by a public utility or governmental agency; (3) charges made
by a gas public utility for gas used and consumed in the business of gas public utilities; (4)
charges made for gas used in the propulsion of a motor vehicle, as that phrase is defined in the
Vehicle Code of the State of California, utilizing natural gas, and (5) charges related to late
payments and returned checks.

C.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by the person selling the
natural gas. A person selling only transportation services to a user for delivery of gas through
mains or pipes shall collect the tax from the service user based on the transportation charges. The
person selling or transporting the gas shall, on or before the 20th of each calendar month,
commencing on the 20th day of the calendar month after the effective date of this Chapter, make a
return to the Director stating the amount of taxes billed during the preceding calendar month. At
the time such returns are filed, the person selling or transporting the gas shall remit the payments
to the Director in accordance with schedules established or approved by the Director. The amount
collected by the service supplier in one month shall be remitted to the Director on or before the
twentieth day of the following month.

3.64.060	CONSTITUTIONAL EXEMPTION.

Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person if imposition of such
tax upon that person would be in violation of the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution
of the state. At the request of a service supplier, the Director shall prepare a list of the persons
exempt from the provisions of this Chapter by virtue of this section and furnish a copy to the service
supplier.

3.64.070	DELINQUENT TAXES.

A.	Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the Director on or before the due
dates provided in this Chapter are delinquent. Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal
holiday, the return may be postmarked on the first regular working day following a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday.

8, Penalties for delinquency in remittance of any tax collected or any deficiency determination shall
attach and be paid by the person required to collect and remit at the rate of fifteen percent per
annum of the total tax collected or imposed in this Chapter and not remitted to the City.

C. Every penalty imposed under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax required
to be remitted.

3.64.080	DUTY TO COLLECT - PROCEDURES.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this Chapter shall be performed as follows:

A.	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and along with the charges
made in accordance with the regular billing practice. Where the amount paid by a service user to a
service supplier is less than the full amount of the energy charge in tax which has accrued for the
billing period, such amount and any subsquent payments by a service user shall be applied to the
utility charge first until such charge has been fully satisfied. Any remaining balance shall be
applied to taxes due. in those cases where a service user has notified the service supplier of his
refusal to pay the tax imposed on said energy charges, the service supplier shall provide the City
with amounts refused and/or unpaid along with the names and addresses of the service users
neglecting to pay the tax imposed under the provisions of this Chapter.

B.	The duty to collect the tax from a service user shall commence with the beginning of the first full
regular billing period applicable to that person which starts on or after the operative date of this
Chapter.

3.64.090	POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR WITH RESPECT TO THE UTILITY USERS TAX.

The Director shall have the power and duty and is directed to enforce each and all of the provisions

of this Chapter.

3.64.100	ASSESSMENT - ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDY.

A.	The Director may make an assessment for taxes not remitted by a person required to remit.
Whenever the Director determines that a service user has deliberately withheld the amount of the
tax owed by him from the amounts remitted to a person required to collect the tax, or that a
service user has refused to pay the amount of tax to such person, or whenever the Director deems
it in the best interest of the City, he may relieve such person of the obligation to collect taxes due
under this Chapter from certain named service users for specified billing periods.

B.	The service supplier shall provide the City with amounts refused and/or unpaid along with the
names and addresses of the service users neglecting to pay the tax imposed under the provisions
of this Chapter. Whenever the service user has failed to pay the amount of tax for a period of two
or more billing periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect due.

C.	The Director shall notify the service user that he assumed responsibility to collect the taxes due
for the stated periods and demand payment for such taxes. A notice shall be served on a service
user by handing it to him personally or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage^.
prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was made by tin , i
person required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have changed his address, to his'
last known address. If a service user fails to remit the tax to the Director within fifteen (15) days
from the date of the service of the notice upon him, which shall be the date of mailing if service is
not accomplished in person, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax set
forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than five dollars. The penalty shall become part

of the tax herein to be required to be paid.

3.64.110	RECORDS.

It shall be the duty of every service supplier to keep and preserve, for a period of three years, ail

records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax he has had a duty to collect and

remit to the Director. The Director shall have the right to inspect such records at all reasonable times.

3.64.120	REFUNDS.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has erroneously or
illegally collected or received by the Director under this Chapter, it may be refunded as provided in
this section.

B.	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, a service supplier may claim a
refund; or take it as credit against taxes remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or
erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established that the service user from
whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax; provided, however, that neither a refund or
a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either been refunded to the
service user or credited to charges subsequently payable by the service user to the person
required to collect and remit. A service supplier that has collected any amount of tax imposed

this Chapter and actually due from the service user, may refund such amount to the service user ‘
and claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due upon any other
monthly returns, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than three (3) years
from the date of overpayment.

C.	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant establishes his
right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

D.	Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, whenever a service supplier, pursuant to an
order to the California Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, makes a
refund to serve its users of charges for past utility service, the taxes paid pursuant to this Chapter
on the amount of such refunded charges shall also be refunded to service users, and the service
suppliers shall be entitled to claim a credit for refunded taxes against the amount of tax which is
due upon the next monthly returns. In the event this Chapter is repealed, the amounts of any
refundable taxes will be borne by the City,





---r--;-

-mm mu
m

nr

■IS®

lillli

iii

in

III

(Continued on Next Page)

FULL TEXT, continued

E.	A service supplier may refund the taxes collected to the service user in accordance with this
section or by service supplier’s customary practice.

3.64.130	EXEMPTION FOR HOUSEHOLD SERVICE USERS - LOW INCOME AND SENIOR CITIZENS.

A.	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not apply to any individual who uses telephone, electric,
natural gas or cable television services in or upon any premises occupied by such individual if the
following conditions are satisfied:

1.	If the individual or his/her spouse is 65 years of age or older; or

2.	If the individual lives alone, the individual's annual gross income is less than nine thousand
dollars, as shown on the individual’s federal or state personal income tax for the preceding
reporting period; or

3.	If the individual is married or lives as part of a family unit, the annual gross income of the
individual’s household is less than twelve thousand dollars for all household occupants as
shown on the federal or state personal income tax for the preceding reporting period. Income
of the household means all income of the individual's household from all members living in
such household who are related to the individual as a spouse or as defined in Sections 17056
and 17057 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of California; and

4.	The individual is the person in whose name the bills for utilities services were rendered; and

5.	The individual makes an application and files a verified claim in writing with the Director at City
Hall for such refund upon a claim form provided by the Director; and

6.	The claim is approved the Director as being in conformance with this section.

B.	As used in subsection A, “Gross income" means the sum of adjusted gross income as used for
purposes of the California Personal Income Tax Law, together with the net income from all
sources of all kinds, including but not limited to alimony, support money, cash public assistance
and relief, pensions, annuities, social security, interest on securities (including tax free interest
on governmental securities), realized capital gains, worker's compensation (not including medi-
cal benefits), unemployment insurance income, insurance benefits of all kinds (other than
medical), and gifts, except that income shall not include Medicare benefits, MediCal benefits,
gifts between members of the household, the receipt of surplus food or other relief in kind
supplied by a governmental agency.

C.	Any person claiming exemption pursuant to this section may file a claim for such exemption at
any time in order to qualify for an exemption for the subsequent twelve-month period, or until a
current exemption is scheduled to expire. An application for exemption or renewal shall be made
upon forms supplied by the Director and shall declare facts under penalty of perjury which qualify
the applicant for the exemption.

D.	The Director shall review ail applications for exemption or renewal, certify as exempt those
applicants who qualify, and notify all service suppliers affected that such exemptions have been
approved, stating the name of the exempt applicant, the account number shown on the utility bill,
the address to which exempt service is being supplied, and any other information necessary for
the service provider to remove the exempt service user from its tax billing procedure.

Upon receipt of notice from the Director, the service provider shall not be required to collect
any further tax imposed by this Chapter from such exempt service user until further notice from
the Director.

E.	Each exemption shall expire twelve months after the date it was issued. The Director shall notify
each service supplier to resume collection of utility taxes on the accounts of those service users
who have not applied for renewal of their exempt status or whose applications for renewal have
been denied. Upon receipt of the written notification, these service providers shall resume such
collection on those accounts affected commencing with the first billing period beginning after the
exemption expires.

Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this section, any service supplier who determines
during any calendar year by any means readily available to it that a nonexempt service user is
receiving services through a meter or connection exempt by virture of an exemption issued to a

individual from receiving the exemption. If it is determined by the Director that the individual is no
longer qualified, the Director shall give notice to the service supplier who shall resume collection
of the tax imposed by this Chapter commencing with the next billing period. If the user is entitled
to exemption at a new address, the Director shall notify affected service suppliers of that fact.

6. It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to Knowingly receive the benefits of the exemptions
provided by this section when the basis for the exemption either does not exist or ceases to exist.

The Director may from time to time, demand evidence of continued eligibility of a service user
for exemption under the provisions of this section. Such evidence may include copies of business
records, letters or statements from the Social Security Administration, copies of income tax
returns, and other evidence concerning the service user or members of his household which may
tend to prove or disprove eligibility. Failure to provide sufficient evidence to establish eligibility
when requested by the Director shall be grounds for denial or discontinuance of the service users’
exemption, but evidence voluntarily provided to the Director may only be used as grounds for
termination of the exemption and not as evidence of violation of the provisions of this section.

If the Director determines that an application for exemption is faulty or untruthful,
application shall be denied in writing and the applicant may file an amended application or af
the decision of the Director to the City Manager, whose decision shall be final.

3.64.140	USE OF TAX REVENUES.

A.	The Director shall cause one-half of all tax revenues collected under this Chapter to be distributed
to the City’s fire department and one-half to the City’s police department.

B.	The tax revenues collected under this Chapter shall be allocated annually within the fire and police

departments as follows: :	..

a.	The highest public safety priority of the City is to provide the citizens of Redlands with a
level of high quality, professional police and fire manpower sufficient to meet the growing needs
and demands of the community. To accomplish this goal, tax revenues shall first be expended for
manning, wages, and employee benefits in an amount determined pursuant to an annual salary
survey of the following five cities: Upland, Montclair, Ontario, Claremont, and: Riverside for the
Fire Department, and Ontario, Corona, Chino, Rialto, and Riverside for the Police Department.
This list of cities shall be subject to review and revision by the City Council every five years after
the effective date of this Chapter. The City Council shall discuss any proposed revisions to the list
with representatives of the City’s Fire and Police Departments, and such revisions may be made
by mutual agreement between the City Council and the two departments without submitting the
proposed revisions to a vote of the citizens of Redlands.

b.	The remaining tax revenues shall be allocated for the following purposes:

Establishment of an anti-gang/drug taskforce in the Police Department.

Expansion of paramedic services.

Enhancement of the City’s drug education (D.A.R.E.) program.

Purchase of earthquake and disaster preparedness equipment.

3.64.150	VIOLATION-PENALTY.

Any person violating any provision of this Chapter is guilty of an infraction, which upon conviction
thereof is punishable in accordance with the provisions of Section 1.20.020 of this Code.

3.64.160 MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT.

The City Council, by its enactment of this Chapter, intends that the additional tax revenues
generated by the utility users tax shall only be used to supplement existing City revenues, as adjusted
by the percentage change in General Fund resources. General Fund resources include current
revenue and incoming transfers but exclude revenues and transfers which must be used for specific
purposes such as road construction and maintenance. The Director of Finance shall withhold the
distribution of any revenues derived from the tax in the event that the existing commitment of City
funds, as adjusted by the CPI, for such purposes is not maintained.

3.64.170 AMENDMENT.

Except as specifically provided in Section 3.64.160(a), the provisions of this Chapter may be
amended only by an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the eligible voters casting votes upon the
proposed amendment at a regular or special municipal election.

MEASURE “M”
ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

This initiative ordinance, if approved by the voters, will allow the City to impose a two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) tax on utility use. The proceeds of the tax will be distributed equally between the
City's Fire Department and Police Department. Within each department, tax revenues will first be
expended for staffing, wages and employee benefits. Expenditures for wages and benefits will be set
pursuant to a salary survey of certain comparable cities in the area. Any remaining tax proceeds will
be allocated among the following programs: Establishment of an anti-gang/drug task force, expan-
sion of paramedic services, enhancement of the City drug education (D.A.R.E.) program and
purchase of earthquake and disaster preparedness equipment. Tax revenues may not supplant
existing City funds providing the above services, but may only be used to supplement current City
efforts.

The tax will be imposed on telephone, cable television, electric and natural gas services. The tax
will be collected on the utility provider’s utility bills, and will be paid by the utility user. The tax will be
remitted to the utility company, which in turn will make periodic disbursements to the City.

Senior citizens over 65 years of age and certain low income utility users are exempt from payment
of the tax. These users must file yearly exemption claims with the City demonstrating the basis for
exemption.

This initiative ordinance will become effective only upon a "yes" vote of two-thirds of the persons
voting in this election. No amendment may be made to it unless subsequently approved by a two-
thirds vote.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Ordinance No. 2111.

‘Section 5011 of the Elections Code requires the City attorney to prepare an impartial analysis of measures appearing on the ballot.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “M”

The City of Redlands presently faces a crisis that severely affects the well being of our entire
community. Dramatic increases in the community’s demands for public safety services has stretched
police and fire protection to critical limits.

Redlands’ citizens cannot ignore the following facts:

*	We live in close proximity to a record setting homicide rate.

*	Our community is surrounded by increased drug and gang activity.

*	We must cope with unpredictable, active earthquake faults.

*	Thousands of pounds of hazardous materials are transported through the City on a daily basis.
Redlands’ Fire Department paramedics face an ever increasing call load, but are forced to respond

to crises with the same manpower provided five years ago.

Despite a 50% increase in population, Redlands’ Police Department fields the same number of
patrol officers as it did 10 years ago. Quality Fire and Police Department personnel are seeking
employment with other cities as wages and benefits fail to keep pace.

The community of Redlands cannot afford to let its public safety and emergency services stagnate.
The threat to our families and community is imminent and our response should be likewise! A modest
2.5% utility tax is the fairest way to share public safety costs in our community. No one wants to pay
more taxes. On the other hand, everyone in Redlands needs and expects the City’s fine police and fire
service to continue. WE URGE A YES VOTE ON PROPOSITION M.

s/ William A. McCalmon
Concerned Citizens for Emergency Services
s/ Florence Reis
AARP Chapter
s/ Charles G. DeMirjyn
On behalf of the Redlands City Council
s/ Diane N. Christensen
Concerned Citizen
s/ Oddie J. Martinez, Jr.

Concerned Citizen

S '|

'6r

'Y

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “M” WAS FILED