Public Safety
Improvement Bonds

PROPOSITION A

PUBLIC SAFETY IMPROVEMENT BONDS, 1990. To Incur a bonded
Indebtedness of $332,400,000 for acquisition, construction or recon-
struction of buildings owned by the City and County of San Francisco,
Including earthquake repairs and earthquake hazards reduction, as-
bestos abatement, providing access for the disabled; provided, how-
ever, that no more than $65,000,000 of said bonded indebtedness shall
be Incurred In any single fiscal year and provided, further, that the
authorization in the amount of $332,400,000 will be reduced by the
amount of the actual receipt of FEMA or State of California grants for
earthquake repairs and hazards reduction.

,«i

YES 263
NO 265

Analysis

by Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: Many City buildings were damaged by the
October 17,1989 earthquake and many may not survive another
strong earthquake. Many City buildings contain asbestos apd
many are not accessible to disabled persons. Many City buildings
do not meet current health, safety and building codes.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition A would allow the City to borrow
$332,400,000 by issuing general obligation bonds. This total
would be reduced by the amount of grants the City receives from
the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the State of
California for earthquake repair and hazard reduction. No more
than $65,000,000 of bonds could be sold in any fiscal year.

This money would be used to pay for safety improvements to
some City buildings, including repairing earthquake damage,
making the buildings better able to survive earthquakes, remov-

ing or reducing the danger of asbestos in these buildings; making
them more accessible to the disabled and bringing them up to
current codes.

The interest and principal on general obligation bonds are paid
out of tax revenues. Proposition A would require an increase in
the property tax.

A "YES" VOTE MEANS: If you vote yes, you want the City to issue
general obligation bonds for not more than $332,400,000 to pay
for certain safety improvements to some City buildings.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote no, you do not want the City to
issue bonds to pay for certain safety Improvements to some City
buildings.	1

Controller’s Statement on “A”

City Controller Samuel D. Yockey has issued the following state-
ment on the fiscal impact of Proposition A:

"Should the proposed bond issue be authorized and when all
bonds shall have been issued on a twenty (20) year basis and after
consideration of the interest rates related to current municipal bond
sales, in my opinion, it is estimated that the approximate costs
would be as follows:

Bond redemption	$332,400,000

Bond interest	244.314.000

Debt service requirement	$576.714.000

The bond authorization limits the issuance of bonds to no more
than $65 million per year. Assuming a single sale on a 20 year
basis at current interest rates with no reduction for possible FEMA
or State funding, annual debt service on each $65 million increment
would amount to $5,638,750, which amount is equivalent to one
and forty-eight hundredths cents ($0.0148) in the current tax rate.”

How Supervisors Voted on “A"

On February 26, the Board of Supervisors voted 8-0 on the
question of placing Proposition A on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

YES: Supervisors Angela Alioto, Harry Britt, Jim Gonzalez,
Thomas Hsieh, Bill Maher, Wendy NekJer, Nancy
Walker, and Doris Ward.

NO: None of the Supervisors present voted no.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE AND ITS FULL TEXT IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE.

Public Safety
Improvement Bonds

OFFICIAL ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

We urge you to vote Yes on Proposition A the earthquake repair
and protection measure.

Proposition A provides $332.4 million to repair earthquake dam-
aged city buildings and to seismically reinforce many of them so
that they would not sustain as much damage (or worse) during a
future earthquake. This improves public safety while it also pro-
tects the investment we arc making in repairs.

Your “Yes on A" vote will provide for
Repairs of earthquake damage, asbestos removal and handi-
capped accessibility work in over200earthquake damaged city
buildings.

Seismic strengthening of the Civic Center complex including
City Hall, the Veterans Building, Opera House, Department of
Public Health and Civic Auditorium.

Seismic strengthening for the Palace of Fine Arts/Explorator-
ium, nine additional branch libraries, two additional police
stations, two jails and the services building at San Francisco
General Hospital.

Replacement of the broken arid earthquake damaged water and
sewer lines at the Zoo.

Proposition A represents a prudent investment which would
protect many irreplaceable public buildings from major damage or
collapse in a future earthquake.

In order to keep property taxes from rising more than 2-30 per
$ 100 of assessed value, Proposition A will not allow more than $65
million in bonds to be sold in any one year. It further requires that
any Federal or State earthquake relief money we receive to repair
these buildings reduce the amount of bonds sold. This assures that
local taxpayers will not be required to pay for repairs that can be
made using Federal/State emergency relief assistance.

Vote Yes on Proposition A to protect city buildings and increase
public safety in a next major earthquake.

Submitted by the Board of Supervisors, the Mayor, and the
Chief Administrative Officer.

No Official Argument Was Submitted Against Proposition A
No Rebuttals Were Submitted On Proposition A

Public Safety

A

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A			
When future earthquakes strike, our libraries need to be safe.		Michael Mellor, President	
Proposition A will provide funds to help earthquake proof our		Friends of the San Francisco Public Library	
library system.			
Vote YES on A.			
This bond issue will help to ensure the seismic safety of the		Exploratorium	
Palace of Fine Arts, home of the Exploratorium which is visited by		F. Van Kasper, Chairman	
over600,000peopleayear. Prop A represents a prudent investment		William K. Coblentz, Vice Chairman	
to improve public safety and protect irreplaceable public buildings.		C. Richard Kramilich, Vice Chairman	
We urge all citizens to vote "Yes" on Proposition A.		G. Steven Burrill, Treasurer	
Replacement of the earthquake-damaged, underground, 50-year-		adults who visit annually. The Zoological Society will endeavor to	
old water, gas and sewer lines at the San Francisco Zoo is critically		raise funds to renovate and build new above-ground facilities to	
needed for the safety and well-being of the animals. It will signif-		supplement the $26 million included in the bond issue for the Zoo.	
icantly improve public services to the 1.2 million children and		Help make the Zoo a true sanctuary.	
David E. Anderson	Keith G. Eickman		Charlotte MaiUiard Swig
Zoo Director	Recreation & Park Commissioner		Zoological Society Board
Phil Arnold	Roy Eisenhardt		Frances May McAteer
Assistant General Manager	Director, California Academy of		Recreation & Park Commissioner
Recreation & Park	Sciences		Amy Meyer
William Brewster Ely JV	Becky Evans		People for GGNRA
Headmaster, Town School	Conservation Activist		Andrew Nash
Mary Burns	Norman Gershem		President, San Francisco Tomorrow
General Manager	Director, Ecosystem Survival Plan		Trent W. Orr
Recreation & Park	Arthur J. Goedewaagen		Recreation & Park Commissioner
Margaret K. Burks	Board Member, SPEAK		Elizabeth D. Rieger
Executive Director, Zoological Society John E. Hafernik Jr.			Zoo Volunteer
Jack W. Castor	Professor Biology, SFSU		Fred A. Rodriguez
Animal Keeper Shop Steward,	Roger Hoppes		School Board Member
Local 858	Director, Children’s Zoo		Carroll Soo-Hoo
Todd Cecil	Michael Housh		Zoo Benefactor
Children’s Zoo Keeper	Assistant to the Mayor		Stephen V. R. Spaulding
Sherri Chiesa	David J. Howe		Zoological Society Treasurer
President, Local 2	Animal Keeper		James J. Walsh Jr.
Robert Todd Cockburn	Mark Hurley		Citizens Advisory Committee on
Executive Director, Clean Water	Animal Control & Welfare		Wastewater Management
Program	Commission		Connie O'Connor
Rosemary Davidson	Norma J. Kristovich		President, Recreation & Park
Urban School	Zoo Docent Council		Commission
Dolores A. Donovan	Connie Lurie		
Animal Control &	Vice Chairman, Zoological Society		
Welfare Commission	Board		
Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.			

39

Public Safety
Improvement Bonds

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

We must rebuild and repair our infrastructure.

The October 17 quake was a warning.

More resources going to earthquake preparedness programs
today will save lives in the future.

Vote YES on A.

We urge everyone to vote Yes on Proposition A. The people of
San Francisco have a $3.5 billion investment in public buildings.
This bond issue will be used to fund repairs to many of our facilities
damaged in last October’s earthquake, includingCity Hall, General
Hospital, neighborhood libraries, police stations and cultural build-
ings. It will also provide monies necessary to make life-safety
improvements to other city buildings.

Your Yes Vote on Proposition A will protect lives and property
in the event of another major earthquake at a very small cost to
businesses and homeowners. Because bonds to finance repairs will

Joel Ventresca
Past President,

Coalition for San Francisco Neighborhoods
Candidate for Supervisor

be sold over 6 -10 years, replacing older bond issues as they are
paid-off, the result will be an almost unchanged tax rate. In fact,
the City’s independent budget analyst found that the tax lull for an
average homeowner will increase by less than $5.00 a month.

Proposition A is a small price to pay to preserve our investment
in the city’s valuable public facilities.

Vote Yes on Proposition A.

Donald D. Doyle

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce

We ask that you join with us in Voting YES ON PROP. “A”.
Your “Yes on A” vote will provide funds to protect the two
remaining Police Stations which are not yet earthquake safe or
provided for in previous bond issues.

In an emergency we can do our jobs only if our own police
facilities are earthquake resistant and if we can get to those places
in the City which mostneed our services. That is why it is important
to us that as many City buildings as possible are made earthquake

resistant. The less damage and street obstruction that results from

. -

a future earthquake, the better we can get to these parts of the City
where we are most needed. The safer the public buildings in the
City are made, the better we will be able to serve the rest of the
City if we ever have to face a major earthquake emergency.

For security vote “Yes on A”.

Michael Keys President

San Francisco Police Officers’Association

The damage done by the October 17th earthquake to San
Francisco’s most important public buildings is considerable, to
correct that damage and prepare for the future vitality of our City
demands the kind of response represented by Proposition A. This
proposition carefully earmarks funds to upgrade buildings such as
City Hall, the War Memorial Opera House, and the Department of
Public Health offices which arc treasures that can never be replaced
or reproduced. They not only need to be repaired, but strengthened
structurally and improved, to meet today’s building codes. The

Federal Government will pick up some of the damage, but much
more will be needed if these vital components of our City’s daily
life are to be improved and made ready for the next major quake.
Proposition A requests a large sum, but this is a time when we as
a City have to agree to such a request. We strongly urge your
support of Proposition A.

American Institute of Architects/San Francisco Chapter

Public Safety
Improvement Bonds

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

We ask you to join us in voting “Yes on A”.

The primary purpose of Prop "A” is to protect lives and public
buildings from the effects of the next earthquake. As San Francis-
cans we all share the responsibility of having to do all wc can to
avoid the loss of life, the suffering and the huge costs which
another, perhaps stronger or longer quake would bring. Thus we
see Proposition “A" as a necessary, prudent investment in all our
future.

We have a special reason to support “Prop A” and to ask you to
vote YES ON “A” as well. That special reason is the fact that 20
of the buildings which will be repaired or strengthened against

future earthquakes if Prop "A” passes will also be made fully
accessible to the disabled. We want our City’s buildings to be
repaired, to be made safe and to be made accessible to all San
Franciscans.

Vote “Yes on A”.

Kathy Uhl, Executive Director,

Independent Living Resource Center
Michael L. Comini, Executive Director,

Lighthouse for the Blind and Visually Impaired

We urge a “Yes” vote on Proposition “A”.

Many city buildings were damaged in the October 17 earthquake.
If these buildings are repaired and strengthened the Fire Depart-
ment will be much safer when responding to future emergencies.

Please help the Fire Department do its job safely and effectively
by voting “Yes” on Proposition “A”.

James D. Jefferson, President, Fire Commission
Frank A. Quinn, Vice-President, Fire Commission
Henry E, Berman, Commissioner, Fire Commission
Sharon L, Bren, Commissioner, Fire Commission
Ted N. Soulis, Commissioner, Fire Commission
Frederick F. Postel, Chief of Department

We urgently request that you vote “Yes on A”.

The War Memorial complex of buildings, dedicated to San
Francisco’s veterans, are one of our city’s treasures, irreplaceable
architecturally and economically. They are central to our history
and we owe it to ourselves to make sure they are made as fully
earthquake-resistant as possible.

The October 17 earthquake was a warning which we must heed.
Proposition “A” is a prudent and necessary response. It will protect
our treasured buildings and, even more importantly, it will protect

the lives of those who use them and the memories of those whose
lives they commemorate.

Harold F. Jackson, Chairman, American Legion War Memorial
Commission

Claude M, Jarman, Jr., Vice-President, War Memorial Board of
Trustees

MarkRyser, Executive Director, Foundation for San Francisco’s
Architectural Heritage

Save lives.

Support earthquake safety.

Vote YES on Propositions A and B.

Also vote YES on Proposition N. Limit San Francisco Supervi-
sors to two four-year terms.

Terence Faulkner
Republican State Assembly Candidate
San Francisco Republican Party Chairman (1987-89)

Patrick C. Fitzgerald
Democratic State Senate Candidate
Past San Francisco Democratic Party Secretary
Max Woods
Republican Central Committee Candidate
Alexa Smith
Democratic County Central Committeewoman

Public Safety
Improvement Bonds

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

A YES vote on Proposition A is a vote for your safety. Let us
learn from the October 17th earthquake. IS seconds of moderate
shaking resulted in the need for $32 million in repairs to city
buildings in the Civic Center alone. We need to be better prepared.

We need to reduce known safety hazards.

Please, vote YES on Proposition A.

Ken Dowlin, City Librarian
Steve Coulter, Library Commissioner
Dale Carlson, Library Commissioner
Lonni Chin, Library Commissioner
Jean Kalil, Library Commissioner
Dennis Normandy, Library Commissioner
Roselyne Swig, Library Commissioner

Help the City of San Francisco and the Zoo rebuild. The animals
will benefit, too! Vote YES on A.

Susanne Barthell,

Zoo Advisory Committee member,

Zoo Volunteer
Sophie Papageorge,

Zoologist
Jorge L. Garcia, D.V.M.

Zoo Medicine Specialist
JohnJ.Alcaraz,

Retired Zookceper
Roni Joan Howard,

Educator

David J. Howe
Animalkeeper .

Terrence J. Moyles
Linda Caratti
Animalkeeper
Anthony Sharp
Animalkeeper
Martin E. Dias.

AKA. Big Bison, Animalkeeper
Jack W. Castor
Lion House, Animalkeeper
Sandra Keller
Director, Citizens for a Better Zoo

Proposition A will help restore structural safety to the San
Francisco County Jails in San Bruno, which were built in 1934 and
are badly in need of repair. This is the oldest operating jail in
California and sits near the San Andreas fault.

For the safety of City employees and county jail inmates,
please vote YES on Proposition A,

Michael Hennessey
San Francisco County Sheriff
Deputy Albert Waters, President 1
San Francisco Deputy Sheriffs Association

PAID ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

VOTE “NO” ON PROPOSITION A
This bond issue is iffy.

It should have been presented to the voters as two separate bond
issues.

One for $75 million—earthquake repairs to be partly refunded
by F.E.M.A, for our present estimated damages. Another for

$257.4 million to take care of our needed capital improvements so
neglected by this and past administrations.

Vote NO and get one issue back on the November ballot.

Marguerite Warren

TEXT OF ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING BOND ELECTION

(Special Election)

CALLING AND PROVIDING FOR A SPE-
CIAL ELECTION.TO BE HELD IN THE CITY
AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO ON
TUESDAY. JUNE 5. 1990. FOR THE PUR-
POSE OF SUBMITTING TO THE VOTERS
OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN
FRANCISCO A PROPOSITION TO INCUR
THE FOLLOWING BONDED DEBT OF THE
CITY AND COUNTY FOR THE ACQUISI-
TION, CONSTRUCTION OR COMPLETION
BY THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN
FRANCISCO OFTHE FOLLOWING MUNIC-
IPAL IMPROVEMENTS, TO WIT: PUBLIC
SAFETY IMPROVEMENT BONDS. 1990,
$332,400,000, TO PAY FOR THE COST OF
PUBLIC SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS TO
BUILDINGS OWNED BY THE CITY AND
COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO, INCLUD-
INGEARTHQUAKE REPAIRS AND EARTH-
QUAKE HAZARDS REDUCTION,
ASBESTOS ABATEMENT, PROVIDING AC-
CESS FOR THE DISABLED, ALL RELATED
TO PUBLIC SAFETY TO BUILDINGS
OWNED BY THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
SAN FRANCISCO, INCLUDING RELATED
ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION AND RE-
CONSTRUCTION NECESSARY OR
CONVENIENT FOR THE FOREGOING PUR-
POSE; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, THAT NO
MORE THAN $65,000,000 OF SAID
BONDED INDEBTEDNESS SHALL BE IN-
CURRED IN ANY SINGLE FISCAL YEAR
AND PROVIDED, FURTHER, THAT THE
AUTHORIZATION IN THE AMOUNT OF
$332,400,000 WILL BE REDUCED BY THE
AMOUNT OF THE ACTUAL POST-AUDIT
RECEIPT OF FEMA OR STATE OF CALI-
FORNIA GRANTS FOR EARTHQUAKE RE-
PAIRS AND HAZARDS REDUCTION;
AUTHORIZING AND DIRECTING THE
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER AND
THE CONTROLLER TO MONITOR THE IS-
SUANCE OF BONDS AND THE ACTUAL
POST-AUDIT RECEIPT OF FEMA OR
STATE OF CALIFORNIA GRANTS FOR
EARTHQUAKE REPAIRS AND HAZARDS
REDUCTION AND TO TAKE ANY APPRO-
PRIATE ACTIONSOTHATTHEBONDS IS-
SUED WILL NOT DUPLICATE FEMA OR
STATE OF CALIFORNIA GRANTS FOR
EARTHQUAKE REPAIRS AND HAZARDS
REDUCTION; FINDING THAT THE ESTI-
MATED COST TO THE CITY AND COUNTY
OF SAN FRANCTSCO OF SAID MUNICIPAL
IMPROVEMENTS IS AND WILL BE TOO
GREAT TO BE PAID OUT OF THE ORDI-
NARY ANNUAL INCOME AND REVENUE
OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN
FRANCTSCO AND WILL REQUIRE EXPEN-
DITURES GREATER THAN THE AMOUNT
ALLOWED THEREFOR BY THE ANNUAL
TAX LEVY; RECITING THE ESTIMATED
COST OF SUCH MUNICIPAL IMPROVE-
MENTS; FIXING THE DATE OF THE ELEC-
TION AND THE MANNER OF HOLDING

PROPOSITION A

SUCH ELECTION AND THE PROCEDURE
FOR VOTING FOR OR AG AINSTTHE PROP-
OSITION; FIXING THE MAXIMUM RATE
OF INTEREST ON SAID BONDS AND PRO-
VIDING FOR THE LEVY AND COLLEC-
TION OFTAXES TO PAY BOTH PRINCIPAL
AND INTEREST THEREOF; PRESCRIBING
NOTICE TO BE GIVEN OF SUCH ELEC-
TION; CONSOLIDATING THE SPECIAL
ELECTION WITH THE GENERAL ELEC-
TION; AND PROVIDING THAT THE
ELECTION PRECINCTS, VOTING PLACES
ANDOFFICERS FOR ELECTION SHALL BE
THE SAME AS FOR SUCH GENERAL
ELECTION.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and
County of San Francisco:

Section 1. A special election is herelty called
and ordered to be held in the City and County of
San Francisco on Tuesday, the 5th day of June,
1990, for the purpose of submitting to the electors
of said city and county a proposition to incur
bonded indebtedness of the City and County of
San Francisco for the acquisition, construction or
completion by the city and county of the herein-
after described municipal improvements in the
amount and for the purposes stated:

PUBLIC SAFETY IMPROVEMENT
BONDS, 1990, $332,400,000, to pay for the cost
ofpublic safety improvements to buildings owned
by the City and County of San Francisco, includ-
ing earthquake repairs and earthquake hazards
reduction, asbestos abatement, providing access
for the disabled, ail related to public safety to
buildings owned tty the City and County of San
Francisco, including related acquisition, construc-
tion and reconstruction necessary or convenient
for the foregoing purpose; provided, however,
that no more than $65,000,000 of said bonded
indebtedness shall be incurred in any single fiscal
year and provided, further, that the authorization
in the amount of $332,400,000 will be reduced by
the amount of the actual post-audit receipt of
FEMA or Stateof California grants for earthquake
repairs and hazards reduction.

Section 2. The estimated cost of the municipal
improvements described inSection 1 hereof were
fixed by the Board of Supervisors by the follow-
ing resolution and in the amount specified:
PUBLIC SAFETY IMPROVEMENT
BONDS, 1990, Resolution No. 88-90,
$332,400,000.

That said resolution was passed by two-thirds
or more of the Board of Supervisors and ap-
proved by the Mayor, and in said resolution it was
recited and found that the sums of money speci-
fied was too great to be paid out of the ordinary
annual income and revenue of the city and county
in addition to the other annual expenses thereof
or other funds derived from taxes levied for those
purposes and will require expenditures greater
than die amount allowed therefor by the annual
tax levy.

The method and manner of payment of the
estimated cost of the municipal improvements
described herein arc by the issuance of bonds of

the City and County of San Francisco in the
principal amount not to exceed the principal
amount specified.

Stud estimate of cost as set forth in said reso-
lution are hereby adopted and determined to be
the estimated cost of said improvements.

Section 3. Authorizing and directing the Chief
Administrative Officer and the Controller to
monitor the issuance of the bonds and the actual
post-audit receipt of FEMA or State of California
grants for earthquake repairs and hazards reduc-
tion and to take any appropriate action so that the
bonds issued will not duplicate FEMA or State
of California grants for earthquake repairs and
hazards reduction.

Section 4. The special election hereby called
and ordered to be held shall be held and con-
ducted and the votes thereat received and can-
vassed, and the returns thereof made and the
results thereof ascertained, determined and de-
clared as herein provided and in all particulars
not herein recited said election shall be held
according to the laws of the State of California
and the Charter of the City and County of San
Francisco providing for and governing elections
in the City and County of San Francisco, and the
polls for such election shall be and remain open
during the time required by said laws.

Section 5. The said special election hereby
called shall be and hereby is consolidated with
the General Election of the City and County of
San Francisco to be held Tuesday, June 5,1990,
and the voting precincts, polling places and offi-
cers of election for said General Election be and
the same are hereby adopted, established, desig-
nated and named, respectively, as the voting
precincts, polling places and officers of election
for such special election hereby called, and as
specifically set forth, in the official publication,
by the Registrar of Voters of precincts, polling
places and election officers for the said General
Election.

The ballots to be used at said special election
shall be the ballots to be used at said General
Election and reference is hereby made to the
notice of election setting forth die voting pre-
cincts, polling places and officers of election by
the Registrar of Voters for the General Election
to be published in the San Francisco Examiner
on or no later than May 31,1990.

Section 6. On the ballots to be used at such
special election and on the punch card ballots
used at said special election, in addition to any
other matter required by law to be printed
thereon, shall appear thereon the following, to be
separately stated, and appear upon the ballot as a
separate proposition:

“PUBLIC SAFETY IMPROVE-
MENT BONDS, 1990. To incur a
bonded indebtedness of $332,400,000
for acquisition, construction or recon-
struction of buildings owned by the City
and County of San Francisco, including
earthquake repairs and earthquake haz-
ards reduction, asbestos abatement, pro-
viding access for the disabled; provided,

(Continued on next page)

TEXT OF PROPOSITION A (Continued)

however, that no more than $63,000,000
of said bonded indebtedness shell be
' incurred in any single fiscal year and
provided, further, that the authorization
in the amount of $332,400,000 will be
reduced by the amount of the actual re-
ceipt of FEMA or State of California
grants for earthquake repairs and haz-
ards reduction."

Each voter to vote for said proposition hereby
submitted and in favor of the issuance of the
Bonds, shall stamp a cross (X) in the blank space
opposite the word "YES" on the ballot to the right
of said proposition, and to vote against said prop-
osition and against the issuance of the Bonds
shall stamp a cross (X) in the blank space oppo-
site the word “NO" on the ballot to die right of
said proposition. On absent voters ballots, the
cross (X) may be marked With pen or pencil.

If and to the extent that punch card ballot cards
are used at said special election, each voter to
vote for any said proposition shall punch the
ballot card in the hole after the word "YES” to
the right of said proposition, and to vote against
said proposition shall punch the ballot card in the
hole after the word “NO" to the right of said

proposition.

Section 7. If at such special election it shall
appear that two-thirds of all the voters voting on
the proposition Voted in favor of and authorized
the incurring of a bonded indebtedness for the
purposes set forth in said proposition, then such
proposition dial! have been accepted by the elec-
tors, and bonds shall be issued to defray the cost
of the municipal improvements described herein.
Such bonds shall be of the form and character
known as “serials," and shall bear interest at a
rate not to exceed 12 per centum per annum,
payable semiannually, provided, that interest for
the first year after the (tele of any of said bonds
may,be payable at or before the end of that year.

The votes cast for and against said respective
proposition shall be counted separately and when
two-thirds of the qualified electors, voting on
such proposition, vote in favor thereof, such
proposition shall be deemed adopted.

Section 8. For the purpose of paying the prin-
cipal and interest on said bonds, the Board of
Supervisors shall, at the time of fixing the general
tax levy and in the manner for such general tax
levy provided, levy and collect annually each
year until such bonds are paid, or until there is a

sum in the Treasury of said city and county set
apart for that purpose to meet all sums coming
due for the principal and interest on said bonds,
a tax sufficient to pay the annual interest on such
bonds as the same becomes due and also such
part of the principal (hereof as shall become due
before the proceeds of a tax levied at the rime for
making the next general tax levy can be made
available for the payment of such principal.

Section 9. Hiis ordinance shall be published
once a day for at least seven (7) days in the San
Francisco Examiner, a newspaper published
duly in the City and County of San Francisco,
being the official newspaper of said city and
county and such publication shall constitute no-
tice of said election and no other notice of the
election hereby called need be given.

Section 10. The appropriate officers, employ-
ees, representatives and agents of the City and
County of San Francisco are hereby authorized
and directed to do everything necessary or desir-
able to the calling and holding of said special
election, and to otherwise carry out the provi-
sions of this ordinance.	□

44

School Facilities
Safety Special Tax

PROPOSITION B

8hell Community Faculties DUtrlctNo. 90*1 of tho 8on Francisco Unified 8ehool District be authorized
to finance (I) repair, reatoratlon, and/or replacement of 8an Franclaco Unified 8ohool District facilities
damaged by the earthquake of Ootobor 17,1989 (or lie aftershoeks), (II) eelsmle upgrading of children’s
oentars and other 8an Franclaco Unified School District taellltlee, (III) correction of fire safety violations
of 8an Franclaco Unified 8chool District facllltlea, and (Iv) deferred capital maintenance of 8an Francisco
Unified 8chool District facllltlea, and certain Incidental expenses relating to the foregoing through the
levy of a special tax to be collected for twenty (20) years with a maximum annual rate (a) for single-family
residential parcels and noiwesldentlal parcels of $48.00 per parcel for the first six (8) years and $32.20
per parcel for the fourteen (14) years following the sixth year and (b) for mixed-use paresis (paresis with
one or more residential units In addition to one or more commercial usee) and multMamlly residential
parcels of $23.00 per dwelling unit for the first six (8) years and $16.10 per dwelling unit for the fourteen
(14) years following the sixth year, with the definitions of single-family residential, multi-family residential,
mixed-use and non-residentlal parcels, and particulars relating to the method of apportionment and
maximum rates, exemptions for seniors, certain publicly-owned property and other usee, as more
particularly set forth In Resolution No. Q2-13-B1 adopted by the Board of Edueatlon of the San Franclaco
Unified School District on February 13, 1990; and shall an appropriations limit In the amount of
$12,000,000 per fiscal year In connection therewith be established for the Community Facilities District?

YES 269
NO 272 w+

Analysis

by City Attorney

THE WAY IT IS NOW: The San Francisco Unified School District
operates the City's public schools. Some School District buildings
were damaged by the earthquake. Some District buildings do not
meet present earthquake and fire standards.

The State Mello-Roos law allows the Board of Education to
submit to the voters a measure authorizing a special property tax
to pay for repairs and other improvements to school buildings.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition B would authorize a special property
tax to pay for costs of repairing School District buildings damaged
by the earthquake and bringing schools and child care centers
up to present standards for earthquake and fire safety. Some of
the money would also be used for deferred capital maintenance.
The repairs and maintenance would be funded on a pay-as-you-
go basis. Since no money would be borrowed, there would be no
interest costs to pay.

The tax would last for 20 years. The tax on single-family
residential parcels and non-residential parcels could be no more

than $46 for each of the first six years and no more than $32.20
for each of the last 14 years. The tax on other types of parcels
could be no more than $23 for each dwelling unit for each of the
first six years and $16.10 for each dwelling unit for each of the
last 14 years. Dwelling units occupied by persons 65 years of age
or older would be eligible for an exemption from this tax. The
measure would also set an annual appropriations limit of $12
million.

A "YES" VOTE MEANS: If you vote yes, you want to authorize this
property tax to pay for repairing School District buildings dam-
aged by the earthquake and bringing schools and child care
centers up to present standards for earthquake and fire safety
and you want to authorize this annual appropriations limit.

A "NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote no, you do not want to authorize
this tax.

Controller’s Statement on “B”

City Controller Samuel D. Yockey has issued the following state-
ment on the fiscal impact of Proposition B:

"Should the proposed special tax levy be approved, in my opin-
ion, it would increase revenues for the San Francisco Unified
School District, net of estimated senior citizen exemptions, by
approximately $8 million per year for the first 6 years and $5.6
million per year for the next 14 years, based on the current
assessment roll of the City and County. The approximately $127.2
million generated over a 20 year period by this special tax levy
would be restricted for use by the District for the repair, restoration,
replacement, seismic upgrading and capital maintenance of
School District facilities."

How “B” Got on the Ballot

On February 13, the Board of Education voted 5-1 on the
question of placing Proposition B on the ballot.

The Board members voted as follows:

YES: Rosario Anaya, Myra Kopf, Joanne Miller, Fred A.
Rodriguez, and Sodonia Wilson.

NO: LelandYee.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE AND ITS FULL TEXT IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE

B School Facilities

Safety Special Tax __________________________________________________________________

OFFICIAL ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

When the earthquake struck last fall, our school buildings suf- Two years ago the citizens of this City voted to support major
fered. Sustaining major damage and at special risk in the future are	repairs for our school buildings. Now we must protect that invest*

our buildings that were not earthquake proofed in the 1970’s. In	ment by repairing the present earthquake damage and seeing

that category are our child care centers serving our youngest	that all our schools can withstand future earthquakes, be as

students. Also, in the fall of 1988 the City Fire Marshall inspected	safe as possible in case of lire and be well maintained into the

our schools and reported that the majority of our school buildings	next century.

do not meet fire safety standards. Our 63,000 students and the	Civic organizations who have joined in supporting Proposition

community groups that meet at our schools in the eveningsand	B include: San Francisco League of WomenVoters, SanFrancisco

on weekends must have buddings that can withstand earth-	Chamber of Commerce, SF/PTA, Parents' Lobby, San Francisco

quakes, and meet fire safety standards.	Labor Council, United Educators of San Francisco, and Coleman

Proposition B will authorize a tax to provide for.	Advocates for Children and Youth,

repairing earthquake damage at 131 sites including the reconstruc-
tion of John O’Connell High School, seismic improvement of nine	Submitted by Superintendent Ramon C. Cortines, San Francisco

Children’s Centers, correction of fire code and safety violations at	Unified School District, and Fred Rodriguez, President, Board

97 sites and seismic improvement ofJohnSwett, Jean Parker and	of Education.

Bessie Carmichael Elementary Schools and Parkside Curriculum
Center. In addition, there will be funds for deferred capital main-
tenance.

No Official Argument Was Submitted Against Proposition B
No Rebuttals Were Submitted On Proposition B
No Paid Arguments Were Submitted In Favor Of Proposition B
No Paid Arguments Were Submitted Against Proposition B

SAN FRANCISCO UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT
Sui Francisco, California
February 13,1990
(For Board Meeting February 13,1990)
SUBJECT: RESOLUTION OF FORMATION
OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE
SAN FRANCISCO UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT ESTABLISHING COMMUNITY
FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 901, AUTHOR-
IZING THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX
WITHIN SAID DISTRICT, PRELIMINARILY
ESTABLISHING AN APPROPRIATIONS
LIMIT FOR THE DISTRICT, AND CALLING
AN ELECTION FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUB-
MITTING THE LEVY OF THE SPECI ALT AX
AND THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE AP-
PROPRIATIONS UM1TTOTHE QUALIFIED
ELECTORS OF THE DISTRICT
REQUESTED ACTION:

WHEREAS,(the Board of Education (the
"Board”) of the San Francisco Unified School
District (the “District”), did, on January 9,1990,
adopt its Resolution of Intention (the “Resolu-
tion”) to form Community Facilities District No.
90-1 of the San Francisco Unified School District
(the “Community Facilities District”), and levy a
special tax therein, pursuant to Chapter 2.5 of
Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 (commencing with
Section 53311) of the California Government
Code, commonly known as the “Mello-Roos
Community Facilities Act of 1982,” as amended,
(the “Act”); and

. WHEREAS, a copy of the Resolution (which
sets forth a description of the projposcd bound-
aries of the Community Facilities District, the
name of the Community Facilities District and
the types of facilities proposed to be financed by
the District (the “Facilities”)), providing that,
except where funds are otherwise available, a
special tax sufficient to pay for all Facilities and
the financing thereof (to be secured by recorda-
tion of a continuing lien against all noncxcmpt
Teal property in the Community Facilities Disr
trict) is proposed to be levied within the proposed
Community Facilities District specifying the
rate, method of apportionment, and manner of
collection of the special tax in sufficient detail to
allow each taxpayer or resident within the pro-
posed Community Facilities District to estimate
the maximum amount that he or she will have to
pay, and setting a hearing thereon, is on file with
the Cleric of this Board and is incorporated herein
by this reference; and

WHEREAS, notice of said hearing was duly
published as required by law, as evidenced by the
affidavit of publication on file with the Clerk of
this Board; and

WHEREAS, on February 13,1990 this Board
held thenoticedpublic hearing as required by law
relative to the proposed formation of the Com-
munity Facilities District, the levy of the special
tax, and all other matters set forth in the Resolu-
tion; and

WHEREAS, prior to the noticed public hear-
ing a report (the “Report”) containing a descrip-

TEXT OF PROPOSITION B

tion of the Facilities and an estimate of the cost
of providing the Facilities, including the esti-
mated fair and reasonable cost thereof, was filed
with this Board as a part of the record of said
hearing; and
WHEREAS, at the public hearing all persons
desiring to be heard on all matters pertaining to
the formation of the Community Facilities Dis-
trict, the levy of the special tax, and all other
matters set forth in the Resolution, including all
interested persons or taxpayers for or against the
establishment of the Community Facilities Dis-
trict, the extentof the Community Facilities Dis-
trict, or the furnishing of specific types of public
facilities, were heard and considered, and a full
and fair hearing was held thereon; and
WHEREAS, at the public hearing evidence
was presented to this Board on the matters before
it, and this Board at the conclusion of the hearing
was fully advised as to all matters relating to the
formation of the Community Facilities District,
the levy of the special tax, and all other matters
set forth inthe Resolution; and
WHEREAS, written protests against the estab-
lishment of the District, the furnishing of speci-
fied type or types of facilities within the
Community Facilities District as listed in the
Report, or the levying of the special tax have not
been filed with the Clerk of this Board-fry fifty
percent (50%) or more of the registered voters,
or six registered voters, whichever is more, resid-
ing within the territory proposed to be included
in the Community Facilities District, or the own-
ers of one-half (1/2) or more of the area of land
in the territory proposed to be included in the
Community Facilities District and not exempt
from this special tax;

NOW THEREFORE, the Board of Education
of the San Francisco Unified School District, in >
regular session assembled on February 13,1990,
DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DETERMINE
AND ORDER as follows:

Section 1. The foregoing Tecitals are true and
correct. ,

Section 2. Written protests to the establishment
of the Community Facilities District, or the ex-
tent hereof, or the furnishing of the public facili-
ties proposed therefor, or the levy of the special
tax proposed to be levied in the Community
Facilities District, are insufficient in number and
in amount under the Act, and this Board hereby
further orders and determines that all protests to
the establishment of the Community Facilities
District, the extent thereof, or the furnishing of
the public facilities proposed therefor, or the levy
of the special tax proposed to be levied in the
Community Facilities District, are hereby over-
ruled.

Section 3. As proposed in the Resolution, a
community facilities district is hereby estab-
lished pursuant to the Act, designated “Commu-
nity Facilities District No. 90-1 of the San
Francisco Unified School District.”

Section 4. The map and legal description of the
proposed boundaries of the Community Facili-
ties District, filed with the Clerk of this Board on

January+24, 1990, are hereby incorporated
herein by this reference, and shall be the bound-
aries of the Community Facilities District.

Section 5. The Facilities to be financed tty the
Community Facilities District, set forth in Ex-
hibit “B" hereto and by this reference incorpo-
rated herein, shall be the Facilities to be financed
by the Community Facilities District.

Section 6. As provided in Exhibit “B”, it is the
intention of this Board, subject to the approval of
the qualified electors of the Community Facili-
ties District, to levy a special tax sufficient to
acquire, construct and improve the Facilities in-
cluding administrative expenses to be incurred
by the District and the Community Facilities
District in connection therewith; said tax to be
secured by recordation of a continuing lien
against all nonexempt real property in the Com-
munity Facilities District.

The rate, method of apportionment, and man-
ner of collection of the special tax, in sufficient
detail to allow each taxpayer or resident within
the Community Facilities District to estimate the
maximum amount that he or she will have to pay;
is described in Exhibit “A” hereto and by this
reference incorporated herein.

Section 7. The description of the proposed
voting procedure, as set forth in the Resolution,
is hereby incorporated herein by this reference,
and shall be the voting procedure to be used in
these proceedings.

Section 8. The special tax has not been pre-
cluded by majority protest pursuant to Section
53324 of the Act.

Section 9. The Facilities to be funded from the
special tax arc identified in Exhibit “B” hereto.

Section 10. In accordance with Section
53340.1 of the Act, upon a determination by this
Board, after the canvass of the returns of the
consolidated election provided for in Sections 15
and 16 hereof, that two-thirds (2/3) of the votes
cast upon the question of levying the special tax
and the establishment of an appropriations limit
in connection therewith, for the District, are cast
in favor thereof, this Board shall designate the
Fiscal Services Department of the San Francisco
Unified School District as the office, department
or bureau which will be responsible for annually
preparing the current roll of special tax levy
obligations by assessor's parcel number on non-
exempt property within die District and which
will be responsible for estimating future special
tax levies pursuant to Section 53340.1 of the Act.
The name, address, and telephone number of the
Fiscal Services Department of the San Francisco
Unified School District, and the person respon-
sible for administering the District, is as follows:
Director of Fiscal Services
Fiscal Services Department
San Francisco Unified School District
135 Van Ness Avenue, Room 215
San Francisco, California 94102
Telephone: (415)241-6480
Section 11. In accordance with Section
53328.3 of the Act, upon a determination by this
Board, after the canvass of the returns of the

(Continued on next page)

47

TEXT OF PROPOSITION B (Continued)

consolidated election provided for in Sections IS
and 16 hereof, that two-thirds (2/3) of the votes
cast upon the question of levying the special tax
and the establishment of an appropriations limit
in connection therewith, for the District, are cast
in favor thereof, the Cleric of this Board shall
record the notice of special tax lien provided for
in Section 3114.5 of the Streets and Highways
Code. Upon recordation of the notice of special
tax lien pursuant to Section 3114.5 of the Streets
and Highways Code, a continuing lien to secure
each levy of the special tax shall attach to all
nonexempt real property in the Community Fa-
cilities District, and this lien shall continue in
force and effect until the special tax obligation is
permanently satisfied and the lien cancelled in
accordance with law or until collection of the tax
by this Board ceases.

Section 12. Aboundary map of the Community
Facilities District has been recorded pursuant to
Sections 3111 and 3113 of the Streets and High-
ways Code at Book 39, Page 182-183 in the Book
ofMaps of Assessment and Community Facilities
Districts in the Office of the County Recorder of
the City and County of San Francisco.

Section 13. All prior proceedings taken with
respect to the establishment of the District were
valid and in conformity with the requirements of
the Act.

Section 14. In accordance with Section 53325.7
of the Act, the annual appropriations limit of the
District, as defined by subdivision (h) of Section
8 of Article XHIB of the California Constitution,
is hereby preliminarily established in the amount
of $12,000,000 per fiscal year, and said annual
appropriations limit shall be submitted to the vot-
ers of the District as hereafter provided. The prop-
osition establishing said appropriations limit shall
become effective if approved by the qualified
electors voting thereon and shall be adjusted in
accordance with the applicable provisions of Sec-
tion 53325.7 of the Act.

§dction 15. The Board hereby calls an election
and submits the question of levying the special
tax, and the establishment of the annual appro-
priations limit for the District in connection
therewith, to the qualified electors within the
District, at an election to be held on Tuesday,
June 5,1990, all in accordance with and subject
to the Act, the terms of which shall be applicable
to such election.

Section 16. The Board hereby further directs
that the election at which the question of levying
the special tax and the establishment of an appro-
priations limit in connection therewith is submit-
ted to the qualified electors within the District
shall be consolidated and shall be combined in
one ballot proposition, all as provided by the Act;
and the Board further directs that notice of the
consolidated election on the combined proposi-
tion of authorizing the levy of the special tax and
of establishing an appropriations limit be pub-
lished as required by law.

Section 17. If two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast
upon the question of levying the special tax arc
cast in favor of levying the tax, as determined by
this Board after the canvass of the returns of such

consolidated election, the Board may levy the
special tax within the territory of the District in
the amount and for the purposes as specified in
this resolution. The special tax may be levied
only at the rate and may be apportioned only in
the manner specified in this resolution, subject to
the Act, except that the special tax may be levied
at a lower rate.

Section 18. The Clerk of this Board is hereby
authorized and directed to transmit a certified
copy of this resolution, a certified map of the
boundaries of the Community Facilities District,
a sufficient description to allow the election offi-
cial to determine the boundaries of the District,
and the assessor’s parcel numbers for the land
within the District to the Registrar of Voters of
the City and County of San Francisco within
three business days after the adoption of this
resolution.

ADOPTED, SIGNED AND APPROVED this
13th day of February, 1990.

President of the Board of Education of the San
Francisco Unified School District
ATTEST:

Clerk of the Board of Education of the San
Francisco Unified School District
Recommended by:

Ramon C. Cortines
Superintendent of Schools

EXHIBIT A
RATE AND METHOD OF APPORTION-
MENT BASIS OF SPECIAL TAX LEVY
The annual special tax shall be levied on each
separate parcel within Community Facilities Dis-
trict No. 90-1, San Francisco Unified School
District, San Francisco County, California
("CFD 90-1”) as shown on the San Francisco
County Assessor’s records, subject to the maxi-
mum rates specified below, as established by the
Board of Education ("Board”) of the San Fran-
cisco Unified School District ("District”).
DETERMINATION OF PARCELS SUBJECT
TO SPECIAL TAX
The records of the County Assessor of San
Francisco County shall be used to determine the
parcels subject to the special tax. The basis for
determining the parcels will be the Secured Prop-
erty Tax Roll. The land use code contained in the
Secured Property Tax Roll, in combination with
records maintained by the Assessor of the num-
ber of dwelling units on each residential parcel in
CFD 90-1, will be the basis for assigning the
appropriate tax rate to each parcel. If the District
determines that the records maintained by the
Assessor are incorrect with respect to one or more
parcels, the District will assign the appropriate
land use code and dwelling unit count based on
its review of the propeny. All special taxes shall
be based on parcels established in the CoUnty
Assessor’s records as of March 1 of each year and
all land use categories shall be based on building
permits and other relevant development approv-
als granted by the City and County of San Fran-
cisco or any successor jurisdiction as of June 1
of each year.

Using the records of the County Assessor, the
District shall prepare a list of the parcels subject

to the tax. The District shall establish the parcels
subject to the tax using the procedure described
below.

1.	Exclude all parcels which are of March 1 of
the prior fiscal year vacant; owned by federal,
state, and local governments and public agencies
and utilities and are used for public puipose; or
which, supported publicly-owned and non-profit
hospitals, cemeteries, or buildings used exclu-
sively for religious worship, provided that lease-
hold/possessory interests shall be taxed.

2.	From the parcels remaining identity the
following groups of parcels based upon asses-
sor’s data, and the District’s review of building
permits issued, and other changes in develop-
ment status:

a.	Single Family Residential Parcels: Parcels
containing one dwelling unit and no other uses

b.	Mixed Use Parcels: Parcels with one or
more residential units in addition to one or more
commercial uses

c.	Multi-Family Residential Parcels: Parcds
with two or more residential units and no other
uses

d.	Non-Residential Parcels: Parcels with no
residential units, including transient residential
units such as hotels.

Parcels which have been granted a building
permit for one or more residential units in addi-
tion to or in place of the uses presently existing
on that parcel will be classified based on the uses
that will exist after the permit has been exercised.

The District shall make every effort to cor-
rectly determine the parcels subject to the tax. It
shall be the burden of the taxpayer to correct any
errors in the determination of the parcels subject
to the tax and their classifications.

MAXIMUM ANNUAL SPECIAL TAX

The maximum annual tax on parcels in CFD
90-1 shall be the rates below for the first six
years:

1.	Single Family Residential Parcels andNon-
Rcsidential Parcels shall pay $46.00 per parcel.

2.	Mixed Use Parcels and Multi-Family Resi-
dential Parcels shall pay $23.00 per dwelling
unit.

The maximum annual tax on parcels in CFD
90-1 shall be the rates below for the fourteen
years following the sixth year:

1.	Single Family Residential Parcels and Non-
Rcsidcntial Parcels shall pay $32.20 per parcel.

2.	Mixed Use Parcels and Multi-Family Resi-
dential Parcels shall pay $16.10 per dwelling
unit.

For Mixed Use Parcels and Multi-Family Res-
idential Parcels, the District shall calculate the
annual tax for each parcel in CFD 90-1 by mul-
tiplying the applicable special tax rate times the
number of dwelling units. The District shall no-
tify the appropriate county official of the annual
special tax for each parcel.

The special tax shall be collected in CFD 90-1
for twenty years.

Hie District shall make every effort to cor-
rectly assign the tax rate and calculate the annual
tax liability for each parcel. It shall be the burden
of die taxpayer to correct any errors in the deter-

(Continued on next page)

48

TEXT OF PROPOSITION B (Continued)

miiudonof the parcels subject to the tax and their
special tax assignments.

SENIOR CITIZEN EXEMPTION

A properly owner may apply for a Senior Cit-
izen Exemption which would provide an exemp-
tion from the special tax for the applicable tax
year on dwelling units occupied by senior citi-
zens, if the following conditions are met:

1.	The applicant must show evidence that the
dwelling unit is owned or rented by a citizen who
is at least 65 years of age.

2.	The applicant must show evidence of own-
ership of the property subject to the Exemption.

3.	The Senior Citizen Exemption must be ap-
plied for annually.

4.	If the applicant is a landlord, then he or she
must cenify that the entire tax exemption will be
reflected only in the rent for the exempted dwell-
ing unit(s).

EXHIBIT B

COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICTNO.

90-1 — Description of Facilities to be financed:
(i) Repair, restoration, and/or replacement of
District facilities damaged by the earthquake of
October 17,1989 (or its aftershocks), to the ex-
tent that (A) such repair, restoration, or replace-
ment is outside the scope of work approved by
federal and state agencies for assistance from
such agencies; (B) costs incurred in such repair,
restoration, or replacement are ineligible for fed-
eral or state assistance; or (C) insufficient federal
or state funds are appropriated, obligated, or ap-
proved to pay for repair, restoration, or replace-
ment which would otherwise be eligible for
federal or state assistance. Pending receipt by the
District of disaster assistance from federal and/or
state agencies, the Community Facilities District
may advance funds to the District to pay costs
eligible for federal or state disaster assistance;
provided that upon receipt by the District of
federal or state disaster assistance relating to such
costs, the District shall promptly reimburse the

Community Facilities District for any such ad-
vances.

(ii)	Seismic upgrading of children's centers
and other District facilities.

(iii)	Correction of ffre safety violations of Dis-
trict facilities.

(iv)	Deferred capital maintenance of District

facilities. Incidental expenses, including the cost
of planning and designing the Facilities and the
cost of environmental evaluations thereof; all
costs associated with the creation of the proposed
Community Facilities District, the determination
of the amount of and collection of taxes, the
payment of taxes, and costs otherwise inclined
in order to carry out the authorized purposes of
the Community Facilities District; and any other
expenses incidental to the construction, comple-
tion, and inspection of the Facilities and permit-
ted under the Act.	□



I:

49