<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
ANTI-CRIME AUTHORITY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
LASSEN COUNTY MEASURE E

A “YES" Vote on Measure “E” will approve the imposition of a local
transactions and use tax at the rate of one-half percent of the sales price of
taxable personal property, within the incorporated and unincorporated areas
of Lassen County for a period of five years beginning April 1, 1991, by the
Lassen County Anti-Crime Authority. Revenues generated by the tax could be
expended only for purposes of law enforcement, as determined each year by
the Authority, which is governed by a five member board comprised of the
Lassen County Sheriff, the District Attorney, the Susanville Chief of Police,
the Mayor of Susanville, and the County Superintendent of Schools. Alloca-
tions by the Authority would constitute a funding floor for existing law
enforcement agencies within the County for the duration of the tax The State
would collect the transactions and use tax for the Authority in the same
manner as sales and use taxes are now collected by the state. The State will
deduct the cost of administering the tax from the funds collected, and will
remit the balance thereof to the County Treasurer for the purposes of the
Authority.

A “NO” vote on Measure “E” will disapprove the imposition of the
transactions and use tax. <impartialend>








<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

The Anti-Crime Authority has been established by the Lassen County Board of
Supervisors. This Authority has asked for an assessment of one-half cent sale
tax to be placed on the November, 1990 ballot to provide additional revenue
to fund law enforcement in Lassen County.

The Anti-Crime Authority is a Board consisting of the Susanville Mayor, and
Police Chief, Superintendent of Schools, the District Attorney, and Sheriff and
will have the exclusive right to determine how the money will be spent.

The county is out-growing it's law enforcement service. In the Sheriff’s
Department, there have been five personnel cut from the 1990-91 Budget.
This includes four of the seventeen patrol deputies. Increased patrol and
investigative services are needed in the Susanville Police'Department, and the
District Attorney’s Office is in need of an Assistant District Attorney, and
Investigator in order to continue to prosecute criminal charges.

A Sales Tax, facilitates everyone paying a fair share. It does not rely on
Property Owners to pay the full amount. Any person buying taxable products
would pay a portion of this tax, whether the purchaser was a resident of the
community, or were passing through.

This appears to be the fairest disbursement of the tax, in that, every person
potentially in need of law enforcement service, or creating a law enforcement
problem, would pay a fair share. As an example, a family that was spending
ten thousand dollars a year annually on taxable goods would be contributing
approximately fifty dollars a year towards law enforcement or $4.17 a month.
Law enforcement is an essential service. Current government financing in
California is insufficient to support a strong law enforcement program, and
we are sincerely requesting that you give this Measure full consideration, and
hopefully support our request for this sales tax. <favorend>








<favorsigs> s/ John McCann, Mayor
City of Susanville
s/ Ronald D. Jarrell, Sheriff
Lassen Co. Sheriff’s Dept,
s/ Marcus Murphy, Chief
Susanville Police Department
s/ Mark Nareau, D.A. Elect
Lassen County
s/ William Gillaspie,

Lassen County
Superintendent of Schools <favorsigsend>








NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

