This shows the text of Measure T official ballot that

was approved by a majority of Cupertino voters at the
General Election of November 6. 1990.

CITY OF CUPERTINO MEASURES

Shall Ordinance No. 1534 of the City of Cupertino, adopted by
the City Council of the City of Cupertino on August 9,1990, be
approved in order to authorize 1) the acquisition and
preservation of Blackberry Farm as open space, the acquisition and
preservation of other open space land within the City and the construction of
public recreation facilities consistent with the preservation and public use of
the open space, and 2) the imposition of an electric, gas and teleptlone
utility users excise Tax at rates of not to exceed two and forty hundredths
percent (2.40 %) of the monthly bills for said ulility services (subject to an
exemption for senior citizens), for a period of not to exceed twenty-five (25)
years, provided that the City Council has taken the initial legal action
necessary to assure the completion of the acquisition and preservation of
certain municipal facilities, constituting open space facilities, generally

described in the Ordinance?

4TA CLARA
SCR a, 1*90

*	YES 236-
I HO 237'

° YES 239'

*	NO 240'

*	YES 242-

NO 243'

» YES 251 -►
* NO 252

YES 288'
NO 2H'

11

OFFICIAL BALLOT
GENERAL ELECTION



COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA
______NOVEMBER	9.1990

uttlwcT measures

DlitiAtry Vo— Only

Snail tha Santa Clara County Tranalt District oontlnua to provide transit
•arvioaa os daeertoed In me official Short Rang# Transit Flan (1091-
1990) and other planning dooumenta, Including but not limited to ponatlsuort vec 4in
of me Guadalupe corridor tght raU tins, a potential BART oamaedon, tha '**
Tasman and Vdaona Nfit ra» »naa. hnpfovamanla and extension to bmCsITraln un ML
,tlna. and Improvements to ms currant bus system, bikeways, and paratransit

VOTING FOR THIS MEASURE DOES NOT INCREASE TAXES.

F Shan tha following t

“ ThepeopteofbmSantaCtoraGountyTranaKDtotilctordainaBfobowB:

Tha ordlnanoa adopted by Hie people of tie Santa Clara Count? Tranalt Dtetotet	__

on March 2, 19TS (Meaaure 8> shaM be amandad to read as loltows:	YES	2681

It shad be tha pokey of the Santa Clara County Transit District to submit to ■ --

tha voters every atx yearn, to ootnotde with a general election thereby avoiding NO 269'
espense of a special siacbcrt. a <

CITY OF CUPERTINO MEASURES

TShad Ordinance No. 153* ot 4m Chy ot Cupemno. mfoptod by" me &ty
CounoH of die City of Cupertino on Auouet g, 1990. be apfitotiad In order
to eutborlxe 1) toe acrytlatocn and pressmabon of Steckbeny Fan
as open space. 9m snmiebnn and praaanration of other open ■
wMhin me City and 9m mnebuebon of putabc racreebun tacMM
wMh the prsesrvetlon and ptdaHc uee ot the open spaoe. and 2)

of an eieeMe. gas and mlaphona nasty users siiclss Tea at rsaae ol not to	_

exceed two and fatly hunttedbm percent <2.40*1 ct 9m monbdy btbe for said YES 275
utMty unless isubfect to an asempbon for senior cHtoene), tor a period of not ———-
to esceed twertty-bve (2S) years, provided mol bm City Courted has taken the IfO 278 ■
Initial legal aodon neoeeeary to aeeine me comptoeon of the snqulsisnn and
praeervadon of certain municipal f

If PothequadbsdslaoforaofumGMyofCupatbnoapftmuabietoltowmgT
No pereon shed be sliasd to me ofltoe cf Cby Counnbpaieon more
than twice In aucoaasf an. A member of 9m City Comcfl who hae served seven
(7) consecutive yeere or longer on 9m Council shall Mewls a be unquaMed
and Ineligible for ale ebon to, or spposibtmrtf to. such otboa tor a parted of two
(2) - " ---------

YES 279
NO 280

*

MEASURE T

mFtKxwktmx&s*

This measure seeks voter approval for the acquisition and preservation
of the property known as Blackberry Farm for open space, as well as the
acquisition of the Fremont Older Elementary School site and the
construction of public recreation facilities thereon to insure the
preservation of the land as public open space. The cost of these
acquisitions and facilities is estimated to be twenty-five million dollars
which will be financed by the general fund of the city of Cupertino at an
annual oost of approximately 2.3 million dollars per year over a
twenty-five year period.

To augment the general fund of the City of Cupertino, this measure also
seeks voter approval for the imposition of an electric, gas, and telephone
utility user excise tax at a rate not to exceed 2.40% of the monthly bills
for said utility services. The prooeeds of the proposed tax will be
deposited into the general fund of the City of Cupertino, but will not be
levied until the City Council has canmenced the initial legal action
necessary to insure the acquisition and preservation of Blackberry Farm or
other cpen-spaoe areas within the City of Cupertino.

Exempted from the tax are residential service users of sixty-five years or
older, religious organizations, and public agencies.

The tax will be automatically repealed twenty-five years after it is first
imposed.

Currently the City of Cupertino has entered into written agreements with
respect to the purchase of Blackberry Farm and the Fremont Older
Elementary School site contingent upon the passage of this measure.

Charles Kllian

City Attorney, City of Cupertino

within the City of Cupertino.

Currently for sale are:

*	Blackberry Farm, the oldest and largest open space recreational
site (33 acres) within the City.

*	Fremont Older Elementary School site (11.8 acres).

Unless the City of Cupertino purchases these last remaining large parcels'
of open space both will be lost forever.

Your YES vote on Measure T will generate the funds needed to acquire these
two sites, thereby insuring tha preservation of recreational open space
within Cupertino. Loss of these sites will inevitably lead to their
subsequent development.

lha average cost per hone is estimated to be $2.50 per month, and would be -
added to utility bills. Businesses will also be proportionately taxed.
Revenues generated from the continuing operation of Blackberry Farm and
the subleasing of the Blue fheasant Restaurant will be applied to property
payments. lha utility tax will terminate in 25 years, or sooner, if the
properties are paid off earlier.

Senior households (age 65) are exempt trcm this measure.

Measure T has been endorsed unanimously by the City Council. It also has
support of cccnnunity and business leaders, environmentalists, and civic
and sports organizations. Protecting Blackberry Farm will preserve both
the rich heritage of the city and this valuable recreational open space.
Acquiring the Fremont Older Elementary School site will allow this space
to be used as a much needed family park and youth sports facility.

Measure T is cur only opportunity to make this vital investment in the
quality	of life	for	current and future generations of Cupertino

residents. Vote YES on Measure T.

City of Cupertir>5"

Allen Bidwell, President
Cupertino Chamber of Ocranerce

CM

^Marc D.Cm66&k, I President
Cupertino National Little League



Foundation Endowment

Terry Brgfai

Terry Brown Construction Company

Inc.

1

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT FOR MEASURE T

IT'S A FAKE

Read the fine print. The impartial analyst agrees it will coot
taxpayers at least 57.5 million. Even that won’t satisfy the spenders.
They will want morel

Measure T is dishonest and really promises nothing. It only guarantees
to tax us! It extracts money from residents and businesses in the name
of "open space*. Restaurant? Golf course? Concessions? Developed
areas? All run as businesses? That’s not open space!

The money goes into the general fund. No guarantees, no requirements,
just vague promises! Don’t let $2.50 fool you. Inflation took off the
day after Measure T went on the ballot!

KIDS LOSE OUT

For many years children, parents, and coaches have been crying for team
sport fields. Measure T gives them nothing! Fremont Older School
isn’t mentioned in either Measure T or Ordinance 1534.

The proposed youth fund is being held hostage to passage of Measure T
Cupertino’s ducks get more attention than our children!

IT'S A SCHEME

Cupertino citizens are asked to pay twice for Blackberry Farm: once for
admissions and once for taxes! Non-residents only pay when they go.

Local governments manage to operate police and fire	^	’

libraries, and parks. But when they stray into new	li^

recreational businesses, we taxpayers better guard our w
racket club is a loser. Even the city admits that. One los^.r is r
than enough! Let’s not subsidize another!

Join in the Cupertino T Party!
Help dump T overboard!

Vote NO on T!

The undersigned authors of the rebuttal argument against M	Santa

the General Flection to be held on Tuesday, November 6, 1	\ ,

Clara County. hereov state that such argument is true and correct. tc
th# best of tlj^eir knowl^£)lge and belief.

Da



Lou is L . 'De Lu
£pito E

Businessman, Kiwanis member
o^.c______________ Date

tpnro B._Rafalovicb.

/on Petersen

Former President, Cupertino Chamber of Commerce

Date

CApam

Ann M. Anger yl f Chair]

JA „///A	o

Treasurer, Citizens Against Wasteful Spending

Date	\Ad__

;st Val'l ey'Legi s lat i’

■person, Wei

ve Committee

ivid A. Peters

Date

Businessman, Kiwanis Member

Additional Signers:

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT FOR MEASURE T



Date

iJJ y^xebner	Si

Donald A. Frolich

Secretary, Citizens Agaiifst Wasteful Spending
Date

Former Cupertino Mayor and Councilman

-•fr.,■=£, 4

Nick J. Lafzaneo <y For

Date

:ormer Cupertino Mayo
^____________________ Date

ar and Councilman

^.lvin R. Carter

Retired Cupertino Pos

&/><>/$&.

stmaster

'MdJX

Date

Loca J Veterinarian

PROPOSED BALLOT ARGUMENT AGAINST CUPERTINO CITY MEASURE T

Readirg Measure T, would you ever suspect'that Ordinance 1534 says "The
purpose	-	is to impose a utility users excise tax .. ♦ to pay the

usual and ourrent expenses ... of the City ...?" Acquisition and
preservation costs for Blackberry Farm and other park land are hardly
"usual and current expenses!" Vote NO on Measure T!

City officials believe a utility tax passed by a simple majority can be
laundered through the general fund for a project otherwise requiring
two-thirds approval. This subversion of Proposition 13 will be tested
in the courts should the measure pass, but we can stop this flagrant
bypass attempt now I Vote NO on Measure T!

They say it is a small tax. But it is still a tax. It is difficult to
recall a time when a government body reduced its revenue base, and the
city is certainly not trying to do that now. We already have too many
"minor costs", such as cable TV franchise fees and FCC-imposed network
access charges. Let's not add another) Vote NO on Measure Tt

If a utility tax is ever imposed, shouldn't it be used for something
related to gas, electricity, or telephones? Why pay for park land with
it? What do utility services have in common with baseball diamonds and
picnic areas? Not much! Vote NO oh Measure T!

The undersigned authors of the primary argument against ballot Measure
T at the General Election to be held on Tuesday, November 6,	1990 in

Santa Clara County, hereby state that such argument is true and correct
to th	md	belief.

Signer

Signe

Signe

rtarian Party of Santa Clara County

Date

Date

Date

&/(-}/? o

9lUrf*

Rod Otto

Owner. Rod Otto Menswear

^	MHOUMGMT	AGO	3	mst measure t 1	'	'	'■	j

''S*.	,

Votv- NO vtm Massure T. Don't give	jm«i*NMPt>lipendil

«pr*». We- doirt1t r>«#d to financ* a Bay Ar»« playgrtfnjnd *n Cu|M^>j(*o.
should wt ba taxai for thw banafit of othar communitiat ?	^	• *.... :>;&&.

*R ’’V*( ir v/ ?	-*$3

Meaaura T is axtravagant. Tha Council spent *7.9 Million^foi^^agdtfi
rac)*at club on the most expensive street in town. They spant-*,a^r%pjyeh ,t<
they even considered curtailing ordinary city services to balance the budget^

,»	,	*■	'	*••;.' *rftiRt£tikiC3

.« btanou

Cupertino has IBS acres of city parks, and is adjacent^to^^h£9^avM4s
acres of open sp<-oe and regional parks, Much wore than most
cities. Blackberry Fare should be a county, not a city project*

WE ALREADY VOTED NO v ,v.,

t, i «< ?■**"• <*3

We rejected a *30 billion recreation bond. Measure X*Woa lt|
returned as a utility tax. A blank check utility tax opens the ddot4:
increases without e vote.

r

m-

■K .

' ^

p.

JiVr-

te:

.\t*. •

kV'

h*-

Ik-'.

:'V-
<' '■

;*t»; Mai
•f h iiwsG • SK

Hat the elt y n. wantmj

purchase that same school land, TAXING U9 AGAIN - TWICE*

We are still paying for 30 year acbool bonds.

Tutre

. y;V

Why should we increase city taxes when state and federal tax*
to skyrocket ?	.« (yU3) non*** v,

.?::	t	-Jt

THE HIDDEN TAX	ont*3**ft*

Cupertino homeowners who build a new house orumoke W
assessed a parks fee of *15, 750. Did they askt,y#t| tjpvvpte^y^^tji

* 1WSE A3 orti

Increased costs impact all consumers, especially saniere* M

~t*» $ *-» a CT,: • ■*h£' t*.

Don** Increase taxes on Cupertino businesses* Don*
increase unemployment*'	»

Midpeninsula Regional Open Space District uses toyf {tApj
open space for *3, SOS per acre. Copertino mill spend*4}

Vote NO cm Measure T end stop this land eoqulsitIqh$;pr ogjflpmliffij
control.





OW»»!S

CHANOE CITY WIIORXTJJM^.,,,iH

*ioe«? no -

Improve existing parks. Laaee school grounds* Opgradeplaying%^
Provide supervision for our young paopla*

Elly Werner, Secrete
CITIZENS AGAINST WAS

NO on measure T*

■xcaJ



*7*

art ino Mavor, andkwvne

Donald A*

SPENDING Former Cupertii

Nick J- Lazsneo	Alvin R. Carter	__

Former Cupertino Mayor and Counci lean Rat I red Copmr^tno Postmaster



Dr. Joe B
Local Veter^ijj^ri^n

The above signed authors of the primary argument against
ballot Measure T at the General Election to be held on Tuesday,
November &,	1990	in	9anta	Clara	County,	hereby	state	that	such

argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and
belief.









CjTftSSE^iix

Cup*rt ino 94014

\ '*■ !'v
JoMrph F. B^own ■
■..’■r?l'i'209fl5 P^ppiM*’ Tree Lane
CupertimJCfi 95014

Olvir* R. Carter
° 31470 Vai Av»
r)€<ipertlb6 CA 95014

Donald A, Fi^ol ich
* "' * SSS76 ' Martian ' Or* *

fm 98914 •*



•jtr o ■•i.'wS

v-tiv ■.■*	$;'$*

Nlek J, LezafMro
10138 South Blaney Aver
Cupertino CA 95914

fC,~< i-	.M	\’o	*(..a	'•.

n-rfi AmKjo k» # y i i ■' i fn

o;j ,y	'«»»*'»	Wi’	*	.	■'	'■	i	o«.j*v.h?

i i:

'4 11 OVi

• i '<** *	"* il {s A vJ '1‘S I V ;'

fl'i» *MSX»-. J- £«V'v*lJ> 'M'TB Ujft.t,’ -.‘t'H'IVi r'Zl -,s i4 '	^

Eleanor (Elly> M* Wernei*

89976 L.« Rode Cfc

Cupertino 94A1-4	r4 ■	^	?* sinr

''■■!-■' y- ’LiO ^ o t*tr*V31£''

■ '>:L-! 'J

;.. yy':’4^

:' ■’* , -	>	V^'v

oU ■

- "*-> ** s«. b-a.-v-'u ♦

m-‘. l'- ..• . I / ; ;r,r
:•;«?««o e	<h» rt *.. -0*

■ ^ v>>- r *»v4 fv rwortn .

**?*{?*7e>ilMpHLP*tf ’Ot*OUH^ rnoort wor* ft	ortw	r'twwiMwori	off	i90«q«*&H>4gpg

ret'.	hi	a	,ftl*	'to	*><-«»*;	*	bwaWetkei

Cupertino CA 90914 •	•;$i^Lr

■ •p-foltm* •<££#«ionqftiw^ycito?, £Xr.	eJ/vro.	b-!*«	fto-t^nC

| .	Alvin A* Cartel"	.-‘£#4*

i *914PO'"lMt‘l*1iK) J ‘rm^	.j-ttwMniJiutS <w ««»**$ * t* i 7 rn*C	/>w|j

Cup»r*im» CA 98914	v>e**r<*#’

PVS&llUAt ***»»■’ *'■' * ■» *H *' ■■ 'v-'<*,,':
"**&¥& ^ £ *>trv*,r
H;*:eupM^in^C9a969r4>

1 '■'„.,f^\.;

v-.	I	*sr?o	t	p	'jtf-	n	f	sit:& l.n'e^biH.'

*r •.» -«r«v}	,K*	-sot

i ^	«i	Jp ;>■.'* '*	'r?-.£3M;|i^

■' ■ '* '

■■

Nick J. Laxaneo	vr.	....	^

1M38 Seulh Blmy-IW1 >:r' '-1" ■■' '"■■■'	,-C'-.V.f^

Cupertino CA 98914

o«ix«w»	.^o	s	r-°'"::;.:':;r	'. .-’ •■■'•'■

4	*'P/	‘"	'	"	V	•':"	-;.^5

• .■. ‘^-.v

r"e-»rr~>^U

sr.-,- i fiv-xif*'\j»ri^3TGAW TSV57(V^

/ .,..:C,	'	oemfcia*i:

,■,,>>• : '!au.-; .r; bon -tov**^ o« i	- ——~^*ria

'.	’	•••	*,	.'c..&Srflc

v ' ' '	. v* rworrfS 'eiot*/>fw;^|



..V:

p>	!%	f	•,

HV1

t’• s>Iiwvi>3 t>V»i 'Vr:'y i1,''1 ■ .v j i■ -i*.*>■ i;>T;	•*M''r-”

> .j Vj, ■	/	\	.’	a	'.	•

••lO 5	J-'d*');	'

« »'

fV't."
'.M-1,.

(•- » u
t; ;-,r,	•

i ,*sr*‘ & o .{#«.?.
;vr. '•'■■»• .£ wny: vi

•w! 1

-% i nj

Sri. O'**.'.'. £ !. :rl	*i.	•’li'vT

• -••'i*"i?3 0»LT dft '	$ul	1*0	. i

ti	m	IdtrC*	«kj	’wiiri’ioe	*	s^vv

•■*;o.? tM*#»	«i	3-Ptonui	fi'.

. 4 n if *. -“irtl : ■'.

;fi;.

September 4, 1990

Dorothy Cornelius
City Clerks City of Cupertino
10300 Torre Avenue
Cupertino, CA 95014

Re:	Measure.	"T."	Ballot	Opposition

Dear Ms. Cornelius:

The undersigned was a signer of the ballot argument opposing
Measure ”TM on the November 6, 1990, Cupertino ballot.

After reviewing the statements included in that ballot
argument and checking the facts, I believe that there are false
or misleading statements therein.

Among other things, I have noted the following matters which
I now believe are either false or misleading:

Paragraph 1 -
Paragraph 4 -

Paragraph 7 -

Paragraph 10-

X do not believe that the sum of $63 Million
is or will be involved.

X do not believe that this is a blank check
utility tax which opens the door to increases
without a vote.

I	do not believe that homeowners who make
major changes in their home are assessed a
parks fee of $15,750.00.

I do not believe that Cupertino will spend
$1,300,000.00 per acre for the lands involved
in this program.

I, therefore, wish to withdraw my name from the ballot
argument and I request that you take whatever steps are
necessary to have my name withdrawn from all election materials.

Yours very truly,

Donald A. Frolich

DAF/csc

REBUTTAL to argument against measure t

Vote YES cm Measure T.

The opponents of this measure would rather sacrifice Blackberry Farm to development than
pay 80 a day to preserve it for open space. Purchase by the City is the only alternative to
prevent more traffic congestion and density.

Don’t believe the "high taxes" rhetoric of the opponents. In 1989, Cupertino property
taxes were actually reduced when Memorial Park and City Hall bonds were retired early.
Even with the passage of Measure T, the total City taxes paid by the average homeowner
will remain the lowest in the County.

The opponents argue that Measure T will hurt business, but would the Chamber of
Commerce have endorsed it if that were true? In fact, corporations and businesses support
Measure T, along with environmental advocates, youth sports organizations and the City
Council.

Why do these groups support the passage of Measure T? Because preserving open space,
saving our City's heritage and preventing additional traffic congestion and density make
sense for Cupertino. A utility tax that is lower than that of many neighboring cities is the
most equitable way to save Blackberry Farm and the Fremont Older Elementary School site
forever. And remember ~ seniors (age 65) are exempt from this tax.

The alternative to Measure T is the loss of Blackberry Farm to development and more
traffic on our streets.

City of Cupertino

ORDINANCE 1534

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CM COUNCIL OF IKE CITY OF CUPERTINO
PROPOSING THE IMPOSITION OF A UTILITY USERS EXCISE TAX
AND ORDERING THE SUBMISSION OF A PROPOSITION THEREFOR
TO THE ELECTORATE OF THE CITY

Sections:	
3.34.010	Definitions
3.34.020	Exemptions
3.34.030	Telephone Users Tax
3.34.040	Electricity Users Tax
3.34.050	Gas Users Tax
3.34.060	Services Users Receiving Gas or Electricity Directly
3.34.070	Penalties
3.34.080	Actions to Collect
3.34.090	Duty to Collect - Procedures
3.34.100	Additional Power and Duties of Tax Administrator
3.34.110	Assessment * Administrative Remedy
3.34.120	Records
3.34.130	Refunds
3.34.140	Rules of Construction
3.34.150	Benefit to All Persons
3.34.160	Duration
3.34.170	Disposition of Proceeds
3.34.180	General Fund lease
3.34.190	Power in Addition
3.34.200	Ordinance Controlling
3.34.210	Liberal Construction
3.34.220	Defect or emission. Validity of Proceedings or Taxes
3.34.230	Limitation of Actions
3.34.240	Severability

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CUPERTINO DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

The purpose of this Ordinance is to iirpose a utility users excise tax
as a revenue measure necessary to pay the usual and current expenses of
conducting the municipal government of the City, the proceeds of which
shall be paid into the general fund of the City. This Ordinance shall be
known and may be cited as the "Utility Users Excise Tax Ordinance".

'*> #*

3.34.010 Definitions. Except where the context otherwise requires,
the definitions set forth in this section govern the construction of this
Ordinance.

"citv11 means the City of Ctpertino.

"facilities11 means the municipal facilities generally including
Blackberry Farm, other open space land within the City and the public
recreational facilities consistent with the preservation and public use of
open space. Facilities shall be deemed available and susceptible of use
within the maaning of the term "availability and privilege of use", as
used in this Ordinance, when such facilities exist and are available for
use during any portion of the fiscal year next preceding the levy of the
Tax.

"Gas" includes natural gas and any other gas used far light, heat and
power.

l(Month» means a calendar month.

♦Non-util itv supplier11 means a Service Supplier, other than (a) a gas
corporation or (b) an electrical corporation serving within the City,
which generates electrical energy in capacities of at least 100 kilowatts
monthly for sale to others.

"Persons" means any domestic or foreign corporation, firm, association
syndicate, joint stock company, partnership of any kind, joint venture,
club, Massachusetts business or common law trust, society, or individual.

"Tax11 means the utility users excise Tax proposed to be imposed by
this ordinance, more particularly described in Sections 3.34.030, 3.34.040
and 3.34.050 of this Ordinance.

"Tax Administrator" means the City Treasurer.

"Telephone Corporation." "electrical_________corporation." and "gas

corporation." have the same meanings as defined in sections 234, 218, 222
and 215.5, respectively, of the California Public Utilities Code (as said
sections existed on JUne 1, 1989), except that "electrical corporation"
shall also be construed to include any municipality or Person engaged in
the selling or supplying of electrical power to a Service User.

"Service Supplier11 means any entity required to collect or self-inpose
and remit a Tax as inposed by this Ordinance.

-2-

"Service User11 means a Person required to pay a Tax imposed by this
Ordinance.

3.34.020. Exemptions.

(a)	Public bodies, religious organizations and other Persons exempt
under state or federal law shall be exempt from the Tax. Residential
service users of 65 years or older shall be exempt from Tax payments under
this Ordinance upon application to the Tax Administrator, in such manner
and with such proof or qualification as the Tax Administrator shall
determine.

(b)	The City Council may, by order or resolution, establish one or
more classes of Persons or one or more classes of utility service
otherwise subject to payment of a Tax imposed by this ordinance and
provide that such classes of Persons or service shall be exempt, in whole
or in part, tram such Tax.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall prepare a list of the Persons exempt
from the provisions of this Ordinance by virtue of this section and
furnish a copy thereof to each Service Supplier.

3.34.030. Telephone Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a Tax (herein called the "Telephone Users
Tax") on the amounts paid for any intrastate telephone services by every
Person in the City other than a Telephone Corporation, using such
services. The Tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two and
forty hundredths percent (2.40%) of the charges made for such services and
shall be paid by the Person paying for such services.

(b)	As used in this section, the term "charges" shall not include
charges for services paid for lay inserting coins in coin-operated
telephones except where such coin-operated service is furnished for a
guaranteed amount, in which event the amounts paid under such guarantee
plus any fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be included in the
base for computing the amount of Tax due; nor shall the term "charges"
include charges for any type of service or equipment furnished by a
service supplied subject to public utility regulations during any period

in which the same oar similar services or equipment are also available for
sale or lease from Persons other than a Service Supplier subject to public
utility regulation; nor shall the words "telephone ocnmamication services"
include land mobile services or maritime mobile services as defined in
Section 2.1 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations as said section
existed an January 1/ 1970. The term "telephone oaanunication services"
refers to that service which provides access to a telephone system and the
privilege of telephone quality ccnrnunication with substantially all
Persons having telephone stations which are part of such telephone
system. The Telephone Users Tax is intended to, and does, apply to all
charges billed to a telephone account having a situs in the City,
irrespective of whether a particular canmunicatian service originates
and/or terminates within the City.

(c)	The Telephone Users Tax shall be collected from the Service User
by the Person providing the intrastate telephone ccnrnunication services,
or the Person receiving payment for such services. The amount of Tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on
or before the last day of the following month; or, at the option of the
Person required to collect and remit the Tax, an estimated amount of Tax
collected, measured by the Tax bill in the previous month, shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of each month.

(d)	Notwithstanding the previsions of subsection (a), the Telephone
Users Tax shall not be imposed upon any Person for using intrastate
telephone communication services to the extent that the amounts paid for
such services are exempt fran or not subject to the Tax imposed under Part
20 (commencing with section 41001) of Division 2 of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code, or the Tax imposed under section 4251 of the Internal
Revenue Code.

3.34.040. agctrfcltyjgere .lax.

(a)	Thera is hereby imposed a Tax (herein called the "Electricity
Users Tax") upon every Person in the City other than an Electrical
Corporation using electrical energy in the City. The Tax imposed by this
section shall be at the rate of two and forty hundredths percent (2.40%)
of the charges made far such energy by an electrical corporation
franchised to service the City and shall be billed to and paid by the
Person using the energy. If the charges made far such energy by the
franchised electrical corporation are negotiated either (1) an the basis
that the Service User has provided its own transmission

voltage reduction facilities or (2) as individualized negotiated
co-generation avoidance transmission voltage rates, and the resulting
negotiated rates are not available to the city, such negotiated rates
shall be made available to the City by the Service User.

The Tax applicable to electrical energy provided by a non-utility
supplier shall be based an the above Tax rate and the charges made for
such electrical energy if there is an arms-length transaction for the sale
of the electrical energy between the non-utility supplier and the Service
User. If there is not an arms-length sale from a non-utility supplier,
the Tax shall be determined by applying the Tax rate to the equivalent
charges the Service User would have incurred if the energy used had been
provided by the electrical corporation franchised by the City. Rate
schedules for this purpose shall be available from the City. Non-utility
suppliers shall install, maintain and use an appropriate utility-type
metering system which will enable ocnplianoe with this section.

If the electrical energy is generated by the Service User for its own
xose, the Service User shall provide the City with the actual monthly cost
of generating the electrical energy so used and the Electricity Users Tax
shall be based on the above Tax rate applied to said actual cost. Cost
figures supplied by the Service User shall be subject to periodic audit by
the City and appropriate adjustment pursuant thereto.

"Charges," as used in this section, shall include charges made for:
(1) metered energy and (2) minimum charges for service, including customer
charges, service charges, demand charges and all other annual and monthly
charges (other than standby charges), fuel or other cost adjustments,
authorized by the California Public Utilities Gcramissian or the Federal
Energy Regulatory Ccnmission.

(b)	As used in this section, the term "using electrical energy1' shall
not be construed to mean the storage of such energy by a Person in a
battery owned or possessed by such Person for use in an automobile or
other machinery device apart from the premises upon which the energy was
received, provided, however, that the term shall include the receiving of
such energy for the purpose of using it in the charging of batteries; nor
shall the term include electricity used and consumed by an electric
utility supplier in the conduct of its business; nor shall the term
include the mere receiving of such energy by an electric public utility or
governmental agency at a point within the City for resale; nor shall the

term include the use of such energy in the production or distribution of
water by a public utility or a governmental agency.

(c)	The Electricity Users Tax shall be collected from the Servioe

User by the Service Supplier or non-utility supplier. Hie Electricity
Users Tax on use supplied by self-generation or co-generatian or from a
non-utility supplier not subject to the jurisdiction of this Ordinance,
shall be collected and remitted to the Tax Admini strator in the manner set
forth in Section 3.34.060. The amount of Tax collected by a Service
Supplier or a non-utility supplier in one month shall be remitted by
united States mail to the Tax Administrator, postmarked on or before the
last day of the	following	month; or, at the	option of the Person required

to collect and	remit the	Tax, an	estimated	amount of Tax measured by the

Tax billed in the previous month, shall be remitted by united States mail,
to the Tax Administrator, postmarked on or before the last day of each
month. The amount of the Tax remitted may be estimated by a formula based
upon the payment pattern of the supplier's customers.

(d)	Notwithstanding the provisions of section 3.34.090(a), if the

amount paid by	a Service	User is	less than	the full amount of the energy

charge and Tax	which has	accrued	for the billing period, such amount and

any subsequent payments by a Servioe User shall be applied to the energy
charge first until such charge has been fully satisfied. Ary remaining
balance shall be applied to Taxes due.

3.34.050. Gas Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby inposed a Tax (herein called the "Gas Users Tax")
upon every Person in the City other than a gas corporation or electrical
corporation, using, in the City, gas which is delivered through rains or
pipes or by motor vehicle or by rail. The Gas Users Tax shall be at the
rate of two and forty hundredths percent (2.40%) of the charges made for
the gas and shall be billed to and paid by the Person using the gas. If
the charges made for such gas by the franchised gas corporation are
negotiated and the resulting negotiated rates are not available to the
City, such negotiated rates shall be made available to the City by the
Service User.

The Tax applicable to gas or gas transportation provided by
non-utility suppliers shall be based on the charges made for such gas or
gas transportation if that is derived from an arms-length transaction

-6—

ORDINANCE NO. 1534

between a non-utility supplier and the Service User. If there is not an
anns-length sale, the Tax shall be determined by applying the Tax rate to
the equivalent charges the Service User would have incurred if the gas or
gas transportation had been provided by the gas corporation franchised by
the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from the
City.

"Charges" as used in this section shall include: (1) those billed for
gas which is delivered through rains or pipes or by motor vehicle or by
rail; (2) gas transportations charges, and (3) demand charges, service
charges, customer charges, minimum charges, annual and monthly charges,
and any other charges (other than standby charges) authorized by the
California Public utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission.

(b)	The Gas Users Tax is not applicable to: (1) charges made for gas
which is to be resold and delivered through mains and pipes or by motor
vehicle or by rail; (2) charges made for gas sold by a public utility,
non-utility supplier or governmental agency far vise in the generation of
electrical energy or for the production or distribution of water; (3)
charges made by a gas public utility or gas used and consumed in the
course of its public utility business; and (4) charges made for gas used
in the propulsion of a motor vehicle, as authorized in the Vehicle Code of
the State of California;

(c)	The Gas Users Tax shall be collected from the Service User by the
Person selling or transporting the gas. In the case of purchase of gas
from a non-utility supplier, or a gas corporation not franchised by the
City, the Service User will be responsible for remitting the applicable
Gas Users Tax directly to the Tax Administrator. A Person selling only
transportation services to a user far delivery of gas through mains or
pipes or by motor vehicle or by rail shall oollect the Tax from the
Service User based on the transportation charges. Except as provided
above, the Person selling or transporting the gas shall, an or before the
20th of each calendar month, commencing on the 20th day of the calendar
month after the effective day of this Ordinance, make a return to the Tax
Administrator stating the amount of Taxes billed during the preceding
calendar month. At the time such returns are filed, the Person selling or
transporting the gas shall remit Tax payments to the Tax Administrator in
accordance with schedules established or approved by the Tax
Administrator.

3.34.060. Service UsglT« F^lvira Gas or Electricity Directly.

(a)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Ordinance, a Service
User receiving gas or electric energy directly from a non-utility supplier
not under the jurisdiction of this Ordinance, or using electricity
generated by the Service User for its on use, or otherwise not having the
full Tax due on the use of gas or electric energy in the City directly
billed and collected by the Service Supplier, shall report said fact to
the Tax Administrator within thirty days of said use and shall directly
remit to the City the amount of Tax due.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may require from said Service User the
filed Tax returns or other satisfactory evidence documenting the sale
price and quantity of gas or electric energy used.

3.34.070. Penalties.

(a)	Taxes collected from a Service User which are not remitted to the
Tax Administrator on or before the due dates provided in this ordinance
are delinquent. Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday,
the return may be postmarked on the first regular working day following a
Saturday/Sunday, or legal holiday.

(b)	Penalties for delinquency in remittance of any Tax collected or
any deficiency determination determined by the Tax Administrator, shall
attach and be paid by the Person required to collect and remit at the rate
of fifteen percent (15%) of the total Tax collected or imposed herein.

(c) The Tax Administrator shall have power to impose additional
penalties upon any Person required to collect and remit Taxes under the
provisions of this Ordinance for fraud in reporting or remitting at the
annual rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the Tax collected or
as reoccputed by the Tax Administrator.

(d) Every penalty iaposed under the provisions of this Ordinance
shall become a part of the Tax required to be remitted.

3.34.080. Actions to collect. Any tax required to be paid by a Service
User under the provisions of this Ordinance shall be deemed a debt cwed by
a Service User to the City. Any such Tax collected from a Service User

which has willfully been withheld fran the Tax Administrator shall be
deemed a debt owed to the City by the Person required to collect and
remit. Any Person owing money to the City under the provisions of this
Ordinance shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for
the recovery of such amount.

3.34.090. Duty to Collect - Procedures. Hie duty to collect and remit
the Taxes imposed by this ordinance shall be perforated as follows:

(a)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Ordinance, the Tax
shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and along
with the charges made in accordance with the regular billing practices of
the Service Supplier. Where the amount paid by a Service User to a
Service Supplier is less than the full amount of the utility charge and
Tax which has accrued far the billing period, such amount and ary
subsequent payments by a Service User shall be applied to the utility
charge first until such charge has been fully satisfied. Ary remaining
balance shall be applied to Taxes due. In those cases where a Service
User has' notified the Service Supplier of this refused to pay the Tax
imposed an said utility charges Section 3.34.100(c) will apply.

(b) The duty to collect the Tax frcm a Service User shall commence
with the beginning of the first full regular billing period applicable to
the	Service	User	where all charges	normally	included	in such regular

billing	are	subject to the provisions	of this Ordinance.	Where a Person

receives sere than one billing, one or mare being for different periods
than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing.

3.34.100. Addi-Hnrai power and duties of Tax Administrator.

(a)	The	Tax	Administrator shall	have the	power and duty, and is

hereby directed to enforce each and all of the provisions of this
Ordinance.

(b)	Hie	Tax	Administrator shall	have the	power to	adopt rules and

regulations not inconsistent with provisions of this Ordinance for the
purpose of carrying cut and enforcing the payment, collection and
remittance of the Taxes herein imposed.

A copy of such rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax
Administrator's office.

(c)	Hie Tax Administrator may make administrative agreements to vary
the strict requirements of this Ordinance so that the collection of any
Tax inposed hereby may be made in conformance with the billing procedures

-9-

of a particular Service Supplier so long as said agreements result in
collection of the Tax in conformance with the general purpose and scope of
this Ordinance, A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax
Administrator's office.

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any
Person who asserts a right to exemption from the Tax inposed by this
Ordinance. The Tax Administrator shall provide the Service Supplier with
the name of any Person who the Tax Administrator determines is exenpt from
the Tax imposed hereby, together with the address and account number to
which service is supplied to ary such exenpt Person. The Tax
Administrator shall notify the Service Supplier of termination of ary
Person's right to exemption hereunder, or the change of any address to
which service is supplied to any exempt Person.

3.34.110. Assessment - Admjjiiytpative Remedy.

(a)	The Tax Administrator may make an assessment far Taxes net
remitted by a Person required to remit.

(b)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a Service User has
deliberately withheld the amount of the Tax owed by him from the amounts
remitted to a Person required to collect the Tax, or that a Service User
has refused to pay the amount of Tax to such Person, or whenever the Tax
Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, such Person may
be relieved of the obligation to collect Taxes due under this Ordinance
from certain named Service Users for specified billing periods.

(c)	The Service Supplier shall provide the City with amounts refunded
to be paid and/or unpaid along with the name and addresses of the Service
Users neglecting to pay the Tax imposed under provisions of this
Ordinance. Whenever the Service User has failed to pay the amount of Tax
for a period of two or more billing periods, the Service Supplier shall be
relieved of the obligation to collect Taxes due.

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the Service User that the Tax
Administrator has assumed responsibility to collect the Tax due for the
stated periods and demand payment of such Taxes. The notice shall be
served on the Service User by handing it to such user personally or by
deposit of the notice in the united Sates mail, postage prepared thereon,

to the Service User at the address to which billing was made by
the Person required to collect the Tax; or, should the Service User's

-10-

address change, to the last known address. If a Service User fails to
remit the Tax to the Tax Administrator within fifteen (15) days frcm the
date of the receipt of the notice upon him, which shall be the date of
mailing if service is not accomplished in Person, a penalty of twenty-five
percent (25%) of the amount of the Tax set forth in the notice shall be
imposed, The penalty shall beotme part of the Tax herein required to be
paid.

3.34.120* Records. It shall be the duty of every Person required to
pay or collect and remit to the City any Tax Imposed by this Ordinance to
keep and preserve, for a period of three (3) years, all records as may be
necessary to determine the amount of such Tax far which such Person may
have been liable for the remittance to the Tax Administrator, Which
records the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at all
reasonable times.

3.34.130. Refunds.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any Tax has been overpaid or paid more
than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by
the Tax Administrator under this Ordinance, it may be refunded as provided
in this section.

(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section,
a Service Supplier may claim a refund, or take as credit against Taxes
remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously or
illegally collected or received when it is established that the Service
User frcm when the Tax has been collected did not owe the Tax;provided,
however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the
amount of the Tax so collected has either been refunded to the Service
User or credited to charges subsequently payable by the Service User to
the Person required to collect and remit. A Service Supplier that has
collected any amount of Tax in excess of the amount of Tax imposed by this
ordinance and actually due frcm a Service User, may refund such amount to
the Service User and claim credit far such overpayment against the amount
of Tax which is due upon any other monthly returns provided such credit is
claimed in a return dated no later than three (3) years from the date of
overpayment.

(c)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section
unless the claimant has established the claimant's right thereto by
written records showing entitlement thereto.

■11-

(d)	Nctwithstamding other provisions of this section, whenever a
Service Supplier, pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities
Gcmmissicn or a court of oonpetent jurisdiction, makes a refund to Service
Users of charges for past utility services, the Taxes paid pursuant to
this ordinance on the amount of such refunded charges shall also be
refunded to Service Users, and the Service Supplier shall be entitled to
claim a credit for such refunded Taxes against the amount of Tax which is
due upon the next monthly returns. In the event this Ordinance is
repealed, the amounts of any refundable taxes will be paid by the city.

(e)	A Service Supplier may refund the Taxes collected to the Service
User in accordance with this section or by the Service Supplier's
customary practice.

(f)	A credit or a refund of Tax due shall be granted to any Service
User from whom the Tax is collected to cover the administrative and
clerical expense of establishing and auditing the cost of generating
electric energy for its own use pursuant to the third paragraph of Section
3.34.040(a). Ary such administrative and clerical expense is also subject
to audit and appropriate adjustment pursuant thereto.

3.34.140. Pities of Construction. Words of the masculine gender shall
be deemed and construed to include correlative words of the feminine and
neuter genders. unless the context shall otherwise indicate, words
importing the singular number shall include the plural number and vice
versa.

3.34.150. Benefit to All Person. The City Council has found and
determined and hereby declares that all Parsons using utility services in
the city enjoy the privilege of using and benefit from the providing by
the City, of municipal services and facilities.

3.34.160. Duration. The Tax shall be levied far a maximum of
twenty-five (25) years from the date of its first imposition.

3.34.170. Disposition of Proceeds. This Ordinance is hereby declared
to be a revenue measure for general government purposes; the proceeds of
the Tax shall be paid into the general fund.

3.34.180. General Fund Lease. The Council further proposes to enter
into a lease obligation with a qualified lessor (the "Lessor") whereby the

-12-

City would beocms obligated to pay rental payments to the Lessor from the
general fund of the City over a period of not to exceed twenty-five (25)
years; the lessor would assign its rights to receive rental payments to a
trustee; and the city and the lessor would authorize the trustee to sell
certificates of participation in the rental payments payable fay the City,
the proceeds of which would be used to finance the acquisition,
construction, improvement and equipping of the Facilities.

3.34.190. Power in Addition. The powers conferred fay this Ordinance
are in addition to, and the limitations Inposed fay this Ordinance do not
affect, the powers conferred fay any other law or Ordinance.

3.34.200. Ordinance Controlling. If this Ordinance is inconsistent
with any other law, this Ordinance is controlling.

3.34.210.	Construction.	This Ordinance shall be liberally

construed to prenote its objects.

3.34.220. npfeefr or omjjaajqn. validity of Proceedings or Taxes, if
the jurisdiction of the Council to order the proposed act is not affected,
the defect or omission of any officer in proceedings under this Ordinance
does net invalidate the proceedings or taxes levied under this Ordinance.

3*34.230. Limitation of Actions. The validity of this Ordinance or of
any tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance shall not be contested in any
action or proceeding or defense unless such action or proceeding or
defense shall have been brought or raised within ninety (90) days from the
date of the approval of this Ordinance and the levy of said tax fay the
voters of the City on November 6, 1990. Unless an action or proceeding is
commenced or such defense raised within said period, this Ordinance and
any tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance shall be held valid and in every
respect legal and incontestable.

3.34.240. Severability. If any section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Ordinance or any part hereof
is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance or any
part thereof. The Council declares that it would have passed each
section, subsection, subdivisions, paragraph, sentence, clause or
paragraph thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivision, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases is
declared unconstitutional.

•13-



Call of Election. A special municipal election is hereby called and
ordered to be held in the City on Tuesday, November 6, 1990 at which
election there shall be submitted to qualified voters of the City the
proposition set forth below:

Proposition. The proposition shall appear on the ballot for said
special municipal election in the following form:

"MEASURE _________:	Shall	Ordinance	No.

1534 of the City of Cupertino, adopted by
the City Council of the City of Cupertino on
August 9,	1990,	be approved in order to

authorize 1) the acquisition and
preservation of Blackberry Farm as open
space, the acquisition and preservation of
other open space land within the City and
the construction of public recreation
facilities consistent with the preservation
and public use of the open space, and 2) the
imposition of an electric, gas and telephone
utility users excise Tax at rates of not to
exceed two and forty hundredths percent
(2.40%) of the monthly bills for said
utility services (subject to an exenption
for senior citizens), far a period of not to
exceed twenty-five (25) years, provided that
the City Council has taken the initial legal
action naoessary to assure the completion of
the acquisition and preservation of certain
municipal facilities, constituting open
space facilities, generally described in the
Ordinance?"

The Council does hereby submit to the qualified voters of the City, at
said special municipal election, this Ordinance and the proposition set
forth above.

Estimated Cost. The estimated costs of the acquisition, construction,
improvement and equipping of the Facilities is twenty-five million dollars
($25,000,000).

fiuhm-i flg-i on; Intent. The Council does hereby submit to the qualified
voters of the City, at said special municipal election, this Ordinance and

-14-

the proposition set forth in the Section entitled, "Preposition". The
City proposes to acquire, construct, improve and equip the Facilities, to
levy the excise tax and to enter into a lease obligation with a qualified
lessor and for the objects and puzposes set forth above if a majority of
all qualified voters voting on the proposition set forth above vote in
favor thereof. The rental payments under the lease shall be payable tram
the general fund of the City.

Polls Open. The polls for said election shall be opened at seven
o'clock A.K. of the day of said election and shall remain open
continuously tram said time until eight o'clock P.M. of the same day, when
said polls shall be closed, except as provided in section 14301 of the
California Elections Code.

Consolidation With Statewide General Election. The special municipal
election hereby called for the date hereinbefore specified shall be, and
is hereby, ordered consolidated with the statewide general election to be
held within the City on said date, and within the territory affected by
the consolidation, the election shall be held and conducted, closed,
ballots counted and returned, returns canvassed, and results declared, and
all other proceedings incidental to and connected with the election shall
be regulated and done in accordance with the provisions of law regulating
the statewide general election and specified herein. The Board of
Supervisors of Santa Clara County is hereby requested to order the
consolidation of the special municipal election hereby called with said
statewide general election, and the Board of Supervisors of Santa Clara
County is hereby authorized to canvass the returns of said special
municipal election, and said election shall be held in all respects as if
there were only one election and only one fora of ballot shall be used.
Said Board of Supervisors shall certify the results of the canvass of the
returns of said special municipal election to the Council which shall
thereafter declare the results thereof. The measure submitted by this
Ordinance shall be designated on the ballot by a letter printed an the
left margin of the square containing the description of the measure, as
provided in section 10219 of the California Elections Code.

As If One Election. The elections hereby consolidated shall be held
in all respects as if there were only one election, and only one form of
ballot shall be used.

voting Qualifications.	All Persons qualified to vote at general

municipal elections in the city upon the date of the election herein

-15-

provided far shall be qualified to vote upon the preposition submitted at
said special election.

Ballots. Ballots for the election shall be	provided in the	form	and

in the number provided by	law.	On said ballots,	in addition to any other

printed matter which may be required by law, two voting squares shall be
set off to the right of the proposition submitted at the election, in the
manner provided by law, one having the word "YES” printed before it and
the other having the word "NO" printed before it.

Method of Voting* Each voter to vote far the preposition shall stamp
or write a cross, or indicate lay hole punch or other means, in the blank
space opposite the word	t*YES"	on the ballot	to the right	of	the

proposition; and each voter to vote against the proposition shall stamp or
write a cross, or indicate by hole punch or other means, in the blank
space opposite the word	"NO"	on the ballot	to the right	of	the

proposition.

Article 3. Publication and Effective Date

Publication. This Ordinance shall be published once a day for at
least seven days in a newspaper printed, published and circulated at least
six days a week in the City, or once a week for two weeks in a newspaper
printed, published and circulated less than six days a week in the City.
The first of said publications shall, in either event, be within fifteen
(15) days after the adoption of this Ordinance. The City Clerk is hereby
authorized and directed to make said publications and to transmit, for
receipt no later than August 10, 1990, a certified copy of this Ordinance
to the appropriate officials of Santa Clara County responsible for
preparing the ballots for said election.

Effective Date. This Ordinance shall henons effective immediately
upon its adaption by two-'thirds vote of all the members of the Council.

DUKODUCED act an adjourned regular meeting of the City Council of the
City of Cupertino this 1st day of August, 1990, and ENACTED at an
adjourned regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Cupertino
this 9th day of August . 1990, by the following vote:

-16-

vote  AYES:	of the Cltv Parnell Koppel, Sorensen, Szabo, Rogers
NOES:	None
ABSENT:	Goldman
ABSTAIN:	None
ATTEST:	AFEROVED

/s/ Dorothy Cornelius
City Clerk

/s/ Barbara A. Rogers
Mayor, City of Cupertino

-17-