

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE "T"

. ♦	ORDINANCE	NO,	987

Pursuant to Chapter 23, Article III of the Banning City Code, the City
of Banning imposes a transient occupancy tax upon all persons who rent
rooms in hotels located within the City, The amount of the tax is six
percent (6%) of the rent charged by the operator of the hotel. The
revenue generated by the tax is deposited into the City's general fund to
raise revenue to defray the costs of providing City services.

If approved, Ordinance No. 967 will increase the transient
occupancy tax from six percent (6%) to ten percent (10%) of the rent
charged by the operator of a hotel. The City estimates that the
revenues generated to supplement the City's general fund by this
proposed tax increase will be forty thousand dollars ($40,000) per year.

The above statment is an impartial analysis of Measure "T" (Ordinance
No. 967). If you desire a copy of the ordinance, please call the City
Clerk's office at (714) 922-1200 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to

you-

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "T"

Your YES vote to increase the Transient Occupancy Tax will provide
additional tax revenues to fund city services in Banning. The tax will be
paid for by hotel and motel visitors in Banning with no additional tax
being levied on Banning residents.

Several new motels have been constructed in Banning and
additional motel and hotel rooms will be built in the future. These units
are occupied by visitors to our community. These people place
significant demands on city services and utilize many city facilities.

The additional funds obtained by increasing the Transient Occupancy Tax
from 6% to 10% will be used to supplement the essential public services
these visitors receive, such as police and fire protection, street
maintenance, and park maintenance. In essence, with this additional
tax revenue, the visitors are helping defray the cost of providing these
city services and amenities, from which they derive benefit and
enjoyment during their stay in Banning.

Over 325 cities in California have a Transient Occupancy Tax
(T.O.T.) At 6%, Banning has one of the lowest T.O.T. rates in the
state. Increasing the tax rate up to 10% will bring Banning more in line
with other cities in the area.

The Banning City Council urges you to vote YES on this Transient
Occupancy Tax. It will not mean an additional tax burden on you, the
residents of Banning, but will be paid for by visitors who use our city
facilities and services. It will benefit our community as a whole.

Vote YES to receive additional tax revenues to fund city
services...at no additional cost to you.

By: Barbara H. Sheldon	Roosevelt Williams

Larry Higgins	Terry Holbert

Robert L. Hanson

33-55

Sample Ballot

•SIDE 1

CARD

SIDE 2-

I

OFFICIAL BALLOT

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE
CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 6, 1990

33 9091

VOTE FRONT AND BACK

I HAVE VOTED - HAVE YOU?

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)

L

IN THIS MANNER ONLY:

■]

STATE - MEASURES
SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS!

149

i:

rLS

\i>



150

151

ES

YES

NO

DISTRICT - MEASURE
SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTER

Shall a Riverside County Regional Park and Open
DlrfT Space District he created to preserve,

I IV protect and maintain open space, green belt
areas and wildlile habitat, and to provide and main-
tain horse, hiking and bicycle trails, regional parks
and public recreation facilities, such as playgrounds,
neighborhood parks, senior citizen activity . ,
centers, and youth sports facilities subject to *
the terms and conditions of Resolution No.

90-396 adopted by the Board of Supervisors
of Riverside County on July 31. 1990, and with the
Riverside County Regional Park and Open Space
District, pursuant to Article X.1I1R of the California
( onstiumon, having an annual appropriations limit
of S25.000.000.00'.’

Shall the Riverside County Regional Park and Open

