CITY OF SANTA CRUZ
CONTRACT FOR SHARING OF SALES TAX PROCEEDS
MEASURE F

For the text of the contract and related information, see the contract
and other information printed in this voter’s pamphlet as part of the
election materials for County of Santa Cruz Measure E,

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE CHARTER OF
THE CITY OF SANTA CRUZ
(Full Text of Measures G through P)

The Council of the City of Santa Cruz does hereby submit to the registered,
qualified electors of the City for their adoption or rejection, the following
proposals to amend the Charter of the City of Santa Cruz.

FISCAL IMPACT ANALYSIS BY CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
CITY OF SANTA CRUZ MEASURE F

Ballot Measure F - Sales Tax Sharing Contract

:	This	measure	would	authorize the City of Santa Cruz to contract with the

• County of Santa Cruz for the sharing of sales tax proceeds generated if
j Measure E is approved by the voters of the County of Santa Cruz. Approval of
' this measure is estimated to produce $15 million for the City of Santa Cruz to
i assist in funding earthquake recovery.

s/ John J. Ness
'■!	Director of Finance

;	City of Santa Cruz

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

Measure F pertains to the Sales Tax Sharing Contract by which the County
of Santa Cruz and the Cities of Santa Cruz, Watsonville, Capitola and Scotts
Valley would share the revenue generated by the sales tax which is the subject
of Measure E. Under the terms of the contract, over the six year term of the
sales tax's imposition, it is projected that the City of Santa Cruz would receive
approximately 15 million dollars. By comparison, the City of Watsonville
: would receive approximately 14.2 million dollars, the City of Capitola approx-
' 'mately 1.7 million dollars, the City of Scotts Valley approximately 1.6 million
hollars, and the County of Santa Cruz approximately 10.2 million dollars. The
City of Santa Cruz, however, will only be entitled to its share of this sales tax
| revenue if this measure approving the contract is passed. Should Measure E
which adopts the sales tax pass and this measure fail, the Citizens of the City
of Santa Cruz would find themselves in the amomalous position of having to
pay a sales tax which would provide no revenue to the City of Santa Cruz but
rather only to the other jurisdictions mentioned above which passed the Sales
Tax Sharing Contract. Accordingly, out of caution, even voters who might
oppose Measure E and the imposition of the subject sales tax are urged to
vote yes on Measure F to assure that if Measure E is passed, the City of Santa
Cruz will be able to receive its fair share of the revenue generated by the sales
tax provided for Measure E.

s/ Mardi Wormhoudt
|	Mayor

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

MEASUREG

By amending Section 604 of Article VI and Section 701 and Section 704 of
Article VII to read as follows:

"SECTION 604. PRESIDING OFFICER-MAYOR. The Mayor shall preside at
the meetings of the Council, and shall be recognized as the titular head of the
City government for all ceremonial purposes and by the Governor for purposes
of military law, but shall have no regular administrative duties.

The Council shall elect one of its members who shall have the title of Mayor.
The Council shall also elect a Vice-Mayor, who shall act as Mayor during the
absence or disability of the Mayor, and if a vacancy occurs, shall become Mayor
for the completion of the unexpired term. Both the Mayor and the Vice-Mayor
shall be elected from the councilmembers at the second meeting in November in
each non-election year, and at the second regularly scheduled evening Council
meeting after the general municipal election in each election year. The Mayor and
Vice-Mayor so elected shall serve until their successors have been elected.”
"SECTION 701. GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS. General municipal
elections for the filling of elective offices and for such other purposes as the
Council may prescribe, shall be held in the City of Santa Cruz on the first
Tuesday after the first Monday in November in each even-numbered year.
Members of the City Council shall serve for a term of four (4) years commencing
on the date of the second regularly scheduled Council meeting after the general
municipal election. Any ties in voting shall be settled by the casting of lots.”
“SECTION 704. CANVASS OF RETURNS. At its second regularly scheduled
evening meeting after any municipal election, the Council of this City, at its usual
meeting place, shall convene to duly canvass the returns of the municipal
election, declare the results thereof, and install the newly elected officers."

FISCAL IMPACT ANALYSIS BY CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
CITY OF SANTA CRUZ

Ballot Measure G • Canvass of Election Returns
This Charter amendment would change the date upon which the City Council
"canvasses election returns and the date upon which the City Council elects a
Mayor and a Vice Mayor from among its members. Currently the City Council
takes these actions on the first Tuesday following the genera! municipal election.
The Charter amendment would require the City Council to take these actions at
the second regularly scheduled City Council evening meeting following each
general municipal election. Passage of this amendment should result in minor
administrative cost savings for the City.

s/ John J. Ness
Director of Finance
City of Santa Cruz

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Measure G - Canvass ot Election Returns

This proposal would change the date on which the City Council canvasses
election returns, from the first Tuesday after a municipal election to the second
regularly scheduled evening meeting after a municipal election. It would also
conform the commencement date ot the terms for newty elected Council
members and the Mayor, with the new date for canvassing election returns.-
REASON: Currentiy the City Cleric is allowed only one week after an election to
complete the tally of votes and to process election returns. Because of the
increased number of voters, the complexity of issues! and the many regulations
governing elections, this is not sufficient time, the amendment will provide the
City Clerk with a reasonable time within which to complete the necessary pre-
canvass procedures.

\

s/ Mardi Wormhoudt
Mayor

• •		NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED	Jt/fo
i 1			
44-56			