Correctional Facilities
___________________ Improvement	Bonds,	1990

PROPOSITION A

CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT BONDS, 1990. To incur
a bonded indebtedness of $16,500,000 to pay for correctional facilities	YES 287

to be constructed or reconstructed partially from state grants and nq 288
partially from matching funds from bonds to be issued under this
proposition.

Analysis

by Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: The City operates jails at
the Hall of Justice and in San Bruno for persons
waiting for trial or serving sentences of less than
one year. The jails were not built to provide the
medical services now required by law nor to
house the current number of inmates.

The City operates a work furlough program.
Persons in this program work during the day and
' return to custody in a special work furlough facil-
ity at night. The current facility is too small to
house the number of eligible inmates.

State bond money for jail facilities is available
to the City if the City pays for a share of the cost.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition A would allow the
City to receive $39,500,000 million in state bond
money by issuing general obligation bonds in the

amount of $16,500,000. This money, together
with the state money, would be used to pay for a
new jail medical facility, a much larger work
furlough facility and for making health, safety and
other physical improvements to the jails. The
interest and principal on general obligation
bonds are paid out of tax revenues. Proposition
A would require an increase in the property tax.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote yes, you want
the City to issue general obligation bonds in the
amount of $16,500,000, which will be used to pay
for the City’s share of building and upgrading jail
facilities.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote no, you do not
want the City to issue bonds for this purpose.

Controller’s Statement on “A”

Should the proposed bond issue be authorized and when
all bonds shall have been issued on a fifteen (15) year basis
and after consideration of the interest rates related to current
municipal bond sales, in my opinion, it is estimated that the
approximate costs would be as follows:

Bond redemption	$ 16,500,000

Bond interest	9.042.000

Debt service requirement	$	25.542.000

Based on a single bond sale and level redemption sched-
ules, the average annual debt requirement for fifteen (15)
years would be approximately $1,702,800 which amount is
equivalent to forty-one hundredths cents ($0.0041) in the
current tax rate.

How Supervisors Voted on “A”

On July 23,1990, the Board of Supervisors voted 10-0 on
the question of placing Proposition A on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

YES: Supervisors Angela Alioto, Harry Britt, Jim Gonzalez,
Terence Hallinan, Richard Hongisto, Willie Kennedy,
Tom Hsieh, Bill Maher, Wendy Nelder, and Nancy
Walker.

NO: None of the Supervisors present voted no.

ABSENT: Supervisor Doris Ward

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE AND ITS FULL TEXT IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE.

PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

The San Francisco County Jail system is overcrowded and ill-
suited to provide efficient and safe supervision of inmates and
detainees, and is inadequate to provide operational space for essen-,
tial services such as medical and psychiatric treatment and jail
alternative and community re-entry programs.

A class action suit was filed in Federal Court against the City and
County of San Francisco resulting in a Consent Decree signed in
1982. This bond program provides the matching funds required by
State bond monies to address the remaining issues as mandated by
the Federal Court.

The State of California has committed to give San Francisco up
to $39.5 million dollars for jail construction and renovation, if the
City provides the required matching funds. Proposition A will
provide the required match.

This relatively small, cost effective bond issue will be combined
with the State money to complete a new work furlough and medical
facility at 850 Bryant Street, to make required safety and health
improvements in the Hall of Justice jails, as well as to upgrade the
San Bruno jail facility.

This is a one time opportunity. Without the Proposition A match-
ing funds, the $39.5 million in State bond monies will be lost by
the City, dooming these federally mandated and desperately
needed projects.

Proposition A is strongly supported by Mayor Art Agnos, Sheriff
Michael Hennessey, District Attorney Arlo Smith, City Attorney
Louise Renne, Police Chief Frank Jordan, Chief Administrative
Officer Rudolf Nothenberg, Public Works DirectorRichard Evans,
and jail health officials.

Vote YES on bringing our criminal justice facilities up to
grade. Vote YES on Proposition A.

Submitted by the Board of Supervisors

This argument was adopted by the Board of Supervisors on
August 20,1990.

Ayes: Supervisors Alioto, Britt, Gonzalez, Hallinan, Kennedy,
Maher, Nelder, Walker and Ward.

Absent: Supervisors Hongisto and Hsieh.

No Opponent’s Argument Was Submitted Against Proposition A
No Rebuttals Were Submitted on Proposition A

A

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

The Advisory Committee on Adult Detention urges a YES vote
on Proposition A.

On November 6th, San Francisco voters have the rare opportu-
nity to create an extremely beneficial partnership between the City
and the State of California.

How? By voting yes on Proposition A.

State bonds worth $39.5 million are available to San Francisco
for critical improvements to our county jails. To qualify for these
funds, we must match them with a $16.5 million bond — and that’s
what Prop A will do.

This partnership will expand the City’s 64 bed work furlough
program, which cannot possibly serve the system’s 1,900 inmates.
Work furlough allows low security prisoners the opportunity to pay
their debt to society while keeping their jobs and families intact.

Another critical benefit of Prop A will be expanded jail medical
and psychiatric facilities, a more efficient booking area, and court
mandated fire and safety improvements in our most overcrowded
jail facilities.

Proposition A is a golden opportunity to improve our jails, but
we must act now. Without Prop A, the City will lose these funds
to another California county.

Vote yes to make a winning partnership between the City and
the State of California! Vote yes on Proposition A!

The advisory Committee on Adult Detention consists of eight
citizens mandated by the State to inspect county jails from a
citizen’s perspective and submit yearly reports. We are essentially
a “good government committee” with no interest other than insur-
ing there is citizen input into these critical matters. Each of us has
inspected the jails many dozens of times, and we are appalled by
the deterioration, overcrowded conditions, and inadequacy of med-
ical treatment areas throughout the system.

Proposition A is the kind of legislation the Committee has fought
for since its inception.

Roger Sobel, Chair

Advisory Committee on Adult Detention

Proposition A is the most critical public safety bond measure
to face San Francisco voters in fifteen years.

The City’s county jails are dangerously overcrowded. Prisoners
are being released months before the completion of their sentences
because there is simply no room to keep them. They hit the streets
to commit more crimes, often ending up back in jail before their
original sentence would have ended.

Police on the streets are frustrated. San Francisco citizens and
their properly are threatened. Deputy Sheriffs working in the
county jails risk their lives daily while working in the most danger-
ous environment imaginable.

Proposition A is hardly a cure-all, but it will remedy many of
the frustrations and the injustices of the current system.

How?

• By building a new 450 bed jail facility adjacent to the current

Hall of Justice at 850 Bryant Street. More jail space means that
early jail releases can be stopped.

•	By providing improved medical care for prisoners as mandated
by the federal court. Failure to do this may cost San Francisco
taxpayers millions of dollars in contempt fines.

•	By repairing decades-old jail buildings. This is a cost effective
way to keep them functioning properly for years of future use.

•	By improving the dangerous conditions our deputy sheriffs face
in overcrowded, deteriorating jail facilities.

Vote YES on Proposition A. Vote yes for a safer San Fran-
cisco!

Deputy Al Waters, II

President, San Francisco Deputy Sheriffs Association

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

..	'	'.......—	 .	i

j ]
li

'll I

i	I

i'	1



Correctional Facilities
Improvement Bonds, 1990

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

■ As Sheriff of San Francisco, it is my responsibility to maintain a
safe, secure and humane county jail system. On election day, I need
your support of Proposition A to help me meet this critical man-
date.

A steadily increasing population has overwhelmed our outdated
jail facilities and work furlough program. We currently have only
64 work furlough beds to serve a daily jail population that topped
1,900 men and women last year.

More than merely being committed to running an efficient jail
system, I am also committed to the future of the community at large.
Work furlough is an investment in that future. Men and women

with low security offenses are required to pay their debt to society,
yet keep their jobs. Work furlough inmates do their time, pay a part
of the cost of their incarceration, send money to crime victims and
help keep their families together and off welfare. Work furlough
is an investment in stopping crime and an investment in hope.

San Francisco desperately needs the larger work furlough unit
and the other improvements Prop A will provide.

Join me and other knowledgeable community leaders in support
of Proposition A — it's an opportunity we can't afford to pass up!

Sheriff Michael Hennessey

The Grand Jurors Association, City and County of San Francisco,
joins with the City’s elected officials and community leaders in its
all out support of Proposition A.

As former members of the Civil Grand Jury, we were charged by
the City and County to complete an annual inspection of the entire
county jail system and make recommendations to the Presiding
Judge of the Superior Court.

Our many years of experience in conducting these detailed
inspections leaves no question that the San Francisco County Jail
system is in dire need of expansion and rennovation. The passage
of Proposition A will accomplish much of the work that our

investigations tell us must be done:

Currently, many prisoners with serious convictions do not com-
plete their sentences because of overcrowding. If we are to main-
tain respect for the police and the courts — for the law itself—we
must be capable of seeing that serious criminals pay their full debt
to society.

Join the Grand Jurors Association in voting yes on Proposition A.
L. Jack Block, President

The Grand Jurors Association, City and County of San Francisco

I urge every San Francisco voter who is concerned about the
effectiveness of our city’s criminal justice system to vote YES on
Proposition A.

As it stands now, the county jails are overcrowded, the 55
year-old San Bruno jail facility is literally crumbling, and prisoner
| i medical and psychiatric areas are painfully inadequate.

I Proposition A will attract $39,000,000 in State bond money to
jj	match this $16,500,000 local bond issue to address those problems

as quickly as possible. For San Francisco taxpayers, this relatively

| \1

modest expenditure will be in the public interest for years to come.

Join me in strongly supporting Proposition A. It’s the common-
sensical way to improve the county jail system. Otherwise, San
Francisco courts will be forced to release jail inmates before they
serve their full sentences — and that’s not a result I want for my
constituents or my own family.

State Senator Quentin L. Kopp

Fight back against the early release of criminals — fight back and your loved ones, for a change!
against crime in our neighborhoods. Support Prop A on election
day to make San Francisco’s criminal justice system work for you Supervisor Bill Maher

I

li

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

San Francisco’s jail facilities are dangerously overcrowded.

A federal court has the Sheriff under injunction to improve
conditions.

If overcrowding isn’t relieved, the Sheriff may be ordered to
release dangerous criminals.

We personally favor alternatives to incarceration for minor,
nonviolent offenders, such as community service.

However, jail overcrowding must be eliminated so that the

Police, Sheriff, and District Attorney can do their job of fighting
violent crime and drug dealing.

Arlo Hale Smith
BART Director/Candidate For Supervisor
Alexa Smith

Democratic Central Committeemember/BART Board
Candidate

Because of grossly inadequate and obsolete local jail facilities,
our Sheriff is legally obliged, by Federal Court Order, to release
prisoners back onto our streets LONG before they have served their
appropriate sentences. JUST NO ROOM!

Existing State bond monies will pay SEVENTY PERCENT of
the cost of a 300 bed jail expansion at Bryant Street plus the
rehabilitation and replacement of fifty-six year old “broken down”
obsolete equipment and facilities at the San Bruno Jail Complex.

It’s “use it or loose it”! If we don’t use our fair share of these now
available State Bond matching funds, they go elsewhere! By pro-

crastination, San Francisco’s taxpayers could ultimately wind up
paying the total $56,000,000 bill all by ourselves.

If these individuals do the crime, we must insist that they do the
time! On behalf of San Francisco’s taxpayers, we urge a YES vote
while the State is still able and willing to pay the “lion’s share” of
the costs.

SAN FRANCISCO TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION.

W. F. O’Keeffe, Sr,, President

No Paid Arguments Were Submitted Against Proposition A

TEXT OF ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING BOND ELECTION
PROPOSITION A AND PROPOSITION B

(Special Election)

CALLING AND PROVIDING FOR A SPE-
CIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD IN THE
CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO
ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1990, FOR
THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO THE
VOTERS OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
SAN FRANCISCO PROPOSITIONS TO
INCUR THE FOLLOWING BONDED
DEBTS OF THE CITY AND COUNTY FOR
THE ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION OR
COMPLETION BY THE CITY AND
COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO OF THE
FOLLOWING MUNICIPAL IMPROVE-
MENTS, TO WIT: SEVENTY-THREE MIL-
LION EIGHT HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS ($73,800,000) FOR CONSTRUC-
TION OR RECONSTRUCTION OF A
YOUTH GUIDANCE CENTER; PROVIDED,
HOWEVER, THAT TWO MILLION DOL-
LARS ($2,000,000)BE SET ASIDE FOR THE
ACQUISITION AND RECONSTRUCTION
OF COMMUNITY BASED FACILITIES;
SIXTEEN MILLION FIVE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS ($16,500,000) FOR
CORRECTIONALFACIL1TIESTOBECON-
STRUCTED OR RECONSTRUCTED PAR-
TIALLY FROM STATE GRANTS AND
PARTIALLY FROM MATCHING FUNDS
FROM THIS BOND ISSUE; ANDTHATTHE
ESTIMATED COST OF CITY. AND
COUNTY OF SAID MUNICIPAL IM-
PROVEMENTS IS AND WILL BE TOO
GREAT TO BE PAID OUT OF THE ORDI-
NARY ANNUAL INCOME AND REVENUE
OF THE CITY AND COUNTY AND WILL
REQUIRE EXPENDITURES GREATER
THAN THE AMOUNT ALLOWED THERE-
FORBYTHE ANNUAL TAXLEVY; RECIT-
ING THE ESTIMATED COSTS OF SUCH
MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENTS; FIXING
THE DATE OF ELECTION AND THE MAN-
NER OF HOLDING SUCH ELECTION AND
THE PROCEDURE FOR VOTING FOR OR
AGAINST THE PROPOSITIONS; FIXING
THE MAXIMUM RATE OF INTEREST ON
SAID BONDS AND PROVIDING FOR THE
LEVY AND COLLECTION OF TAXES TO
PAY BOTH PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST
THEREOF; PRESCRIBING NOTICE TO BE
GIVEN OF SUCH ELECTION; CONSOLI-
DATING THE SPECIAL ELECTION WITH
THE GENERAL ELECTION; AND PROVID-
ING THAT THE ELECTION PRECINCTS,
VOTING PLACES AND OFFICERS FOR
ELECTION SHALL BE THE SAME AS FOR
SUCH GENERAL ELECTION.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and
County of San Francisco:

Section 1. A special election is hereby called
and ordered to be held in the City and County
of San Francisco on Tuesday, the 6th day of
November, 1990, for the purpose of submitting
to the electors of said city and county proposi-
tions to incur bonded indebtedness of the City

and County of S an Francisco for the acquisition,
construction or completion by the city and
county of die hereinafter described municipal
improvements in the amounts and for the pur-
poses stated:

YOUTH GUIDANCE CENTER SYSTEM
IMPROVEMENTBONDS, 1990, $73,800,000
to pay the cost of construction or reconstruction
of a Youth Guidance Center; provided, how-
ever, that Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) be
set aside for the acquisition and reconstruction
of community based facilities, including the
acquisition and construction of the facilities and
till other works, property and structures neces-
sary or convenient for such additions and im-
provements to the Youth Guidance Center of
the City and County of San Francisco.

CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES IM-
PROVEMENTBONDS, 1990, $16,500,000 to
pay for correctional facilities to be constructed
or reconstructed partially from state grants and
partially from matching funds from bonds to be
issued under this proposition, including related
acquisition, construction or reconstruction nec-
essary or convenient for the foregoing purpose;
and all other works, properly and structures
necessary or convenient for such additions and
improvements to various correctional facilities
of the City and County of San Francisco.

Section 2. The estimated costs of each of the
municipal improvements described in Section 1
hereof were fixed by the Board of Supervisors
by the following resolutions and in the amount
specified:

Youth Guidance Center System Improve-
ment Bonds, Resolution No. 539-90,
$73,800,000; Correctional Facilities Improve-
ment Bonds, Resolution No. 503-90,
$16,500,000.

That said resolutions were passed by two-
thirds or more of the Board of Supervisors and
approved by the Mayor, and in each said reso-
lution it was recited and found that the sums of
money specified were too great to be paid out
of the ordinary annual income and revenue of
the city and county in addition to the other
annual expenses thereof or other funds derived
from taxes levied for those purposes and will
require expenditures greater than the amounts
allowed therefor by the annual tax levy.

The method and manner of payment of the
estimated costs of the municipal improvements
described herein are by the issuance of bonds of
the City; and County of San Francisco in the
principal amounts not to exceed the principal
amounts specified.

Said estimates of cost as set forth in said
resolutions arc hereby adopted and determined
to be the estimated costs of said improvements.

Section 3. The special election hereby called
and ordered to be held shall be held and con-
ducted and the votes thereat received and can-
vassed, and the returns thereof made and the
results thereof ascertained, determined and de-
clared as herein provided and in all particulars

not herein recited said election shall be held
according to the laws of the State of California
and the Charter of the City and County of San
Francisco providing for and governing elections
in the City and County of San Francisco, and
the polls for such election shall be and remain
open during the time required by said laws.

Section 4. The said special election hereby
called shall be and hereby is consolidated with
the General Election of the City and County of
San Francisco to be held Tuesday, November 6,
1990, and the voting precincts, polling places
and officers of election for said General Elec-
tion be and the same are hereby adopted, estab-
lished, designated and named, respectively, as
the voting precincts, polling places and officers
of election for such special election hereby
called, and as specifically set forth, in the offi-
cial publication, by the Registrar of Voters of
precincts, polling places and election officers
for the said General Election.

The ballots to be used at said special election
shall be the ballots to be used at said General
Election and reference is hereby made to the
notice of election setting forth the voting pre-
cincts, polling places and officers of election by
the Registrar of Voters for the General Election
to be published in the San Francisco Examiner
on or no later than October 12,1990.

Section 5. On the ballots to be used at such
special election and on the punch card ballots
used at said special election, in addition to any
other matter required by law to be printed
thereon, shall appear thereon the following, to
be separately stated, and appear upon the ballot
as a separate proposition:

“YOUTH GUIDANCE CENTER
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT BONDS,
1990.To incur a bonded indebtedness
of $73,800,000 for the construction and
reconstruction of a Youth Guidance
Center of the City and County of San
Francisco; provided, however, that
$2,000,000 be set aside for the acquisi-
tion and reconstruction of community
based facilities.”

“CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES IM-
PROVEMENT BONDS, 1990. To
incur a bonded indebtedness of
$16,500,000 to pay for correctional
facilities to be constructed or recon-
structed partially from state grants and
partially from matching funds from
bonds to be issued under this pro-
position.”

Each voter to vole for said any of propositions
hereby submitted and in favor of the issuance of
the Bonds, shall stamp a cross (X) in the blank
space opposite the word “YES” on the ballot to
the right of said proposition, and to vote against
said proposition and against the issuance of the
Bonds shall stamp a cross (X) in the blank space
opposite the word “NO” on the ballot to the right
of said proposition. On absent voters ballots,
the cross (X) may be marked with pen or pencil.

(Continued on page 70)

60

If and to the extent that punch card ballot
cards are used at said special election, each voter
to vote for any said proposition shall punch the
ballot card in the hole after the word “YES" to
the right of said proposition, and to vote against
said proposition shall punch the ballot card in
the hole after the word “NO" to the right of said
proposition.

Section 6. If at such special election it shall
appear that two-thirds of all the voters voting on
the proposition voted in favor of and authorized
the incurring of a bonded indebtedness for the
purposes set forth in said proposition, then such
proposition shall have been accepted by the
electors, and bonds shall be issued to defray the
cost of the municipal improvements described
herein. Such bonds shall be of the form and
character known as “serials," and shall bear
interest at a rate not to exceed 12 per centum per
annum, payable semiannually, provided, that

interest for the first year after the date of any of
said bonds may be payable at or before the end
of that year.

The votes cast for and against said respective
propositions shall be counted separately and
when two-thirds of the qualified electors, voting
on such propositions, vote in favor thereof, such
proposition shall be deemed adopted.

Section 7. For the purpose of paying the
principal and interest on said bonds, the Board
of Supervisors shall, at the time of fixing the
general tax levy and in the manner for such
general tax levy provided, levy and collect an-
nually each year until such bonds are paid, or
until there is a sum in the Treasury of said city
and county set apart for that purpose to meet all
sums coming due for the principal and interest
on said bonds, a tax sufficient to pay the annual
interest on such bonds as the same becomes due
and also such part of the principal thereof as

shall become due before the proceeds of a tax
levied at the time for making the next general
tax levy can be made available for the payment
of such principal.

Section 8. This ordinance shall be published
once a day for at least seven (7) days in the San
Francisco Examiner, a newspaper published
daily in the City and County of San Francisco,
being the official newspaper of said city and
county and such publication shall constitute
notice of said election and no other notice of the
election hereby called need be given.

Section 9. The appropriate officers, employ-
ees, representatives and agents of the City and
County of San Francisco are hereby authorized
and directed to do everything necessary or de-
sirable to the calling and holding of said special
election, and to otherwise cany out the provis-
ions of this ordinance. .	□

70

PROPOSITION B

YOUTH GUIDANCE CENTER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT BONDS, 1990.

To incur a bonded indebtedness of $73,800,000 for the construction YES 290
and reconstruction of a Youth Guidance Center of the City and County	^0 29*1

of San Francisco; provided, however, that $2,000,000 be set aside for
the acquisition and reconstruction of community based facilities.

Analysis

by Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: The City operates the Youth
Guidance Center. This facility houses the Juve-
nile Court, a detention center for juveniles waiting
for court hearings or placement, the Juvenile
Probation Department and other City offices. The
facility is 40 years old and is badly deteriorated.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition B would allow the
City to borrow $73,800,000 by issuing general
obligation bonds. This money would be used to
pay for building a new Youth Guidance Center.
$2,000,000 of this amount would be set aside to
purchase and improve community-based facili-
ties such as group homes. The interest and

principal on general obligation bonds are paid
out of tax revenues. Proposition B would require
an increase in the property tax.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote yes, you want
the City to issue general obligation bonds in the
amount of $73,800,000 to build a new Youth
Guidance Center, and you want to set aside
$2,000,000 of this amount for community-based
facilities.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote no, you do not
want the City to issue bonds for this purpose.

Controller’s Statement on “B”

Should the proposed bond issue be authorized and when
all bonds shall have been issued on a fifteen (15) year basis
and after consideration of the interest rates related to current
municipal bond sales, in my opinion, it is estimated that the
approximate costs would be as follows:

Bond redemption	$	73,800,000

Bond interest	40.442.400

Debt service requirement . $114.242.400

Based on a single bond sale and level redemption sched-
ules, the average annual debt requirement for fifteen (15)
years would be approximately $7,900,000 which amount is
equivalent to one and eighty-four hundredths cents
($0.0184) in the current tax rate.

How Supervisors Voted on “B”

On July 23,1990, the Board of Supervisors voted 10-0 on
the question of placing Proposition B on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

YES: Supervisors Angela Alioto, Harry Britt, Jim Gonzalez,
Terence Hallinan, Richard Hongisto, Willie Kennedy,
Tom Hsieh, Bill Maher, Wendy Nelder, and Nancy
Walker.

NO: None of the Supervisors present voted no.

ABSENT: Supervisor Doris Ward

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE.
THE FULL TEXT OF THIS MEASURE BEGINS ON PAGE 60.

B1 Youth Guidance Center System
Improvement Bonds, 1990

PROPONENTS ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

Children are our future. But the importance we attach to our
children is not reflected in San Francisco’s existing Youth Guid-
ance Center.

The Youth Guidance Center (YGC) is a grim, deteriorating
detention facility which houses delinquent youth, the juvenile
court, juvenile probation department and other agencies that work
with our troubled youth and their families.

YGC is outdated, inflexibly designed and in poor condition. The
facility is inadequate and unadaptable for providing a modem
standard of care and services for juvenile offenders. Some of
YGC's most urgent needs are heating, fire safety, security, seismic
safety, energy conservation, lighting, ventilation and handicapped
access improvements.

Since YGC opened in 1951, it has been criticized by the Depart-
ment of Justice, California Youth Authority, child advocacy groups
and other government agencies. The Youth Law Center has also
filed a lawsuit citing the facility’s deficiencies. Proposition B
provides the funding needed to build a new facility in accordance

with the standards of the California Youth Authority and the
American Correctional Association as well as in accordance with
the program goals and objectives of San Francisco’s juvenile
justice plan.

Proposition B provides $73,800,000 through the issuance of
general obligation bonds to build a new Youth Guidance Center
and community facilities that will provide the services and humane
atmosphere that our children require.

San Francisco’s children deserve the best this City can provide.
An investment in their future is an investment in our future.

Vote YES on Proposition B.

Submitted by the Board of Supervisors

This argument was adopted by the Board of Supervisors on

August 20,1990.

Ayes: Supervisors Alioto, Britt, Gonzalez, Hallinan, Kennedy,
Maher, Nelder, Walker and Ward.

Absent: Supervisors Hongisto and Hsieh.

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

The supervisors’ rebuttal argument (opposite page) is riddled
with inaccuracies and distortions.

The supervisors say that “the number of beds has not been cut in
half, it hasn’t even been determined yet.” But the official Bond
Program Report and other Juvenile Probation Department docu-
ments refer specifically to a 72-bed facility (present capacity is
137). Who are the supervisors trying to fool?

The supervisors also say “violent young criminals are not re-
leased.” That’s untrue! Under current standards, a gang member
with five previous arrests who is arrested at a gang fight carrying
a loaded shotgun, will be immediately released.

With half the detention space, many more dangerous offenders
must go free because of Proposition B.

VOTE “NO” ON PROPOSITION B.

The supervisors allege that only 10% of juvenile hall referrals are
for “violent felonies”. Do you consider the following to be serious
or violent crimes?

Murder

Manslaughter

Rape

Kidnapping

Robbery

Assault with deadly weapon

Assault on police officer

Assault

Battery

Arson

Automobile theft
Weapons possession

Manufacture, sale, or possession of drugs
Hit and run driving
Child molestation

These crimes accounted for 3,300 juvenile arrests last year, or
51% of all juvenile hall referrals (Source: 1989 Juvenile Court
Annual Report).

VOTE “NO” ON PROPOSITION B.

The supervisors want to spend $114,000,000 in taxpayer money
(including interest) for half the detention capacity. A new juve-
nile hall can be justified, but only with a guarantee of sufficient
capacity and sensible pre-hearing release policies.

State Senator Quentin Kopp
No on Proposition B Committee

OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION B

Proposition B is the wrong idea at the wrong time.

The National Council on Crime and Delinquency predicts that
juvenile crime will increase nationally over the next decade. De-
spite a declining juvenile population, San Francisco is no excep-
tion. Arrest statistics confirm that violent crime by juveniles is on
the rise in San Francisco. These aren't truants or runaways, either;
they're rapists, robbers and killers. In fact, the number of juveniles
arrested for murder increased 190% in San Francisco last year.

Notwithstanding such unmistakable trends, Proposition B would
spend $114,242,400 in taxpayers money to build a new juvenile
hall with half the detention space of the current facility. Our District
Attorney states: “The reduction in bed space poses a substantial
danger to public protection and safety.”

VOTE “NO” ON PROPOSITION B.

Proposition B will burden San Francisco with a radical approach
to juvenile criminals that, in effect, stresses “group homes” in our
neighborhoods and even outright releases for hundreds of violent

young criminals — instead of a central, secure detention facility.

The current mayoral administration has already weakened the
standards for detaining juvenile criminals. Under the new rules, a
17 year-old with 10 prior arrests who is arrested for selling crack
cocaine and carrying a loaded .357 magnum, cannot be detained
at juvenile hall. He will be immediately released. With only half
the detention capacity of the present juvenile hall, Proposition B
will cause many more releases like that.

VOTE “NO” ON PROPOSITION B.

No one disputes the fact that juvenile hall needs physical reha-
bilitation. Maybe it should even be replaced, but not with half the
detention space. Juvenile crime is increasing in San Francisco.
Borrowing millions for a new building with less capacity is sheer
lunacy!

State Senator Quentin Kopp
No on Proposition B Committee

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION B

Let’s look at the real facts.

Proposition B allocates $73.8 million fora new juvenile hall. The
number of beds has not been cut in half, it hasn’t even been
determined yet. Size will only be decided after public debate.
Proposition B funds enough beds to meet San Francisco's need into
the 21st century, and Senator Kopp is misinformed if he believes
otherwise.

Only 10% of juvenile hall referrals are for violent felonies.
Violent offenders are not released under the current system and
serious offenders like the ones Senator Kopp describes will con-
tinue to be held if the facility is replaced.

Senator Kopp doesn’t tell you that in the present facility, children
as young as ten stay in small, musty cells with no private toilets
and minimal recreational programs. He doesn’t tell you about the
health and safety hazards,1 including asbestos, that may endanger
the children and the staff. He doesn’t tell you that the facility has
been decertified by state authorities, is under investigation by the

Justice Department and is being sued for unconstitutional condi-
tions. If Proposition B fails, the City will probably have to replace
the Youth Guidance Center at a much higher cost!

Responsible, informed citizens, members of the Juvenile Court,
Probation Department, law enforcementand community groups all
have endorsed Proposition B.

Don’t let a misinformed outlook on San Francisco’s children,
and on the facts of this proposition, guide your decision.

Vote YES on Proposition B.

Submitted by the Board of Supervisors

This argument was adopted by the Board of Supervisors on
August 27,1990.

Ayes: Supervisors Gonzalez, Hallinan, Hsieh, Kennedy, Maher,
Nelder, Walker and Ward.

Absent: Supervisors Alioto, Britt and Hongisto.

Youth Guidance Center System
Improvement Bonds, 1990

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

Youth Guidance Center is an antiquated and deteriorated facility	of our troubled youth,

desperately in need of repair.	Join me in voting Yes on Proposition B.

If YGC is to have any rehabilitative impact on the lives of
juveniles housed there we must pass this bond measure as our city’s	Dr. Dan Kelly

commitment to an improved facility, prepared to handle the needs	Candidate for School Board

We work as Counselors at Youth Guidance Center and strongly
support building a new center. The overcrowding and lack of
adequate recreational and community facilities has always made
the center a difficult place for children.

As we approach the 21st century, we need to treat our most
valuable resource, our kids, in a facility offering the best possible

social, educational and recreational environment.
Vote YES on B!

Ulysses Madison, YGC Counselors Chapter
United Public Employees Local 790, SEIU

San Francisco must invest in our children — which represents
our future.

The asbestos riddled, deteriorating, 40-year-old juvenile justice
building needs to be replaced.

Vote YES on B.

Joel Ventresca
Past President,

Coalition for San Francisco Neighborhoods
Candidate for Supervisor

Youth Guidance Center is a badly run down facility which has
become hazardous for our city’s youth and for the people who work
there. It has been repeatedly investigated and criticized by experts
and oversight agencies for the last 20 years. It fails to meet federal
and state detention facility guidelines, as well as the City’s own
building code. It violates fire and earthquake safety requirements.
It contains disintegrating asbestos, posing a health threat to youth
and staff. The residential units fall below modem standards for
room size, heating, ventilation, and lighting. Space for visiting
parents, attorney interviews, and recreation is much too small.

The Youth Guidance Center is a danger to the community
because it does not provide a modem, high-security detention
capacity for the serious and violent offenders who must be housed
there. Moreover, the facility is inadequate as a service center for
youth and families who come before the juvenile court and need
counseling, crisis intervention, supervision, and other services.

Engineering, seismic, and construction experts have shown that
the most cost-effective solution for the Youth Guidance Center is

to replace the old and hazardous facility with a new structure that
will meet the needs of San Francisco youth and citizens well into
the next century.

Passage of this measure will not determine the size or configu-
ration of the new facility. This measure will ensure replacement of
the present outmoded structure, leaving bed count and other details
of design for evaluation after funding has been authorized.

Judges of the Superior Court unanimously and strongly urge a
“YES” vote.

John Dearman

Presiding Judge

San Francisco Superior Court

I agree with the judges.

Willie L Brown, Jr.

Speaker, California Assembly

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

Existing juvenile facilities are overcrowded and inadequate.
The juvenile court system has been sued for injunction to im-
prove conditions.

Unless improved, a judge may order city authorities to release
violent offenders.

We favor alternatives to incarceration for nonviolent offenders.
However, overcrowding must be eliminated so that the Police

and District Attorney can do their jobs.

Arlo Hale Smith
BART Director/Candidate For Supervisor
Alexa Smith

Democratic Committeemember/BART Board Candidate

The Youth Guidance Center is a modern dinosaur. The

California Youth Authority once decertified it because of inhuman
conditions. It has been the target of investigation by the U.S. Justice
Department for several years, and is now the subject of a pending
lawsuit. One expert on juvenile justice facilities stated publicly,
“it's the worst juvenile hall that I have ever seen.” The current
facility simply cannot provide proper care to detained youth.

Proposition B, which will reconstruct YGC, is a long-overdue
response, and an absolutely essential step in correcting these
inhuman conditions. Do not be misled by Mr. Kopp’s ludicrous
position; it is a product of grave misinformation, and a shameful
scare tactic. The truth is that of petitions filed in 1988 and 1989,
only .3% were for homicide, .2% for rape and 3% for robbery. The
truth is that a youth with a long criminal record and a loaded
weapon will be detained at YGC. The truth is that San Francisco
has one of the toughest detention policies in the State.

As conscientious citizens, we have but one choice: vote YES on

Proposition B. As concerned taxpayers, we can no longer allow
the City and County of San Francisco to pour money into a dying
building that cannot be adequately repaired. This short-sighted
approach does a disservice to both our youth and ourselves.

Let’s look to our future and tell the future leaders — the youth
of today — that we care about their needs, and that they need not
be second class citizens.

Greg Day

President, Coleman Advocates for Children and Youth
Margaret Brodkin

Executive Director, Coleman Advocates
Peter Bull

Juvenile Justice Task Force Leader, Coleman Advocates
Jean Jacobs

Board Member, Coleman Advocates

Vote Yes on B! Help make the future safe for our children. Carole Migden

Candidate, Board of Supervisors

The Youth Guidance Center provides support for all youth under
the jurisdiction of our Juvenile Courts. This includes children
awaiting placement in foster care. This facility is 40 years old and
is an example of improvements that have been deferred too long.
Youth represent our future. They deserve a modem, hospitable

environment.

Vote Yes for our Youth. Vote Yes on Proposition B!

Harold M. Hoogasian
Small Businessperson/Florist

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

Proposition B is the Right Idea at the Right Time '

Official studies of the San Francisco Juvenile Hall show that the
SPCA houses its dogs under cleaner, healthier conditions than the
youth who are placed at Juvenile Hall.

The building has life threatening asbestos, inadequate toilets,
shower facilities, and rooms. The entire building is falling apart. It
is cheaper to build a new facility than to repair this disaster.

Vote YES on Proposition B.

• Proposition B will allow San Francisco to build a new well
designed system, that will have enough rooms to house those
who have committed serious offenses, in very secure detention
separately from those who have committed less serious of-
fenses.

•	Along with a new facility, will be a comprehensive program of
services from S.F.U.S.D., D.P.H., D.S.S., and community
based organizations all focused on helping youth correct and
take responsibility for their actions.

•	San Francisco has the opportunity through Proposition B to
protect the public, replace a life threatening building, and help
youth take responsibility for their own actions.

•	That is why the community, Mayor, Board of Supervisors,
Commissioners and Public Departments are all supporting
Proposition B.

San Francisco Coalition For
Children, Youth, and Families

VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION B
Proposition B will provide funds for the construction of a much
needed new Youth Guidance Center. The present facility is 40
years old, asbestos ridden and poorly designed for its present and
future operations. It has widespread support that includes Law
Enforcement, Judges, Department Employees, and many commu-
nity groups, including African Americans who have fought for
many years, along with other advocates for children, for a healthy
and decent environment for our children.

The fact is that the overwhelming majority of youth, approxi-
mately 90 percent, referred to Child Guidance Center are referred
for non-violent offenses. The new facility will provide adequate
housing for detained youth requiring locked confinement as well
as appropriate counseling and education centers.

DON’T BE MISGUIDED BY FALSE AND MISLEADING
INFORMATION.

VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION B

Supervisor Doris Ward
James Jefferson
Naomi Gray
Gloria Davis
Fother James Goode
Dr. Sodonia Wilson
Yvonne Golden
District 7 Democratic Club
Karen Pierce
Bayview Hunters Point
Democratic Club

George Newkirk
Lulann McGriff
James Mayo
Doris Thomas
Dr. Julianne Malveaux
Black Men of Action
Robert Christmas
Espanola Jackson

DO NOT BE FOOLED BY SCARE TACTICS
VOTE “YES” ON PROPOSITION B

As the Director’s of Youth Advocates/Huckleberry House, with
more than 20 years of experience in dealing with San Francisco’s
troubled youth, we urge a YES vote on PROPOSITION B. The
current juvenile hall is unsafe and inhumane. It fails to meet federal,
state, and local safety standards. It would be a dbathtrap for the
children in a major fire or earthquake.

The politicians opposing Proposition B want to scare you into
keeping this hazardous facility. They say the new facility will have
fewer secure beds, so violent youth will terrorize our neighbor-
hoods. Scary, if it were true. But it is not true. Proposition B does
not place any limit on the space we need to secure youth who have
been accused of violent crimes. Right now, only 10% of the youth
at the juvenile hall are accused of violent crimes—robbery, rape,

murder. The other 90% are there for lesser offenses. Many of them
are victims of sexual abuse or family violence.

The new facility will serve the critical needs of San Francisco’s
children, youth, and families, while also assuring secure detention
for youth accused of serious crime. We need to provide dignity and
hope to the families and youth who walk through the doors of our
juvenile justice system. If you walked through the doors of the
present facility, you would be shocked and dismayed. PLEASE
VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION B.

Bruce Fisher

Executive Director, Youth Advocates/Huckleberry House
Michelle Magee

Associate Director, Youth Advocates/Huckleberry House

Youth Guidance Center System
Improvement Bonds, 1990

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

The City desperately needs a new, safe Youth Guidance Center.	Vote Yes on Prop. B.

The present structure is run-down and inadequate.

Let trouble children find a new direction in a safe, supportive	Jeff Brown

environment.	Public	Defender

Judges, Law Enforcement, major unions representing facility
employees, and numerous community groups support Proposition
B. The opposition to Proposition B is wrong to say that Proposition
B would fund a facility only half the size of the current juvenile
hall. In fact, facility size has: not yet been determined. Proposition
B never would have received widespread support if the exagger-
ated claims of its opponents were true.

Proposition B provides funds to build a desperately needed
juvenile hall. San Francisco’s Youth Guidance Center is riddled
with asbestos, is the subject of a law suit charging unconstitutional
conditions, and is under investigation by Federal and State author-
ities. These conditions may endanger staff and youth alike.
Chances are, if Proposition B fails, the facility will be forced into
a consent decree like the City’s jails, requiring court-ordered new
construction at a much higher cost.

Juvenile hall holds minors who are accused but not yet convicted
of crimes. Most return to their families within 72 hours when a
responsible adult is found. Only 10% are accused of violent felo-
nies. PROPOSITION B WILL PROVIDE AMPLE SPACE
FOR ALL OF THE YOUTHS WHO REQUIRE LOCKED
CONFINEMENT!

VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION B!

Frank M. Jordan. Chief of Police Don Chan

Gloria Davis
James Loyce, Jr.

Stephanie Mischak
Vincent SchiraM
Art Tapia

Michael Yamaguchi
Members, Juvenile Probation
Commission
Laura Jane Asselin
Raymond Benson
Pauline Chu
Merrill Randol
Elizabeth Youhn
Members, Delinquency
Prevention Commission
Dennis Doyle, Juvenile Hall
Administrator-in-Charge
John Giannini, President,
Supervising Counselors
Association

Don Clay
Steve Cohn
Henry Collins, Jr.

Sylvia Courtney
ArlaEscontrias
Magdalynne P. Gates
Beatrice Challiss Laws
James Loyce, Jr.

Raymond Shonholtz
Members, Juvenile Justice
Commission
Leonard Gordon
Yori Wada

Members, AB 90 Task Force
of the Mayor’s Criminal
Justice Council

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION B

Spending $74 million dollars on a new juvenile hall with half the
capacity is outrageous and irresponsible. Placing “group homes”
in our neighborhoods for detention is even worse.

Nobody in their right mind would want a house of juvenile
delinquents next door. It is unbelievable to me how anyone could
support this crazy proposal.

Send the would-be social engineers a good dose of reality on
election day. Say no to group homes in our neighborhoods. Vote
NO on Proposition B!

John Barbagelata

This preposterous proposal is an outrageous waste of public
funds!

Instead of rehabilitating and expanding the expensive existing
. facility, the proponents want to build a brand-new one with only
half the present bed capacity. The extra two million dollars of “set
aside” bond money is to provide jobs for operators of “group

homes” in our residential neighborhoods.

Derail this fiscal municipal madness with a NO vote!

San Francisco Taxpayers Association
W.F. O’Keeffe, Sr., President

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION B

l

I The probation officers who work at the Youth Guidance Center
urge you to vote NO on Proposition B.

This bond issue could cost the taxpayers as much as $7 million
I per year for 20 years and it won’t do anything to reduce juvenile
delinquency. In fact, we think it will reduce our ability to control
and reform young offenders because the new building envisioned
by the planners of the bond issue will provide for less detention
capacity than we have now.

We think that it is illogical to build a smaller juvenile hall because
the existing facility has been cited by the California Youth Author-
ity for being overcrowded, and we have been forced to release
offenders whomwe would prefer to detain for their own good and
for the safety of the public. With a smaller juvenile hall, we will
have to release still more offenders who we think should be
detained.

It is true that the Youth Guidance Center has been allowed to fall

into disrepair; however, the structure appears to be fundamentally
sound. It suffered no significant damage as a result of the October
1989 earthquake. We believe that the building can be rehabilitated
for far less than the cost of demolition and reconstruction of the
entire complex.

If, in the future, another plan is put forth to renovate, reconstruct,
or augment the Youth Guidance Center which we believe will
enhance our ability to reform offenders and protectour community,
we will support it. Unfortunately, Proposition B does not meet
these criteria.

Please vote against a more permissive Juvenile Court and against
a waste of taxpayer money. Please vote NO on Proposition B.

San Francisco Probation Officers’ Association
Terry Twing, President

BEWARE of Proposition B.

The need to spend money wisely on a longterm solution to
deteriorating structural conditions and overcrowding at Juvenile
Hall is obvious. Proposition B is not, however, just about
$73,000,000 for a new Juvenile Hall.

Proposition B’s exact dollar appropriation is based on specific
building guidelines, operating assumptions and cost projections,
contained in a mandatory “Bond Program Report”. This document
is the blueprint for the proposed facility.

Proposition B's “Bond Program Report” calls for construction of
“a 72-bed residential detention component”. That’s a loss of 65
beds from the current 137 certified capacity.

Proposition B’s answer to existing overcrowding is fewer beds.

Proposition B picks up this loss by creating “group homes” in
' neighborhoods (yet to be designated) and by lowering the detention
criteria, thereby reducing the need for a larger capacity.

The “Bond Program Report” puts it this way, “the reduction is
based on changes in detention policy that are intended to reduce
■I the use of secure detention”.

Reducing ourability to securely detain youthful violentoffenders
|	in the face of increasing violent youth crime is wrong and a misuse

of taxes. Many of San Francisco’s streets have become hunting
fields for criminal elements, including young gang members and
repeated youthful offenders. Proposition B sends would-be hoods
the wrong message.

The public deserves a full debate on the entire program before
incurring additional bonded indebtedness. Where will the pro-
posed “group homes” be placed? What are the funding sources to
sustain these “group homes”? What back-up plans are envisioned
should more detention capacity be required?.

Make Mayor Agnos and the social engineers tell you the full
story. Until then, Proposition B is expensive bunk.

Proposition B is BAD for San Francisco. VOTE NO ON PROP-
OSITION B.

Tim Carrico
Concerned New Father
Barbara Kolesar
Concerned Citizen
Graham J. Desvernine
Former FBI Executive and Security Consultant

Youth Guidance Center System
Improvement Bonds, 1990

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION B

As a retired probation officer with more than 20 years of first-
hand service, it's difficult to watch the misguided criminal justice
activists hide behind the public’s frustration with the juvenile hall
to further their own philosophies. We may need a new juvenile hall,
but not one that’s half the current capacity.

“Group homes” in the neighborhoods for youthful offenders may
sound good to activists but are unacceptable to most of the public.

Lowering detention criteria makes sense to activists, but unloads
violent juveniles back into the community.

Sure the judges want new and more modern courtrooms, but at
what price to the public?

Don’t be fooled by the list of names of those who benefit from
the expenditures of your tax dollars. Listen to the police who bust
these juveniles, listen to the probation officers who deal with these
juveniles, listen to the district attorneys who prosecute these juve-
niles and listen to the victims who can tell it best.

Vote NO ON PROP B, because the last thing San Francisco
needs is another misguided solution for dealing with juvenile
crime.

Anders W.Petterson

As a native bom resident of San Francisco and 33 year veteran
of correctional social work, I am in favor of some community based
alternatives to institutionalization like the very effective ones op-
erated by the Youth Advocates organization at Sojourner and
Huckleberry Houses.

However, I am also very much opposed to the plan proposed in
Proposition “B” which I believe would allow dangerous offenders

to be released to group home programs unable to control their
behavior. Accordingly, I strongly recommend that you vote NO on
Proposition “B”.

MikeBasten

Member, Board of Directors

State Coalition of Probation Organizations

THE FULL TEXT OF THIS MEASURE BEGINS ON PAGE 60.