CARD G

S'

ilDE 1

TOP

OFFICIAL BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL ELECTION
COUNTY OF EL DORADO

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1990

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOtfflftS

STATE

'iU HIGHER EDUCATION FU IUHHES BOND
ITS ACT OF NOVEMBER M). This act pro-
vides for a bond issue of lour luindred fifty million
dollars {$450,000,000) to provide funds |)r the con-
struction or improvement of faculties of California's
fjul'Iic higher education institutions, ivhich include
'he University of California’s nine campuses, the Cali-
State Uriversity’s 20 campuses, the 71
Jistncts of the California Community Colleges YES
;or ■; ining 107 campuses, Ihc Hastings College
jf .. .* La’ . she California Maritime A#lemy,
o»»s facilities of .!* California State
.■ wd by .he 1 i< vs of ‘It* Cali-
■ v on	•	Jul.	I,	1990.	The

, -r.r u fair act ihclhtfei but S:
i ■ , , t,	' onsti « tion or im-

■r. , 11- inioriM. .utd libraries,

, = u-r, t orthquake and othejf

NO

m

,W for
mil on i

to iievi * |
tfc Yo
cia '.tri- .

,nn O N

5,,'vii :rr ni-
•d V-Ue i

vJStLiti.i

„O.NSTr-{ CTItlN
This act pro-
. Si hundred fifty
.oil' j provide funds
-c safe's ps icons and
ties thr mgh new

YES

NO

ilf

iLlFORNlA HOUSING
190. This act estabiishr-
rsi>. program to address the i ■
i C;;r’ irma by ia) .mthorizinc V-
e I" t-Tiroe Home Buyers T-; v.i
hie - he voter?, of this star ..the

o(

? tv-, rnindn
idt inanrin
lie rm
jay 1 ent.
on bl
dreii fw<

YES

?OND \C'I OF
l comprehensive

ere housing grisls
use of ftindi-friiiit
id of 1982y under

ized .1 bond isstii
iHI,00fUHKl), to pi »•

> fir- t-time homebuyers in
■ eb-.idies ana deferred-
- e i -mortg;ivi loans

nd issue-faf one-ittn*-
dars t$12.MjOO,OOOi
to provide funds for a bousing and rthquakc

safety program that includes " naming
for: (1) the preservation and rehabilitation of
the existing stock of rental housing for familiv-
i- "ivklaiils, including rental housing which mcefc; the
special needs- of the’elderly and disabled. (2. emer-
gency shelters and transitional housing., for inunete*
nilies and individuals. (3) a niultifamily mortgage
loan and bond insurance program, (4) farmworker
musing, and i5| rehabilitation loans- to-enable unrein-
’oreed' masonry rental buildings to withstand
earthquakes.

NO

and

SCHOOL FACILITIES BOND ACT
OF This act provides for a bond-
issue of - : i hundred million dollars
( $SC*0,00‘	■ to provide capital outlay far con-

sttuclior • - .nprovement of public schools.

117 COUNTY CORRECTIONAL FACIEI-
jf# TV CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND
JUVENILE FACILITY BOND ACT OF l99tl.
TTtts act provides for a bond issue of two hun-
dred twenty-five million dollars ($225,000,000)
to provide funds tor the construction, recon-
struction, remodeling, replacement, and de-
ferred maintenance of county correctional facili-
ties and county juvenile facilities.

>701G

►►OVER ►►

SIDE 2

~\

I HAVE VOTED-HAVE YOU?

| HQ WATER RESOURCES B< )ND ACT OF 1990.

1*10 This act provides for a bond issue of three
hundred eighty million dollars <$380,000,000) to pro-
vkle funds for a water resources program and
makes changes in the Water Conservation Bond YES +
l,aw of 1988 relating to administrative fees and
the California Safe Drinking Water Bond Law of
1976 relating to loans.

NO

CALIFORNIA PARK, RECREATION, AND
WILDLIFE ENHANCEMENT ACT OF
1990. This act provides for a bond issue of four __
hundred thirty-seven million dollars YES -f-
($437,000,000) to provide funds for a program
of acquiring, developing, rehabilitating, or re-
storing real property for state and local park,
beach, recreation, grecnbelt. wildland fire pro-
tection, coastal, historic, or museum purposes.

irn COUNTY COURTHOUSE FACILITY CAP-
luU rrAI. EXPENDITURE BOND ACT OF
1990, This act provides for a bond issue of two
hundred million dollars ($200,000,000) to pro-
vide funds for the construction, reconstruction,
remodeling, replacement, and deferred mainte-
nance of countv courthouse facilities.

YES

CHILI) C ARE I- U II ITIES FINANC-
ING VCI OF 1990. I his act provides

151

for a bond issue id thirty million dollars
($30,000,000) to provide funds for child care

facilities.

YES +
NO

COUNTY

EL DORADO COUNTY
INITIATIVE TO REQUIRE COUNTY VOTER APPROVAL
OF BONO FINANCING FOR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

A Shall County Initiative Measure A,
which establishes a requirement for
majority voter approval for certain lease,
purchase or rental agreements in connec-
tion with lease-revenue bonds used to fi-
nance county facilities and improvements,
be enacted?

BONDS  YES	-f
BONDS  NO	+

09-702G

VOTE BOTH SIDES

INITIATIVE TO REQUIRE COUNTY VOTER' APPROVAL
OF BOND FINANCING FOR CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

El Dorado County Measure A

The County Counsel has prepared the following title and summary of the chief
purpose and points <*f toe imposed measure:

INITIATIVE ORDINAf • - to JJIRiNG MAJORF T "IF APPROVAL OF LEASES,
PURCHASE OR R 'i AGREEMENTS IN "L th’iQN WITH REVENUE

BONOS USED TO , .mc.CE COUNTY FACL-.ltC tyiD IMPROVEMENTS

This initiative seeks to establish . >	-	.hat the Board of Supervisors

obtain voter approval before entering •	„	purchase	or	rental contract

agreements with a joint powers entity h, • »e the payments are applied to the
payment of revenue bonds used for the acquisition, construction, or. Improve-
ment of County capital facilities. This measure would require an ordinance to
authorize the issuance of certain leases, purchase or rental agreements used for
lease-revenue bond financing, and further provides the authorizing, ordinance
shall not be effective unless and until approved by a majority of vote®.

Any such ordinance submitted to the voters for approval shall stateln garter#
terms: (1) the property or facilities to be leased, purchased or rented, (2ji ft#:
maximum i-« tor which the lease, purchase or rental agreementshatt
run, anc ty • ■ >. urn amount to be paid by the County of El Dorado to the
joint powi- r ■. or such lease, purchase or rental agreement and tt#
maxitmr- ; . • - m.thty payments to be made thereon.

The irm, ■ -	.	sa> <*s thatfte power reserved to the Board of Supervisors

to modify ant . * cpiW Improvements in connection with the El Dorado
County Bond t. >I case Revenue Bonds (Capital Facilities Project) Series
1990 be passeo « i# voters and that any proposed modifications or substitu-
tions of the capital facilities therein be immediately placed on the ballot for
approval by the voters.

It is the stated intent of the initiative to require the Board of Supervisors to be
accountable and obtain a majority voter approval for any future legislative actions
where lease revenue bond financing is used to finance the acquisition, construc-
tion and improvements of County capital Improvements.

The initiative shat! take effect immediately upon approval of a majority of the
voters and may not be amended or repealed except by majority vote.

It is the intent of this initiative ordinance to require the Board of Supervisors to
be accountable and ootain approval tram the majority of voters of El Dorado
County for any future legislative actions to finance the acquisition, construction
and improvements of capital facilities of the County when they choose to use
lease-revenue bond financing.

This initiative ordinance is not intended to interfere, obstruct or impair any
legislative authority already exercised by the Board of Supervisors on behalf of
the County of El Dorado.

it any provision of this initiative ordinance or the application thereof is held
invalid, that invalidity shall not affect otter provisions or applications of the
ordinance which can he given effect without the invalid provision or application,
and to this end, the provisions of this initiative ordinance are severable.

This ordinance shafi not be amended or repealed except by a majority of the
voters of El Dorado County.

This ordinance shaft take effect upon the date a majority of El Dorado County
voters approve this measure.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE A

THE TEXT OF THE MEASURE Tt * t L, vCTED IS AS FOLLOWS:

The people of the County of El Dorado ordain as follows:

The County of El Dorado may enter into one or more lease, purchase or rental
contract agreements with a joint powers entity: as contemplated by Government
Code Section 6502 and formed for the purposes of accomplishing a project or
projects as defined by Government Code Sections 6545 and. 6546 through the.
issuance of revenue bonds by the joint powers entity only following Wife effective
date of an ordinance adopted by the governing body of the local agency
authorizing the local agency to enter into one or more such leases or rental
contracts or agreements to make payments to be applied to the payment of the
revenue bonds.

For the County of El Dorado any such ordinance adopted to authorize the
issuance of revenue bonds for which the County of Et Dorado intends to contract
to make payment to be applied to the payment of revenue bonds shall not fake
affect until and unless it shall first have been approved by a majority of the voters
of El Dorado County.

The ordinance submitted to the voters shall, in general terms:

(a) Describe the property or facilities to be leased, purchased or rented.

tb) State the maximum time period
contract agreement will run,

(c) State the maximum o. ont tt1 •
joint powers entity unde- 11. ,.se, i
the maximum yearly or r. payr..c.

Furthermore, no authorizing or#,
submitted by the County of El Dorado *
Sections 6547.5 and 6547.6 which
v-i'eements to finance the acquisition,
•ififies of the County unless the rdir.

■uai cor,tract .m
The B-., to : i
ase F • t 6
■ mcip, ■

:<V Uiifsy Vaty.

the Board of S
Tkcaed to pass its
merits approved by
Dorado County and irr
any proposed modifit
therein.

ires its has taken <•
*;r sons has issue
•, : Capital Facifitie
.'6,325,000 for tot
■ - and equiprren
lervisors if El '■

;S0r,Yy(j f.;0';V6f tj) T.‘

i Mo. ' to*
v place o
v subsrife

Resc

for which the ’ease, purchase or rental

■ „ „ by the County of El Dorado to the
t .«■ 11 contract agreement and

.to ___thereon.

to -a	me	m/enue bonds	shall be

•	■ •, ic.ts of Government Code

r ■	'	chase or rental	contract

■	f > • •, r,d improvement of capital
. i ’-i a g such lease, purchase or

i jq ibove.

- " .do County Bond Authority

■	• • ries 1990 in the aggregate

, acquiring, constructing and

•	i ainty of El Dorado.

m w the passage of this initiative
d;ty s ,d wbshtute the capita! improve-
to "'°i / her 5 1989 to the voters of El
i t- '.tow! tor approval or disapproval
sons toe capital facilities contained

Under existing law, the Board of Supervisors may, without voter approval,
enter into certain leases, purchase or rental contract agreements of public
property with joint-powers entities where the payments from the lease or other
agreement are applied to the payment of revenue bonds and tte proceeds from
the revenue bonds are used for the acquisition, construction, or improvement of
County capital facilities and improvements.

A Yes” vote on this measure is a vote in favor of establishing requirements
that the Board of Supervisors must first enact an ordinance to authorize certain
specified leases, purchase or rental agreements and then obtain approval of a
majority of the voters prior to such ordinance becoming effective, before
entering into a lease, purchase or rental contract agreement witt a joint powers
entity where the lease or agreement payments are applied to tte payment of
such revenue bonds and the proceeds from the revenue bonds are used for the
acquisition, construction, or improvement of County capital facilities. Addi-
tionally, the measure requires that the authorizing ordinance set forth in general
terms the property involved, the term of the agreement, and the maximum
amount to be paid by the County under the agreement.

A “No” vote on this measure is a vote against establishing the requirements
as stated above.

During 1989 and 1990, the El Dorado County Board of Supervisors approved
various resolutions,-: ordinances, and other legal instruments in connection with
the issuance of the El Dorado County Bond Authority Lease Revenue Bonds
(Capital Facilities Project) Series 1990 wherein tte power to make modifications
and substitutions of the proposed capital facilities to be financed by tte revenue
bonds was reserved. The proposed measure directs tte Board of Supervisors to
pass its reserved power to modify and substitute tte capital improvements
approved by Resolution 1-89 of December 5,1989 to the voters, and that any
proposed modifications or substitutions of the capital facilities contained therein
be immediately placed on the ballot for approval or disapproval by the voters.

interpretation of this measure’s legal effect will be based, in part, upon the
stated intent of the initiative which is “ ..to require tte Board of Supervisors to
be accountable and obtain approval from the majority of voters of El Dorado
County for any future legislative actions to finance the acquisition, construction
and improvements of capital facilities of the County when they [the Board of
Supervisors] choose to use h	cond	financing...”,	but not “...to

interfere, obstruct or impair -	.	,	uthority	already	exercised by the

Board of Supervisors on behalf of toe -row-iy ’

Use initiative shall ’axe effect immediately upon approval of a majority of
voters and may not he amended or repealed except by majority vote.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Measure A, “the Citizen’s Right to Vote on Revenue Bonds Initiative” came
about because the El Dorado County Board of Supervisors chose to put the Ei
Dorado County taxpayers 30 million dollars into debt, and did so in a way that
avoided a public vote.

Measure A requires one thing: tn die future, if the Board of Supervisors
chooses to enter into an agreement to sell revenue bonds to acquire, con-
struct, purchase or lease County buildings or other capital facilities, they
must put their plans before the voters for final approval.

In late 1989, the El Dorado Board of Supervisors decided to borrow 30
million dollars on the taxpayers credit to construct new County office build-
ings and facilities. They were asked several times to place their plans before
the voters. Each time they chose not to.

This initiative was necessary because foe Board of Supervisors refused to
acknowledge that the voters have a right to participate in major multi-million
dollar decisions and plans which use the taxpayers credit and tax dollars as
payment.

We do not disapprove, at all, of Ei Dorado County using this “lease
revenue bond" funding mechanism in the future.

We just believe that 51 % of the voters should agree to it first.

It is unfortunate that we had to go through this at all, but on multi-million
dollar debt plans, our elected officials should learn to trust that the voters are
quite capable of deciding, if and when, a particular plan is right for them.

s/ Ellen Day. Businesswoman
s/ Bill Center, Businessman
s/ Larry Klaus, El Dorado County
Auditor/Controller

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

If the ballot initiative only dealt with whether or not the county should enter
into leases, that would be one thing, but read the initiative closely. It requires
any modifications or substitutions to be immediately placed before the voters
as well. THAT PLACES THE DAY TO DAY ADMINISTRATION OF CAPITAL
PROJECTS OUT OF CONTROL OF THE BOARD AND WILL COST THE TAX-
PAYERS HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS I- NOT MILLIONS, OF DOLLARS.
Special elections would be required, costing at least $120,000 each. Delays
in projects would occur, causing cost overruns and excess claims.

The Board of Supervisors was elected by the voters of this county to run
the county. They annually adopt a budget r excess of $110 million. Those are
MAJOR MULTI-MILLION OOLLAR decisions we expect the Board to make.
The decision to lease building? was done afier exhaustive study and done
WITHOUT COMMITTING THE CREDIT OF TOE TAXPAYER. THERE ARE NO
TAXES OF: LIENS ON PROPERTY FOR PAYMENT OF THESE BONDS. THE
COUNTY WILL PAY FOR THEM WITH ITS OPERATING REVENUE THAT WE
GIVE THEM EACH YEAR TO RUN THE COUNTv. A vote AGAINST this initiative
is a vote FOP running the county efficiently and in a business like fashion.

The question is not whether or not our elected officials trust the voters. The
question it whether or not our elected officials should be ab'e to do the job we
elected them to do, ALLOW THE BOARD TO MANAGE THE DAY TO DAY
ADMINISTRATION OF COUNTY BUS NFSS. VOTE NO AGAINST MEASURE A.

Sr Duvall Phillips, Businessman
W Roben Sellers, Private Citizen

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

The initiative, as proposed, would have a far-reaching negative financial
impact on the County. If different projects are substituted, or changes or
modifications are necessary for projects already underway, and they am
required to be approved by the voters, timing delays would require the County
to rebate hundreds of thousands of dollars in interest earnings to the Federal
Government and would result in increased construction costs due to inflation.
Additionally, the taxpayer would incur a cost of approximately $120,000 for
each special election held. The total impact into the future may be many
millions of dollars.

The current construction program will allow the County to avoid the drain on
the County treasury associated with the payment of rent. Building-equity
rather than paying rent, is in the best interest of the taxpayer of Ei Dorado
County. The bonds which have already been issued were done so only after
extensive study and hearings by the Board. There was a great deal of public
debate and discussion. The revenue bonds will be paid from the County's
normal operating budget. NO ADDITIONAL TAXES OR LIENS ON PROPERTO
WERE REQUIRii to provide over $30 million in new construction desperate!,
needed. The Boato’s action was a sound business decision which will
ultimately SAVE the taxpayers several million dollars in avoided costs.

Vote “NO" on this ballot measure and vote for the efficient use of taxpayer
dollars.

El Dorado County Board of Supervisors
s/ John N. Cefalu, Chairman

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

The Supervisors claim, in their aifument against Measure A, that it's a bad
idea because, if Measure A passes, delays will cost millions or -follars me
extra elections will be needed to approve any changes in their present
construction plan.

Their argument stretches Wings a bit.

We have three comments:

1)	Measure A includes a provision which requires that future rpangis in their
present bond plan be put to a vote.

The Supervisors’ original plan included $10,000,000 for a new Go
courthouse. After the public hearings ended and aftoi the Isxp,. -
Association lawsuit was dropped, the Supervisors postponed the co
house and put an additional $5,000,000 into their new administratioi,
building...hardly a minor change.

2)	We agree that a special election costs $120,000. This amounts to $2 a
• voter. The Supervisors' $30,000,000 plan amounts to $500 a voter.

A special election would seem prudent to us.

. 3) Our Supervisors knew from public opinion polls and public hearings that
the voters would reject their plan overwhelmingly if given a chance to
vote.

They included the public, but they didn't listen.

If the Supervisors had put their bond plan before the voters, Measure A
wouldn't be before you now.

We respectfully request a “Yes” vote on Measure A.

si Ellen Day, Businesswoman
s/ Bill Center, Businessman
s/ Larry Klaus, El Dorado County
Auditor/Controller

09-52