<full> MEASURE A
AN ORDINANCE OF THE
TULARE COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
TRANSPORTATION, SAFETY AND AIR QUALITY
IMPROVEMENT ORDINANCE
(Full Text of Ordinance No. 1)

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the TULARE COUNTY TRANSPORTATION,
SAFETY AND AIR QUALITY IMPROVEMENT ORDINANCE. This ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of Tulare, which territory shall be referred to
herein as “County”.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. Pursuant to Public Utilities Code Section 180204, “operative date”
means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 120 days after adoption of
this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE, This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To improve, construct, maintain, and operate certain transportation projects and facilities
contained in the TULARE COUNTY TRANSPORTATION, SAFETY AND AIR QUALITY IMPROVEMENT
EXPENDITURE PLAN adopted by the Authority, the Board of Supervisors of Tulare County and a
majority of the Cities containing a majority of the population in the County which plan is incorporated
here by this reference as though fully set forth herein, and as that Plan may be amended from time to
time pursuant to applicable law.

B.	To improve air quality by committing to a study to determine the relationship between
transportation and air quality. The study shall utilize the results, or coordinate with, or supplement
studies presently being conducted by the San Joaquin Valley Basinwide Air Pollution Control Council,
the State of California Air Resources Board and the Tulare County Association of Governments
Transportation Planning Agency.

Section 4. IMPLEMENTATION. The purposes of the ordinance shall be accomplished through the
following:

A.	The imposition of a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code which
authorizes the Tulare County Transportation Authority, hereinafter referred to as the "Authority”, to
adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	The adoption of a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions
are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	The adoption of a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and provides
a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the
existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	The adoption of a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a
manner which will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation
under the provisions of this ordinance.

E.	The establishment of a maximum term of twenty years during which time this tax shall be
imposed pursuant to the authority granted by Section 180201 of the Public Utilities Code.

Section 5. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the Authority shall contract with
the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of
this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the Authority shall not have contracted with
the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such a contract.

Section 6. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at
retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of
the County at the rate of one half of one percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

Section 7. BONDING AUTHORITY. It shall be the intent of the Authority that all projects be
constructed on a pay-as-you-go basis. However, as provided for in Section 180250 of the Public
Utilities Code and upon voter approval of the measure, the Authority or any member agency shall
have the authorization to issue bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax to accelerate the
construction of needed transportation facility improvements when a cost analysis indicates the need
for such bonding. The Authority, in allocating the annual revenues from the measure, shall meet all
debt service requirements of the Authority prior to allocating funds for other projects.

Section 8. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated
at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-
state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 9. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of
one half of one percent of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

Section 10. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this
ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as
though fully set forth herein.

Section 11. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In
adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
the Authority shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the Authority
or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization,
in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance;

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provisions of
that code;

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “County" shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase "retailer engaged
in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 12. PERMIT NO) REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

Section 13. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. For purposes of Article XIIIB of the State Constitution, the
appropriations limit for the Authority shall be $550,000,000.

Section 14. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount
of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county
pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1.	Sales or tangible personal property to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside of the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a point outside the
County, pursuant to the contract of sales, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this
paragraph, delivery to a point outside the County shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles other than commercial vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9850) of the Vehicle Code, by
registration to an out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-
County and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property it the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any
period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease
prior to the operative date of this ordinance,

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in the County of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under
any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time
for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purpose of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other

consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible persona! property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract of lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the County
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or participates within the County in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County
under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the County” shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9850) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to cotiect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the County.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for
a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to
the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the
use tax.

Section 15. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are
not inconsistent with Part 1,6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
ordinance: provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance.

Section 16. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other
legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State,
the Authority or the County, or against any officer of the State, the Authority or the County, to prevent
or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 17. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such
provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 18. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the Authori-
ty's transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Tulare County Transportation Authority, State of California, on July
16,1990, by the following vote:

AYES: Gould, Conway, Pither, Reed, Millard, Miller,

Vanderslice, Blue, Pruitt, Holsher, Perch, Sullivan
NOES: None
ABSENT: Mangine, Blyieven, Zimmerman
ABSTAIN: Cairns

s/ John Conway, Chairman,

Tulare County Transportation Authority

Attest:
s/ Douglas Wilson
Executive Secretary,

Tulare County Transportation Authority <fullend>













<summary> TULARE COUNTY TRANSPORTATION, SAFETY AND AIR
QUALITY IMPROVEMENT EXPENDITURE PLAN
FOR MEASURE A

I.	TITLE

This expenditure plan shall be known as the TULARE COUNTY TRANSPORTATION, SAFETY AND
AIR QUALITY EXPENDITURE PLAN.

II.	PURPOSE

The purpose of this Expenditure Plan is to identify and program transportation, safety and air
quality improvements utilizing revenues from the proposed sales tax increase.

A.	Revenues available for air quality improvements shall be allocated and expended pursuant to
the following distribution and priorities.

1.	Up to $100,000 shall be available for studies to determine the relationship between
transportation and air quality. The study shall utilize the results, or coordinate with, or supplement
studies presently being conducted by the San Joaquin Valley Basinwide Air Pollution Control Council,
the State of California Air Resources Board and/or the Tulare County Association of Governments,
Transportation Planning Agency.

2.	Up to $25,000 per year shall be available to the Tulare County Association of Govern-
ments, Transportation Planning Agency to assist in the development and implementation of a
countywide rideshare program.

3.	Revenues distributed pursuant to Sections II(C) (1) and II(C) (2) shall be available for air
quality improvement projects in each city and the county such as park and ride lots, trip reduction
projects and transportation improvements designed to reduce vehicle emissions through congestion
management.

B.	Revenues available for traffic safety improvements shall be allocated and expended pursuant
to Sections II(C) (1) and II(C) (2) and shall be available for projects in each city and the county such
as traffic signals, roadway realignments, signing and delineation, spot roadway improvements to
reduce traffic collisions, and school area traffic safety improvements.

C.	The revenues available for the construction and improvement of state highways, the
construction, maintenance, improvement, and operation of local streets, roads, and highways, and
the construction, improvement, and operation of public transit systems shall be allocated and
expended pursuant to the following distribution formula and priorities:

1.	Up to ten percent (10%) shall be allocated to augment state and federal funds for State
Highway improvements.

2.	The remaining revenues after the State Highway, the countywide rideshare program and
the air quality distribution, shall be distributed to each local agency on the following basis:

a.	Seventy-five percent (75%) based on total population using the most recent Depart-
ment of Finance population estimates.

b.	Twenty-five percent (25%) based on maintained street and road mileage.

III.	IMPLEMENTATION

This is a ballot measure before the voters of Tulare County. The purposes for which this Plan has
been developed shall be accomplished by this measure. If approved by a majority of the voters, this
measure will increase the sales tax in Tulare County by one half of one percent (1/2%) for a period of
up to twenty (20) years. The revenue generated will provide funding for transportation improve-
ments, safety enhancements and air quality improvements during the period of up to twenty (20)
years.

IV.	AUTHORITY

The Tulare County Association of Governments, Transportation Planning Agency (TCAG/TPA) has
been designated by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Tulare to administer the local option
sales tax should it be approved by the. county’s electors. The Tulare County Association of
Governments, Transportation Planning Agency shall be referred to as the “Authority” herein.

Upon voter approval of the measure, the Authority shall adopt an administrative code by ordinance
which describes the operation and management of the Authority,

V.	PROJECT PROGRAMMING AND MONITORING

The Authority shall annually approve a project list containing a program of projects to be funded
during the succeeding fiscal year with all revenues made available under Section 11(C) herein. The

Authority may amend the program of projects as necessary in accordance with Section X. No
projects shall be funded with the revenues made available under Section 11(C) unless the projects are
in the approved program of projects.

The Authority shall annually authorize that an audit be conducted on all agencies receiving local
option sales tax revenues. An annual report will also be prepared by the Authority

VI.	MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT

It is the intent of the Legislature and the Authority that revenues provided from this measure be
used to supplement existing local revenues being used for the purposes set forth in Section II herein.
Each local agency receiving revenues pursuant to Section 11(C) shall annually maintain as a minimum
the same level of local discretionary revenues allocated for street and road purposes as was reported
in the State Controller’s Annual Report of Financial Transactions for Streets and Roads - Fiscal Year
1989-90 (Maintenance of Effort requirement). If any local agency had extraordinary local discretion-
al revenues allocated during FY 1989-90, it may use, as a base for determining the minimum level
of local discretionary revenues, the average amount of such revenues reported to the State Controller
for the three-year period FY 1987-88 through FY 1989-90. The use of a three-year average for the
base period shall be subject to Authority approval.

Local discretionary revenues that are no longer made available for the local agency shall not be
included in the Maintenance of Effort funding level. The Authority shall not allocate any revenues
pursuant to Section 11(C) to any eligible agency in any fiscal year until that local agency has certified
to the Authority the extent to which the Maintenance of Effort requirement shall be included in its
budget. Any local agency which does not certify that it will meet its entire Maintenance of Effort
requirement in any given year shall have its funding under Section 11(C) reduced that year by the
amount by which the agency will not meet its level of Maintenance of Effort requirement.

An annual independent audit shall be conducted to verify that the level of the Maintenance of Effort
certified by the agency was met. If any audit indicates that any local agency does not meet its certified
level of Maintenance of Effort in any given year it shall have its funding under Section 11(C) reduced in
the following year by the amount by which the agency did not meet its certified level of Maintenance
of Effort.

Any local street and road revenues not allocated pursuant to the Maintenance of Effort requirement
shall be redistributed to the remaining eligible agencies according to the formula described in Section
11(C).

VII.	PRIVATE SECTOR FUNDING

Revenues provided from this measure shall not be used to replace private developer funding which
has been or will be committed for any project.

VIII.	ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES

Revenues may be expended by the Authority for salaries, wages, benefits, overhead, auditing and
those services including contractual services necessary to administer the Ordinance; however, in no
case shall such expenditures exceed one percent of the annual revenues provided by the measure.
Costs of performing or contracting for project related work shail be paid from the revenues allocated
to the appropriate purpose as set forth in Section II herein. An annual independent audit shall be
conducted to assure that the revenues expended by the Authority under this section are necessary
and reasonable in carrying out its responsibilities under the Ordinance.

IX.	ESTABLISHMENT OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS

Each agency receiving funds pursuant to Section II shall provide for appropriate accounting
procedures to properly account for these funds for auditing purposes. Interest earned on funds
allocated pursuant to this Ordinance shall be expended only for those purposes for which the funds
were allocated.

X.	AMENDMENTS

This Expenditure Plan may be amended annually by a resolution approved by two-thirds of the
membership of the Authority. Prior to voting for a revision, the Authority shall conduct a public
hearing after a minimum of fourteen days public notice and shall make findings on the record that the
proposed revisions meet the intent of the Ordinance and that the revisions reflect changes in
conditions. Any agency requesting to add projects to this Plan must make a declaration that the street
and road maintenance needs within the agency are being adequately addressed.

Continued on Next Page

MEASURE A TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN - Continued

XI.	STREET AND ROAD MAINTENANCE

Maintenance of the existing county road and city street systems shall be a high priority throughout
the period of this Plan. Each agency has invested heavily in its existing transportation system and that
investment, along with future investments, must be protected. All agencies will be required to
program maintenance funds from revenues received pursuant to Section 11(C) of this Plan.

Xil. TRANSIT

All agencies will be required to provide discount senior citizen and handicapped transit fares at
least equal to 50% of the regular fares, rounded to a fare which is reasonable to collect. All
discounted fare programs to senior citizens and the handicapped as provided for in this plan will
remain in effect, on the condition that a minimum farebox ratio required by the Transportation
Development Act is maintained. All new unmet transit need requests must also demonstrate the
ability to meet the required minimum farebox ratio, in cases where the discounted fares result in
farebox ratios below the required minimums, revenues from the local option sales tax may be used to
either increase fare revenues or fund entire transit systems.

XIII.	PROJECTS

The following program of projects includes candidate projects for maintenance and new facility
construction on State Highways, and on local streets and roads. These projects will be completed as
estimated revenues become available. The actual delivery of these projects is subject to the amount
of revenues received by the Authority. After revenues are distributed to each agency, the amounts
programmed for either maintenance or new facility construction, will vary according to the needs of
each agency.

STATE HIGHWAYS

Up to 10% of the revenues will be used to encourage the State to fully fund the following projects:

ROUTE	FROM	TO	PROJECT DESCRIPTION
SH 65	SH 137	SH 198	Upgrade facility
SH 65	At North Grand Ave.	(Porterville)	Construction of interchange
SH 99	Kern Co. Line	SH 198	Widening to six fanes
SH 99	SH 198	Fresno Co. Line	Widening to six lanes
SH 198	Kings Co. Line	SH 99	Widening to four lanes
SH 198	SH 99	SH 63	Completion of freeway

CITY OF DiNUBA

MAINTENANCE
Maintenance and Rehabilitation of City Streets
TRANSIT

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares
TRANSPORTATION AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS

STREET/AVENUE	FROM	TO

Alta Ave.	El Monte Way	S.P.R.R.

Alta Ave.

Alta Ave.

El Monte Way
Tulare St.
Crawford Ave.
Alta Ave.

At Kamm Ave.

At Nebraska Ave.
Alta Ave.

Alta Ave.

El Monte Way

S.P.R.R.

Tulare St.
S.P.R.R.
Nebraska Ave.
Kamm Ave.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Widening & Reconstruction, incl.
signals upgrade @ El Monte
Traffic Signal Installation
Traffic Signal installation
Widening & Reconstruction
Reconstruction
Widening & Reconstruction
Widening & Reconstruction

COUNTY ROAD	FROM	TO	PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Road 80 (Alta Ave.)	Ave. 308	Ave. 408	Reconstruction to four lanes
Road 80  Air Quality Studies Rideshare Programs	Ave. 420	Ave. 432	Reconstruction to four lanes
Reduction of Vehicle	Emissions through Congestion Management		

CITY OF EXETER

MAINTENANCE
Maintenance and Rehabilitation of City Streets
TRANSIT

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares
TRANSPORTATION AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Traffic Signal Installation
Resurfacing

Resurfacing

STREET/AVENUE
Rocky Hill Dr.
Palm St./

Visalia Rd.
Industrial Dr.

FROM
At SH 65
SH 65

Firebaugh Ave.

TO

Belmont Rd.
Glaze Ave.

COUNTYWIDE PROJECTS WHICH BENEFIT THE CITY OF EXETER

ROUTE	FROM	TO	’	PROJECT	DESCRIPTION

SH 65	SH	137	SH198	Upgrade	facility

Air Quality Studies
Rideshare Programs

Reduction of Vehicle Emissions through Congestion Management

CITY OF FARMERSVILLE

MAINTENANCE
Maintenance and Rehabilitation of City Streets

TRANSIT

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares
TRANSPORTATION AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Reconstruction
Widening to four lanes
Reconstruction
Signal Installation

STREET/AVENUE
Petunia St.

Ave. 288
N. Ventura Ave.
Farmersvlile Bivd.

FROM

Farmersville Blvd.
Farmersville Blvd.
Petunia St.

At Ash St.

TO

Ventura Ave.
City Limits
Ave. 288

CQUNTYWIDE PROJECTS WHICH BENEFIT THE CITY OF FARMERSVILLE

Air Quality Studies
Rideshare Programs

Reduction of Vehicle Emissions through Congestion Management

Continued on Next Page

CITY OF LINDSAY

MAINTENANCE
Maintenance and Rehabilitation of City Streets
TRANSIT

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares
TRANSPORTATION AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS

STREET/AVENUE	FROM	TO	PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Mariposa St.	SH 65	Mt. Vernon Ave.	Reconstruction
Elmwood Ave.	Tulare Rd.	Mirage Ave.	Reconstruction
Honolulu St.	Olive Ave.	Harvard Ave.	Reconstruction
Mirage Ave.	Tulare Rd.	Lindmore Ave.	Reconstruction
Hermosa St.	SH 65	Homasseli Ave.	Reconstruction
Tulare Rd.	SH 65	Foothill Ave.	Reconstruction
Various Arterial and Collector Streets Various Intersections			Reconstruction and Widening Traffic Safety Improvements

COUNTYWIDE PROJECTS WHIGH BENEFIT THE CITY OF LINDSAY

ROUTE	FROM	TO	PROJECT	DESCRIPTION

SH 65	SH137	SH198	Upgrade facility

Air Quality Studies
Rideshare Programs

Reduction of Vehicle Emissions through Congestion Management

CITY OF PORTERVILLE

MAINTENANCE
Maintenance and Rehabilitation of City Streets
TRANSIT

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares
TRANSPORTATION AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS

STREET/AVENUE	FROM	TO	PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Plano St.	SH 190	Date Ave.	Road & Bridge Widening to four lanes
Main St.	At Tuie River		Bridge Replacement
Jaye St.	SH 190	Date Ave.	Road & Bridge Widening to four lanes
Olive Ave.	"H” St.	Westwood St.	Resurfacing
Henderson Ave.	Main St.	Indiana St.	Resurfacing
SH 190	At Main St.		interchange Improvement
Newcomb St.	At Henderson Ave.		Traffic Signal Installation
Newcomb St.	At Morton Ave.		Traffic Signal Installation
Olive Ave.	At Westwood St.		Traffic Signal Installation
Plano St.	At Date Ave.		Upgrade Traffic Signal

COUNTYWIDE PROJECTS WHICH BENEFIT THE CITY OF PORTERVILLE

ROUTE	FROM	TO

SH 65	At North Grand Ave.

Air Quality Studies
Rideshare Programs

Reduction of Vehicle Emissions through Congestion Management

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Construction of interchange

CITY OF TULARE

MAINTENANCE
Maintenance and Rehabilitation of City Streets
TRANSIT

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares
TRANSPORTATION AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS

STREET/AVENUE	FROM	TO	PROJECT DESCRIPTION
West St.	Inyo Ave.	Prosperity Ave.	Reconstruction
Bardsiey Ave.	"K" St.	West St.	Reconstruction
(North portion	At S.P.R.R.		Construction of
of Community) Tulare Ave.	At "0” St.		at-grade crossing Traffic Signal Modification
Blackstone St.	Paige Ave.	"K” St.	Street Construction
Prosperity Ave.	At SH 99		Interchange Modification
Tulare Ave. (SH 137) Tulare Ave.	At SH 99		Interchange Modification
	”M" St.	Blackstone St.	Reconstruction
SH 99 •	At Cross Ave.		Overcrossing Construction

COUNTYWIDE PROJECTS WHICH BENEFIT THE CITY OF TULARE

Aif Quality Studies
Rideshare Programs

Reduction of Vehicle Emissions through Congestion Management

CITY OF VISALIA

MAINTENANCE
Maintenance and Rehabilitation of City Streets

TRANSIT

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares

TRANSPORTATION AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS

STREET/AVENUE	FROM	TO
Mooney Blvd. (SH 63)	Caldwell Ave.	SH 198
Caldwell Ave.	Shady In.	Divisadero St.
Walnut Ave.	Yale Ln.	Divisadero St.
Tulare Ave.	Crowe Ave.	Central St.
Goshen Ave.	Plaza Dr.	Mooney Blvd.
Houston Ave. (SH 216)	Santa Fe Ave.	McAuiiff Rd.
Caldwell Ave.	Divisadero St.	Lovers Lane
Court St.	Walnut Ave.	North of Tulare Ave.
Road 144 (McAuiiff Rd.)	At St. John’s River	

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Reconstruction to six lanes

Additional thru & turning
lanes @ Mooney Bivd.
Additional thru & turning
lanes @ Mooney Blvd.
Additional thru & turning
lanes @ Mooney Blvd.

Reconst, to four lanes (div'd.),

& signals @ major intersections
Reconstruction to four lanes

Reconst, to four lanes (div’d.),

& signals @ major intersections
Reconstruction to four lanes

Bridge Widening
(Funding shared with
County of Tulare)

Continued on Next Page

ROUTE	FROM	TO	PROJECT DESCRIPTION

SH198	SH 99	SH	63	Completion of freeway

Air Quality Studies
Rideshare Programs

Reduction of Vehicle Emissions through Congestion Management

CITY OF WQODLAKE

MAINTENANCE
Maintenance and Rehabilitation of City Streets
TRANSIT

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares
TRANSPORTATION AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS

STREET/AVENUE
Pepper St.
Walnut St.

Acacia St.

Pepper St.
Sequoia Ave.

FROM

Naranjo Bivd.
Naranjo Blvd.
Sequoia Ave.
Sequoia Ave.
Cypress St.

TO

Lake View Ave.
Whitney Ave.
Kaweah St.
Kaweah St.
Valencia Blvd.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION

Reconstruction

Reconstruction

Reconstruction

Reconstruction

Reconstruction

COUNTYWIDE PROJECTS WHICH BENEFIT THE CITY OF WQODLAKE

Air Quality Studies
Rideshare Programs

Reduction of Vehicle Emissions through Congestion Management

COUNTY OF TULARE

MAINTENANCE

Maintenance and Rehabilitation of County Roads and Bridges
(75% of funds received will be spent on Maintenance)
TRANSIT

Reduction of Senior Citizen and Handicapped Transit Fares
TRANSPORTATION AND SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS

COUNTY ROAD	FROM	TO	PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Road 108 {Blackstone St.)	Ave. 242	Ave. 280	Reconstruction to four lanes
Road 80 (Alta Ave.)	Ave. 308	Ave. 408	Reconstruction to four lanes
Road 80 Road 144 (McAuliff Rd.)	Ave. 420  At St. John’s River	Ave. 432	Reconstruction to four lanes Bridge Widening (Funding shared with City of Visalia)

COUNTYWIDE PROJECTS WHICH BENEFIT THE COUNTY OF TULARE

Air Quality Studies
Rideshare Programs

Reduction of Vehicle Emissions through Congestion Management

XIV.	COUNTYWIDE TRAFFIC MODEL

Within three (3) years of the approval of this measure, the Authority shall adopt a countywide
computerized traffic model and data base which shall be used throughout the county to determine the
quantitative impacts of traffic generated by new development on regional transportation systems.
This shall not preclude any local agency from developing its own in-house traffic model as long as the
regional trips shown on the local agency model are consistent with the model adopted by the
Authority. The Authority may expend no more than $100,000 in the development of the model. The
Authority shall adopt any acceptable regional model developed pursuant to State law, or by the Tulare
County Association of Governments, Transportation Planning Agency, rather than incurring the
expense of an independent model.

XV.	APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

A spending limit is established not to exceed the amount of $550,000,000.00, during the 20-year
period of this Plan.

AGENCY APPROVAL

The Expenditure Plan must be approved by a majority of the incorporated cities which represent a
majority of the incorporated population. The County of Tulare, which represents the unincorporated
area of the county, must also appfove the Expenditure Plan.

The following agencies named below, hereby approve the TULARE COUNTY TRANSPORTATION,
SAFETY AND AIR QUALITY IMPROVEMENT EXPENDITURE PUN.

CITY/COUNTY
CITY OF DINUBA
CITY OF EXETER
CITY OFFARMERSVILLE
CITY OF LINDSAY
CITY OF PORTERVILLE
CITY OF TULARE
CITY OF VISALIA
CITY OF WOODUKE
COUNTY OFTUURE

s/ John de la Montanya
s/ Alvin B. Miller
s/ Al Vanderslice
s/ Paul A. Lencioni
s/Theodore G. Ensslin
s/ Maurice M. Green
s/ Donald R. Duckworth
s/ Gerard J. Blyleven
s/ Gary Reed
<summaryend>












<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

MEASURE A

Measure A calls for voter approval of the Tulare County Transportation, Safety and Air Quality
improvements Ordinance (hereinafter called the “Ordinance”) adopted by the Tulare County Trans-
portation Authority (hereinafter called the “Authority”). The Ordinance provides for the implementation of street, road, highway, other related transportation, safety and air quality projects and
improvements in Tulare County under the Tulare County Transportation, Safety and Air Quality
Improvement Expenditure Plan (hereinafter called the “Expenditure Plan”) as approved by the Tulare
County Board of Supervisors and the City Councils of the Cities within Tulare County.

To finance such projects and improvements, the Ordinance imposes a one half percent (1/2%)
countywide retail transaction and use tax in the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Tulare
County for a period not to exceed twenty (20) years. The proceeds of the tax shall be used to
supplement and not replace existing local revenues used for transportation, safety and air quality
improvement purposes and shaft be used only in accordance with the Expenditure Plan.

The Ordinance authorizes the Authority to issue bonds to assist in financing the proposed projects
and improvements, which bonds will be payable from the proceeds of the tax, and the Ordinance
establishes the Constitutional appropriations limit for the Authority.

The Ordinance will duly become effective if approved by a majority vote of the electors voting on
Measure A. If Measure A is approved, the Ordinance will become effective on November 6,1990 and
collection of the retail transaction and use tax will commence on April 1,1991.

If Measure A is not approved, the Authority will not be authorized to levy a retail transactions and
use tax or to issue limited tax bonds for the above-stated purposes.

This Measure has no effect on the existing law. The electors who will be entitled to vote on the
measure will be those qualified electors who reside within the boundaries of the County of Tulare. <impartialend>










<impartialsigs> LITA O’NEILL BLATNER
County Counsel
By: Julia J. Roberts
Deputy County Counsel <impartialsigsend>









<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

It wasn't too long ago that valley travelers knew when they crossed into Tulare County. Our roads
and streets were markedly better than those of surrounding counties. Sadly, this is not the case
today. And the costs of allowing the deterioration to continue are coming out of the pocketbooks of
every single resident.

Driving on poorly maintained roads costs each of us $320 every year in auto maintenance. Driving
on roads without adequate turn lanes and signals adds significantly to our air pollution. Driving on
bridges and overcrossings that need repair increases the risk of serious accidents.

Passage of Measure A is the only way we can adequately maintain and improve our roads and
streets. State and federal highway money is harder to get every year and does not begin to address
our maintenance needs.

Every half-penny raised by Measure A will stay in Tulare County and Tulare County people will
decide where it should be spent. Our cities can't use any of this new money to replace their current
budgets for streets and roads. Developers will also have to keep paying their fair share.

A yes vote for Measure A means:

*	Increased traffic safety;

*	Reduced costs for car maintenance;

*	New money to match state and federal highway funds;

*	Improved air quality by reducing traffic congestion;

*	Reduced transit fares for senior and handicapped citizens.

Measure A is needed to pay for maintenance that will cost us even more if delayed and for
improvements to our transportation system critical to maintaining our economy and our overall
quality of life. A one-half of one percent sales tax which expires automatically in 20 years is estimated
to cost each person about $20 per year,

We think this is an investment we can’t afford not to make. Please join us-vote yes on Measure A. <favorend>









<favorsigs> s/ Glenn Stanton, Past President,

Visalia Chamber of Commerce
s/ Dean Hall, Tulare County Superintendent
of Schools

s/ Rex Mainord, Active Senior Leader, Porterville
s/ John de la Montanya, Mayor, Dinuba <favorsigsend> 









NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

