OCT — 1 l — y ti

T H

REGISTRATION ELECTION

F=- - Ci 2

U 1 4 = S S

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

CITY OF EAST PALO ALTO

MEASURE F

“Shall the City dI’ East Palo Alto be authorized to levy a construction tax in an amoum equal to one dollar and iiity cents ($1.50)
per square ‘not of any newly constructed building within the City, such tax to be collected at the time a budding permit nt issued,
with exemptions from the tax being provided for alterations and improvements of existing residential structurec mu or replacement
"f damaged or destroyed residential structures?’'

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE "F”

Measure “F‘ would impose a general construction tax on any newly
constructed buildings in the C’ity The tax would be levied at ihe rale
oi $| 50 per square foot of the new structure and would be paid at the
umc a building permit is issued for the project. The tax would be
applied to newly constructed residential, commercial and industrial
buildings However, no construction tax would be charged For any
.ihrruiions or improvements to existing residential structures or any
replacement of damaged or destroyed residential structures, This exemp-
tion for alteration, improvement or replacement of existing residential
siniourcN would apply to both single family dwellings and multi-family
units;, whether owned or rented,

Ihe revenue from the construction tax would be used for payment
oi general municipal expenses of the City of East Palo Alto.

“Yes" vote iv a vote m favor uf the construction tax; a “No"
•	-	-■	v ne against the tax The proposed construction tax musi be

,iprt cd by a majority of the voters voting upon Measure “F“.
hi Harold S. Toppcl

Mast Palo Alto City Attorney

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF EAST PALO ALTO
IMPOSING A GENERAL CONSTRUCTION TAX ON NEWLY
CONSTRUCTED BUILDINGS
(FULL TEXT)

The City Council of the City of Rust Palo Alto hereby
ordains as follows*

>l.CHUN I; Purpose and Intent

rhere is hereby established and imposed a construction tax in the
amount set forth in this Ordinance for the purpose of raising revenues
fi't tfv general governmental purposes of the City of East Palo Alto
A* 1! of the proceeds of the tax levied under this Ordinance Shall be
pl'iced in the City's general fund
SFCTION 1:	Definitions

For the purposes of this Ordinance, the following words and phrases
mall have (he meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section,
unles* the context or ihe provision clearly requires otherwise:

fa) Building means any structure used or intended for supposing
oi- sheltering any use or occupancy.

1 hi Construct means to put together, assemble, erect or alter any
materials, components or modules into a structure or portion of a struc-
ture and shall include the moving and locating of any building or
portion thereof onto a parcel of land.

u) Floor area means the total floor space under roof of all Doors
o! h building measured to the outside surfaces of exterior walls, includ-
ing hulls, stairways, shafts, ducts, service and mechanical equipment
moms, and areas capable of being used, as determined by the City
(d) Structure means that which is built or constructed, an edifice
butiding of any kind, or any piece of work amftcaiiy built up or
composed of pans joined together m some definite manner
SECTION 3:	Imposition	of	Tax;	Rate

ui) Imposition of tax- A tax is hereby imposed upon every person
w ho Constructs or causes to be constructed any building or struciurc in
the Citv in which such person has an equity or title or Ollier interest,
as owner, lessee or otherwise

implementing tms Ordinance, the City Council *mv adrp* regulations
to establish methods and procedures for deter*) nmng the Door area
subject to taxation hereunder.

SECTION 4:	Exemptions	frcun Fax

No tax shall be imposed under this Ordinance n re* ol ttu- follow-
ing cases:

(a) The alteration, improvement nr remodeling of ny existing
■ evidential structure; or

(h) The reconstruction of b residential structure dam. j nr de-
stroyed by fire or other casualty, or

(c > Any construction performed by any govern me nu< agency; or
(d) Any construction performed by any person when the imposition
Of a tax on that person would be m violation of the Cor ronaon of the
United States or the Constitution of the State of California
SFCTION 5; Time of Payment

The tax imposed by (Itrv Ordinance shall L* . oiler v j .a ic lime
;i building permit is issued for construction of the nnprmciKru which
are the subject of the tax.

SECTION ft Refunds

In ttie event a building permit is iv.ucd and sue!; pom, mereaftcr
expires or is cancelled without any construe nor, work mAmg heen
performed thereunder, an amount equal to seventy-five percent -,75%)
of the tax paid for issuance of such permit .shall be refunded without
interest, to the person who paid the lax. or his vuccessn; m interest,
upon application for such refund being filed within sixty v6(>) days after
the date of expiration or cancellation of 'he building pet mil failure lo
apply for a refund wilhin the time presented hcrciii shail constitute a
waiver of the right to a partial refund of mc ms.

SECTION 7. Severability

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase m ims Ordi-
nance is for rmy reason held by et court of competent junsdicuon to he
invalid or unconstitutional such decision shall not titlcm the validity
of the remaining portions of this Ordinance, The City Council of the
City of Hast Palo Alto hereby declares that it weald ha-; reused this
Ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase
thereof, irrespective ol the fact :hai one or more sections. wee lions,
sentences, clauses or phrases may be held invalid oi oikatwiuiional.
SECTION 8; Effective Date

This Ordinance shall take effect inaneJiaiaiy upo-i mpmvbI by tt
majority of the votes east by voters voting upon tie pr j.o'miun that
this Ordinance be adopted, in accordance wuii Section of the
California Government Code, m u special election to be held on
November 6, I WO

W	+	*	+

"The above and foregoing Ordinance was passed tine adopted at a
special meeting of the City Council of the City of bast ?a'.o Alto held
on ihe 'vth day oi August, I WO by the fellow mg vole.

AYF.S:	Johnson. Moutor., Bostic, \mc.x

NOF.S	Coats

ABSENT; None

ATTEST'

William vi:ics
MAYOR

(b| Tax rate. The rate of the tax imposed by this Oidinanee shall
be one dollar and fifty cents ($1.50) per square loot oi floor area of
(he building or improvements to be constructed. For the purpose of

Siaii 1cy Hail
CITY CLERK

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

The proposed Construct ton Tax Oref nance is a one-time tax of $1,50
(■■'Tie doiijr are fiftv cents? get square too; On *!! newiy-cops’.i-uelud
buildings or improvements in the City. It is designed ro ensure iha; (he
G ■) hojioins direct; • fivm unucipated Redevelopment uno cthx cen-
stiisrikt jetiviiv si,ned to occur m the near future
1 hi' i.iv dix"- not at fee. nor wilt any be imposed on homeowner m
connection won the following construction activity:

The alteration, improvement, or re-modeling of any existing res
idcntiul structure;

2 The reconstruction of a resident ml structure damaged or destroyed
by fire oi wirier casualty
Ks-r-i upon cument projections, it has been conservatively estimated
11.ii between 500.000 \u 1.2 million square feet of new construction
v. ,i. mkc place in the City over the next five years; thats approximately
Si ii million dollars in new revenue for the City, revenue that can be
e■ v J ro enhance existing services or create new programs fur needs not
t .-iTetuly being met

Cost cities m the State of California already collect this tax and, for

; vibes ih.it urc experiencing growth, it can represent a significant
v i x >if iddmnnal revenue Developers expect to pay this type of tax
u.i, other fees, and understand that they are designed to compensate
emex fur added demands on police, streets, and other services provided

by the C't>

Wo urge you to vote “YES” on Measure F.

DATP.I)	August 30,	1990	Williams Vines, Mayor
	August 30.	1990	John Bostic, Vice-Mayor
	August 3o,	1990	Pat Johnson, Councilmcmber
	August 30.	1990	Barbara Mouton. Council member

NO ARGUMENT SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE F

17