City of Martinez

525 Henrietta Street. Martinez, CA 94553-2394

NOTICE OF ELECTION
AND THE NOTICE FIXING AUGUST 17, 1990 AS FINAL DATE TO SUBMIT ARGUMENTS
AND THE NOTICE FIXING AUGUST 27, 1990 AS FINAL DATE TO SUBMIT REBUTTALS
ON ORDINANCE PROPOSING THE IMPOSITION OF AN EXCISE TAX FOR THE AVAILABILITY AND
PRIVILEGE OF USE OF CERTAIN MUNICIPAL FACILITIES MEASURE
IN THE ELECTION ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1990, THE CITY OF MARTINEZ

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that an Ordinance proposing the imposition of an Excise
Tax for the availability and privilege of Use of certain Municipal Facilities
Measure Election will be held by the City of Martinez on Tuesday, November 6,
1990.

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN by the City Clerk of the City of Martinez, pursuant to
Election Code Sections 5014.5 and 5015 that the above dates are hereby fixed as
the final dates on which arguments for, against, and rebuttals for the
following Measure appearing on the Ballot for an Ordinance proposing the
imposition of an Excise Tax for the availability and privilege of Use of
certain Municipal Facilities Election may be submitted to the City Clerk at 525
Henrietta Street, Martinez, California 94553, for printing and distribution to
the voters as provided by law:

"Shall Ordinance No. 1153 C.S. of the City of Martinez adopted
by the City Council of the City of Martinez on August 1, 1990,
be approved in order to authorize (1) the acquisition,
construction, improvement and equipping of certain municipal
facilities, consisting of a community/emergency services center
and City Hall, and (2) the imposition of an excise tax for the
availability and privilege of use of said facilities not to
exceed the rates set forth in the Ordinance and for a period not
to exceed thirty (30) years7"

No argument may exceed three hundred (300) words in length, and rebuttal
arguments may not exceed two hundred and fifty (250) words in length, and all
arguments must be accompanied by the statement required by Section 5350 of the
California Elections Code.

The polling hours will be between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 8:00 P.M.

Dated:	August	2,	1990

GUS S. KRAMER
City Clerk

YES

^ NO

by:

ORDINANCE NO. 1153 C.S.

AN ORDINANCE OK THE CITY OF MARTINEZ
PROPOSING THE IMPOSITION OF AN EXCISE TAX
POR THE AVAILABILITY AND PRIVILEGE
OP USE OP CERTAIN MUNICIPAL FACILITIES
AND ORDERING THE SUBMISSION OP A PROPOSITION
THEREFOR TO THE ELECTORATE OP THE CITY

THE CITY COUNCIL OP THE CI7V OF MARTINEZ DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS.

ARTICLE I

DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTIOK

SECTION 1.01. tfrflni.ti.OPi. Unless the context otherwloe requires,
the tens defined in this Section 1.01 for all purposes of this Ordinance
and of any amendment thereto a hall have the Meanings herein specified.

"City* means the City of Martinez.

'Council* Mans the City Council of the city.

'Facilities* aeana the municipal facilities generally referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Ordinance and includes a new ecu—unity/emergency
services center and the refvrbiahment, relocation or replace—ent of City
Nall. Facilities shall be de—ted available and susceptible of use within
th» Meaning of the term 'availability and privilege of use*, at used in
this Ordinance, when such facilities exist and are available for use during
any portion of the fiscal year next preceding the levy of the Tax.

'Person' inclm as any person, firm, association, organisation,
partnership, business trust, corporation ur company, but does not include
any Municipal or public corporation.

*Im* Meant the excise tax proposed to be imposed by this Ordinance,
more particularly described in Section 2.01 of this Ordinance.

"Tsx	tr. -^ns the Administrative Services Director of the

CU*.

'for Oode’*	ti at u?e code '.dentiMed by CniUra Co.-t.* equity for

euch of-rai locace*'	Juch	Ccm..*,	as	e<*oh	su'd*. use code ^a set forth

in Fxt;ib.,.«. A (t. .:.t ueto,

* l.CF. Rules oi Cotta*ruction. All refer-nces iii this

U«*i.Qancv co Articles*. 'ftetior. • and other buhdJLvlsxona are tc the
corresponding Article**, Section! o- subdivision.. of this Ordinance; and . ae
w rda ‘ierri ji*, "lur. ’herenri«r*. ana ot hor wordc or. s.taJLlar import
ref r ,c this Ordinance as a vhol:* and not *•> cr.\ particular Article,
section or vibdivJsicn he-"of.

n

Words o£ th«) omil'uIin9 gender shall be deemed and construed to
include 'orrelative words of the feminine and neuter genders. Unless the
context e.tall otherwise indicate, words impottlnR the singular number shall
include the plural number and vice versa, and words importing persons shall
include corporations ana associations, as veil as natural persons

Section 1.03. Benefit to all Persons. The Council has found and
determined and hereby declares that all yersoiii residing and doing business
in the City enjoy the privilege of using anil benefit froar thu providing, by
(he City, of municipal facilities, including, without limitation, the
Facilities.

Section 1.0*. Intent of Council. The Jencrvlnation of the Tax in
thi . Ordinance aa an excisa tax snail not be deemed conclusive. The Tax la
not (a) a property tax, ad valorem or otherwise, vb) e transaction tax, (c)
a talas tax on real property or {d) a special tax. It ia intended to
operate as an axels# tax impoeed as a revenue measure for the availability
and privilege of uae of municipal facilities, including the Facilities, but
the Council declares that it would have adopted the Ordinance and imposed
the Tex ever, though it may be determined that the levy ie in lew not en
excise but some other form c.f taxation which may be lawfully Imposed by the
City.

ARTICLE II
IMPOSITION OF TAX

Section 2.01. Imposition o£ Tax. The Council hereby propose# the
imposition of an excise tax for the availability and privilege of use of
certain municipal facilities and aervicas hereinafter described, and for
othar ganaral governmental purposea; said excise tax shall be known as the
■City Hell and Community Canter/Emergency Servicea Tax* and la hereinafter
referred to es the "Tax*.

Section 2.02. Municipal Facilities■ Said municipal facllitias ehall
conaist of (a) a new coanunity/emergency servicea center fur housing
recreational classes, community events and emergency services activities
(i.e., pollc. facilities), and (b) the refurbishment, relocation or
repla :eamnt of Cl y L:ll, -r*d arc :»er-»*r» ; dlscU	referred to as the

'Facilities *.

Section 2.r*3.	lmo~fl ^ates. Ihe Tax ah.il be paid by .11

residing and d-uup hue:.ness in tha rxty at not to exceed the foil wing

raise:

-2-

4

1

	Assessee	Use Codes	Tax
a 5	as fn owners of single- family resldentisl units	11 -1'«. »3	560.00 per residential umt  per year
b)	at to owners of multi- family residential units	21 -24,25	$44.00 per residential unit per jear
c)	ae to jwners of apartment units	25-2.8	$23.00 per rental unit, per year
d)	as to owners of cacznercial and other properties	31-36,41-49  51-56	$0.01 per square foot of parcel
All unimproved parcels and all parcels than those set forth in the preceding table			identified with Use Codes other are exempt from the Tax.
	Section 2.04. Methods of	Collection.	The Tax constitutes a debt owed

by the person* identified in Section 1.03 t .> the City which is extinguished
only by payment of the amount of the Tail at the times and in the manner
herein provided.

Collection of the tax shali ba accomplished by direct, periodic billing
or other appropriate means.

The City may modify or amend the methods of collection herein set forth
to clarify any ambiguity or uncertainty therein or to render the collection
of tha Tax more effective or to minimize or ameliorate inequities or to
provide a more efficient method of collection now or hereafter provided by
law.

Section 2.05. Duration. The Tex shall be levied for a maximum of
thirty (30) years from the date of Its first Imposition.

ARTICLE III
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

Section 3 01. Pules and Regulariona. The Tax Administrator shall have
power to	adopt -ules and regulations	inconsistent with	the provilions

of th-	Ordinance for	tha purpose cf	c-.rryirg out and	enforcing the

payaern.. collectxou and remittance of tne Tn- heidLn imposed; and a copy of
such ruler, and regulations shall be on tile and rvailaMe ‘or public
examination in the Tax	Administrator’s	Office. Failure	or refusal to

co^ly	any rules	and regulations	pnmulgated under	this Ordinance

shall ba a. ^smed a violation thereof.

tion 3.02 Kxemotlop. Nothing in this Ordinance shall be constiued
as i	^ng «t tax upon any person if iauKJsit. of such tax upon that

person juld ne it violation ot the Constitution of the United Spates or
the Constitution of tha State of California.

«c*.Lio.i 3.01 Assessment. : Admfnlstrative Remedy. The Tsx Adrainistrntor
j makt an segment, tor raxes not id or remit te.I by a person required
, n pay or trait	The Tax Adminittratoi shall prepare a notice cf the

assessment am" r>i a public hearing thereon which shall refer briefly to the
amount of the taxes and penalties imposed and the ti»e and place where such
intiiiMnt is payable and of the public hearing which shall be submitted to
the Council for confirmation or aodlfitaticn. The Tax Administrator shall
mail a copy of such notice to the person taxed at least ten (10) day* prior
to the dare of the hearing ami ..hall post such notice for at. least five (5)
continuous days prior to the date cf the hearing, on the official bulletin
board of the City. Any interested pn ' y naving any objections may appear
and te heard at the hearing, pr ided the objection I* filed in writing
with the Tax Administrator prior to the tiaw- aat for the hearing. At the
ties fixed for the hearing and for considering said assessment, the Council
shall hear the same together with any objection filed aa aforaaaid. The
Council may thereupon confirm or modify said assesaatsnt by motion.

Section 3.04 lefunde■

(a)	Whenever the amount of any Tax has been overpaid or paid mare than
once or ha* been erroneoualy or illegally collected or received by the Tax
Administrator under this Ordinance, it nay be refunded *?* provided in this
Section 3-04.

(b)	A peraon required to collect and remit taxes imposed under this
Ordinance may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected anti
remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or
illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the p«r*nn from whom the tax has
been collected did not ewe the tax; provided, however. that neither a
refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so
collacted has either b»an refunded to the person taxed or credited to
chargea subsequently payable by tha person taxed to the person required to
collect and remit.

(c)	No refund ..hall be paid under the provisions of this Saction 3.04
unless the claimant establishes the right thereunto by written records
showing entitlement thereto. Ho refund shall be paid unless a claim,
therefore, is made within one year r.f tie date of the accrual of the
refund.

ARTICLE IV
PROCSTUUES

Section *.01. Power in Addition. “he powera conferred by this
Ordinance are in addition to. and the limitations imposed by this Ordinance
do not affect, the poweis conferred by any other law or ordinance.

Section 4.02.	Ordinance	Controlling.	If this Ordinance is

^consistent with any other law. this Ordinance Is controlling.

Section 4.03. Llbeitl Corntiuctlon. T'. i s Ot.U nnni-e Shull be llbc* lv
-*or.s Lined ic pror.ot.n its objects.

Sere, ion 1* Ci . Deler_\ <jjr Opu as ion, Va;idi lt ol *>’ ot eedings or Taxrji.
If the jurisdiction oi the Council tc i'idct thv proposed act is not
affected, the detect or emission 01 jtiy olfiver i.i proceedings under this
Ordlnan. e does not invalidate the prtveeilings or taxes levied under this
Ordinance.

Section 4.05. y* tntion yf tetion» The vulldity nf thlc Ordinance
or of any tar levied pu-suanL to thl* Ordioaece >hall nm be contested in
any aet>on or proceeding or defense unices such action or proceeding or
de.enac thall have been brought or [sided within ninetv (90) days from fhe
da, a of the approval of thin Ordinance and the levy of said Las by the
vot*rs	City on Noveob*i ^ 6	1990.	Unless an action or proceeding is

<0<,n#,ncwl or *uch defense raised within said per'od, M.ia Ordinance and any
tax levied pursuant to t.iis Ordinan*;* shall be held valid and in ever)
respect legal and incontestable.

Section 4 06. SevorablIity. If any section subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase oi this Ordinance or any part thereof
is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity or the remaining portions of this Ordinance or any part
thareof. The Council declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or paragraph thareof,
irrespective of the fact that a..* one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs. sentences, clauses •'r phrases is declaied
unconstitutional .

ARTICLE V
ELECTION AND LEASE FINANCING

Section 5.Cl. Disposition of Proceeds. This Ordinance is hereby
declared to be a revenue measure for general government purposes; the
proceeds of the Tax snail be paid into the general fund.

Taction 5.02. General Fund Lease. The Cornell further proposes '■o
enter iro j lea so obligation with - r./lifiw ’ester (the 'l.e*aoj“i
whereby the	City would	became	obligates	to pay renta.1 payments to t\a

Lessor from	thr general	fund of	tha	City	over a perieu of	not to exceed

thirty (30?	yatr*; the	~«stor won .d	*asign it* rights to	receive rental

pa-aents tc	a trustee;	and the	City	rnd	the Lesior w»uld	authorize the

trustee to jell ceriticate* of participation in the rental payments
payable by .lie City, the proceed< of which would ba -sea to finance the
acqui it ion, construction, improvement and equipping of the * t.cili -ies.

Section 5.03. Gall of Election. A special municipal election is
hereby	and ordered to be b-“ld in the City on Tueads'-. November b,

1990. ar which election there shall be submitted to the qualified voters of
.lire City the proposition set forth below.

occi o. S.04 Proposition- The proposition shall apoea*- on the h». llul
qi said	municipal	election	in the fjllcvirr; lorn:

rtLASURE ______:	Shall Oidimncc Me. 12 53 C.S oi ’lie City of

Martinez, adopted hy the City Council of the City of Martinez on August
1,	1990, be approved in criivt to authorize (1) the acquisition,

conetrueLion, improvement and equipping of certain municipal
facilities, consisting of a community/emergency services center and
City Hall, and (2) the imposition of an excise tax for the svoilabiiity
and privilege of use of said facilities not to exceed the rates set
forth in the OrJinance and fot a period of not to exceed thirty (30)
year s? *

The Council does hereby submit to the qualified voters of the City, at
said special ajnlcipa) election, this Ordinance and the proposition s t
forth above.

Section 5.05. K;t l^^ed Coat. 7fc? est imated costs of the acquisition,
construction, improvement and equipping of the Facilities is ten million
dollars ($10.0'}0,000).

Section 5.06. $yh^agloo: Intent. The ouncil does hereby submit to
the qualified voters of the City, at said spst.i*! municipal election, this
Ordinance and the proposition set forth in S. c. i r 3.04 hereof. The City
proposes to acquire, construct, improve and equip the Facilities, to levy
the excise tax and to enter Into a lease obligator* with a qualified lessor
and for the objects and purposes set foMh a’ owe if a majority of all
qualified voters voting on the proposition set .orth above vote In favor
thereof. The rental payments under the lease shall if payable from the
general fund of the City.

Section 5.07. Polls Open. The poll'* for sfiiJ election nail be opeiivd
at 7:00 A.M. of the day of said election and she?' tamain op n continuously
from tied time until 6:00 P.H. of the same day, *ien said j?lls shall be
closod, except as provided in Section 14301 of t-»e California Elections
Code.

Sort lor S R. ^onsolidatior With Statewide y$2Ul' g^cU ?n. The
special muni lpai ejection hcr.jliy caiivi fc* »»‘.e ‘r' u he**fl -.before
specified shall be, and is hereby, lrdered consolidated wit's the a* tzewiie
gene si « ect*on to >e held within the City on said dattr,	.T	bit. the

territory affected by the consolidation, the election shell fe h« Id anu
conducted, election officers appointed, voting precin-ts leal gnuted,
ballots prlntod, pells opened snd closed, ballots counted and returned,
returns canvassed, results leclared, and all .<ther proceedings incidental
to and conne«.*’,3d with the election shall be regulated and done in
accordance with the provisions of law regulating the statewide general
election and specified herein. The doard of Supervisors of Contra Cotta
County is hereby requested to order the consolidation of the jpecial
Tunicipal election hereby called with said statewide general election, and
the hoard cf Supervisors of Contra Cos»ta County lu hereby authorized to

-6-

canvass rhe returns of said special municipal election, and said election
shall be held In all tespects as if there weie only one election and only
one form of ballot shall he used. Said Board of Supervisors shall certify
the results of the canvass of the returns of said special .nunlc pal
election to the Council vhich shall thereafter declare the results thereof.
The measure submitted by this Ordinal.ce shall be designated on the ballot
by a letter printed on the Left margin of the square containing the
description cf the measure, as provided In Section 10219 of the California
Elections Code.

Section 5.09. M H. PM Election. The elections hereby consolidated
■shall be held in all respects as if ther? were only one election, and only
one form of ballot shall be used.

Section 5.10. Voting Qualifications. All persona qualified to vote at
general municipal elections	in	the City	upon the	date of the	election

herein provided for ahall	be	quel if lad	to vote	upon the proposition

submitted et said apodal election.

Section 5.11. Ballots■ Ballots for the election ahall be provided in
the form and in th*> r umber provided by lav. On said ballots, in addition
to any other printed matter vhich may he required by law, two voting
square* shall be set off to the right of proposition submitted at the
election, in the manner provided by law. one having the word "YES' printed
before It, end the other having the word 'NO“ printed before it.

Soctic.i 5.12. Method	of	Voting.	Each voter to vote	for the

proposition ahall stamp or write	across, or indicate	by hole punch	or other

means, in the blunk apace opposite the word ■YES' on the ballot to the
right of the propositions and each voter to vnn? against the proposition
shall stamp or write a cross, or Indicate by hole punc! or other means, in
the blank space opposite the word 'NO' on the ballot to the right of the
proposition.

ARTICLE VI
PUBLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE

Section 6.01. Publication- This Ordinance shall be published once a
d.y it. .it ’east sees' dsrf ir. » ncvjneper printed, published and
circulated at least six daya a week in the City, or once a vrvt for two
week* iu a newspaper printed, published and circulated leas than six days a
wrak in the City. The flrit of eaid publications shall, in either event,
be withii fifteen (15) days tfter he adoption of this Ordinance. The City
Clerk I*, hereby authorised and directed v.o make said pubi icetic.-s and to
transr.it, for receipt no later than A*- ust 10, 1990. a certified copy of
thie Ordinance to the appropriate officials of Contra Costa County
responsible for preparing the ballots for said election.

REBUTTAL ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF BALLOT MEASURE L

EXCISE TAX

IMPORTANTLY, those few that argue against this Measure ADMIT that we need these
facilities. Waiting will COST you and I hundreds of thousands of dollars.

Join the City Council’s commitment (by resolution and ballot statement) to
build needed POLICE facilities/downtown City Hall, a Community Center for YOUTH
services and preserve the historic old Martinez Grammar School (currently used
as City Hall). The preservation, of which, will allow its use for cultural and
art purposes.

This tax is FAIR.

Every citizen uses public safety services. Every citizen needs an effective
Police Department. Effective disaster relief is needed by the entire
community. This Measure will enhance the quality of life of every citizen in
our City.

The return on the investment of this tax far exceeds any other fees paid to
government.

Vote for a REASONABLE, FAIR and NEEDED Measure

VOTE YES ON MEASURE L.

Michael M. Menesini

Mayor, City of Martinez

City Council, City of Martinez

City Council, City of Martinez

Beverly McDowell

City Council, City of Martinez

Vice Mayor, City of Martinez

STATEMENT THAT ARGUMENT IS TRUE AND CORRECT

(Elections Code Section 5350)

The undersigned author(s) of the_____REBUTTAL

argument____	^	FAVOR

at the______

ON FAVOR OF/AGAINST)

GENERAL MUNICIPAL

ballot proposition

(PRIMARY/REBUTTAL)

MEASURE L (EXCISE TAX)

(NAME OR NUMBER)

(TITLE OF ELECTION)

Electior

for the

CITY OF MARTINEZ

to be held on

NOVEMBER 6

(JURISDICTION)

>90

the best of tpetr

(HIS/UERJTHEIR)

(DATE)

. knowledge and belief.

Nam	^////	/	Signed	.

>RLNT Oft TYPE)

Name

Name

.	iriun	i	uk	i	irw

ffr

, 19 ___, hereby state that such argument is true and correct t

*2* (7/;.,	-	•	S/fa^/fo

2C

(PRINT OR TYPE)

(r flAJrtAi Cc-z-

(PRINT OR TYPE)

. Signed

^ILL Signed

Name

__	(PRINT	Oft TYPE)	°

Name

'AWYL'/ \K	Signed

(PRINT OR TYPE)

	
\A.A.	
	

Date

70

Date	«g'	22-1-

Pete	fa*/? t)t

. Date_

NOTE—All arguments concerning measures filed pursuant to Elections Code Sections 2500-5353. shall be accompanied by this form, signed by each author of the argumen
(This includes arguments in connection with state initiative and referendum measures, measures submitted by the legislature; county initiative and referendum measure
and other county measures and measures submitted at countywide elections; city initiative and referendum measures and other city measures; district bond electior
except School District Bond Elections; special elections, if the board of supervisors so provides in its proclamation or notice thereof; and includes rebuttal arguments

Form No. 5005

Printed 1-1-89 by K/P Western Sections (87509)

This form may not be reproduced without permission.

REBUTTAL TO PRIMARY ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF BALLOT MEASURE L

Read the Council's argument carefully. Measure L will
provide funding for various projects. It does not contain
any legal requirements as to how that funding will be spent.

*	There is no requirement to provide civic facilities
downtown.

*	There is no firm location or plan for a community center
or its contents.

*	There is no guarantee to preserve the existing City Hall.

The Council asserts that City Hall was "critically damaged"
and "must be repaired to keep it from collapsing". If this
were true then why is the building still in daily use? The
building did suffer some damage that should be repaired, but
isn't California already paying an extra 1/4 V. sales tax to
repair facilities damaged by the earthquake?.

The Council believes we need a community center in part
because most other cities have one. Can we afford to put nuc
money into the hands of public officials without any legal
guarantees just to keep up with the Jones.

In reality, Measure L is little more that a blank check.

It will be spent based on the desires of the new City Council
and the influence of special interest groups.

This measure contains vague promises of items designed to
appeal to as many people as possible. It contains no

guarantees for anyone. There is a right way and a sneaky way

to raise taxes. This appears to be the sneaky way.
PLEASE VOTE NO ON MEASURE L!

STATEMENT THAT ARGUMENT IS TRUE AND CORRECT

(Elections Code Section 5350)

argument
at the__

The undersigned author(s) of the

AGAINST

REBUTTAL

ON FAVOR OF/AGAINST)

GENERAL MUNICIPAL

(PRIMARY/REBUTTAL)

ballot proposition MEASURE L (EXCISE TAX)

(NAME OR NUMBER)

(TITLE OF ELECTION)

. Electioi

for the.

CITY OF MARTINEZ

to be held on.

NOVEMBER 6

the best of THEIR

(HIS/HER/THEIR)

(DATE)

. knowledge and belief.

(JURISDICTION)

___ 19 90 t hereby state that such argument is true and correct t

(PRINT OR TYPE)

Name

(PRINT OR 'TYPE) 7

Signed

Name.
Name
Name.

(PRINT OR TYPE)

(PRINT OR TYPE)

(PRINT OR TYPE)

. Signed
Signed
Signed

	[*) i/Uv" Date ^	> zo, mo
	^ Date	0  - ^ /79l>
	r r ^ Date	
Date		
Date		

NOTE All arguments concerning measures med punuant to Elections Code Sections 2500-5353, shall be accompanied by this form, signed by each author of the argument
(Thm includes arguments m connection with sUte initiate and referendum measures, measures submitted by the legislature; county initiative and referendum measure

excent Sch'^^strfi^^nH^ei^M^snerisl'elertiomi	elections; city initiative and referendum measures and other city measures; district bond election

except School District Bond Elections: special elections, if the board of supervisors so provides in its proclamation or notice thereof; and includes rebuttal arguments

Form No. 5006

Printed 1-1-89 by K/P Western Elections (87509)

This form may not be reproduced without permission.

STATEMENT THAT ARGUMENT IS TRUE AND CORRECT

(Elections Code Section 5350)

The undersigned author(s) of the____REBUTTAL

argument.
at the___

IN FAVOR

ON FAVOR OF/AGAINST)

GENERAL MUNICIPAL

(PRIMARY /REBUTTAL)

ballot proposition____MEASURE L (EXCISE TAX)

(NAME OR NUMBER)

(TITLE OF ELECTION)

. Election

for the.

CITY OF MARTINEZ

to be held on NOVEMBER 6

(DATE)

(JURISDICTION)

90

, 19_____,	hereby	state	that	such	argument	is	true	and	correct	tc

the best of THEIR__________knowledge and belief.

(HIS/HER/T HEIR)

Name		Signed	Date
Name	(PRINT OR TYPE)	Signed	Date
Name	(PRINT OR TYPE)	Signed	Date
Name	(PRINT OR TYPE)	Signed	Date
Name	(PRINT OR TYPE)	Signed	Date
	(PRINT OR TYPE)		

NOTE—All arguments concerning measures filed pursuant to Elections Code Sections 2500-5353, shall be accompanied by this form, signed by each author of the argument
(This includes arguments in connection with state initiative and referendum measures, measures submitted by the legislature; county initiative and referendum measures
and other county measures and measures submitted at countywide elections; city initiative and referendum measures and other city measures; district bond elections
except School District Bond Elections; special elections, if the board of supervisors so provides in its proclamation or notiee thereof; and includes rebuttal arguments.

Form No. 5006

Printed 1-1-89 by K/P Western Elections (87509)

This form may not be reproduced without permission.

PRIMARY ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF BALLOT MEASURE L
EXCISE TAX

Your support of Measure L will allow Martinez to address cost effectively our
public safety and Community Center requirements through the foreseeable future.

A YES vote will provide funding for:

*	Needed public safety and civic facilities downtown

*	Community Center facilities designed to address neighborhood, youth, day
care, and cultural needs of the whole City

*	Preservation and protection of the historic Martinez Grammar School
currently used as City Hall

We depend on City Government to ensure public safety, respond to emergencies
and provide assistance during disasters. However, our Police and City Hall
facilities were critically damaged by the October earthquake. Moreover, these
facilities, particularly with regard to the Police, have long been regarded as
inadequate for reasons of size and condition.

A vote of YES will allow the City to improve its ability to protect its
citizens.

A vote of YES will allow the City to enhance facilities needed to coordinate
emergency services and provide communications capability during disasters.

Martinez is one of the few cities in the County without a Community Center. A
building for TEEN activities and child care as well as a shelter and
communications center in the event of disasters is very important. Measure L
will add these critical facilities to our City.

The earthquake damage to the historic City Hall building must be repaired to
keep it from collapsing. Measure L will preserve and protect this significant
structure for future generations.

*	IMPROVED EMERGENCY AND PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES

*	A SAFE AND FUNCTIONAL CITY HALL

*	DESIRABLE COMMUNITY CENTER

FOR TEEN, CHILD CARE AND OTHER PROGRAMS

Please join us in voting for Measure L.

Michael M. Menesini
Mayor, City of Martinez

City Council, City of Martinez

City Council, City of Martinez

KathyHRadke

Vice Mayor, City of Martinez

PRIMARY ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L EXCISE TAX

This bond measure is not quite what it claims to be. It is
not -fair to everyone as was cl-aimed during city council

heari ngs.	I t i	s a	t 3. X fa =*.	se-d on the	average occupancy	of
different t	ypes	of	dwel1 i	n g — ■ w i n q )	!e family houses w	ill be
charged $-60	per	year. Th		i s means a	retired sen ior c i	t i Zen

who has lived in the same two bedroom home for the last 30
years will be charged the same as a -family living in a new
■five bedroom executive home. That certainly isn''t -fair.

T h i s t ax is cent ra ry	to th	e sp ir i t	of Pr op os i t i on	1 3 wh	i c h
limited prope r ty t ax	increases by		requiring 2/3	maj or	i ty
approval for any new	t a x e s	. B e c a u	se this is an e	xc i se	t 3 X ,
it gets around that	r e q u i r	erne nt an	d or 1 y .• equ i res	a m a j	or I t
a p p ov a1 . Typically	an exc	i se t ax	i s- c h ar ge d f or-	the u s	8 Of
pr oduct or s e rvice.	Th i s	" e x c i s e ”	tax wi11 be ch	a r g e d	to

r es i dances whe ther or not we ac t ja 1 1 y use the corrmu i r ty
center ■

This tax is planned to pay -for city hall repairs or its
replacement and to bui id a new community center. However,
because it is an excise tax, there is no legal requirement
that the money be spent on any spec i-fie project. The city-
council currently intends to spend the money on these
f ac i 1 i t i es bu t could change their mind. Remember the there
will be a different council after the election who may have
different ideas.

We are forced to conclude that, while the projects which may
be funded by this bond measure might be nice to have, this

It is un-fair.

* -• <

measure is not the right way to fund them.

The money may not be spent as we expect or want.

U)e request that you join us and uote NO on this measure.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF EXCISE TAX MEASURE

Measure L has as its principal purpose the establishment
of an excise tax to be levied for a maximum of thirty years from
the date of its first imposition. The revenues collected from
imposition of the tax shall be used for the availability and
privilege of use of certain municipal facilities and services, as
well as for other general governmental purposes, described in the
Measure. Measure L identifies the municipal facilities as

(1)	a new community/emergency services center for housing
recreational classes, community events and emergency services
activities (i.e. police facilities) and (2) the refurbishment,
relocation or replacement of City Hall.

If adopted. Measure _L____ would levy a tax not to exceed the

following rates:

Assessee

Tax

1.	As to owners of single-family
residential units

$60.00 per residential
unit per year

2.	As to owners of multi-family
residential units

$44.00 per residential
unit per year

3.	As to owners of apartment units $38.00 per rental unit

per year

4. As to owners of commercial
and other properties

$0.01 per square foot a
parcel (the measure does
not specify whether this
is an annual tax)

All unimproved parcels and all parcels whose County Use
Codes are not those specified in the Measure are exempt from the
tax.

Collection of the tax shall be accomplished by direct,
periodic billing or other appropriate means. The City's
Administrative Services Director is empowered by the Measure to
adopt rules and regulations for the purpose of carrying out and
enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the tax.
Provisions are included in the Measure covering the procedures
for assessing taxes not paid, as well as for providing for
refunds.

Measure _L____ expressly states that the proceeds of the tax

shall be paid into the City's General Fund. The Measure
estimates the cost of the acquisition, construction and equipping
of the defined municipal facilities to be $10,000,000.00. The
Measure contains an expression of the Council's intent to enter

kl210mo

into a lease whereby the City would pay rental payments from the
General Fund for a period not exceeding thirty years; the lessor
would assign its rights to receive rental payments to a trustee;
and the City and the lessor would authorize the trustee to sell
certificates of participation in the rental payments payable by
the City, the proceeds of which (from the certificates of
participation) would be used to finance the acquisition,
construction and equipping of the defined municipal facilities.

Measure L states that the City proposes to acquire,
construct and equip the municipal facilities, to levy the excise
tax and to enter into said lease for the objects and purposes set
forth therein if a majority of all qualified voters voting on the
measure vote in favor thereof.

kl210mo

PRIMARY ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF BALLOT MEASURE L

EXCISE TAX

Your support of Measure L will allow Martinez to address cost effectively our
public safety and Community Center requirements through the foreseeable future.

A YES vote will provide funding for:

*	Needed public safety and civic facilities downtown

*	Community Center facilities designed to address neighborhood, youth, day
care, and cultural needs of the whole City

*	Preservation and protection of the historic Martinez Grammar School
currently used as City Hall

We depend on City Government to ensure public safety, respond to emergencies
and provide assistance during disasters. However, our Police and City Hall
facilities were critically damaged by the October earthquake. Moreover, these
facilities, particularly with regard to the Police, have long been regarded as
inadequate for reasons of size and condition.

A vote of YES will allow the City to improve its ability to protect its
citizens.

A vote of YES will allow the City to enhance facilities needed to coordinate
emergency services and provide communications capability during disasters.

Martinez is one of the few cities in the County without a Community Center. A
building for TEEN activities and child care as well as a shelter and
communications center in the event of disasters is very important. Measure L
will add these critical facilities to our City.

The earthquake damage to the historic City Hall building must be repaired to
keep it from collapsing. Measure L will preserve and protect this significant
structure for future generations.

A YES vote is important to our community. A YES vote means:

*	IMPROVED EMERGENCY AND PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES

*	A SAFE AND FUNCTIONAL CITY HALL

*	DESIRABLE COMMUNITY CENTER

FOR TEEN, CHILD CARE AND OTHER PROGRAMS

Please join us in voting for Measure L.

Michael M. Menesini
Mayor, City of Martinez

Ve££ Smith

City Council, City of Martinez

M

Gary HerAandez

City Council, City of Mart

Beverly MdiDowell

City Council, City of Martinez

-----— -----------------

Kathy*Radke

Vice Mayor, City of Martinez

STATEMENT THAT ARGUMENT IS TRUE AND CORRECT

(Section 5350, Elections Code)

The undersigned author (s) of the Primary
argument____

____in Favor___________

(in favor of/against)

Municipal Facilities__________________

(primary/rebuttal)

.ballot proposition_______Excise Tax for

(name or number)

at the_

General Municipal

.Election

(title of election)

for the.

City of Martinez

to be held nn November 6

(date)

and correct to the best of. their.

(his/their) /

(jurisdiction)

19 90 , hereby state that such argument is true

knowledge and belief.

Date August 1/. 1990

Date August 17. 1990

Date August 17, 1990
Date August 17, 1990

Date August 17, 1990

NOTE—All arguments concerning measures filed pursuant to Div. 5 (Sections 3500-5353), Elections Code, shall be accompanied by this form, signed
by each author of the argument (This includes arguments, and rebuttals, when rebuttals are authorized by said division, in connection with
state initiative and referendum measures, measures submitted by the legislature; county initiative and referendum measures and other
county measures, and measures submitted at countywide elections; city initiative and referendum measures and other city measures, district
bond elections except School District Bond Elections; special elections, if the board of supervisors so provides m its proclamation or notice
thereof; and includes rebuttal arguments.)

Form No. 205—STATEMENT THAT ARGUMENT IS TRUE AND CORRECT.
(Rev. 11-23-77)

© Printed 11-23-77 by Pisani Carlisle Elections, S. F. 75035
This form may not be reproduced without permission.

PRIMARY ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L EXCISE TAX

This bond measure is not cuite what it claims to be. It is
not -fair to everyone as was claimed during city council
hearings. It is a tax based on the average occupancy of
different types of dwellings. Single family houses will be
charged $-60 per year. This means a retired senior citizen
who has 1 ived in the same two bedroom home for the last 30
years will be charged the same as a family living in a new
five bedroom executive home. That certainly isn/t fair.

This tax is contrary to the spirit of Proposition 13 which
1 limited property tax increases by requiring 2/3 majority
approval for any new taxes. Because this is an exci.se tax,
it gets around that requirement and only requires a majority
appoval . Typically an excise tax is charged for -the use of
product or service. This "excise” tax will be charged to
re sidences wh ether or not we act ja11y u se the commu i n t y
center ■

This tax is planned to pay for city hall repairs or its
replacement and to build a new community center. However,
because it is an excise tax, there is no legal requirement
that the money be spent on any specific project. The city
council currently intends to spend the money on these
faci1 itiesbut could change their mind. Remember the there
will be a different council after the election who may have
different ideas.

We are forced to conclude that, while the projects which may
be funded by this bond measure might be nice to have, this

measure is not the right way to -fund them.

It is unfair.

The money may not be spent as we expect or want
UJe request that you join us and vote NO on this

measure.

STATEMENT THAT ARGUMENT IS TRUE AND CORRECT

(Elections Code Section 5350)

The undersigned authoris) of the

argument______Against

at the_____

Primary

ON FAVOR OF/AGAINST)

General Municipal_________

(PRIMARY/REBUTT AD

. ballot proposition Excise Tax

(NAME OR NUMBER)

(TITLE OF ELECTION)

. Elect

for the.

City of Martinez

to be held on

November 6

(JURISDICTION)

90

the best of >

(HIS/HER/T HEIR)

(DATE)

.knowledge and belief.

. 19 _--,	hereby	state	that	such	argument	is	true	and	correct

Name	Sitmprl	Dat«	I	h	/

(PRINT OR TYPE)	  ^	—

Name ■	 Signed^^^^j9€?^y	  Date	c

Name.
Name.
Name.

(PRINT OR TYPE)

(PRINT OR TYPE)

(PRINT OR TYPE)

Signed.
. Signed
. Signed.

Date
. Date
. Date.

NOTE—AH arguments concerning measures filed pursuant to Elections Code Sections 2500-5353. shall be accompanied by this form, signed by each author of the argun
(This Includes arguments in connection with state initiative and referendum measures, measures submitted by the legislature; county initiative and referendum meas
and other county measures and measures submitted at countywide elections; city initiative and referendum measures and other city measures; district bond elect
except School District Bond Elections; special elections, if the board of supervisors so provides in its proclamation or notice thereof; and includes rebuttal argume

Form No. 5006

Printed 1-1-89 by K/P Western Elections (87508)

This form may not be reproduced without permission.