RESOLUTION NO. 90-64

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF INDIAN L 1 -
WELLS, CALIFORNIA, REQUESTING INCLUSION IN THE CREATION
OF THE RIVERSIDE COUNTY PARK AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICT	'i* W

WHEREAS, Section 5506.7 of the California Public Resources Code authorizes the
formation of a regional park and open space district in Riverside County; and

WHEREAS, such regional park and open space district will be formed for the
general purpose of acquiring, preserving, protecting, operating, and maintaining open
space, regional parks, habitat conservation areas, as well as hiking, biking, and equestrian
trails; and

WHEREAS, any city within Riverside County may, by resolution of its governing
body, choose to be included within the District for both regional and local park and open
space purposes; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Indian Wells desires voters within the
City boundaries to have an opportunity to participate in the November, 1990 election to
determine if the Regional Park and Open Space District should be formed and, if ap-
proved, set an assessment therefore;

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Indian Wells, California, does
hereby request inclusion in the Riverside County Regional Park and Open Space District
subject to the following conditions:

SECTION 1: That substantially two-thirds of the cities and County within the
Coachella Valley request participation in the District prior to July 17, 1990, the County’s
final deadline for recommendations to the Board of Supervisors regarding the formation
of the District; and

SECTION 2: Acquisition of any land within the City which is proposed by the
District shall be subject to approval by the City Council of the City; and

SECTION 3: If a requirement for maintenance of effort is to be included in the
final agreement between the City and the County, it shall apply equally to the County and
cities alike; and

SECTION 4: Not less than 20% of that portion of the District’s assessment which is
derived from within the boundaries of the City, with a reasonable allocation therefrom to
be available for maintenance and operations, be allocated to the City for projects as
determined exclusively by the City subject to such projects meeting the purposes of the
District; and

SECTION 5: The proposed District be divided into two areas, an Eastern Area and
a Western Area; the Council of Governments (COGS) for these respective areas would
serve as the District’s advisory committees in matters involving the District and would be
responsible for making recommendations to the District Board in the policy matters of the

District; and

SECTION 6: Not less than 60% of that portion of the District’s assessment, which
is derived from within the incorporated area within the Coachella Valley, be allocated to
projects mutually agreeable to the District Board and the CVAG Executive Board.
Projects may be local or regional within the City boundaries or outside of the City bound-
aries as negotiated; and

SECTION 7: Establish that District assessments derived from within the unincor-
porated boundaries be dedicated to projects that directly benefit the citizens of the
Coachella Valley; and

SECTION 8: Prior to the November election, the County and City enter into an
agreement containing, at a minimum, the above stated conditions; and

SECTION 9: The District Board, once created, approve a resolution binding them
to any and all agreements entered into between the cities and County relative to inclusion
in the district.

City of Indian Wells
Resolution No. 90-64
Page 2

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 5th day of July, 1990, by the following

vote:

AYES:	Arenstein, Aughtry, Briscoe, Oliphant

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Manuell

Richard R. Oliphant, Mayor

I hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was duly adopted by the City Council of the
City of Indian Wells at a regular meeting thereof, held on the 5th day of July, 1990.

ATTEST:

$/yJ I ______________________________

Roderick J. Wood, City Manager/Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

_______flxvluA n._______________,_________

Robert S. Bower, City Attorney

true copy



i HEREBY CEii'ttfY ttvs to bo
Nn	 ,	of	the	City	Cotmcil	of	the	Oty	of	Indian	Well*,

<CbS?., duly adopted in a meeting thereof held on the

i».££

day





cmj/ws5\resoluti\90-64

Sample Ballot

•siDr

(

CARD I

SIDE 2-

I

OFFICIAL BALLOT

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE
CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 6, 1990

I

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)

L

IN THIS MANNER ONLY:



STATE — MEASURES
SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

CALIFORNIA HOUSING BOND ACT OF 1990.
m Jl !■ This act establishes a comprehensive hous-
I HU ing program to address the severe VT_,_
housing crisis in California by (a) authorizing Y Ea
the use of funds from the First-Time Home
Buyers Bond Act of 1982, under which the NO
voters of this state authorized a bond issue of two
hundred million dollars ($200,000,000), to provide
financial assistance to first-time homebuyers in the
form of interest rate subsidies and deferred-payment,
low-interest second-mortgage loans and (b) provid-
ing for a bond issue of one hundred twenty-five
million dollars ($125,000,000) to provide funds for a
housing and earthquake safety program that includes
financing for: (1) the preservation and rehabilita-
tion of the existing stock of rental housing for
families and individuals, including rental housing
which meets the special needs of the elderly and
disabled, (2) emergency shelters and transitional
housing for homeless families and individuals, (3) a
multifamily mortgage loan and bond insurance
program, (4) farmworker housing, and (5) rehabili-
tation loans to enable unreinforced masonry rental
buildings to withstand earthquakes.

SCHOOL FACILITIES BOND ACT OF 1990.
| J|C This act provides for a bond issue of eight
I hundred million dollars
($800,000,000) to provide capital outlay for YES
construction or improvement of public
schools.	NO

COUNTY CORRECTIONAL FACILITY CAPI-
*n-t TAL EXPENDITURE AND JUVENILE
I Hr I FACILITY BOND ACT OF 1990.

This act provides for a bond issue of two YES
hundred twenty-five million dollars
($225,000,000) to provide funds for the con- NO
struction, reconstruction, remodeling, replacement,
and deferred maintenance of county correctional
facilities and county juvenile facilities.

WATER RESOURCES BOND ACT OF 1990.
sag This act provides for a bond issue of three
I *IO hundred eighty million dollars
($380,000,000) to provide funds for a water YES
resources program and makes changes in the
Water Conservation Bond Law of 1988 relat- NO
ing to administrative fees and the California Safe
Drinking Water Bond Law of 1976 relating to loans.

33-9091

VOTE FRONT AND BACK

C •



ms

a

C3

EZ3

EZ3

C3

cm

I HAVE VOTED - HAVE YOU?

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)
IN THIS MANNER ONLY:

STATE - MEASURES
SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS



CALIFORNIA PARK, RECREATION, AND
| y«Q WILDLIFE ENHANCEMENT ACT OF
I TJ 1990. This act provides for a bond ypn
issue of four hundred thirty-seven million 11,3
dollars ($437,000,000) to provide funds for a
program of acquiring, developing, rehabili-
tating, or restoring real property for state and local
park, beach, recreation, greenbelt, wildland fire pro-
tection, coastal, historic, or museum purposes.

COUNTY COURTHOUSE FACILITY CAPI-
m rn TAL EXPENDITURE BOND ACT OF
I DU 1990. This act provides for a bond vlrc
issue of two hundred million dollars YES
($200,000,000) to provide funds for the con- „ _
struction, reconstruction, remodeling, re- NU
placement, and deferred maintenance of county
courthouse facilities.

CHILD CARE FACILITIES FINANCING
» [■<■ ACT OF 1990. This act provides
I 3 I for a bond issue of thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000) to provide funds for
child care facilities.

YES

NO

DISTRICT - MEASURE
SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTER

Shall a Riverside County Regional Park and Open
vj-iT- Space District be created to preserve,:
X JY protect and maintain open space, greenbelt
areas and wildlife habitat, and to provide and main-
tain horse, hiking and bicycle trails, regional parks
and public recreation facilities, such as playgrounds,
neighborhood parks, senior citizen activity -yc'C
centers, and youth sports facilities subject to 11,3
the terms and conditions of Resolution No.

90-396 adopted by the Board of Supervisors
of Riverside County on July 31, 1990, and with the
Riverside County Regional Park and Open Space
District, pursuant to Article XIIIB of the California
Constitution, having an annual appropriations limit
of $25,000,000.00?

Shall the Riverside County Regional Park and Open

K Space District have the authority to assess
an annual fee of from $0 to $26 per parcel
for the purpose of carrying out its enumerated
responsibilities with each parcel holder being
allotted reduced fees for use of specified YES
District facilities up to the amount of any
assessment paid by such parcel holder?_____________NO

33-9081

VOTE FRONT AND BACK

£T3

EZ3

£Z3

SZ3

□

ms

CZ3



ea

33-:

SB78

Sample Ballot

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE PK

The proposed measure is for the formation of the Riverside County
Regional Park and Open Space District.

The District is to be formed for the following purposes:

To plan, adopt, lay out, plant, develop, and otherwise improve, extend,
control, operate, and maintain a system of public parks, playgrounds, golf
courses, trails, natural complexes, scenic areas, and other facilities for
public recreation. forthe use and enjoyment of all the inhabitants of the
District, and it may select, designate, and acquire land, or rights in land,
within or without the District, to be used and appropriated for such
purposes. The District may conduct programs and classes in outdoor
science education and conservation education, and may do all other
things necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes of this District.

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Riverside shall act, ex officio,
as the governing body of the District.

The territory to be included within the District shall include all
unincorporated areas of the County of Riverside, lying west of a north-
south line passing through Chiriaco Summit, and the incorporated
municipalities of Cathedral City, Coachella, Desert Hot Springs, Indian
Wells, Lake Elsinore, Palm Desert, Palm Springs, Rancho Mirage and
Riverside with specified exceptions.

The measure also provides that the appropriations limit for the District
will not exceed $25 million.

By: LOCAL AGENCY FORMATION COMMISSION
COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE
George J. Spiliotis
Executive Officer

The above statement is an impartial analysis of the Measure "PK" (The
formation of the Riverside County Regional Park and Open Space
District). If you desire a copy of this measure, please call the
Registrar of Voters' office at (714) 27S-8700, and a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you. * •

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE PK

Riverside County residents have an unprecedented opportunity to
preserve our natural heritage and protect our county's creeks and
streams, wildlife habitats, scenic open space, hillsides and historic and
archaeological sites for future generations to enjoy.

Measure PK creates a Riverside County Regional Park and Open
Space District empowered to acquire and protect environmentally
sensitive lands as well as provide member cities and unincorporated
areas with community and neighborhood parks; recreation centers for
seniors and handicapped persons; equestrian, hiking and bicycle trails;
and athletic facilities.

Riverside County is one of the fastest growing counties in the U.S.
Measure PK will allow us to act now to protect native Bighorn Sheep,
the Santa Rosa Plateau, Indian Canyons and our remaining natural
heritage as well as preserve open space and acquire parkland before
these are lost to development forever.

For the first time, a long list of county organizations has joined
together with concerned residents to urge voters to vote YES on Measure
PK. This unprecedented coalition includes the Sierra Club, Audubon
Society, Building Industry Association of Riverside County, Riverside
Chamber of Commerce, the AFL-CIO, Desert Riders, Riverside Area Board
of Realtors, Friends of the Indian Canyons and Preserve Our Plateau plus
hundreds of concerned individuals.

Measure PK will help keep Riverside County a place in which we,
our children and grandchildren will want to live.

Don't let Riverside County become another Los Angeles or Orange
County.

Please Vote YES on Measure PK.

By: Corky Larson, Riverside County Supervisor

Frank Mott, San Bernardino-Riverside Counties Central Labor
Council, AFL-CIO

Andrew C. Sanders, Museum Scientist (Botany), University of
California, Riverside

Andres L. Soto, Greater Riverside Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
Gary Gray, Friends of the Indian Canyons

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

The task of acquiring, and protecting creeks and streams, wildlife habitats and sensitive wetlands — before they are developed — is essential to
preserving our quality of life.

Measure K creates an independent funding source for the Riverside County Regional Park and Open Space District, authorized in Measure
PK. Measure K provides the District with the wherewithal to acquire and protect:

•	open space lands and environmentally sensitive lands such as the Santa Rosa Plateau;

•	important wildlife habitats like those for Bighorn Sheep;

•	historical and archaeological sites such as Indian Canyons;

•	recreational facilities and community centers;

•	recreation centers for seniors and the handicapped;

•	hiking, equestrian and bicycle trails;

•	youth sports facilities.

Measure K creates a special Trust Fund to fund specific park and open space projects by the district's governing board after consulting with a
special Citizen's Advisory Panel.

An independent annual audit is also required by Measure K to assure that all funds are used for their intended purposed
Parcel holders would pay the equivalent of 50 cents per week and receive a free pass entitling them or their families to enjoy, waivers on user fees of
up to $26 at county parks.

Low-income senior citizens and others would be entitled to apply for an exemption from this fee. Church and farmland would also be exempt.
For the first time, an unprecedented coalition concerned about preserving our natural heritage has come together to support Measure K. The coalition
includes environmental groups, developers, the business community and citizens from every part of the county.

Passage of Measure K will go a long way in preserving and protecting the environmental resources that make Riverside County so unique.
Don't let Riverside County become another Los Angeles or Orange County. Vote YES on Measure K.

By: Janet L Goeske, Senior Citizen/Handicapped Advocate

Arturo Franco. Southern California Vice-Chair, Golden State Mobile Homeowners League
Ronald B. Raven, Chairman of the Board, Greater Riverside Chamber of Commerce
Clayton Record, Chairman, Growth Management Task Force/Businessman
Nancy Backstrand, Conservationist/Murrieta resident

33-80