CITY OF BELLFLOWER
RESOLUTION NO. 90-75
Page 3 of 13

ATTACHMENT "A"
CITY OF BELLFLOWER
ORDINANCE NO. 751

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BELLFLOWER
AMENDING CHAPTER V, SUBSECTION 5-1.21 AND
SECTION 5-2 OF THE BELLFLOWER MUNICIPAL CODE
INCREASING SPECIFIC BUSINESS LICENSE TAXES
WITHIN THE CITY OF BELLFLOWER AND ADDING
SUBSECTIONS 5-2.38.1, 5-2.38.2, 5-2.38.3, AND
5-2.38.4.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF BELLFLOWER DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter V, Subsection 5-1.21 of the Bellflower
Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

Subsection 5-1.21. License Tax; Method and Time of Payment.

Unless otherwise specifically provided, all annual license taxes,
under the provisions of this chapter shall be due and payable on
the anniversary date of issuance of each year and shall be deemed
delinquent thirty (30) days after the due date if not so paid.

SECTION 2. Chapter V, Section 5-2 of the Bellflower
Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

Section 5-2. Scheduling of License Fees.

The amount of license fees to be paid to the City by any
person engaged in or carrying on any profession, trade, calling,
occupation or business hereinafter designated, is hereby
established as hereinafter in this section provided. Such
license fee shall be paid by every person engaged in, carrying on
or maintaining any such profession, trade, occupation, calling or
business in the City.

On July 1 of each year, said rate or fee scheduled shall be
increased by an amount determined by applying to said schedule
the percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the
Los Angeles/Long Beach/Anaheim Schedule for all urban consumers,
for all items as established by the Bureau of Labor Statistics
for the twelve (12) months ending March 31 of each year. Rates
thereby established shall not exceed ten percent (10%) in any one
year and shall be rounded to the nearest dollar.

Subsection 5-2.1.______Retail and Wholesale Sales and

Miscellaneous. For carrying on the business consisting of
selling at retail or wholesale any goods, wares, merchandise,
commodities or for conducting, maintaining, or carrying on any
trade, occupation, calling or business not otherwise specifically
licensed or taxed by the other provisions of this chapter, the
annual license tax shall be computed as follows:	One hundred

dollars ($100.00), plus such sum per annum for each employee as
provided for in Subsection 5-2.38.

Subsection 5-2.2.________Professional	or Semi-Professional

Businesses. For conducting, managing, carrying on or engaging in
any professional business or occupation not otherwise
specifically licensed by the other subsections of this chapter,
the annual license tax shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00)
plus thirty-five dollars ($35.00) for each partner or
professional active in the City. Furthermore, there shall be an
annual fee for each employee pursuant to Subsection 5-2.38.

Subsection 5-2.4. Advertising, Outdoor, Etc.: Fee. Every
person engaging in the business of constructing, erecting,
installing, maintaining	or operating	outdoor advertising,

advertising structures, billboards, advertising signs, painted
signs on structures, signboards or similar devices, shall pay an
annual license tax of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per annum for each additional
advertising structure, billboard, advertising sign, painted sign
or a structure, signboard or other similar device in excess of
one; provided that the provisions of this subsection shall not be
deemed to apply to signs affixed to the property on which a
licensed business is being operated, which sign or signs refer
only to such business, nor to "for sale" or "for rent" signs on
real estate.

Subsection 5-2.5. Agents, Retail. Every person not having
a regularly established place of business in the City carrying on
the business of operating any wheeled vehicle for the retail sale
or soliciting orders for the retail sale or delivery of any
goods, wares or merchandise of any nature, kind or description,
or for the purpose of carrying on a bakery route (distilled,
spring, mineral, aerated), dairy route, fuel oil route, laundry
route, dry cleaning route, or other routes of a like or similar
nature, shall pay an annual license tax of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per wheeled vehicle.

Subsection 5-2.6. Vending Amusement Service and Other
Coin-Operated Machines. Every person engaged in the business of
operating, maintaining or letting the use of any service or
amusement machine, or any mechanical or electrical device within
the City which dispenses or vends an article of value, the
operation of which depends upon the insertion of a coin or other
thing representative of value, shall pay an annual fee in the
following amounts.

a.	Four dollars ($4.00) per year per machine, for each
machine located within the City which is operated by the
insertion of a coin or thing of value in the denomination of four
cents ($.04) or less.

b.	An amount based on one percent of the gross receipts
derived within the City directly attributable to the machines
located within the City, which machines are operated by the
insertion of a coin or thing of value in the denomination of five
cents ($.05) or more.

c.	Persons leasing, maintaining or operating machines
described herein shall be subject to the fee, except owners of
apartment houses or trailer courts in the event subject machines
are exclusively owned by the owners.

d.	Additional provisions as to vending, amusement or
service machines:

1.	Each coin-operated vending, amusement machine which is
operated, maintained or used within this City shall have
conspicuously stamped upon it or affixed thereon for
identification purposes the name and address, and the
telephone number, if any, of the owner or operator of the
machine at his expense and shall be removed from the machine
by such owner of operator when the authority to use such
machine is transferred to another person, whether by sale
lease, license or otherwise.

2.	No business fee or identification shall be required for
the maintenance or operation of:

(a) Any machine dispensing sanitary or	hygienic

articles, drinking cups, towels or medicine entirely
owned and supplied by the owner or operator of the
premises where installed and is maintained solely for
the convenience of employees, visitors or customers and
not for profit to him or to any person; or

(b)	Any machine which is entirely owned, operated and
supplied by the owner or operator of the premises where
such machine is installed, when such owner or operator
holds a valid business license at that location to
engage in the business taxed under the provisions of
this chapter and receipts from the sale of all goods,
wares, merchandise or other tangible property dispensed
by such machine in the measure of the applicable
business license tax paid under this chapter.

Subsection 5-2.7. Billiards and Pool Halls. For every
person carrying on the business of a pool hall or billiard
parlor, the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus five
dollars ($5.00) for each additional pool or billiard table. Said
five dollars ($5.00) per table shall not be charged if said table
is coin operated.

Subsection 5-2.6.	Public Bowling Alley. One hundred

dollars ($100.00) per annum plus such sum per annum for each
employee as provided in Subsection 5-2.38.

Subsection 5-2.9. Ice or Roller Skating Rink. Enclosures
or park, one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum.

Subsection 5-2.10. Shooting Gallery. Every person engaged
in the business of conducting, managing or operating a shooting
gallery, one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum.

Subsection 5-2.ll.	Amusements: Circus, Menageries. Tent

Shows. Theatricals. Vaudeville.

a. For conducting, managing or carrying on a circus,
carnival, or other similar exhibition, the fee shall be two
hundred dollars ($200.00) per day.

b.	For conducting, managing or carrying on any lecture or
traveling theatrical performance, such as comedy, spoken drama,
opera or concerts, fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first day, and
twenty dollars ($20.00) for each additional day.

c.	For conducting, managing or carrying on a trained animal
show, to which an admission fee is charged or collection taken
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day.

d. For operating a golf course, miniature golf course,
bicycle course, golf practice driving course or archery range,
the annual license tax shall be upon the same basis and in the
same manner as the annual license tax as specified in
Subsection 5-2.1.

e.	For conducting, managing or carrying on a motion picture
theatre or any other type of theatre, the annual license tax
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a theatre with a
seating capacity of 0 to 100; two hundred dollars ($200.00) for
101 to 500 seats; three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for a
theatre with a seating of over five hundred (500) seats.

Subsection 5-2.12. Auction Sale, Auctioneer, Auction House.

a.	Every person engaged in the business of auctioneer shall
pay a license tax of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per annum.

b.	Every person engaged in the business of maintaining,
conducting or carrying on an auction house shall pay a license
tax of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) semi-annually.

c.	Every person engaged in the business of maintaining,
conducting or carrying on an auction yard business shall pay an
annual license tax of three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).

d.	This section shall exclude real estate auctioneers who
do not maintain an office in the City.

Subsection 5-2.14. Automobile Wrecking. Every person
engaged in the business of automobile wrecking shall pay an
annual license tax of two hundred dollars ($200.00).

Subsection 5-2.15. Junk Dealers or Dealers in Old and/or
Used Articles. For the business of collecting, buying or selling
at either retail or wholesale or otherwise dealing in junk and/or
rubbish, waste materials, refuse and/or any old rags, sacks,
bottles, cans, papers, metals, jewelry, precious metals, rubber,
bric-a-brac, cordage, truck or automobile tires, truck or
automobile parts, truck or automobile accessories, and other like
articles, whether the same can be sold or otherwise disposed of
in the condition or state of repair as collected, or whether the
same is collected, bought or sold or otherwise disposed of for
the purpose of being treated, repaired, or prepared so as to be
used again in some other form, provided the person does not have
a fixed place of business within the limits of the City, two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per annum for the first wheeled
vehicle, plus one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per annum for
each additional wheeled vehicle.

Subsection 5-2.16. Peddler. Photographer. Book Agent.
Solicitor. Every person not having a fixed place of business in
the City and engaged in the business of peddler, photographer,
book agent, or solicitor shall pay an annual license tax of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) or ten dollars ($10.00) per day.

Subsection 5-2.17. Newspapers. Every person, firm or
corporation engaged in the business of selling newspapers shall
pay an annual license fee as follows:

a.	Newspapers with annual gross sales of newspapers of less
than twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per year, a
license fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) per annum.

b.	Newspapers with annual gross sales of newspapers in
excess of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per year, a
license fee of one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00) per
annum.

Subsection 5-2.19. Multiple Residential Units.

a. Every person owning residential units and carrying on
the business of renting said units to others whether or not said
residential units are contained within single-family homes,
duplexes, apartment houses, rooming houses, hotels or motels
shall pay an annual license tax of ten dollars ($10.00) per unit.

Transient shall mean any person who exercises occupancy or
is entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right
of access, license or other agreement for a period of less than
thirty (30) consecutive calendar days counting portions of
calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in
a hotel or motel shall be deemed to be a transient until the
thirtieth consecutive calendar day of such occupancy. Facilities
that permit greater periods of occupancy shall be considered
residential uses and shall be limited to the appropriate zone and
must meet the standards of that appropriate residential zone.

Subsection 5-2.20. Mobilehome Park. Every person engaged
in the business of managing or operating a mobilehome park shall
pay an annual license tax based on the number of parking spaces
or units available for parking mobilehomes, as follows:	4	to	10

spaces or units, eighty dollars ($80.00);	11 to 50 spaces or

units, ninety dollars ($90.00);	51	to	100	spaces or units, one

hundred twenty dollars ($120.00); 101 units or over, one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00).

Subsection 5-2.21. Bankrupt Sales. Etc.: Fee. Every person
engaged in the business of owning, opening, establishing,
managing, operating, maintaining or having charge of	any

temporary location or place of business of any kind for selling
of any insolvent, bankrupt, fire, damaged or other similar goods,
wares or merchandise, and every itinerant or transient merchant
having a temporary place of business but not having	any

continuous or permanent place of business in the city who sells
or offers for sale any insolvent, bankrupt, fire, damaged or
other goods, wares or merchandise shall pay a license tax of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) per day.

Subsection 5-2.22. Dairies, Livestock Dealers and/or Cattle
Feed Yards. Every person engaged in the dairying, livestock
dealing or cattle feed yard business, shall pay a license fee as
follows:	One hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum plus ten

dollars ($10.00) per annum from 10 through 35 head of cattle;
plus one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum from 36 through 105
heads of cattle; plus one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per
annum from 106 through 245 heads of cattle.

Subsection 5-2.23. Dog, Cat and Small Animal Hospital.

Every person engaged in or conducting a dog, cat or animal
hospital shall pay an annual license tax of one hundred dollars
($100.00).

Subsection 5-2.24. Boxing and Wrestling. Every person
engaged in the business of operating any place to which the
public is admitted, and admission fee is charged, and at which
any boxing or wrestling match or exhibition is conducted,
presented or carried on, shall pay a license tax of three hundred
dollars ($300.00) per exhibition when such place contains 500
seats or less, and four hundred dollars ($400.00) per exhibition
when such place contains over 500 seats.

Subsection 5-2.25. Ball Bond Broker. Every person engaged
in the business of bail bond broker shall pay a license tax of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum.

Subsection 5-2.26. Bath. Every person engaged in the
business of giving steam baths, electric light baths, sponge
baths, sun baths, mineral baths, Russian, Swedish or Turkish
baths, or any public bath place which maintains in connection
therewith a steam room, plunge or shower bath, shall pay a
license tax of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum.

CITY OF BELLFLOWER
RESOLUTION NO. 90-75
Page 10 of 13

Subsection 5-2.27. Boot Black. Shoe Shine Stands. Every
person in the business of operating or maintaining a shoe shine
stand or parlor, fifty dollars ($50.00) per annum.

Subsection 5-2.28. Electric Sign Installation. Every
person engaged in the business of electrical or neon sign
installation and maintenance shall pay a license tax of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum.

Subsection 5-2.29. Contractors. Every person engaging in
the business of, or acting as or in the capacity of a contractor
as defined in Section 7026 of the Business and Professions Code
of the State of California, shall pay an annual license fee of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year.

In addition, every contractor doing any work within the City
shall also supply the Tax Collector with a list of any and all
sub-contractors employed or engaged by him to do work for such
contractor on any work or project within the City. All
sub-contractors shall also pay an annual license fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per year.

In lieu of paying the annual license fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00), any contractor may elect to pay a job license
fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for acting as contractor on a
particular job or specific work of construction. If during any
license year (July 1 through June 30) any contractor obtains
four (4) job licenses, on payment of his fourth job license, he
shall be issued an annual license in lieu thereof without further
cost or fee.

Subsection 5-2.30. Patrol System or Patrolman. Every
person conducting a patrol system shall pay an annual license tax
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum.

Every person engaged in private security patrol work shall
pay a license tax of one hundred dollars ($100.00).

Subsection 5-2.31. Linen and Towel Supply. Every person
engaged in the business of operating a linen and towel supply
business shall pay a license tax of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per annum for the operation of one vehicle and twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) per annum for the operation of each additional
vehicle.

CITY OF BELLFLOWER
RESOLUTION NO. 90-75
Page 11 of 13

Subsection 5-2.32. Laundries and Dry Cleaners. Each person
operating a steam laundry or launderette, and each person who
solicits for any laundry not having a permanent fixed place of
business in the City shall pay a license fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per annum.

Every person operating a cleaning and pressing business in
the City shall pay a license tax of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per annum.

Every person operating a cleaning or pressing business not
established in the City shall pay a license tax of fifty dollars
($50.00) per annum for each truck.

Subsection 5-2.33. Radio and Television Repair Shop. Every
person engaged in managing or carrying on the business of radio
or television repair shop shall pay a license tax of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per annum.

Subsection 5-2.34. House Moving. Every person engaged in
the operation of moving houses or other structures shall pay a
license tax of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day, or fraction
thereof, while using the streets of the City, provided said
license shall be subject to all other regulations of the City.

Subsection 5-2.35. Adult Entertainment Businesses. Every
person or firm engaged in the operation of an adult bookstore,
adult mini-motion picture theatre, adult motion picture theatre,
massage parlor, and/or model studio shall pay a license fee of
three hundred dollars ($300.00) per annum. Such licenses for an
adult bookstore, adult mini-motion picture theatre, adult motion
picture theatre, massage parlor and/or model studio shall not be
issued to any person under eighteen (18) years of age or to a
corporation, any of whose officers are under eighteen (18) years
of age.

Restaurants, bars, and cocktail lounges operating with live
entertainment including, but not limited to, topless waitresses
shall pay an additional three hundred dollars ($300.00) per
annum.

In addition to those specific requirements under
Subsection 5-1.8, every applicant if a corporation, shall provide
a current record and file showing the name and residence address
of each of the officers, directors, and each stockholder owning
more than five percent (5%) of the stock of the corporation. If
the owner is a partnership, whether a general or limited
partnership, the name and residence address of each partner shall
be set forth.

Subsection. 5-2.36. Miscellaneous Business Conducted In the
Open or Within Temporary Structure. Every person, firm or
corporation managing, conducting or carrying on the business of
operating a temporary Christmas tree lot, flower, fruit or
vegetable stand, or any similar type of business shall pay a
license tax of fifty dollars ($50.00) per month, or five dollars
($5.00) per day, at the option of the licensee.

Subsection 5-2.38. Additional License Fee for Employees.

The additional license fee payable for employees as provided for
in this chapter shall be three dollars ($3.00) per employee of
such business based on the sum of employees on the first day of
each month divided by 12.

Subsection 5-2.38.1. License Fee for Self-Service Storage
Facilities. The annual business license tax for self-service
storage facilities shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
business location. There shall be an additional fee of three
dollars ($3.00) per self-service storage compartment or storage
parking space.

Subsection 5-2.38.2._______Beauty Parlor. Every person

conducting or operating a beauty parlor shall pay a license tax
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum. Each additional
operator shall pay a license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
annum. For every manicurist or person shining or polishing shoes
employed in connection with or operating in any beauty parlor,
there shall be paid an additional license fee of thirty dollars
($30.00) per year for each person so employed.

Subsection 5-2.38.3. Barber Shop. Every person conducting
or operating a barber shop shall pay a license tax of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per annum. Each additional operator shall pay
a license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per annum. For every
manicurist or person shining or polishing shoes employed in
connection with or operating in any barber shop, there shall be
paid an additional license fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) per
year for each person so employed.

Subsection 5-2.38.4. Senior Citizen Housing; Exception.

Any senior citizen housing project restricted by an approved
Conditional Use Permit which is in full force and effect shall
pay a license tax of five dollars ($5.00) per living unit.

CITY OP BELLFLOWER
RESOLUTION NO. 90-75
Page 13 of 13

SECTION 3. Effective Date.

This ordinance shall become effective upon the majority vote
in favor of its adoption at the Statewide General Election on
Tuesday, November 6, 1990.

SECTION 4. Severability.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance. This City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this ordinance and each
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one of more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions be declared
unconstitutional.

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES ) SS
CITY OF BELLFLOWER )

I, DEBRA D. BAUCHOP, City Clerk of the City of Bellflower, California,
do hereby certify under penalty of perjury that the foregoing Resolution No. 90-75
was duly passed, approved and adopted by the City Council of the City of
Bellflower at its Regular Meeting of June 25, 1990, by the following vote to wit:

AYES: Councilmembers -

NOES: Councilmembers -
ABSENT: Councilmembers -
ABSTENTIONS: Councilmembers -

Ansdell, Cvetko,

Mayor Bomgaars

None

None

None

Stone,

Pendleton, and

Dated: June 25, 1990

Debra D. Bauchop, Cify Clerk
City of Bellflower, California

(SEAL)

CITY OF BELLFLOWER

RESOLUTION NO. 90-75

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF
THE CITY OF BELLFLOWER CALLING AND
GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF A
SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6,	1990, FOR THE

SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS A
PROPOSED ORDINANCE RELATING TO
INCREASING THE BUSINESS LICENSE TAX ON
SPECIFIED BUSINESSES IN THE CITY OF
BELLFLOWER.

WHEREAS, under the provisions of the laws relating to General Law cities in
the State of California, a Special Municipal Election shall be held on November 6,
1990, to submit to the qualified voters of the City of Bellflower a question relating
to an increase in the local business license tax; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized and directed by statute to submit
the question to the voters.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF BELLFLOWER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of
California relating to General Law cities, there is called and ordered to be held in
the City of Bellflower, California, on Tuesday, November 6, 1990, a Special
Municipal Election.

SECTION 2. That the City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does
order submitted to the voters at the Special Municipal Election the following
question:

SHALL ORDINANCE NO. 751 INCREASING THE BUSINESS	YES

LICENSE TAX ON SPECIFIED BUSINESSES IN THE CITY	----

OF BELLFLOWER BE ADOPTED?	NO

SECTION 3. That the proposed measure submitted to the voters is attached
as "Attachment A."

SECTION 4. That the ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and
content as required by law.

Page 1 of 13

SECTION 5. That the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to
procure and furnish any and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and all
supplies, equipment and paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to properly
and lawfully conduct the election.

SECTION 6. That the polls for the election shall be open at 7 a.m. of the
day of the election and shall remain open continuously from that time until 8 p.m.
of the same day when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section 14301
of the Elections Code of the State of California.

SECTION 7. That in all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the
election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal
elections.

SECTION 8. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is
given and the City Clerk is authorized, instructed, and directed to give further or
additional notice of the election, in time, form, and manner as required by law.

SECTION 9. The Mayor, or presiding officer, is hereby authorized to affix
his signature to this Resolution signifying its adoption, and the City Clerk, or her
duly appointed Deputy, is directed to attest thereto.

SECTION 10. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption
of this Resolution; shall enter the same in the book of original Resolutions; and
shall make a minute of the passage and adoption thereof in the records of the
proceedings of the City Council of said City in the minutes of the meeting at which
the same is passed and adopted.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF BELLFLOWER ON THIS 25TH DAY OF JUNE, 1990.

Attest: