Sample Ballot

SIDE I

CARD I

TOP

OFFICIAL BALLOT

GENERAL ELECTION

COUNTY OF ORANGE

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1990

This ballot stub shall be torn ott by precinct board
member end handed tcrthe VolorT

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

COUNTY OF ORANGE

IUI THE REVISED TRAFFIC IMPROVE-
III MENT AND CROWS H MANAGEMENT
ACT. Hie piirpnsc of (his measure Is In Improve
(he quality of life, relieve trnffle congestion, ami
Improve air quality In Orange County hy:
o Expanding the present Los Angeles to San
Diego commuter ml! service throughout Orange
County.

o On 1-5, the Santa Ana Freeway, adding tip to
three lanes In each direction from the Los An-
geles County line to San Clemente}
o Rebuilding the 1-5/1-405, El Toro “V"
Interchange;

o On State Route 91, adding an additional
lane In each direction and improving major Inter-
changes from Los Angeles In Riverside;

o On State Route 55, the Costa Mesa Freeway,
adding a new lane in each direction between the
Riverside and Santa Ann Freeways;

o Synchronizing traffic signals on major
streets throughout Orange County;

o improving maintenance and rehabilitation
of streets and roads;

o Requiring each city and the County to
adopt a growth management program to
require a balance between land development
and (raffle impacts;

o Increasing transit service and pro-
viding discount fnres for senior citizens and
the disabled;

o Empowering an Independent Citizens Over-
sight Committee with a chairman elected by all
Orange County voters to guarantee that all funds
generated by this Measure shall he used only for
transportation purposes;

o Requiring thnt any proposed change in the
amount of funds for rnll transit, freeway, regional
and local street improvement expenditures he
brought hath to the voters for their approval;

Shall the Orange County Local Transportation
Authority he authorized lo (I) establish by ordi-
nance, a one-hnlf fl/2) of one (0 percent retail
transaction and use tax for a period of twenty (20)
years with an appropriations limit of $500 million
dollars, with the proceeds placed In n trust fund
lo be used solely for traffic Improvement and
growth management and (II) Issue bonds pnynhlc
solely from the proceeds of such retail transaction
and use(ax?

30-9031

30-SB863

Sample Ballot

			.	——	*——					  IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL MEASURE M  Measure M is being submitted to the voters of Orange County according to the requirements of the Local Transportation Authority and Improvement Act enacted by the Legislature in 1987, Measure M is a proposal to supplement existing local revenues for public transportation purposes. The revenues proposed to be raised by this measure will be allocated by the Orange County Local Transportation Authority for the construction and improvement of State highways, the construction, maintenance, improvement and operation of local streets, roads and highways, and the construction, improvement and operation of public transit systems (including bus, light rail, rapid transit and commuter rail services and facilities), all within the County of Orange, described in the Revised Traffic improvement and Growth Management Plan,  Currently Orange County residents are paying a 6 1/4% retail transactions and use tax for purchases subject to such tax throughout Orange County. Those taxes are allocated in the amount of 5 1/4% to the State of California and 1% to the County of Orange and the cities within Orange County, (The amount of 1/4% tp the State of California is authorized from December 31,1989, to December 31,1990, for earthquake relief.)  Measure M would provide that there would be, for a period of 20 years, a 1/2 of 1% retail transactions and use tax above the existing 61/4% tax. Measure M would provide that the proceeds of such 1/2 of 1% tax would be placed in a trust fund to be used solely for the transportation projects and programs detailed in the Revised Traffic Improvement and Growth Management Plan. The Plan was adopted by the Local Transportation Authority after receiving approval by the Orange County Board of Supervisors and the city councils of a majority of the cities in the County as required by law. Measure M would authorize the Local Transportation Authority to issue bonds payable solely from the proceeds of the tax, with the proceeds of such bonds being used to finance capital outlay expenditures for those transportation projects,  This measure required an affirmative vote of a majority of the electors voting on the measure.  The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure M. If you desire a copy of the measure, please cail the Registrar of Voters office at (714) 567-7600 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M  VOTE YES ON REVISED MEASURE M...WE HEARD YOU.  We heard you. The new, Revised Measure M, Orange County Traffic and Growth Management Program, incorporates not only a balanced traffic im- provement plan but includes increased safeguards and legal guarantees to insure that when you vote for Revised Measure M, you will receive its benefits.  Any change in the overall expenditure plan regarding the types of projects NOW legally requires a new vote of the people.  The funds are safeguarded in a legally designated trust fund for use only on the specific programs required by Revised Measure M.  An independent auditor-controller must annually certify that the Revised Measure M funds have been used only for Revised Measure M projects.  Revised Measure M guarantees:  -	a new commuter rail system;  -	up to three new lanes in each direction of the Santa Ana Freeway (1-5) from Los Angeles to San Clemente;  -	a new El Toro "Y" interchange at the junction of 1-5/1-405;  -	a new lane in each direction, and major interchange improvements on the Riverside Freeway (State Route 91);  -	a new lane in each direction on the Costa Mesa Freeway (State Route 55) between the Riverside and Santa Ana freeways;  -	synchronized traffic signals on all major streets throughout the county;  -	improved streets and roads;  -	a growth management program that requires new development generat- ing any new traffic to pay for additional streets and roads as development occurs;  -	expanded transit service;  -	discount fares for senior citizens and the disabled.  An independent Citizens Oversight Committee, chosen through an indepen- dent Grand Jury type selection process, Is empowered to oversee the expen- diture of all funds generated by this measure.  VOTE “YES" ON REVISED MEASURE M, A NO NONSENSE APPROACH THAT GUARANTEES TRAFFIC RELIEF NOW!Ill  s/ John Kumbera President, Brea Chapter, American Association of Retired Persons s/ Reed Royalty President, Orange County Taxpayers Association s/ Clarice Blamer Chairwoman, 20-Year Master Plan Citizens Committee s/ A. E. Shaffer Captain (ret.), California Highway Patrol s/ Leland Oliver Chairman, Orange County Chamber of Commerce	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M DON’T BE FOOLED!  Tax M is the identical plan that voters defeated last year.  Its supporters are still trying to use Orange County’s very real traffic problems to create a political empire. This 20 year sales tax increase would cost taxpayers over $3 billion dollars, to be wasted by the same bungling bureau- crats who have mismanaged the county’s transportation during the last decade.  Now they’re running a deceptive campaign. They spent millions of dollars of developer money last year in a losing campaign, and plan to spend even more this year to mislead you into taxing yourself to pay for their mistakes.  WHAT THEY’RE NOT TELLING YOU  •	Their “new rail system” is a SHAM - neither the technology nor the costs have been identified. This is a blank check for financial disaster.  •	The “new freeway lanes" will virtually all be dangerous diamond lanes.  Freeways will become even more congested.  •	The "growth management plan” actually encourages high density growth by punishing cities who resist development. This benefit to developers will generate even more traffic on our local roads.  •	The citizens oversight committee would be dominated by a bureaucrat whose budget is controlled by the Board of Supervisors.  If they really wanted to listen to us, the appointed Orange County Transpor- tation Commissioners would resign and allow DIRECT ELECTION of compe- tent and accountable commissioners. Responsible commissioners would listen to taxpayers, not taxspenders, and wouldn’t insult voters by submitting the same sorry tax year after year.  Vote NO on Tax Measure M  s/ Tom Rogers Chairman, Citizens Against Unfair Taxation Former Chairman, Orange County Republican Central Committee s/ Norman Z. Eckenrode Mayor, City of Placentia  Member, Southern California Association of Governments, Housing and Economic Development Committee s/ Joy Neugebauer Councilmember, City of Westminster Past President, American Businesswomen’s Association Businessowner, Ace Tool Company s/ Jean H. Watt Councilmember, City of Newport Beach Environmental/Community Leader s/ Chris E. Ema, P.E.  Institute of Transportation Engineers - Fellow

30*99

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

This $3 billion sales tax increase shouldn’t even be on the ballot. We
defeated this tax less than a year ago. But the Orange County Transportation
Commission didn't get the message.

Californians aren't undertaxed. We already pay plenty in Federal and State
transportation taxes. In June, Proposition 1T1 authorized a 100% gas tax
increase for an additional $18.5 billion for transportation. Orange County is
entitled to a large share of this money. Why raise taxes again?

Poor planning by the unelected bureaucrats at OCTC have mismanaged
the county into gridlock. They have wasted millions of dollars on special
projects like dangerous diamond lanes and transitways. Now they want a
blank check for an extravagant mass transit plan. Remember the airport
overruns?

Their plan is a surefire formula for high-density development and more
congestion, just what we don’t need. Ignoring last November's defeat of
Measure M is a prime example of their indifference and arrogance toward the
voters.

MORE REASONS TO VOTE NO ON TAX M

•	ELIMINATES EFFECTIVE GROWTH MANAGEMENT

•	OPPOSED BY MAJOR CITIZEN SPONSORED TAXPAYER ASSOCIATIONS,
PROMINENT ENVIRONMENTALISTS AND CONSERVATIONISTS

•	POTENTIAL BILLIONS IN INDEBTEDNESS

•	AS A REGRESSIVE TAX, HURTS RETIRED PERSONS AND OTHERS LIVING
ON FIXED INCOMES

•	MOST OF THE MONEY GOES TO MASS TRANSIT PROJECTS, RESULTING
IN EVEN MORE TAXES TO COVER THE OPERATING LOSSES

•	OUR TAX MONEY WOULD BE USED TO FORCE US OUT OF OUR CARS
INTO TRANSIT

•	UNFAIR ALLOCATION OF TAX M MONEY WILL BE THREATENED TO
PRESSURE OUR LOCAL CITY GOVERNMENTS

•	LOOPHOLES PERMIT DEVELOPERS TO BENEFIT AT OUR EXPENSE

We don't need to raise our taxes by $3 billion to subsidize developers
and pay for OCTC boondoggles!

ENOUGH IS ENOUGH!

SEND THEM A MESSAGE: Vote NO and bury this loser forever!!

(For further information call 24 hour tax hotline at 650-1537)

s/ Tom Rogers
Chairman, Citizens Against Unfair Taxation
Former Chairman, Orange County Republican Central Committee
s/ Norman Z. Eckenrode
Mayor, City of Placentia

Member, Southern California Association of Governments,

Housing and Economic Development Committee
s/ Joy Neugebauer
Councilmember, City of Westminster
Past President, American Businesswomen’s Association
Businessowner, Ace Tool Company
s/ Jean H. Watt
Councilmember, City of Newport Beach
Environmental/Community Leader
s/Chris E. Ema, P.E.

Institute of Transportation Engineers - Fellow

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

As suggested by Orange County voters, Measure M has been revised to
strengthen the power of your Citizens’ Oversight Committee to ensure that
you get the transportation improvements you want. In addition, Measure M
has been revised to give the voters sole power to approve changes to the
transportation plan.

Despite these added safeguards to Measure M, one of the people who signed
last year's ballot argument in support of Measure M now opposes it. It's
puzzling. Especially when a “no” vote could let other counties receive over
$100,000,000 of your tax dollars to fix their locaF transportation problems
each and every yearfor the next twenty years.

We would be left with bad roads, congested freeways, dirty air, and an
inadequate transit system.

Why?

Because many state and federal transportation programs require local match-
ing funds, which Orange County will not have without Measure !i£

We think Orange County voters are willing to pay for transportation improve-
ments when they know the money will go to those improvements and nothing
else.

Revised Measure M mandates countywide growth management.

Revised Measure M guarantees new rail/transit services.

Revised Measure M requires developers to pay for the traffic Impacts of new
development.

Last year’s measure was decided in a special election in which 78% of our
fellow voters did not vote. Now we need people - like you - who care about
our quality of life to decide this issue.

VOTE YES ON REVISED MEASURE M - A POSITIVE VISION FOR ORANGE
COUNTY’S FUTURE!

s/ John Kumbera
President, Brea Chapter
American Association of Retired Persons
s/ Reed Royalty
President, Orange County Taxpayers Association
s/ Clarice Biamer
Chairwoman, 20-Year Master Plan Citizens Committee
s/ A. E. Shaffer
Captain (ret.), California Highway Patrol
s/ Leland Oliver
Chairman, Orange County Chamber of Commerce

Revised Traffic Improvement and Growth Management Plan

MEASURE M Expenditure Plan

ORANGE COUNTY
TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION

30-99.1

Revised Traffic Improvement and Growth Management Plan
Expenditure Plan (1988 $ x million)

Freeway Projects		$1,325
Project	Cost	
1-5 (Santa Ana Freeway) between 1-405 (San Diego Freeway) and 1-605 (San Gabriel Freeway)	$550	
1-5 (San Diego Freeway) between 1-5/1-405 Interchange and San Clemente	80	
1-5/1-405 Interchange	55	
S.R. 55 (Costa Mesa Freeway) between 1-5 and S.R. 91 (Riverside Freeway)	200	
S.R. 57 (Orange Freeway) between 1-5 and Lambert Road	40	
S.R. 91 (Riverside Freeway) between Riverside County line and Los Angeles County line	400	
Freeway Sub-total	1,325	

Regional Street and Road Projects	$350

Project	Cost
Super Streets	$120
Regionally Significant Interchanges	70
Intersection Improvement Program	100
Traffic Signal Coordination	50
Transportation Systems Management and Transportation Demand Management	10
Streets and Roads Sub-total	350

Local Street and Road Projects		$650
Project	Cost	
Master Plan of Arterial Highway Improvements	$100	
Streets and Roads Maintenance and Road Improvements	450	
Growth Management Area Improvements	100	
Local Street and Road Sub-total	650	

Transit Projects		$775
Project	Cost	
Pacific Electric Right-of-Way	$50	
Lossan Intercity Rail Program	20	
Lossan Commuter Rail	130	
Riverside Commuter Rail .	90	
High-Technology Advanced Ral- Transit	340	
Elderly and Handicapped Fare Stabilization	20	
Transitways	125	
Transit Sub-total	775	

30-99.2

TOTAL

$3,100

Legend

n D o □ □ □ s.R. 55 (Costa Mesa Freeway)
**■■■■• S.R. 57 (Orange Freeway)

• • • • • S.R. 91 (Riverside Freeway)

o o o o o o 1-5 (Santa Ana Freeway)
— mm mm mm 1-5 (San Diego Freeway)
1-5 & 1405 Interchange

30-99.3

Santa Ana Freeway Improvement for the
San Diego Freeway (1-405) to the
Los Angeles County Line

Description:

Rebuilding of the Santa Ana Freeway is critical to the
county’s continued mobility. This project forms the
centerpiece of the 20~Year Master Plan of Transportation
Improvements. Fifty percent of all Orange County resi-
dents live within three miles of this facility and two-thirds
of all jobs lie in this transportation corridor. The staged
improvements call for the addition of up to three lanes in
each direction, rebuilding the freeway-to-freeway inter-
changes, and providing soundwalls and environmental
mitigation. The project begins where 1-5 separates from
the 1-405 and continues north to the Los Angeles County
line. Two of the new travel lanes will be dedicated to
carpools.

Within this length of freeway is the I-5/SR 57/SR 22
interchange. This is the nation’s seventh busiest inter-
change. This interchange and all other intermediate inter-
changes will be improved as part of this project. Traffic on
1-5 north of 1-405 was 160,000 vehicles per day in 1988
and in the future the vehicular demand is expected to
increase to over 260,000 daily.

Costs:

The overall cost of the 1-5 project is estimated to be $1.6
billion. Existing state and federal resources are expected to
fund $1.1 billion with the sales tax revenue providing the
additional $550 million to complete the project.

Implementation:

Construction will start immediately. Sales tax revenue
would be used to augment funding, alleviate cash flow
constraints, and accelerate project delivery by 10 years.

San Diego Freeway (1-5) from the
I-5/I-405 Confluence to San Clemente

Description:

Current plans for 1-5 south of the confluence call for
adding one carpool lane in each direction, building sound-
walls and other environmental amenities. This project
includes the segment of 1-5 from the 1-405 confluence to
San Clemente near the San Diego county line, a distance of
approximately 12 miles. In 1988, the freeway carried
approximately 170,000 vehicles per day and forecasts
show demand to increase to over 230,000 daily.

Costs:

The estimated capital costs for this section of the 1-5
improvement is about $80 million.

Implementation:

Project construction is scheduled to begin during the first
10-year period of the plan.

I-5/I-405 Interchange

Description:

The need for improving one of the county’s busiest inter-
changes has been identified in numerous studies. In 1988
over 260,000 vehicles a day traveled through this inter-
change and forecasts show this demand will grow to over
350,000 vehicles daily. This project calls for the construc-
tion of bypass and feeder lanes along 1-5 for the “El Toro
Y” interchange. This will greatly improve traffic move-
ment between the Santa Ana Freeway and the San Diego
Freeway, as these facilities are widened to add three new
lanes in each direction (including carpool lanes) on the 1-5,
and carpool lanes to the San Diego Freeway.

Costs:

The capital costs in 1988 dollars is estimated at $55
million.

Implementation:

Construction will begin within the first five years of the
20-Year program. This project plays a critical role in the
improvement of the 1-5.

30-99.4

Costa Mesa Freeway (SR* 55) from the
Riverside Freeway to Interstate 5

pescription:

The 20-Year Master Plan of Transportation Improvements
calls for the addition of two new general purpose lanes to
the Costa Mesa freeway for a distance of approximately
6 miles. In 1988 Route 55 carried about 180,000 vehicles
per day and forecasts show demand to exceed 190,000 in
the future. Auxiliary lanes are also planned, in addition to
providing soundwalls and other environmental mitigation
measures.

Costs:

The current estimated capital cost (1988) is approximately
$200 million.

Implementation:

Construction is scheduled for the second 10-year period of
the plan.

Orange Freeway (SR 57) from the Los
Angeles County Line to Interstate 5

Description:

The 20-Year Master Plan for Transportation Improvements
calls for the addition of one carpool lane in each direction
to the Orange freeway for its entire length within Orange
County. This covers a distance of about 12 miles. In
addition, soundwalls and other environmental amenities
will be added. In 1988, this freeway carried over 210,000
vehicles per day and forecasts estimate this demand to
grow to over 280,000 daily. Los Angeles County plans for
additional lanes that could extend the improvements north
to Route 60 in Diamond Bar.

Costs:

The 1988 capital cost estimate for this improvement is $40
million.

Implementation:

The current schedule slates the Orange Freeway improve-
ments for the first five-year period of the plan.

Riverside Freeway~(SR 91) from the
Los Angeles County Line to the
Riverside County Line

Description:

Long-range plans call for the addition of one carpool lane
in each direction on the Route 91 from Riverside County
line to Los Angeles County line. The first phase of this
project on Route 91 extends from the Riverside County
line and terminates at the Orange Freeway. The second
phase extends from Route 57 to the Los Angeles County
line. In addition to the carpool lanes, plans for the freeway
include rebuilding the freeway-to-freeway interchanges
and providing soundwalls and other environmental mitiga-
tion features. About 210,000 vehicles used this freeway in
1988 and forecasts show demand to exceed 240,000 in the
future. Both Los Angeles and Riverside counties have
plans to improve SR 91 within their jurisdictions.

Costs:

The capital cost for these improvements is $400 million.
Implementation:

Construction of Phase I improvements is scheduled for the
first 10 years of the plan and Phase II improvements will
occur during the second 10 years.

30-99.5

Legend

Please note: The following projects are included under Orange County Street and Road Projects but not shown on map:

1. Regional Interchanges	5. Master Plan of Arterial Highways for Orange County

2. Intersection Improvement Program	6. Streets Maintenance and Local Roads Projects

throughout Orange County	7.	Growth	Management Area Improvements

3.	Signal Coordination throughout Orange County

4.	Local Transportation Systems Management and
Transportation Demand Management Plans (TSM/TDM)

30-99.6

SuperStreets Throughout Orange County

Description:

The Super Street Program for Orange County is a 220-mile
network of arterial streets targeted for improvements
designed to increase their ability to carry traffic. These
improvements consist of traffic signal synchronization,
restriping/widening roadways to increase the number of
travel lanes, intersection grade separations, bus turnouts,
removal of on-street parking, and intersection improve-
ments. The Super Street Network includes 21 major
arterial streets throughout Orange County such as Beach
Boulevard, Katella Avenue and El Toro Road.

Costs:

$120 million of sales tax revenue is targeted for Super
Street improvements.

Implementation:

Improvements would be phased over the 20-year program,
and coordinated with other local improvements.

Regional Interchanges

Description:

The goal of the program is to further enhance the local
street interchanges at key freeway junctions such as the
interchanges of 1-405 and Warner Avenue, and Route 22
and Beach Boulevard. The^program alscrwoirld'dtrect
connections between the transitway system and local
streets, for example at Route 57 and Cerritos Avenue.

Local agencies would be required to provide dollar-
for-dollar matching funds. All freeway and major street
junctures throughout Orange County are eligible.
Improvements will be coordinated with other freeway
projects and phased in over twenty years.

Costs:

$70 million of sales tax revenues are targeted for this
program.

Intersection Improvement Program
Throughout Orange County

Description:

The 20-Year Master Plan of Transportation Improvements
recommends that 100 of the county’s most congested street
intersections such as the intersections of BristoI/MacArthur
Boulevard, El Toro Road/Rockfield and State College
Boulevard/Imperial Highway be identified and scheduled
for improvement. This program will help alleviate traffic
bottlenecks present in Orange County. The schedule shows
these improvements to span the full period of the plan.
Costs:

$100 million over a 20-year period is recommended for
this program.

Signal Coordination Throughout
Orange County

Description:

With 28 cities in Orange County, the number of jurisdic-
tions can complicate the coordination of traffic signals
between city boundaries. This element of the 20-Year
Master Plan of Transportation Improvements calls for
financial assistance to cities and the County of Orange in
timing traffic signals where streets cross city boundaries.

Costs:	____________________________________

“$50Tmllion over a 20-year period is targeted for these
improvements.

Master Plan of Arterial Highways for
Orange County

Description:

The County of Orange currently provides $4 million
annually to complete the construction of major streets
countywide. Over 80 percent of the county’s road
system has been constructed. Additional funding is
proposed that when combined with county and other
local funds will help complete the system. Construction
will occur throughout the 20-year program.

Costs:

$100 million is allocated to construct and improve local
streets and roads.

30-997

Local Transportation Systems Management
and Transportation Demand Management
Plans (TSM/TDM)

Description:

Transportation system and demand management focus on
increasing the present capacity of the transportation system
for the movement of people rather than of vehicles at a
relatively low capital cost. Thus, these strategies center on
increasing the occupancy of vehicles and spreading the
demand for travel to times when facilities have excess
capacity. These measures include carpooling and van-
pooling programs, park-and-ride service development,
removal of on-street parking and parking management,
and controlling delivery and operations of commercial
vehicles. Also included are bicycling, alternative work
hours, development of site amenities to encourage high
occupancy use, such as transit shelters and preferential
parking, and reversible traffic lanes to add capacity to the
peak direction. This element of the 20-Year Plan for
Transportation Improvements calls for each city to develop
and implement elements of TSM/TDM. Implementation
of these improvements will occur throughout the life of the
20-year program.

Costs:

$10 million is recommended for this program.

Growth Management Area Improvements

Description:

An important component of the plan is the formation of
Growth Management Areas that will blend local and
regional planning perspectives and traffic control tech-
niques. These areas will be established by grouping local
jurisdictions with similar land use and transportation
characteristics. This program element will focus on
addressing cumulative regional traffic impacts of develop-
ment. Specifically, funds will be used to complete traffic
improvements crossing city/county boundaries. Under no
circumstances may local government use funds from the
program to subsidize costs which should be borne by
developers.

Streets Maintenance and
Local Roads Projects

Description:

This program element offers cities funds for street mainte-
nance and local traffic improvements. The program is
designed to supplement city and county expenditures on
road projects and will require continuation of local invest-
ment in the street and road system. Specifically, to receive
these funds cities must:

■ adopt a Growth Management Plan as called for in the
20-Year Master Plan;

•	adopt a local Pavement Management System that will
eliminate the need for costly road reconstruction and
adequately fund such a system;

•	adopt a local Transportation Systems Management
plan to make better use of the road network;

•	agree to complete improvements within three years or
return the funds; and

•	adopt a local traffic circulation plan that is consistent
with the county wide Master Plan of Arterial High-
ways.

This is a countywide program to maintain and improve
over 5,000 miles of local streets and roads and will extend
over the entire 20-year program.

Costs:

Previous studies have indicated that an initial investment
of $200 million is needed to bring all deficient streets into
good repair, and an annual allocation of $36 million for
routine maintenance. It is proposed to allocate $450
million towards such needs that, when combined with
local resources, will provide substantial new funding for
Orange County streets and roads.

Costs:

$100 million over a 20-year period is targeted for this
program.

30-99.8

Legend

4'H 1111 i Existing Rail Right-of-Way
— — — — High-Technology Advanced Rail Transit
Transitway Development Program

I I 11 111Lossan Intercity Rail Program and
Lossan Commuter Rail

»••••• Riverside Commuter Rail

Please note: Included under Orange County Transit Projects but not shown on map is the Senior Citizens/Disabled Reduced
Fares Program.

I

30-99.9

Rail Transit Right-Of-Way Protection

Description:

Right-of-way (ROW) protection on the Pacific Electric/
Southern Pacific West Santa Ana Branch from Santa Ana
to Los Angeles County line.

Location:

Central and west part of the county. Goes through the
cities of Santa Ana, Garden Grove, Stanton, Anaheim,
Buena Park, Cypress, and La Palma.

Technology and Riders hip Estimates:

The future technology to be considered in this corridor and
on this alignment would be some type of rail transit. Due
to the long term nature related to implementation of
service, revised ridership estimates are not available.

There are previous studies conducted by OCTC and OCTD
which do provide ridership estimates. Depending on the
rail system the segment is connected to, the daily ridership
for the year 2000 is forecast at 10-15,000.

Costs:

$50 million would be reserved for this project and used by
the OCTC to preserve the right-of-way opportunities on
this alignment.

Implementation:

It is assumed that the ROW would be purchased during the
first five years of the program.

Issues/Comments:

1.	The Southern Pacific (SP) right-of-way (ROW) from
Beach Blvd. to Downtown Los Angeles is being consid-
ered for abandonment by SP. This right-of-way along witl
the existing ROW owned by OCTD could provide a future
rail transit connection to the Century Freeway rail transit
line and Los Angeles County's rail transit system. The
distance is approximately five miles.

2.	The OCTD now owns the Pacific Electric (PE) ROW
from Santa Ana to Beach Blvd (7 miles). The City of
Garden Grove proposes to develop parcels through their
redevelopment agency at future station locations at Euclid
and Brookhurst. The City proposes to purchase approxi-
mately 6100’ of the ROW and provide an acceptable
financial package to OCTC and OCTD that would not
preclude the development of rail transit in the future. The
City also proposes to minimize the repurchase price of the
ROW when needed for rail transit development. The
development of rail transit in this corridor could be started
within the next 20 years.

References:

1.	Santa Ana Transportation Corridor, Transit Element,
Alternatives Analysis and Draft Environmental Impact
Report, OCTD, February 1984.

2.	Santa Ana Transportation Corridor, Multimodal
Alternatives Analysis, Preliminary Findings Report,

OCTC, December 1984.

30-99.10

Orange County Transit Project Descriptions

LOSSAN Corridor IntercityHail Service

Description:

The LOSSAN corridor extends for 128 miles between the
downtown areas of Los Angeles and San Diego, and is
second only to the Northeast Corridor in ridership on the
Amtrak rail passenger system. This rail line (Santa Fe)
links communities in the counties of Los Angeles, Orange,
and San Diego. At this time, over 6 million people reside
within 5 miles of this rail line. There are currently nine
stations with 5 of them in Orange County. Amtrak’s
present service in the LOSSAN corridor includes eight
daily trains in each direction. The future proposal calls for
two additional trains to be added.

Location:

The project uses the Santa Fe/Amtrak line from the San
Diego downtown to the Los Angeles Central Business
District (CBD)-a distance of 128 miles with 47 miles in
Orange County.

Technology and Ridership Estimates:

The technology currently used for this service is diesel-
electric locomotives pulling up to six passenger cars. The
cars are approximately 85 feet long and can operate at high
or low platforms. Based on current usage and the implem-
entation of two new roundtrips, the ridership is forecasted
to be 8,000 riders per day.

Costs:

A capita! development program that includes funding by
ail three counties, Amtrak, the State of California, and
Santa Fe Railroad has been developed that will allow for
expansion of service to 10 trains per day in each direction.
Orange County’s share of this program is approximately
S20 million. Any required operating assistance would be
oaid by the State and Amtrak. These services are very
dose to having full farebox recovery on operating and
naintenance costs and are therefore priced for intercity
ype service and not priced to encourage daily commuter
tse.

Implementation:

If the funding program can be put in place, service could
begin as early as 1993.

IssueslComments:

This program requires the cooperation of the three coun-
ties, Caltrans, Amtrak, Santa Fe, and the local communities
to be implemented successfully.

References:

1.	Los Angeles-San Diego (LOSSAN) State Rail Corridor
Study, 1986-1987, LOSSAN State Rail Corridor Study
Group, Consuitants-Wilbur Smith & Associates, Morrison-
Knudsen Engineers, and Arthur Bauer & Associates.

2.	Los Angeles to San Diego (LOSSAN) Corridor Status
Report and Proposed Commuter Rail Implementation
Program, Report to Orange County Transportation Com-
mission, June 16, 1988, staff consultant-Sharon Greene &
Associates.

3.	LOSSAN Corridor Rail Status Report, OCTC,

September 29, 1988.

30-99.11

LOSSAN Corridor Commuter Rail Service

Description:

The proposed commuter rail service in the LOSSAN Corri-
' dor specifically will be directed at the needs of persons
commuting on a daily basis. Train schedules, station loca-
tions, and fare policy will be set to accommodate the needs
of these commuters. The initial service calls for two peak
period trains inbound from San Clemente to Los Angeles
on weekday mornings and two peak period trains outbound
from Los Angeles to San Clemente on weekday evenings.
The service calls for nine stations in Orange County and
four in Los Angeles County. The additional stations in
Orange County include Mission Viejo, North Irvine, and
Buena Park. The Irvine station (Spectrum area) is included
in the nine stations. The commuter trains would supple-
ment the intercity trains that are proposed and currently
operated by Amtrak.

It is also proposed that the project acquire the Santa Fe
ROW from Fullerton to the San Diego County line in
cooperation with San Diego agencies. Based on the
activities proposed for this project, these actions would
constitute the first step in developing a major backbone
rail transit system for Orange County.

Location:

The project uses the Santa Fe/Amtrak line from the San
Clemente/Oceanside area to the Los Angeles cental busi-
ness district.

Technology and Ridership Estimates:

The technology to be used for this service would be the
same as the current Amtrak service. It is estimated that the
initial service would attract 2,000 riders per day in the peak
periods. Ridership will increase over time as additional
commuter service is scheduled.

Costs:

A capital development program has been proposed that
would include the purchase of the Santa Fe ROW, provi-
sion of equipment to provide the service, and the develop-
ment of three new stations at Mission Viejo, North Irvine,
and Buena Park. The service would require operating
assistance as the farebox is estimated to fund 40-50 percent
of the annual costs. The capital cost estimate for Orange
County’s share is $108 million and for operating subsidy
is $22 million for the balance of the 20-Year Plan period.

/ ntpie mentation:

The service could begin as early as 1993, if funding is in
place.

Issues/Comments:

The implementation of this project and this right-of-way
as the backbone rail transit corridor is dependent on the
successful negotiation and purchase of the Santa Fe ROW
south of Fullerton. This project, as well, needs the full
cooperation of all three counties (L.A., Orange, and San
Diego).

References:

1.	Los Angeles-San Diego (LOSSAN) State Rail Corridor
j Study, 1986-1987, LOSSAN State Rail Corridor Study,

1986-1987, LOSSAN State Rail Corridor Study Group.

2.	Santa Ana Transportation Corridor Multimodal
Alternatives Analysis, Commuter Rail Element, 1984,
Orange County Transportation Commission.

3.	LOSSAN Corridor Status Report and Proposed
Commuter Rail Implementation Program, report to
OCTC, June 16, 1988.

4.	LOSSAN Corridor Rail Status Report, OCTC,

September 29, 1988.

30-99.12

Riverside Commuter Rail-Service

Description:

This proposed project operating on Santa Fe trackage
1 would be a cooperative and jointly funded program with
the Riverside County Transportation Commission (RCTC).
The proposed commuter rail service would begin in
downtown Riverside and terminate at the Irvine station
(Spectrum). Four trains per day in each direction are
proposed. Of the four daily trains, two would be routed
directly to Irvine, while the other two serve destinations in
Placentia, Fullerton, and Anaheim before rejoining the
other route at the Chapman station in Orange. Seven new
stations/stops are proposed in Orange County.

The initial directional service is proposed to begin
during the morning peak period and operate four south-
bound trains on 20-minute headways. A similar return set
of trips would be operated during the evening peak period.
The route going directly to Irvine would be approximately
50 miles and the route through Fullerton and Anaheim
would be 56 miles long.

Location:

The project would use Santa Fe ROW between Riverside
and Irvine.

Technology and Ridership Estimates:

The technology to be used for this service would be the
same type as the current Amtrak service on the LOSSAN
corridor. It is estimated that the proposed service would
attract 6,400 riders per day in the peak periods.

Costs:

The Feasibility Assessment study estimated Orange
County’s share of the capital costs at $65 million and the
operating costs at $25 million (through the end of the 20-
Year Plan period). The Riverside County share will be
funded through their 1/2 cent sales tax that passed in
November 1988.

Implementation:

This service will be initiated during the second 10 years
of the plan.

Issues/Comments:

The key issues to be addressed by the two agencies
(OCTC and RCTC) are the Financial arrangements,
priority of expenditures, and the funding splits.

References:

1.	Riverside-Orange County Commuter Rail Service,
Feasibility Assessment, Interim Report, OCTC and RCTC,
July 1988, prepared by Schiermeyer Consulting Service
and Sharon Greene & Associates.

2.	Riverside-Orange County Commuter Rail Service,
Feasibility Assessment, Final Report, OCTC and RCTC,
December 6, 1988, prepared by Schiermeyer Consulting
Service and Sharon Greene & Associates.

30-99.13

High-Technology Advanced Rail Transit

Description:

This project would further develop the existing rail right-
of-ways and initiate a high capacity urban rail system in
Orange County. This 20-Year Plan element will also
provide matching funds to encourage local development
of extensions to major activity centers.

The primary improvements will be along the LOSSAN rail
corridor and designed to provide frequent train service
between south and north Orange County with nine stops at
San Juan Capistrano, San Clemente, Mission Viejo, Irvine,
North Irvine, Santa Ana, Anaheim, i-uilerton, and Buena
Park.

The extension will provide access between the primary rail
system and employment centers. Two of the potential
candidate projects are the Anaheim People Mover Project
and the Irvine Spectrum to John Wayne Airport Fixed
Guideway transit line that could ultimately extend further
west to the South Coast Metro area.

Location:

This project would use the Santa Fe/Amtrak line from San
Clemente to Buena Park.

Technology and Ridership Estimates:

Selection of technology, ridership estimates and system
costs need further analysis and studies.

Costs:

The total capital cost of the urban rail improvements could
exceed $800 million. Rail extension costs will be deter-
mined pending selection of technology. It is recommended
that $340 million be allocated toward this system. System
connectivity, ridership/performance and availability of
matching funds will be used as criteria to determine the
relative priority of investment in the system.

/ mplementation:

Planning work on this project will begin immediately.

The goal is to implement the project(s) during the second
10 years of the plan.

Reference:

Transit Strategy Report, April 1989, Orange County
Transportation Commission, prepared by Parsons
Brinckerhoff Quade & Douglas, Inc.

30-99.14

Senior Citizens/Disabied Persons
Reduced Fares

Description:

This project would stabilize fares for senior citizens and
persons with disabilities on all forms of public transit
including OCTD bus and dial-a-ride programs, City of
Laguna Beach system, the Consolidated Transportation
Service Agency (CTSA) and any rail service that is
implemented.

The OCTD fare for seniors on the local fixed routes is 40
cents in the peak period (weekdays only) and 10 cents in
the off-peak; the Handicapped fare is 85 cents in the peak
period and 40 cents in the off-peak; and on the demand
responsive system the fare is 80 cents at all times. OCTD
service accommodates approximately 80 percent of the
current users.

Location:

This would apply to all of Orange County.

Technology and Ridership Estimates:

Based on today's usage of the public transit system, there
are about 10,000 daily transit rides.

Costs:

It is estimated that a fare stabilization program would cost
about $1 million per year, or $20 million over twenty
years.

/ mplementation:

This could be implemented immediately if an additional
funding source is available.

References:

Short Range Transit Plans and Transportation Improve-
ment Programs for FY1989-1993 and FY1990-1994 for
OCTD, City of Laguna Beach, and CTSA;

Transitway Development Program

Description:

The transitway development program is a 19.4-mile
program for the 1-5, SR55 and SR57 freeway corridors
from the SR91 freeway to the 1-405 freeway. The program
is made up of freeway-to-freeway connectors and other
projects which can be implemented separately. In addition
to these projects, Park-and-Ride lots are needed to com-
plete the system. For the transit way program to function
as approved, all of the components should be in place to
receive maximum benefits, but substantial benefits are
attainable with each project.

Location:

Central county on the SR57,1-5, SR55, and 1-405
freeways.

Technology and Ridership Estimates:

The transitway lanes would be used by buses and other
high occupancy vehicles. The total expected usage of the
transitway segment would be 22,000 daily transit trips
and 50,000 carpool-user/daily-person trips.

Costs:

A portion of this program ($154 million) is funded using
existing resources and is incorporated into the 1-5 freeway
improvements. $46 million of federal funds is also as-
sumed for the remainder of the program. An additional
$125 million in sales tax revenues is targeted for direct
freeway-to-freeway connectors between Routes 57 and 91
and Routes 405 and 55, and Park-and-Ride facilities.

Implementation:

Projects will be implemented over the 20-year program in
conjunction with freeway improvement projects.

References:

1.	A Transitway Development Program for Orange
County, October, 1986, Orange County Transit District.

2.	A Transitway Development Program for Orange
County, Concept Design Final Report, February, 1989,
Orange County Transit District.

3.	A Transitway Development Program for Orange
County, Concept Design Final Report, Plans and Profiles,
May, 1988, Orange County Transit District.

30-99.15

Growth Management Plan

Description:  The Traffic Improvement and Growth Management Plan requires each city and the county to adopt a Growth Management Element of its general plan to be eligible to ' receive new transportation revenue, if new revenue is approved by Orange County voters.	The county wide Traffic Improvement and Growth Manage ment Plan emphasizes good planning, improved coopera- tion between neighboring cities, and requires that develop- ment pays its fair share toward dealing with traffic gener- ated by that new development.
Under this plan each local agency is required to:  •	outline each agency’s plans and efforts to develop multi-jurisdictional traffic solutions through a well-defined, cooperative planning process;  •	specify traffic level of services;  •	promote alternative forms of transportation and overall system efficiency by maximizing use of the existing transportation network through Transportation Systems Management (TSM)  and Transportation Demand Management (TDM);  •	require a traffic mitigation fee to guarantee that new development pays its fair share toward dealing with traffic generated by the new development;  •	foster a better balance of jobs and housing and reduce commuter trips through careful planning;  •	encourage local jurisdictions, where applicable, to establish performance standards for fire, police, library, parks, open space, flood control, and other infrastructure based on local criteria;  •	require phasing of new development to ensure that . service level goals are achieved;  •	pursue additional revenue to upgrade recreational areas and to acquire additional open space.	With this approach, new transportation revenue, in the form of a one-half cent slaes tax measure, would be focused on curing existing transportation and traffic deficiencies while a new traffic mitigation fee will help pay a fair share of the cost of infrastructure required by new residential, commercial and industrial growth.

30-99.16