MINUTES OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES. STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Larry J. MonteUh, Executive Office*

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
383 Hall of Administration
Los Angeles, California 90012

56

The following matter was called up for consideration:

/

Request from the Los Angeles County Transportation
Commission for consolidation of a Special Election
with the Statewide General Election, to bo held on
November 6, 1990*

On motion of Supervisor Dana, seconded by Supervisor
Antonovich, unanimously carried (Supervisors Schabarum and Hahn
being absent), the Board approved the Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission's attached request to consolidate their
Special Election with the Statewide General Election, to be held
on November 6, 1990.

The Registrar-Recorder was instructed to comply with the
Commission's request provided that the Commission pays all
related costs.

30904-7.min

Attachment

September 4, 1990

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COUNSEL

848 HAU or ADMINISTRATION
500 WEST TEMPLE STREET
LOS ANGELES. CALIFORNIA 90012

oc witt w. Clinton, county counsel	August	10,	1990

TELEPHONE

(213) 974-0809

TELECOPIER

,(213) 617-7182

Larry or. Monteilh

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

383 Hall of Administration

500 w. Temple Street •

Los Angeles, California 90012

Re:	Resolution	And	Ordinance	For	November,	1990

Ballot

Dear Mr. Monteilh:

Pursuant to Elections Code Section 23302, enclosed please
find a copy of the Resolution and Ordinance of the Los Angeles
County Transportation Commission approving a 1/2 cent sales tax
measure for the November, 1990 ballot.

very truly yours,

DEWITT W. CLINTON
County Counsel

By iw (u

NINA W. PHILLIPS

Senior Deputy County Counsel

Public works Division

NWP:nwp
$:Jfk/ltr~r*p2

0001052

RESOLUTION CALLING SPECIAL ELECTION
PROPOSING AN ADDITIONAL RETAIL TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX FOR PUBLIC TRANSIT PURPOSES TO
BE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS OP THE COUNTY AT
THE SPECIAL ELECTION AND REQUESTING THE
CONSOLIDATION OP THE SPECIAL ELECTION WITH
THE NOVEMBER GENERAL ELECTION

BE IT RESOLVED by the Los Angeles County Transportation
Commission, that a special election is hereby ordered and called
to be held on Tuesday, November 6, 1990, and that the following
Proposition be submitted to the electors of the County of Los
Angeles at the special election.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission requests that the Board of Supervisors
of the County of Los Angeles, State of California, consolidate
the special election with the November General Election and
place the Proposition upon the same ballot as shall be provided
for the General Election to be held on the 6th day of November
1990, and, that the same precincts, polling places, and precinct
board members as used for the General Election shall be used for
the Special Election pursuant to Elections Code Sections 23300
et seq.

BALLOT PROPOSITION. The exact form of the Proposition as it is
to appear on the ballot and a complete text of the proposed
ordinance is as follows:

0001053

1

LOS ANGELES COUNTY TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
1990 EAST-TRACK ANTI-GRIDLOCK TRANSIT
IMPROVEMENT PROPOSITION:

To fund improved frequency# speed# and
reliability of rail and bus service# additional
transit security# graffiti removal# and clean-air
transit vehicles# shall a 1/2 percent Countywide
sales tax increase and an appropriations
limit be established?

YES

NO

ORDINANCE. The attached Ordinance# Exhibit A# is incorporated
herein by reference.

PROCLAMATION. Pursuant to Section 2653 of the Elections
Code the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission hereby
PROCLAIMS that a special County-wide election shall be held on
Tuesday# November 6# 1990# to vote upon the Proposition set
forth in this resolution. The polls shall be open for said
election from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. The Registrar-Recorder
shall cause this proclamation to be published in a daily
newspaper of general circulation# printed# published# and
circulated in Los Angeles County# for at least one (1) time not





0001054

2

• •

later than fifty (50) days before the 6th day of November, 1990,
pursuant to Elections Code Section 2554.

PILING RESOLUTION; The Executive Director of the Los Angeles
County Transportation Commission is ordered to file a copy of
this resolution with the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors, the
County Clerk and the Registrar-Recorder at least eighty-eight
(88) days prior to the date of the election.

ANALYSIS OF ORDINANCE. The County Counsel of the County of Los
Angeles is hereby requested to prepare an analysis of said
ordinance pursuant to Section 3781 of the Elections Code.

CBQA EXEMPTION:	The	California	Environmental	Quality	Act does

not apply to this tax proposal, according to Public Resources
Code Section 21080(b)(8) and (11) through'(14), and Title 14,
California Code of Regulations, Sections 15273, 15275 and 15276.

This tax is proposed for . the purpose of (1) meeting
operating expenses; purchasing or leasing supplies, equipment or
materials; meeting financial reserve requirements; obtaining
funds for capital projects necessary to maintain service within
existing service areas; (2) increasing funds for the existing
public transit service programs; (3) instituting or increasing
passenger or commuter services on rail or highway rights of way
already in use and/or (4) the continued development of a
regional transportation improvement program.

3

The Commission hereby finds that the purpose of this tax
includes supplementing existing tax revenues to meet a
demonstrated shortfall due to decreasing federal funding and
increasing transportation costs needed to complete the Los
Angeles County Transportation System as set forth in the
Regional Transportation Improvement Program and as described in
the Ordinance both of which are incorporated herein by
reference^ including funding to meet operating expenses/
purchase or lease of equipment or materials/ meet financial
reserve needs and requirements and to obtain funds for capital
projects necessary to maintain service within existing service
areas and to assist in meeting stricter air quality standards
and accessibility requirements*

■ The Executive Director of the Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission is directed to promptly file a Notice
of Exemption under the California Environmental Quality Act.

ELECTION/REQISTRAR-RKCORDKR: Commission staff is instructed to
cooperate with the Registrar-Recorder and to perform or cause to
be performed such functions preliminary to the conduct of such
special election as may be agreed upon with the Registrar-
Recorder.

Pursuant to Public Utilities Code Section 130351/ the cost
incurred by the County in conducting the special election will
be reimbursed.

SYS# 5 0	0?	F?	?	.	•'	WS0

0001056

The Board of Supervisors is hereby authorised to canvass
the returns of said special election requested herein to be
consolidated.

DIVISION OP TAXES:	The attached Ordinance# Exhibit A, imposes

a one half of one percent transactions and use tax. Another
measure imposing a one-half percent transactions and use tax
entitled the Local Communities Safety Act - Los Angeles County
Regional Justice Facilities Financing Agency is scheduled to be
submitted to the electorate in the same election as this
Ordinance. If both measures are approved by the electorate# the
limits of Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7251.1 would be
exceeded. In the event that both measures are approved by a
majority of the electors voting on the measures and both
measures are otherwise valid# the transactions and use tax is to
be divided equally with one fourth percent going to the Los
Angeles County Transportation Commission for the purposes set
forth in the attached Ordinance and one fourth percent going to
the Los Angeles County Regional Justice Facilities Financing
Agency for the purposes set forth in its Ordinance provided that
legislation is enacted to authorise such a division. However#
if at some future time the statutory limit on sales taxes is
increased then the full one-half of one percent transactions and
use tax shall be restored to each agency.

5

I certify that the foregoing Resolution was adopted by a
majority vote of all members of the Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission# at its meeting held on the 3 th day
of August# 1990.

Executive Director
Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission

B:2:LACTC3.n«P

r ■
)<

*0

Of

e •

p 41920

0001058

*

Exhibit -a*

ORDINANCE NUMBER 49
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING AN ADDITIONAL

RETAIL TRANSACTION AND USE YAX IN THE COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES FOR PUBLIC TRANSIT PURPOSES

The Los Angeles County Transportation Commission ordains
as follows:

A Retail Transactions and Use Tax is hereby imposed in
the County of Los Angeles as follows:

SECTION 1. IMPOSITION OF RETAIL TRANSACTIONS TAX» There i$ hereby
imposed a tax for the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail upon every retailer in the County at a rate of
one-half of one percent of the gross receipts of the retailer from
the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the
County. This tax is in addition to the tax authorized by Ordinance
No. 16, on August 20, 1980.

SECTION 2. IMPOSITION OF USE TAX. There is hereby imposed a
complementary tax upon the storage, use or other consumption in the
County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer
for storage, use or other consumption in the County. Such tax
shall be at a rate of dne-half of 1% of the sales price of the
property whose storage, use or other consumption is subject to the
tax. This tax is in addition to the tax authorized by Ordinance
No. 16, on August 20, 1980.

0001059

SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS:	The	following	words,	whenever used in

this Ordinance, shall have the meanings as set forth below:

(a)	"Commission" means the Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission or any successor entity.

(b)	“County” means the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the County of Los Angeles.

(c)	“Transaction" or "Transactions*' have the same
meaning, respectively, as the words "Sale" or
"Sales"; and the word "Transactor" has the same
meaning as "Seller", as "Sale** or "Sales" and
"Seller" are used in Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code*

(d)	"Public Transit Purposes" are expenditures which
maintain, improve and expand public transit, reduce
congestion, and increase mobility, and include, but
are not limited to, the following:

1.	Transit and paratransit activities, including
rail, bus and advanced technologies

2.	Fare Subsidies

3.	Commuter Rail

4.	Transit Centers

5.	Park-and-Ride Lots

6.	Public Information Services Technology and
Systems

7.	Freeway Bus Stations and Facilities

S?M . 5 .<’> OK ; i? 4 IS'

000X060

2

8.	Rail and Bus Safety and Security

9.	Maintenance of and Improvements to Streets and
Highways used as public transit thoroughfares,
including, but not limited to, the following:
- coordination and synchronization of

signalization

provisions for prompt service to assist
motorists with disabled automobiles or
trucks

(HOV) lanes

other activities which reduce congestion
and improve air quality by providing
transportation improvements to freeways,
and state highways used as public transit
thoroughfares, including construction of
transit ways including bus ways, carpool
lanes, and operational and interchange
improvements.

10.	Transportation Systems Management and
Transportation Demand Management

construction of high occupancy vehicle

SECTION 4. USE OF REVENUES RECEIVED FROM IMPOSITION OP THE
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX. The revenues received by the Commission

from the imposition of the transactions and use tax shall be used
for public transit purposes, as follows:

3

(a)	Purpose of Tax.

To improve transit service and operations, reduce

traffic congestion, improve air quality, efficiently operate and
improve the condition of the streets and freeways utilized by
public transit, and reduce foreign fuel dependence. The purposes
of this tax include (1) meeting operating expenses; purchasing or
leasing supplies, equipment or materials; meeting financial reserve
requirements; obtaining funds for capital projects necessary to
maintain service within existing service areas; (2) increasing
funds for the existing public transit service programs; (3)
instituting or increasing passenger or commuter services on rail or
highway rights of way (4) the continued development of a regional
transportation improvement program.

Improvement Fund will be created to supplement current
transportation funds and help meet the documented shortfall in
funds needed to complete the Los Angeles County transportation
system.

(b)	Use of Revenues.

A Los Angeles County Anti-Gridlock Transit

Forty percent of the revenue from the 1/2 cent
sales and use tax will be used to improve and
expand rail and bus transit County-wide, to provide
fare subsidies, increase graffiti prevention and
removal, and increase energy-efficient, low-
polluting public transit service. Funds from this
revenue source will not be used for capital

4

0001062

improvements for the Metro Rail Project between
Union Station and Hollywood.

Five percent of the revenue from the 1/2 cent sales
and use tax will be used to improve and expand rail
and bus security.

Ten percent of the revenue from the 1/2 cent sales
and use tax will be used to increase mobility and
reduce congestion by providing additional funds for
Commuter Rail and the construction of Transit
Centers/ Park-and-Ride Lots/ and Freeway Bus Stops.

Twenty percent of the revenue from the 1/2 cent
sales and use tax will be a Local Return Program to
be used by cities and the County for public
transits paratransit, and related services
including to improve and expand supplemental
paratransit services to meet the requirements of
the Federal Americans With Disabilities Act. At
the option of each city and the County funds can be
used consistent with the County's Congestion
Management Program to increase safety and improve
road conditions by repairing and maintaining
streets heavily used by public transit.

5

oo

Transportation system and	demand management

programs are also eligible.

Funds for the Local Return Program will be
allocated to the cities and the County on a per
capita basis. Local Return funds not expended
within three years will be returned to the
Commission for reallocation.	Local Return funds

may not be traded or sold to other jurisdictions.

Twenty-five; percent of the revenue from the 1/2
cents sales and use tax will be used to provide
essential County-wide transit-related improvements
to freeways and State highways. To facilitate
transit flow, the operation of major streets and
freeways will be improved by providing preference
and priority for transit. Traffic signals may be
synchronized, and coordinated and "Smart Street**
corridors may be created on those corridors served
by public transit. Transportation Systems
Management techniques which assist transit service
may also be funded. Transportation improvements on
freeways and State highways may include transitways
and other improvements to facilitate and expedite
flow of transit and rideshare vehicles, and
carpools.

V w;..

&	;S90

0001064

6

The non-Locai Return Funds will be allocated in
formula and discretionary programs basis to be
developed and approved by the LACTC within six
months of voter approval of this Ordinance, In no
event shall administrative costs exceed one and
one-half (1 1/2%) percent of the funds generated by
the tax.

SECTION 5. APPLICATION. OF SALES AND USE TAX PROVISIONS Of REVENUE
AND TAXATION CODE, The provisions contained in Part 1 of Division
2 of. the Revenue and Taxation Code (Sales and Use Taxes, commencing
with Section 6001)# insofar as they relate to sales or use taxes
and are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code (Transactions and Use Taxes), commencing with
Section 7251), and all amendments thereto shall apply and be part
of this Ordinance, being incorporated by reference herein, except
that:

(a)	The Commission, as the taxing agency, shall be
substituted for that of the State;

(b)	An additional transactor's permit shall not be
required if a seller's permit has been or is issued

•to the transactor under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code; and

(c)	The word "County” shall be substituted for the word
"State" in the phrase, "Retailer engaged in

7

CO

business in this State" in Sect ion 6203 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and in the definition of
that phrase.

A retailer engaged in business in the County shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchase of tangible personal
property unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into
the County or participates within the County in making the sale of
the property? including# but not limited to soliciting or receiving
the order# either directly or indirectly# at a place of the
retailer in the County or through any representative# agent,
canvasser# solicitor, or subsidiary or person in the County under
authority of the retailer.

SECTION 6. ADOPTION OF REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE SECTIONS 7261 and
7262, Pursuant to the provision of Revenue and Taxation Code
Section 7262.2# the required provisions of Sections 7261 and 7262
of that Code as now in effect or as later amended are adopted by
reference in this Ordinance.

SECTION 7. PLACE OF CONSUMMATION OF RETAIL TRANSACTION. For the
purpose of a retail transaction tax imposed by this Ordinance# all
retail transactions are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer# unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered
by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-State destination or to
a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-State destination. The

8

gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges# when
such charges are subject to the State sales and use tax# regardless
of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer
has no permanent place of business in the State# or has more than
one place of business# the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated for the purpose of the transactions tax
imposed by this Ordinance shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

SECTION 8. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. A Commission appropriations
limit is hereby established equal to the revenues collected and
allocated during the 1990/81 fiscal year plus an amount equal to
one and a half times the taxes that would be levied or allocated on
a one-half of one percent transaction and use tax in the first full
fiscal year following enactment and implementation of this
Ordinance.

SECTION 9. DIVISION OF TAXES. This Ordinance imposes a one half
of one percent transactions and use tax. Another measure imposing
a one half percent transactions and use tax entitled the Local
Communities Safety Act - Los Angeles County Regional Justice
Facilities Financing Agency is scheduled to be submitted to the
electorate in the same election as this Ordinance. If both
measures are approved by the electorate# the limits of Revenue and
Taxation Code Section 7251.1 would be exceeded, in the event that

9

both measures are approved by a majority of the electors voting on
the measures and both measures are otherwise valid, the
transactions and use tax is to be divided equally with one fourth
percent going to the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission
for the purposes set forth in this Ordinance and one fourth percent
going to the Los Angeles County Regional Justice Facilities
Financing Agency for the purposes set forth in its Ordinance
provided that legislation is enacted to authorise such a division.
However, if at some future time the statutory limit on sales tax is
increased, then the full one half of one percent transactions and
use tax shall be restored to each agency.

SECTION 10. ADOPTION AND ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCE. This Ordinance
is hereby adopted by the Commission and shall be enacted upon
authorization of the electors voting in favor thereof at the
special election called for November 6, 1990, to vote on the
measure.

SECTION 11. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES. This ordinance Shall
take effect on the day it is adopted by the Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission and pursuant to Public Utilities Code
Section 130352 shall be operative on the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing not less than 180 days after adoption
of the ordinance.

10

• V

• •

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission this 8th day of August, 1990# by the
following vote:

AYES:	EDELMAN#	BRADLEY#	GRABINSKI, ALATORRE# REED# BACHARACH#

TOLBERT

NOES:	SCHABARUM#	DANA,	ANTONOVICH

ABSENT:	HAHN

The Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission

0001069

• •

ATTEST:

Executive Director
of the Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission

I hereby certify that at its meeting of August 8, 1990# the
foregoing Ordinance was adopted by the Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission.

Executive Director
of the Los Angeles County
Transportation Commission

APPROVED AS TO FORM

OE WITT W. CLINTON
County Counsel

ia