MINUTES OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Larry J. Montellh, Executive Officer
Clerk of the Board of Supervisor*

383 Hall of Administration
Los Angeles, California 90012

67

The following matter was called up for consideration:

Request from the Los Angeles County Regional
Justice Facilities Financing Agency for
consolidation of a Special Election with the
Statewide General Election, to be held on
November 6, 1990,

On motion of Supervisor Dana, seconded by Supervisor Edelman,
duly carried by the following vote:	Ayes:	Supervisor	Edelman,

Dana and Antonovich; Noes:	Supervisor	Schabarum (Supervisor Hahn

being absent) , the Board approved the Los Angmles County Regional
Justice Facilities Financing Agency's attached request to
consolidate- their Special ' Election with the Statewide General
Election^ to be held on November 6, 1990.

2	082 l—i •mini

Attachment

August 21, 1990



/	WfjLg,,,..,

m





LOS ANOKLES COUKTY
REGIONAL JUSTICE
FINANCING

August 9, 1990

Honorable Board of Supervisors
Los Angeles County
500 W. Temple Street, Room 383
Los Angeles, CA 90x312

SUBJECT:	REQUEST	TO CONSOLIDATE NOVEMBER 6 ELECTION

Dear Supervisors:

At its recent meeting, the Los Angeles County Regional
Justice Facilities Financing Agency adopted the attached
Resolution respectfully,requesting the Board .of Supervisors
to consolidate with the State general election to be held on
November 6, 1990, a special election for the purpose of
submitting to the qualified voters the proposition: Local
Communities Safety Act.

SHERMAN BLOCK
Cha i rman

SB:VV:gs

Attachment

6 7 Op AUG 211990



RESOLUTION

WHEREAS, it is the desire and intention of the Los
Angeles County Regional Justice Facilities Financing
Agency to call, order and provide for a special election
to be held in the County of Los Angeles on November 6,
1990, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified
electors of said County a certain proposition, and to
consolidate said special election to be held on the samm
date.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED:

SECTION 1. That, pursuant to Section 26299.044 of
the Government Code and section 21302 of the Elections
Code, the Los Angeles County Regional Justice Facilities
Financing Agency respectfully requests the Board of
Supervisors to consolidate with the State general
election to be held on November 6, 1990, a special
election for the purpose of submitting to the qualified
voters of the County of Los Angeles the following
proposition:

6 7 OF AUG 211990

®B5j

LOCAL COMMUNITIES SAFETY ACT -
LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL JUSTICE
FACILITIES FINANCING AGENCY (AGENCY)

YES

To finance th® construction, acquis it ion,
'maintenance, furnishing,; and operation of
jails, juvenile detention and lav
enforcement facilities, and to finance

intermediate punishments and crime prevention --------

programs in the County, this proposition
authorizes the Agency to adopt a one-half
of I percent sales tax and to issue
bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax.

This proposition also establishes an
appropriations limit; for the Agency of an	NO

amount equal to one and erne-halt times its
proceeds of taxes levied or allocated in
its first full fiscal year.

SECTION 2. That staff be instructed to cooperate
with the Registrar-Recorder and to perform or cause to be

...	'	;	.	i

performed such functions preliminary to the conduct of
such special election as may be agreed upon with the
Registrar-Recorder.

SECTION 3. That the Board of Supervisors be
requested to issue instructions to the Registrar-Recorder	']

to taXe any and all steps necessary on the part of the
County of Los Angeles to hold said election.

SECTION 4. That, pursuant to Government Code

. ' '
Section 26299.044(c), if the measure is approved by the

voters, the cost incurred by the County in conducting the

t 6 7 OF AUG 2.11990

SlMMHMaBlNlMIIHMWIIIiMMMMHMNIHBi

i

special election should be reimbursed from proceeds of
the retail transactions and use tax.

SECTION 5. That the Board of Supervisors is hereby
authorized to canvass the returns of said special
election requested herein to be consolidated.

SECTION 6. That a duly certified copy of this
resolution be filed with the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Los Angeles, and a copy be filed with the
Registrar-Recorder, at least eighty-eight (88) days prior
to the day of election.

I hereby certify that the foregoing resolution was
adopted by the Los Angeles County Regional Justice

Facilities Financing Agency at its meeting

1990.

Executive Officer
Los Angeles County Regional
Justice Facilities Financing
Agency *

hm5:res

SYN# 6 7 OF AUG 211990

mA

ANALYSIS

This ordinance would call a special election to be
held on November 6/ 1990, for the purpose of seeking
approval by a majority of the electors of a one-half of 1
percent retail transactions and use tax to finance the
construction, acquisition, maintenance, furnishing, and
operation of jails, juvenile detention and lav ,
enforcement facilities, and to finance intermediate
punishments and crime prevention programs. The special
election also seeks approval to issue bonds payable from
the proceeds of the tax, and establishment of an
appropriations limit.

The ordinance directs the consolidation of the
election with the statewide general election to be held
the same day.

HM:md

8/2/90

/•»

''f Aim <•» i if»r*n

ORDINANCE NO _______________

An ordinance calling a special election to be held
on November $, 1990, for the purpose of seeking approval
by a majority of the electors of a one-hair of 1 percent
retail transactions and use tax to finance the
construction, acquisition, maintenance, furnishing, and
operation of jails, juvenile detention and law
enforcement facilities, and to finance intermediate
punishments and crime prevention programs. The special
election also seeks approval to issue bonds payable from
the proceeds of the tax, and establishment of an
appropriations limit.

This ordinance directs the consolidation of the
election with the statewide election to be held the same
day.

The Los Angeles County Regional Justice Facilities
Financing Agency ordains as follows:

SECTION 1. Call of Election and Purpose. A special
election is hereby called, proclaimed:and ordered to be
held on November 6, 1990, for the purpose of voting upon.



• ■ •

a proposed retail transactions and use tax, an authori-
zation of bonds, and establishment of an appropriations
limit.

SECTION 2. Form of Proposition. The exact form of

.	‘	'	:	*.	/.	v

the Proposition as it is to appear on the ballot is as
follows:

L’

LOCAL COMMUNITIES SAFETY ACT - LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL JUSTICE FACILITIES FINANCING AGENCY (AGENCY)	YES	
To f inance the construct ion, acquisition, maintenance, furnishing, and operation of j alls, j uvenile detent ion and law enforcement facilities, and to finance intermediate punishments and crime prevention programs in the County, this proposition authorises the Agency to adopt a one-half of l percent sales^tax and to issue bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax. This proposition also establishes an appropriations 1 imlt for the Agency of an	NO	
amount equal to one and one-half times its		
proceeds of taxes levied or allocated in its first full fiscal year.		—

SECTION 3. Sections 1 and 2 of the ordinance of
the Los Angeles Regional Justice Facilities Financing
Agency are added to read:

Section 1. A retail transactions and use tax
of one-half of 1 percent is hereby imposed in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County

2

6 7 OF AUG 211990

—-..-	•'	-	•	.	■■	■	'[	 j_



of Los Angeles in accordance with Chapter 13.8
(commencing with Section 26299.000) of the Government
Code and Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Cod©* The tax
shall remain in effect for 30 years.

Section 2. The Los Angeles County Regional
Justice Facilities Financing Agency may exercise the
following financing activities as from time to time may
be appropriate:

(a)	Finance the construction, acquisition, and
furnishing of adult and juvenile detention facilities,
countywide law enforcement facilities, and other
structures necessary or convenient thereto, in compliance
with a master plan developed and approved, as amended
from time to time, by the Board of Supervisors for that
purpose.

(b)	Finance the acquisition of necessary lands,
easements, and rights-of-way, including reimbursement to
the County of Los Angeles for any costs incurred by the
County of Los Angeles in acquiring such lands, easements,
and rights-of-way, at sites designated or approved by the
Board of Supervisors, for the general governmental
purposes set forth in this Section.

(c)	Hold title as necessary or convenient to land
or facilities constructed or acquired pursuant to this

3

SYN#' 6 7 OF AUG 211990

Section, and convey title to such land or facilities to
the County of Los Angeles.

(d)	Finance the operation and maintenance of any
qualifying facilities constructed, acquired, or financed,
in whole or in part, pursuant to this Section, or any
adult and juvenile detention facilities, countywide law
enforcement facilities, and other structures necessary or
convenient thereto which may become operational after the
effective and operative dates of the transactions and use
tax provided in Section 1, above.

(e)	Reimburse costs incurred by the County of Los
Angeles in the operation of any qualifying facilities
constructed or acquired pursuant to this Section,
provided the Board of Supervisors certifies to the Los
Angeles County Regional Justice Facilities Financing
Agency that progress toward completion of qualifying
facilities has advanced substantially in accordance with
the master plan, and reimburse costs incurred by the
County of Los Angeles in implementing the master plan.

(f)	Retire all or a portion of any capital debt
previously incurred for any adult or juvenile detention
facilities, countywide law enforcement facilities, or
other structures necessary or convenient thereto which
exists on the date the election is held for voter
approval of the retail transactions and use tax ordinance
provided in Section 1, above.

(9) Finance all or part of the cost of any
prevention program, as defined in Section 26299.011 of
the Government Code.

(h)	Issue limited tax bonds pursuant to Article 4

of Chapter 13.8 of the Government Code (Section
26299.060, fit	)♦

(i)	Administer Chapter 13.8 of the Government Code
(Section 26299.000, fit £&&’)•

SECTION 4. Consolidation. Pursuant to Government
Code Section 26299.044 and Elections Code Section 23302,
the special election shall be consolidated with the
statewide general election to be held on Tuesday,
November 6, 1990. The proposition shall be placed upon
the same ballot as that provided for the general
election. The precincts, polling places and precinct
board members shall be the same as provided for the
statewide general election.

SECTION 5. Proclamation. Pursuant to Section 2653
of the Elections Code the Los Angeles County Regional
Justice Facilities Financing Agency hereby PROCLAIMS that
a special countywide election shall be held on Tuesday,
November 6, 1990, to vote upon the proposition described
in Sections 2 and 3 of this ordinance. The polls shall
be open from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.a. The Registrar*
Recorder shall cause this proclamation to be published in .
a newspaper of general circulation in the County of Los

5



Angeles at least one (1) time no later than fifty (SO)
days before the sixth day of November, 1990, pursuant to
Elections Code Section 2554.

SECTION 6. Effective and Operative Dates, Pursuant
to Section 26299.042 of the Government Code this
ordinance shall take effect at the close of the polls on
the day of the election at which the proposition is
adopted, and pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code
Section 7270, shall be operative on the first day of the
first calendar quarter following execution of a contract
between the Los Angeles County Regional Justice
Facilities Financing Agency and the State Board of
Equalization.

SECTION 7. Authority. This Ordinance is adopted
pursuant to Chapter 13.8, Article 3 (commencing with ...
Section 26299.040) of the Government Code and Sections
2653, 3751 and 23312 of the Elections Code.

SECTION 8. Publication. This Ordinance shall be
published once before the expiration of fifteen (15) days
after its passage in a daily newspaper of general
circulation, printed, published and circulated in the
County of Los Angeles pursuant to Government Code Section
25124.

hra5:ordinince

SYN#

6 7 OF AUG 211990

6