<full> COUNTY JAIL AND JUVENILE HALL
TRANSACTION AND USE TAX
SAN BENITO COUNTY MEASURE J

The San Benito County Criminal Justice Facilities Authority ordains as
follows:

SECTION 1. TITLE.

This ordinance shall be known as the “County Jail and Juvenile Hall
Transactions and Use Tax Increase Ordinance." The San Benito County
Criminal Justice Facilities Authority hereinafter shall be called the “AUTHORI-
TY”. This ordinance shall apply in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the County of San Benito, which territory shall be referred to as
“DISTRICT” herein.

SECTION 2. PURPOSE.

This ordinance is adopted for the following among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions of this ordinance be interpreted in order to
accomplish these purposes:

(a)	To impose and collect a transactions and use tax that will generate
revenue which the Authority shall use to acquire property for criminal justice
facilities, to provide for the construction and completion of criminal justice
facilities, and to expend for any necessary, incidental purposes thereto.

(b)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorpo-
rates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the require-
ments and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes
a tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected
by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

(e)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be
administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes
and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

SECTION 3. IMPLEMENTATION.

This ordinance shall not be implemented until it is approved by a 2/3 vote
of the Authority and subsequently approved by a majority of the qualified
voters of the County voting in a special election.

SECTION 4. OPERATIVE DATE.

“Operative date” means the first day of the calendar quarter commencing
more than 120 days after the electorate approves of this ordinance.

SECTION 5. CRIMINAL JUSTICE FACILITIES.

“Criminal Justice Facilities” includes, without limitation, a County Jai! and
a County Juvenile Hall.

SECTION 6. SUPPLEMENTAL REVENUES.

It is intended that revenue produced pursuant to this ordinance shall
supplement state funding which will partially fund the San Benito County Jail
and Juvenile Hall facilities.

SECTION 7. ADMINISTRATION.

The Authority shall serve as the governmental entity which will administer
this ordinance. The Authority shall act in accordance with this ordinance and
with state law, including Section 7285.5 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

SECTION 8. TERMINATION DATE.

The imposition and collection of the retail transactions and use tax created
by this ordinance shall terminate exactly three (3) years from the operative
date of this ordinance.

Measure J, Full Text (Continued)

SECTION 9. BALLOT MEASURE; APPROPRIATION UMfT.

The Authority shall authorize a ballot measure to be submitted to obtain
voter approval of this ordinance at a special election in November 1990. The
measure shall contain a provision to establish an appropriation limit under to
Article XIII B of the Constitution of the State of California.

The measure shall read as follows:

MEASURE SAN BENITO COUNTY JAIL AND JUVENILE HALL DETENTION FACILITIES	
Shall a transactions and use tax (retail sales tax) be imposed for three (3) years by the San Benito County Criminal Justice Facilities which shall expend the revenue generated for jail and juvenile hail facilities and which shall have a maximum annual state mandated appropriations limit of SI .5 million dollars?	YES
	NO

SECTION 10. CONTRACT WITH STATE.

Prior to the operative date, the Authority shall contract with the State Board
of Equalization to perform ail functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance. If the Authority shall not
have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date
shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of
such a contract.

SECTION 11. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon ail retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the district at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2%) of the
sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

SECTION 12. PLACE OF SALE.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are
subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in
the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which
the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

SECTION 13. USE TAX RATE.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption
in the district of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on
and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in the district at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2%) of the
sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

SECTION 14. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they
are otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

SECTION 15. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLEC-
TION OF USE TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of this Authority shall be substituted therefor. The
substitution, however, shall not be made when the word “State” is used as

part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California. The substitution shall not be made when the result of that
substitution would require action to be taken by or against the Authority or
any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administra-
tion or operation of this ordinance. The substitution shall not be made in
those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions Of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, or to impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax
by the state under the provisions of the code. The substitution shall not be
made in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711.,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. The word
“district” shall be substituted for the word “State" in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203. A retailer engaged in business in the district shall not
be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the district or partici-
pates within the district in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a
place of business of the retailer in the district or through any representative,
agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary or person in the district under the
authority of the retailer.

SECTION 16. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

SECTION 17. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax
and the use tax amount of any sales tax or use tax the amount of any sales tax
or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county,
or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transac-
tions tax the gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible persona! property to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped
to a point outside the district, pursuant to the contract of sales, by delivery to
such point by the retailer of his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this para-
graph, delivery to a point outside the district shall be satisfied:

(i)	with respect to vehicles other than commercial vehicles subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9850) of the
Vehicle Code, by registration to an out-of-district address and by a declara-
tion under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address
is, in fact, his principal place of residence.

(ii)	with respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-district and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior
to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) the sale of lease of
tangible persona! property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(c)	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this district of tangible personal
property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

(2)	Purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to
the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), storage use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract of lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised!

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the district shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer shops or delivers
the property into the District or participates within the district in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the
order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person In the district under the authority of the
retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the district” shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9850) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the District.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit
against that tax any transaction tax or reimbursement for transactions tax
paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the
sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

SECTION 18. AMENDMENTS.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes
and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue

and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance. No
such amendment, however, shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance.

SECTION 19. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the
County, or against any officer of the State or the County, to prevent or enjoin
the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

SECTION 20. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.

a.	Creation of Special Fund. Ail revenue generated by the sales tax
increase, plus accrued interest, will be deposited in a general fund for the
Authority. The fund authorized under this measure will be administered by the
Authority pursuant to this ordinance,.

b.	Interest Generated. Any interest generated by the sales tax revenue
shall be treated as revenue for the purpose of using the interest for the
criminal justice facilities or for administrative costs.

c.	Administrative Costs. The costs to administer this ordinance shall be
paid solely from the sales tax revenue, and interest earned thereon. Estimated
administrative costs shall be reserved by the Authority before the revenue is
distributed in accordance with this ordinance.

d.	Additional Monies. It is not anticipated that any revenue will remain
after the completion of all projects specified in Section 6 of this ordinance.
However, if such occurs, then the Authority shall assess the criminal justice
facility needs of the residents of San Benito County. Based on this assess-
ment, the Authority shall select and complete additional projects with the
remaining revenue.

SECTION 21. SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the applica-
tion of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.

SECTION 22. EFFECTIVE DATE.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the County transac-
tions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the San Benito County Criminal Justice Facili-
ties Authority, on the 17th day of July, 1990, by the following vote:

AYES: DIRECTORS:	Carrillo,	Nicholson,	Macfarlane

Sabatinni, Silva

NOES: DIRECTORS:

ABSENT: DIRECTORS:

s/ Chairman, San Benito County
Criminal Justice Facilities Authority

ATTEST:

s/ Curtis J, Hili, Clerk

San Benito County

Criminal Justice Facilities Authority <fullend>












<summary> JAIL AMD JUVENILE HALL
EXPENDITURE PLAN
FOR
MEASUREJ

1.	PURPOSE OF THE EXPENDITURE PLAN

The purpose of this expenditure plan is to specify the estimated revenue to
be generated by MEASURE J, to identify the MEASURE J projects and their
costs, to identify the monetary contribution of the state, and to generally
describe MEASURE J.

2.	WHAT IS MEASURE J?

MEASURE J is a ballot measure before the voters of San Benito County.
The measure, if approved by a majority of the voters, will increase the retail
sales tax in San Benito County by one-half of one percent (1/2%) for three (3)
years. This increase in the sales tax will generate money that will only be used
to pay for a new County Jail and a Juvenile Hall.

3.	REVENUE GENERATED BY MEASURE J

The three year increase in the sales tax is estimated to generate a total of
three million dollars ($3,000,000.00).

4.	MEASURE J PROJECTS AND COSTS

MEASURE J revenue provides a revenue source to pay for a new County
Jail and a Juvenile Hall. As detailed below, the cost of these criminal justice
detention facilities is more than the amount of revenue expected to be
generated by MEASURE J. However, the State of California will provide a
substantial sum of money to local jurisdictions for the construction of jails
and juvenile halls. The state monies have certain restrictions such as requir-
ing the contribution by local agencies. Also, the availability of state monies is
for a limited time only. After that, counties will have to fund the entire cost of
criminal justice facilities.

The estimated breakdown of costs is as follows:

JAIL

Total construction cost,	excluding	land ....... $5,100,000.00

State contribution ............................ $3,650,000.00

County share to be paid from

MEASURE J revenue ............................. $1,450,000.00

JUVENILE HALL

Total construction cost,	excluding	land ....... $1,400,000.00

State contribution .......................... $ 500,000.00

County share to be paid from

MEASURE J revenue	....................... $ 900,000.00

LAND ACQUISITION (For both Jail and

Juvenile Hall) ................................ $1,200,000.00

5. STATE MONIES

As stated, state monies are available to assist counties in building jails and
juvenile hall. However, the state requires construction of a jail to begin no
later than March 1991 and construction of a juvenile hall no later than
December 1990. If construction has not begun on the projects within the
required times, the state will not provide any money to the county which will
then have to use its own money to build necessary criminal justice facilities.

6.	ADMINISTRATION

The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito has designated a San
Benito County Criminal Justice Facility Authority, (Authority) as a separate
entity to administer MEASURE J. Administrative costs are to be paid solely
from revenue generation.

7.	TERMINATION OF SALES TAX

The sales tax increase of one-half of one percent (1/2%) will end three (3)
years after it is first imposed. <summaryend>











<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE J

MEASURE J, if approved by a majority of the voters, will increase the sales
tax in San Benito County by one-half of one-percent (1/2%). The increase in
sales tax will be used to finance certain criminal justice detention facilities.
The increase in sales taxes is limited to a three year period. At the end of the
three year period, the sales tax will be reduced by one-half of one-percent
(1/2%).

The particular criminal justice detention facilities under MEASURE J are
specified in the Expenditure Plan. The projects are a county jail and a county
juvenile hall.

The projects are also specified in an ordinance which will not become
effective until the passage of MEASURE J. The ordinance cannot be changed
unless two^-thirds of the San Benito County Criminal Justice Facilities Authori-
ty (“Authority”) approve of the change. The amendment must be then
approved by a majority of the voters during a special election before any
amendment to the ordinance becomes effective.

Approximately three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) will be generated by
the increase in the safes tax over the three-year period. The income will be
used to pay for the acquisition, construction, completion and financing of the
specified criminal justice detention facilities. The revenue generated by the
Measure J will also be used to match state grant monies available to the
county. (See Expenditure Plan.)

The State Board of Equalization and the Authority will separately administer
certain aspects of Measure J. Administrative costs shall be paid solely from
revenues generated from this measure. <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> s/ Steven R. Sanders
San Benito County Counsel <impartialsigsend>