MEASURE J

v;

y

Shall the Greater Hayfork Valley Park and Recreation District impose a special
tax of ten dollars ($10.00), on each parcel of property within the geographical boundaries
of the Greater Hayfork Valley Park and Recreation District as shown on the latest
equalized tax roll, in addition to the ten dollar ($10.00) tax for Greater Hayfork Valley
Park and Recreation District currently imposed, to be used only for the special purpose of
support of the Greater Hayfork Valley Park and Recreation District recreation and park
activities? Property owners who own more than one parcel within the District will be
assessed on only one parcel, if the name or names of those holding title is exactly the
same for each parcel.

GREATER HAYFORK VALLEY PARK AND RECREATION DISTRICT
GENERAL TAX MEASURE A
FULL TEXT OF
AN ORDINANCE DETERMINING AND PROPOSING FOR
ADOPTION OF A GENERAL TAX FOR PARKS AND RECREATION

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that the revenues which
have been provided from voluntary contributions and fund raising activities wilt
be insufficient to support continuation of present levels of district recreation
activities by the District and
WHEREAS, Sections 53720 et, sep. of the Government Code authorizes focal
agencies which provide services to determine and propose for adoption to the
voters a general tax for such services; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that, without the revenues
which such a general tax would provide, District services would not be initiated
and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that the following tax
equitably reflects both the costs of providing the services, as well as the benefits
of such services to the property in the District, and generates sufficient revenues
to permit continued provision of such services to the residents of the District;
and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has further determined that the tax rate
should not be varied among particular areas within the District; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined the genera! tax rate set out
below on the basis of its best current estimate of future revenues and expenses.
The Board of Directors is committed to imposing a tax rate no higher than that
necessary to provide sufficient funds for continued recreation services. If addi-
tional sources of revenue not now anticipated become available to the District,
such that the revenues produced by this general tax become unnecessary for the
provision of District services, it is the intention of this Board of Directors to take
such steps as are legally permissible and practicable in order to reduce the tax
burden on the property owners of the District to the lowest level consistent with
adequate District services,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
THE GREATER HAYFORK VALLEY PARK ANO RECREATION DISTRICT OF
TRINITY COUNTY, AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Determination of Amount of Tax. A general tax for parks and
recreation is hereby determined in the following amounts upon property within
the District:

Ten dollars ($10.00} per year for each lot (or parcel} as shown upon the
parcel maps maintained by the Trinity County Assessor’s Office and so identified
as a parcel by having been assigned a parcel number. Only one parcel owned by
an individual or joint tenant will be assessed where title is exactly the same for all
the parcels.

Section 2, Purpose of Tax. The revenues provided by the general tax shall be
used for any of the purposes permitted by Government Code Section 53720 et.
seq. for the general support of the Greater Hayfork Valley Park and Recreation
District and for no other purpose.

Section 3. Exemption from Tax. The general tax shall not be imposed upon
property owned by agencies of the federal government or the government of the
State of California or by a local government agency.

Section 4. Collection of Tax; Penalties; Enforcement. With the exception of
the 1990-91 Fiscal Year, the general tax shall be collected in the same manner
and at the same time as ad valorem property taxes are collected by the County of
Trinity. To any of the tax imposed by this Ordinance which becomes delinquent
shall be added a penalty equal to that imposed on delinquencies in the ad
valorem property tax, The tax and penalty shall bear interest at a rate equal to the
interest rate imposed on unpaid ad valorem property taxes. The general tax shall
be a lien on the property on which it is levied, and the enforcement of the
collection of such taxes may be made in the same manner and by the same
means as is provided by law for the enforcement of liens for state and county
taxes, all of the provisions of law relating to the enforcement of the latter being
hereby made a part of this Ordinance, so far as applicable.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately'upon
its approval by the voters of the District in the manner provided by law.

Section 6. Severability, if any provision of this Ordinance, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the
Ordinance and the application of such provisions to other persons or circum-
stances shall not be affected thereby and to this end the provisions of this
Ordinance are severable.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a (special) meeting of the Board of Directors held
on the 2nd day of July 1990, by the following vote:

Ayes:	R.	Brownlee, M, Patton, M. Stewart and B. Guinn

Noes:	None	s/	Marvin R. Stewart

Absent: R. Brainerd	President,	Board	of	Directors

s/ Barbara J. Guinn
Secretary-Clerk

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY DISTRICT ATTORNEY
GREATER HAYFORK VALLEY PARK AND
RECREATION DISTRICT, TAX MEASURE A

BACKGROUND:

Article XIIIA of the California Constitution (enacted by initiative in June 1978)
limits the amounts of ad valorem taxes on real property to one percent of fuff
cash value. As a result of this constitutional limitation, direct property tax
revenues to local government entities have been reduced. The effect of this
reduction is most pronounced in the case ot special purpose districts.

The State Legislature has enacted Government Code Sections 53720 et
seq., which authorize certain local Districts to propose a general tax, the
revenues from which may be used for general governmental purposes. The
general tax takes effect, only upon the approval by a majority of the voters
voting upon the measure.

Sn July 1990, the Board of Directors of the Greater Hayfork Valley Park and
Recreation District determined, by Ordinance No. 90-01, the amount of a
general tax and proposed it for adoption by the voters at this election.
PROPOSAL:

Passage of this ballot measure would cause the ordinance imposing the
general tax to go into effect. The tax would become effective commencing
with the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1990, and would be imposed upon
parcels of property within the district. The amount of the tax, per year, would
be as follows:

Ten Dollars ($10) per year for each lot or parcel as shown upon the parcel
maps maintained by the Trinity County Assessor's Office. Only one parcel
owned by an individual or joint tenant will be assessed where title is exactly
the same for all the parcels.

In accordance with the Government Code, no tax would be imposed upon
property owned by government entities.

The ordinance provides that with the exception of the 1990-91 Fiscal Year,
the general tax will be collected by the County at the same time that ad
valorem property taxes are collected, would be subject to the same penalties
and interest for delinquencies, and would be enforced in the same manner as
those taxes.

The revenues derived from the general tax would be used only for the
general support of the Greater Hayfork Valley Park and Recreation District and
tor no other purpose.

Authority to levy the tax would commence with the tax year 1990-91 and
would continue for the tax years thereafter.

The general tax could not be increased or otherwise changed without
subsequent voter approval.

FiSCAL EFFECT:

This office has not determined the dollar amount of revenue the special tax

would produce.

s/ David L. Cross
District Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

The Greater Hayfork Valley Park and Recreation District now exists but is
forbidden to provide services untii it has a voter-approved revenue source.
This measure would generate about $25,000 annually for the District, and
allow the District to begin serving the community. Once the District is in
business, it would be eligible to also receive State Park Bond Act monies and
grant funds.

With a budget to work with, our District can begin to provide programs and
facilities for people of all ages, and make Hayfork area a more enjoyable place
to live and a more attractive place for others to visit.

No one else can or will do this as well as local people—Hayfork must look
out for its own interests. The County, unfortunately, is going in the wrong
direction; money to operate the swimming pool at Hayfork Park has been cut
from the County budget, which means that the pool is scheduled to be closed
next summer and thereafter.

With a budget to work with, the District could address the pool problem. In
addition, the District would be in a position to make cooperative arrange-
ments with the County, the Forest Service, or other entities to provide
recreation services which would otherwise remain unavailable. •

A property owner will be assessed only $10.00 yearly. This assessment
cannot be increased without another vote of the people. The revenue will be
under the sole control of the locally elected Board of Directors.

Vote YES on the Recreation District...,Save our poof!

s/ Marvin R. Stewart, President
Greater Hayfork Valley Park
and Recreation District Board

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED