ENCINITAS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
Proposition C

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PARCEL TAX ELECTION

PROPOSITION C

Shall the Governing Board of the Encinitas Union School District levy or
cause to be levied a ($95) ninety-five dollar parcel tax for the period begin-
ning July 1.1990, through June 30,1995?

Revenue from such a parcel tax shall be used to reduce class sizes to
an average of 27:1, to support the media centers, the addition of needed
technology programs, music and arts program, and to enhance language
arts, math, and science programs as well as other programs in need of
support.

Parcels which were eligible for a senior citizens exemption would be
exempt from this parcel tax.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The Encinitas Union School District, pursuant to Government Code section 50079, is

proposing a levy of a qualified special tax of $95 per year for each parcel of real property within
the District for a five-year period beginning July 1990 through June 1995. The revenues from
the parcel tax will be used to (1) reduce class sizes to an average ratio of 27:1; (2) support the
media center, the music and arts program, and the addition of technology programs; and (3)
support language, arts, mathematics, and science programs when needed. This proposition
provides for an exemption from such taxes for taxpayers 65 years of age or older. A two-thirds
vote of approval by the eiectors of the School District voting upon this proposition is required
to authorize the levy of this tax.

A “yes” vote would be a vote in favor of the levy of this tax.

A “no” vote would be a vote not in favor of the levy of this tax.

PR-0621-3

SD 001-06

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

We, the Board of Trustees of the Encinitas Union School District, believe that this Parcel Tax
will return to the voters the opportunity to support their local schools.

Prior to 1978’s Proposition 13, School Boards had the power to levy taxes and to fund the
educational programs that met community expectations. Past Encinitas Boards were very
conservative in levying taxes and, because of this, our schools have been penalized in the
support they receive from the State, as compared to neighboring districts.

Encinitas has been a leader in the County and State in offering programs and educational
opportunities. Every year since 1978, we have had to reduce or eliminate programs.

Your approval of this annual $95.00 for five years will be used to reduce class sizes, continue
operating the media program, music education, art education, and improved technology, while
supporting our language arts, math, science, and physical education. The funds will also allow
the district to be competitive in employee salaries.

In order to recognize the past contributions of senior citizens, the Board has exempted those
seniors eligible for a tax exemption.

In well over 12 years, this community has not been asked to pay additional funds to support
the educational programs. We feel that Proposition “C” will give you, the voter, the opportunity
to significantly affect the education of the children in the Encinitas Union School District.

A “YES” vote on Proposition “C” will demonstrate your support for better education.

ENCINITAS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES

VAN WILLIAM RILEY	WILLIAM L.	CARLI

President	Clerk

MARY JO NORTMAN	MARY	C.	REGAN

Member	Member

H. J. WALKER, JR.

Member

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION C

No argument against the proposition was filed in the Office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-0621-4

SD 001-07