COUNTY SERVICE AREA P-2, ZONE A
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE E ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 1990

“Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.”

MEASUREE

“Shall Ordinance 90-16 of the Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County be approved so as to authorize a special tax on property located in Zone A of	YES	
County Service Area P-2 in order to provide additional funding for increased police protection service?”	NO	

COUNTY COUNSEL’S ANALYSIS OF MEASURE PROPOSING A SPECIAL
TAX FOR ZONE A, COUNTY SERVICE AREA P-2

Article XIIIA of the California Constitution (Proposition 13) requires that any
new local agency special tax be approved by two-thirds of those voting on the proposed tax.
California statutes authorize a special tax to fund police protection services, if approved by
two-thirds of those voting on the proposal. Pursuant to that authority, the Board of Supervisors
of Contra Costa County adopted Ordinance No. 90-16 which will provide authorization for a
special tax for police protection services throughout Zone A (the Blackhawk area) of County
Service Area P-2, if approved by two-thirds of those voting on this measure. The authorizing
Ordinance requires that the proceeds of this tax. be used solely for the purposes of obtaining,
furnishing, operating and maintaining police equipment or apparatus, for paying the salaries
and benefits of police personnel, and for such other police expenses as are deemed necessary
by the Board of .Supervisors.

The tax authorized by this measure is not based upon the value of property. The
tax, if approved by the voters, is to be on a parcel and use of property basis and would replace
the police services special tax now imposed in County Service Area P-2A. tinder the Ordinance,
the special tax levied per year on parcels in Zone A would be as follows:

Property Use Category	Amount	of	Tax	Per	Parcel

1.	Single Residential	$190

2.	Small Multiple Residential	$190

3.	Large Multiple Residential	$190

4.	Commercial/Industrial/Institutional	$950

Insofar as feasible, any taxes levied will be collected and administered in the same
manner as secured roll ad valorem property taxes.

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF ORDINANCE NUMBER 90-16.

SYNOPSIS OF ZONE A, COUNTY SERVICE AREA P-2,

POLICE SERVICES SPECIAL TAX ORDINANCE
The purpose of Ordinance 90-16, adopted February 27,1990 by the Board of Supervisors
of Contra Costa County, is to authorize the levy of a special tax within Zone A (the Blackhawk
Area) of County Service Area P-2 in order to augment funding for police services. The Ordinance
will only become effective if approved by two-thirds of those voting in Zone A.

The tax authorized by the Ordinance is a special tax within the meaning of Article XIIIA
of the California Constitution (Proposition 13). Although this tax is not determined according
to value, it is a property tax because the burden of the tax fails upon property'. Because it is
a property tax, the Ordinance provides that, insofar as possible, the tax would be administered
in the same manner as secured roll ad valorem property taxes.

The revenues raised by the tax would have to be used solely for obtaining, furnishing,
operating and maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, for paying the salaries
and benefits of police protection, personnel and for other necessary police protection expenses.

The tax authorized by this election would be levied for each fiscal year (July 1. through
June 30) on each parcel of property in Zone A and would replace the police services special tax
now imposed in County Service Area P-2A. The tax would be imposed according to the following
schedule of property use categories:

Property Use Category	Amount	of	Tax	Per	Parcel

1.	Single Residential	$190

2.	Small Multiple Residential	$190

3.	Large Multiple Residential	$190

4.	Commercial/Industrial/Institutional	$950

(1)

Ordinance 90-16 classifies each parcel in the Service Area into one of four property use
categories according to information contained in current records of the property. For example,
the property use category designated “single residential’’ would include any parcel shown on
the current records as having a detached single family home, condominium, or townhouse.

Taxes on each parcel for each year would constitute a lien on the parcel just as in the
case of secured roll ad valorem property taxes and would be due the County of Contra Costa.
The secured roll tax bills would be the only notices for the tax. Insofar as applicable, the times
and procedures regarding exemptions, due dates, installment payments, corrections, cancella-
tions, refunds, late payments, penalties, liens, and collections for secured roll ad valorem taxes
would apply to this tax. Homeowner’s and veteran’s exemptions could not be granted because
such exemptions are determined by dollar amount of value and this tax is based upon property
use category rather than value.

County officials collecting the tax would deduct reasonable costs of administering the
tax from the collected taxes and remit the balance to the Zone A Service Area account.

If approved by a two-thirds vote in the June 5,1990 election, taxes could first be collected
tinder the Ordinance for the tax year beginning July 1, 1990.

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS A SYNOPSIS OF ORDINANCE NUMBER 90-16 AND
IS NOT THE COMPLETE TEXT OF SUCH ORDINANCE. IF YOU DESIRE A COMPLETE
COPY OF THE ORDINANCE. PLEASE CALL THE ELECTION OFFICE AT (415) 646-4166
AND A COPY WILL BE MAILED AT NO COST TO YOU.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
COUNTY SERVICE AREA P-2, ZONE A
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE E ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 1990

Beginning last October residents were no longer provided 24 hour, 7 day a week police security.
The reason for the drop in police protection was due to a failed special election. Even though
a majority of voters voted “yes” for a 24 hour coverage, a % majority was required. Thus two
full-time police officers were eliminated.

Blackhawk now has to rely on roving county support to our reduced police force. Support that
can often, take up to 45 minutes to receive. We are now left with. 40% less coverage than before.
We can’t continue to rely on “help” from, the Valley Station or county roving patrol due to
uncertain, man-power and funding capability.

Blackhawk is not presently a “high” crime area. However, Police manager reports indicate that
there is a substantia! increase in incidents requiring an officer to respond. This report, shows
144 police responses in January compared to 99 in December. Incidents ranging from, grand
theft and assault to disturbing the peace and vandalism. Traffic and parking enforcement has
suffered. Without 24 hour coverage, we can’t expect the former level of diligence.
Homeowners are asked to approve a revenue measure on this ballot that will increase the
annual, contribution by $75.00, which is tax deductible. The homeowner cost will be $1.90.00
per year versus the $11.5,00 now paid, with NO provision for a cost of living escalation. This
combined with the increased assessment on commercial parcels from. $345.00 to $950.00 will
afford us a return to the 24 hour, 7 day a week Blackhawk Police coverage we need and deserve.
William R. Dastic, Chairman.

Police Service Committee P-2A

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
COUNTY SERVICE AREA P-2, ZONE A
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE E ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 1990

The special tax proposal was defeated last year because Blackhawk, with its round-the-clock

security gates, is now and always has been a very low crime area.

Currently ONE deputy is on dutv at a time. If this measure passes there will still be only
ONE on duty, 24 hours a day. Proponents think 24 hour coverage will solve all problems.

Selective enforcement during 'critical hours of the day, plus strict area access control at our
security gates is the key to crime prevention.

Principal activity of Blackhawk police is speed control, followed, by ticketing parked cars, teenage
vandalism, trespassing and occasional theft from construction sites or unlocked cars. WE DO
NOT NEED EXTRA. DEPUTIES AND A BUDGET OF $501,000 FOR THIS TYPE OF
POLICING. Come on folks, there is not enough activity in Blackhawk. to keep these police
busy 24 hours a day.

Our area pays $10 million in property taxes and again we say the P-2A committee should fight
for our fair share of County police services. We should not continually revert to the P-2A special
tax assessments.

Blackhawk residents defeated a similar proposal last year. We urge you to VOTE NO again
this year. Blackhawk does not need more police.

BLACKHAWK RESIDENTS AGAINST TAX INCREASE.

REX A. SMITH
SUSAN D. WILLIAMSON
RICHARD A. GOODRICH
RICHARD B. HARRISON

ARGUMENT AGAINST
COUNTY SERVICE AREA P-2, ZONE A
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE E ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 1990

Blackhawk is now and always has been a very low crime area. Blackhawk will remain a low
crime area without the extra self-imposed cost of the Sheriffs Patrol. Why? Blackhawk is an
affluent community with round-the-clock security gates which restrict the casual and discourage
the professional felon.

Fact—there has been no increase in crime since reducing Sheriff deputies to three last October.
Fact— police action does not prevent crime. Home alarms, outdoor lighting and access control
security gates prevent crime.

Fact—hidden Sheriffs Patrol radar vehicles positioned to ticket Blackhawk drivers do not
prevent crime or traffic violations.

Fact—Sheriffs Patrol does not handle life threatening emergencies. The Blackhawk fire station
paramedics quickly respond to all life threatening emergencies.

Fact—Sheriff Patrol is expensive and more than doubles annual security costs for Blackhawk
residents. If this ordinance is passed, residents will pay about $501,000 for Sheriff
deputies and some $483,000 for security gates for an annual budget in the $1 million
range. Blackhawk residents pay $10 million in annual property taxes with no county
services in return. The P-2 commitee should persuade the County to help fund existing
police service. In addition, the cost is unfairly distributed as it is not based upon property
values but a $190 sur-charge for each residence whether single, multiple, small or large.

Proponents of last year’s defeated measure said it was endorsed by “. . . Blackhawk Country
Club, Board of Directors and the Blackhawk Corporation .. These organizations are owned
and/or controlled by the same few people and do not represent the majority of the Blackhawk
residents.

Together we defeated a similar proposal last year. We urge you to vote NO AGAIN this year.
Blackhawk does not need more police.

BLACKHAWK RESIDENTS AGAINST TAX INCREASE

REX A. SMITH.

SUSAN D. WILLIAMSON
RICHARD A. GOODRICH
RICHARD B. HARRISON

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
COUNTY SERVICE AREA P-2, ZONE A
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE E ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 5, 1990

Prior to the formation of the Blackhawk police district P2A, the average speed on our streets
was high and extremely dangerous. This exposed our residents and children to a potentially
serious or fatal accident. The roving sheriffs patrol does not actively monitor automobile speed.
As a. result of proper traffic enforcement by our Blackhawk police otir streets are now' more
safe and the potential of a serious accident involving our children has been diminished.

The Blackhawk. fire station paramedics are an essential element to our neighborhood emergency-

services team, but they are not equipped or trained, to handle a serious police emergency such
as rape, or armed assault.

rat

*

Police presence has been shown to be one of the key elements that help prevent crime, along
with home security measures, and access control security gates. Our security guards are respon-
sible for the monitoring of individuals entering this community, but they do not have the
authority, nor are they trained to handle anything requiring police action or emergencies. Don’t
be satisfied with a false sense of security!

Since reducing our police service to part time in. October our calls for service have increased

by 40 percent!’

Blackhawk police officers are very sensitive to the specific need and desires of this particular
community. The officers know this neighborhood well and respond to each area’s particular
requirements and needs. This is a highly desirable and unique situation to be in. Do not lose
this high level of service!

VOTE YES FOR SECURITY AND SAFETY!

William Dastic
Chairman P2A

(4)