ORDINANCE NO. 166

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF LA QUINTA, CALIFORNIA, DETERMINING AND
PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX FOR FIRE PROTECTION
AND PREVENTION

WHEREAS, the level of fire protection and prevention and
related paramedic and community safety services which can be
provided from existing revenue sources has been determined to
be inadequate to meet the current and future needs of the City
of La Quinta; and

WHEREAS, California law authorizes the City of La Quinta to
levy a special tax for such purposes, provided such special tax
is first approved by a two-thirds vote of the voters voting on
such a proposition in a general or special municipal election;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority contained in Government
Code Sections 53970 et sea, and in accordance with the
provisions of those Sections, the City Council desires to
propose to the voters in the City of La Quinta on June 5, 1990
that a special tax be levied for fire protection and prevention
and related paramedic and community safety services; and

WHEREAS, such special tax must be approved by two-thirds of
the voters voting in the June 5, 1990 election before it may be
levied in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of La Quinta,
California, DOES HEREBY ORDAIN as follows:

Section 1:	Chapter	3.19	is hereby added to the La Quinta

Municipal Code to read:

"CHAPTER 3.19
SPECIAL TAX FOR FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION

3.19.010 Authority and Adoption. Pursuant to the authority
contained in Government Code Sections 53970 et seq., a special
tax for fire protection and prevention and related paramedic
and community safety services is hereby levied within the City
of La Quinta, California.

3.19.020 Lew of Special Tax. The special tax for fire
protection and prevention shall be levied on a class of
improvement to property and use of property basis. Subject to
the limitations set forth in Section 3.19.040, the amount of

City shall be determined by multiplying the applicable
equivalent dwelling unit factor set forth in Section 3.19.030
by the amount of the special tax for each equivalent dwelling
unit as such amount is annually determined by the City Council.

3.19.030 Determination of Equivalent Dwelling Unit Factor. The
following equivalent dwelling factors shall apply for each
parcel in the City. Residential parcels with one dwelling unit
shall have an equivalent dwelling unit factor of 1.0.
Residential parcels with more than one dwelling unit shall have
an equivalent dwelling unit factor of .75 for each dwelling
unit on the parcel. Parcels with hotel developments shall have
an equivalent dwelling unit factor of .6 per hotel unit,
provided that commercial uses on such parcels shall have the
same equivalent dwelling unit factor as other commercial
parcels. Vacant parcels shall have an equivalent dwelling unit
factor of .5 for parcels less than one acre. An additional .1
shall be added to the .5 minimum for each additional vacant
acre on the parcel. Commercial and other non-residential
parcels shall have an equivalent dwelling unit factor of 3.0 or
.0004 multiplied by the gross square footage of commercial
buildings on the parcel, whichever is greater.

3.19.040 Voter Limitation on Maximum Tax to be Levied. The
maximum special ta'x'that may be levied pursuant to this
ordinance for each equivalent dwelling unit shall not exceed
Ten Dollars ($10.00) per month for each equivalent dwelling
unit.

3.19.050 Collection. The special taxes levied pursuant to
this ordinance shall be collected by the County of Riverside on
behalf of the City of La Quinta in the same manner and subject
to the same penalties for delinquencies as other taxes which
are fixed and collected by the County of Riverside. The County
of Riverside may deduct from the special taxes collected its
reasonable costs incurred for such service before remittal of
the balance to the City of La Quinta.

3.19.060 Purpose. All of the revenues derived from the
special tax levied pursuant to this ordinance shall be paid
into a special fund in the treasury of the City of La Quinta
and shall be expended only for the purpose of obtaining,
furnishing, operating and maintaining fire protection and
prevention and related paramedic and community safety services.

3.19.070 Exclusions and Exemptions. All Federal, State,

County and District owned property shall be exempt from the
special tax to be levied pursuant to this ordinance."

Section 2:	Because	there is an urgent need to upgrade fire

protection and prevention and related paramedic and community

fi A f	COrvi roe anH Honanco r\ •f anor «-• 4-t* ***■ 4	**

public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City
of La Quinta, this Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon
verification that two-thirds of the voters voting in the
June 5, 1990 election voted in favor of a levy of the special
tax described in this Ordinance.

Section 3:	The	City	Clerk	shall	certify to the passage and

adoption of this Ordinance and shall cause the same to be
published once in the Desert Sun, a newspaper of general
circulation, printed, published and circulated within the City
of La Quinta.

PASSED, APPROVED, and ADOPTED this 20th day of March
1990, by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilman Bohnenberger, Rushworth, Sniff & Mayor Pen

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Councilwoman	Bosworth

ABSTAIN:	None

BAUNDRA L. JUHOLA, <Clty Clerk
City of La Quinta, California