IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
MEASURE S

MEASURE S relates to approval of Ordinance No. 109.2 of the
City of Scotts Valley establishing a Utility User's Tax. The tax
set forth in the ordinance is a general tax and all funds produced
would be placed in the city's general fund. Approval by a majority
vote of the voters voting on this measure is required in order for
it to be approved.

The ordinance has been adopted by the City Council of the city
of Scotts Valley as an urgency ordinance. However, the ordinance
is not effective for any purpose unless and until it is approved
by the voters.

The ordinance impacts existing law by adding provisions to the
Scotts Valley Municipal Code that establish a Utility User's Tax.
The tax rate is Bet at 3% of the utility user's bill for gas ar.d
electric service. The tax is collected by the utility company
(Service Supplier) from the utility customer (Service User) upon
payment of the monthly utility bill.

Interest at the rate of 10% per annum, exclusive of penalties,
is charged to any Service user who fails to pay the tax due in a
timely fashion, together with a collection charge of $10.00 for
each delinquent account. In addition, a penalty of 1% per month
is charged for such delinquencies.

The Director of Finance is charged with responsibility for
administration of the ordinance. The ordinance contains provisions
relating to appeals to the City Council of determinations made by
the Director of Finance.

A claim for a refund of an overpayment must be filed in
writing with the Director of Finance within 3 years of the date of
payment. In addition, subject to certain qualifications and
exceptions, a refund of taxc.^ .raid may be obtained on an annua)
basis by those Service Users who establish that the annual gross
income of the household in which they live is 5C% or less of the
median income of Santa Cruz county for their preceding income tax
reporting period. For this purpose, a claimant is the person in
whose name the bills for utility services are rendered. "Income
of the household" means all income of members of the claimant's
household while members of such household, and related to the
claimant as a spouse, cr as defined in Sections 17056 and 1705"? of
the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

The tax is imposed upon every person using electrical energy
or gas in the city, subject to certain prescribed exceptions or
exclusions (such as "gas corporations" or "electrical corporations"
as defined in the California Public Utilities Code).

If Ordinance No. 109.3 is approved by the voters, the tax
would become effective 30 days thereafter.

s

It is anticipated that the tax would raise approximately
$300/000 or more each year. The amount of revenue generated will
increase as gas and/or electric utility charges increase.

Dated:	August	22	.	1990	/s/	RAYMOND	M,	HAIGHT_________

RAYMOND M. HAIGHT,

City Attorney of the city of
SCCttB Villc'1----

41

t

i»

uho

s

_ o _

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE S

The City Council urges your support of this measure. By
approval of the Utility User's Tax ordinance, the city would
receive in excess of $300,000 a year from revenues produced by the
tax.

The tax is at the rate of 3% of what the user of gas and/or
electric utility service pays each month. This is not a
significant amount to most utility customers; and to those to whom
it is significant (low and moderate income households), there are
provisions in the ordinance allowing for a refund (up to the entire
amount paid) for those who qualify.

The revenues from this tax would go into the city's General
Fund and would be available for a variety of uses, including
helping to maintain vital and important programs, such as the
recreation program for our youth. The funds would also be
available to help defray expenses of necessary and vital city
services provided by various city departments, such as the Police,
Public Works, and Planning Departments.

This tax (and the same basic ordinance) were in effect in the
city for several years until 1988. In years past, the rate of the
tax was 5%, and then cut down to 3%. During this time, the
ordinance and i^he tax operated very smoothly, refunds were made,
and there was little complaint.

Let's help Scotts Valley out. Support Measure S and tell your
friends to do the same.

Dated:	August	15,	1990	Michael Caffrev_______________

Michael Caffrey, Mayor

Joe Miller_____________________

Joe Miller, Mayor Pro Tem

Gina Koshland__________________

Gina Koshland, Councilmember

David Schmidt__________________

David Schmidt, Councilmember

ORDINANCE NO. 109.3

.5

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SCOTTS VALLEY
ADOPTING A UTILITY USERS' TAX BY ADDING
CHAPTER 3.36 TO TITLE 3 OF THE SCOTTS
VALLEY MUNICIPAL CODE

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SCOTTS VALLEY DOES HEREBY
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Title 3 of the Scotts Valley Municipal Code is
hereby amended by the addition of Chapter 3.3$&thereto, to read as
follows:

"Chapter 3.3^ib

UTILITY USERS' TAX

Section 3.36.010. Definitions. Except where the context
otherwise requires, the definitions contained in this section shall
govern the construction of this chapter.

(a)	City

"City" shall mean the City of Scotts Valley, California,
including all of the territory and jurisdiction thereof as
presently constituted, and any and all of the same which shall
later come into existence by any manner or means whatsoever.

(b)	Collector

"Collector" shall mean the Director of Finance of the City of
Scotts Valley.

(c)	Director

"Director" shall mean the Director of Finance of the City of
Scotts Valley.

(d)	Electrical Corporation and Gas Corporation

"Electrical corporation", and "gas corporation", shall have
the same meanings as defined in Sections 218 and 222
respectively, of the Public Utilities Code of the State of
California.

(e)	Month

"Month" shall mean a calendar month.

"Person" shall mean all domestic and foreign corporations,
associates, syndicates, joint stock companies, partnerships
of every kind, joint ventures, clubs, Massachusetts business
or common law trusts, societies and individuals.

(g)	Service Supplier	Ani

"Service Supplier" shall mean a person required to	a	tax

imposed under the provisions of this chapter.

(h)	Service User

"Service User" shall mean a person required to pay a tax
imposed under the provisions of this chapter.

Section 3.36.020.	Exemptions.	Nothing contained in this

chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person when
imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of
the Constitution of the United States or that of the State of
California.

Section 3.36.030.	Conflicts.	Nothing contained in this

chapter is intended to conflict with applicable rules, regulations
and tariffs of any service supplier subject to the jurisdiction of
the California Public Utilities Commission. In the event of any
conflict, the provision of said rules, regulations and tariffs
shall control.

Section 3.36.040. Tax Effective Date. The taxes imposed by
this chapter shall be imposed thirty (30) days from and after
approval of this Ordinance by majority vote of the voters at the
special municipal election to be held on November 6, 1990.

Section 3.36.050. Electricity Users Tax. There is hereby
imposed a tax upon every person in the City, other than an
electrical corporation or a gas corporation, using electrical
energy in the City. The tax imposed by this section shall be at
the rate of three percent (3%) of the charges made for such energy,
including minimum charges for service and shall be paid by the
person paying for such energy.

Section 3.36.060. Exclusions. As used in this chapter, the
words "using electrical energy" shall not be construed to mean:

(a)	The storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned or
possessed by him for use in an automobile or other machinery
or device apart from the premises upon which the energy was
received; provided however, that the term shall include the
receiving of such energy for the purpose of using it in the
charging of batteries; or

2

(b)	The mere receiving of such energy by an electrical corporation
or a government agency at a point within the city for resale.

Section 3.36.070. Tax Collection. The tax imposed in this
section shall be collected from the service user by the person
selling such electrical energy. The amount of tax collected in one
month shall be remitted to the collector on or before the last day
of the following month.

Section 3.36.080. Gas Users Tax. There is hereby imposed a
tax upon every person in the city, other than a gas corporation or
an electrical corporation, using gas in the city which is delivered
through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this article shall be
at the rate of three percent (3%) of the charges made for such gas,
including minimum charges for service, and shall be paid by the
person paying for such gas.

Section 3.36.090. Exclusions. As used in this chapter, the
term "charges" shall not include charges made for gas used in the
generation of electrical energy by a public utility or a
governmental agency, and the term "using gas" shall not be
construed to mean the mere receiving of such gas by a gas
corporation or governmental agency at a point within the city for
resale.

Section 3.36.100. Tax Collection. The gas tax imposed in the
above section shall be collected from the service user by the
person selling the gas. The amount collected in one month shall
be remitted to the collector on or before the last day of the
following month.

Section 3.36.110. Collection of Tax - Suit by City. Any tax
required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the
city. Any such tax collected from a service user which has not
been remitted to the collector shall be deemed a debt owed to the
city by the person required to collect and remit. Any person owing
money to the city under the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to an action brought in the name of the city for the
recovery of such amount.

Section 3.36.120. Duty to Collect; procedures. The duty to
collect and remit the taxes imposed by this chapter shall be
performed as follows:

(a)	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same
time as and along with the charges made in accordance with
regular billing practice of the service supplier. Except in
those cases where a service user pays the full amount of said
charges but does not pay any portion of a tax imposed by this

I

3

chapter, or where a service user has notified a service
supplier that he is refusing to pay a tax imposed by this
chapter which said service supplier is required to collect,
if the amount paid by a service user is less than the full
amount of the charge and tax which has accrued for the
billing period, a proportionate share of both the charge and
the tax shall be deemed to have been paid.

(b)	The duty to collect tax from a service user shall commence
with the beginning of the first regular billing period
applicable to the person which starts on or after the
operative date of this chapter. Where a person receives more
than one billing, one or more being for different periods than
another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each
billing period.

Section 3.36.130. Administrative Agreements. The director
may make administrative agreements to vary the strict requirements
of this chapter so that collection of any tax imposed herein may
be made in conformance with the billing procedures of a particular
service supplier so long as the overall result of said agreements
results in collection of tax in conformance with the general
purpose and scope of this chapter. A copy of each such agreement
shall be on file and available for public examination in the
directors' office.

Section 3.36.140. Delinquent Taxes - Service Supplier Taxes;
when delinquent. Taxes collected from a service user which are not
remitted to the collector on or before the due dates provided in
this chapter are delinquent.

(a)	Penalty. In addition to remitting the amount of the tax, any
service supplier who fails to remit any tax imposed by this
chapter within the time required and upon five (5) days
written notice to the service supplier of its failure to
remit, shall pay a penalty of one percent (1%) per month of
the amount of the tax which shall be added on the last day of
each month following the date on which remittance was due
until the tax penalties are remitted.

(b)	Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed by Section
3.36.140(a) any service supplier who fails to remit any tax
imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of ten
percent (10%) per annum on the amount of the tax exclusive of
penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid.

(c)	Penalty and Interest part of Tax. Every penalty imposed upon
a service supplier and such interest as accrues, under the
provisions of sections 3.36.140 (a) and (b) inclusive, shall
become a part of the tax required to be remitted.

4

Section 3.36.150. Delinquent Taxes - Service User.

(a)	Penalty. In addition to paying the amount of the tax, any
service user who fails to pay any tax imposed by this chapter
within sixty (60) days of the date of the notice of the amount
of tax due from the service supplier shall pay a penalty of
one percent (1%) per month of the amount of the tax which
shall be added on the last day of each month following the
date on which payment was due until the tax penalties are
paid.

(b)	Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed by Section
3.36.160(a) any service user who fails to pay any tax imposed
by this chapter, shall pay interest at the rate of ten percent
(10%) per annum on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent until paid, and a collection charge of ten dollars
($10.00) for each delinquent account.

(c)	Penalty and Interest part of Tax. Every penalty imposed upon
a service user, and such interest as accrues, under the
provisions of Section 3.36.150 (a) and (b) shall become a part
of the tax required to be paid.

(d)	Penalties and Interest Collected by City. The penalties,
interest and collection charges imposed in Section 3.36.150
(a) and (b) shall not be collected by the service supplier,
but by the City.

Section 3.36.160. Failure to Collect and Report Tax. If any
service supplier shall fail to make, within the time provided in
this chapter, any report and remittance of said tax or any portion
thereof required by this chapter, the collector shall proceed in
such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information on
which to base his estimate of the tax due.

Section 3.36.170. Determination of Tax. As soon as the
collector shall procure such facts and information as he is able
to obtain upon which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by
this chapter and payable by any service supplier who has failed or
refused to make such report and remittance, he shall proceed to
determine and assess against such service supplier the tax,
interest and penalties provided for by this chapter. In case such
determination is made, the collector shall give a notice of the
amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in
the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the service
supplier so assessed at his last known place of address.

5

U

Section 3.36.180. Hearing on Determination of Tax. The
service supplier may within ten (10) days after the serving or
mailing of the notice referred to in Section 3.36.170 make
application in writing to the collector for a hearing on the amount
assessed. If application by the service supplier is not made
within the time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if
any, determined by the collector shall become final and conclusive
and immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the
collector shall give not less than five (5) days' written notice
in the manner prescribed herein to the service supplier to show
cause at a time and place fixed in said notice why said amount
specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest and
penalties. At such hearing, the service supplier may appear and
offer evidence why such specified tax, interest and penalties
should not be so fixed.

Section 3.36.190. Determination of tax following hearing;
Notice when due. After a hearing on the amount of tax assessed,
the collector shall determine the proper tax zo be remitted, and
shall thereafter give written notice to the service supplier in the
manner prescribed above of such determination and the amount of
such tax, interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due
shall be payable after fifteen (15) days unless an appeal is taken
as provided in this Chapter.

Section 3.26.200. Collection of Taxes from Service User.
Whenever the collector determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of any tax imposed on him by the
provisions of this chapter from the amounts remitted to a service
supplier required to collect the tax, or that a service user has
failed to pay the amount of the tax to such service supplier for
a period of four (4) or more billing periods, or whenever the
collector deems it in the best interest of the city, he may relieve
such service supplier of the obligation to collect taxes due under
this chapter from certain named service users for specified billing
periods. The collector shall notify the service user that he has
C. Paaa 6; In the last sentence appearing in Section
3.26.200 pleaee add the words "mailing it," immediately before the
words "by postage prepaid". This sentence would the read as
follows:

The notice shall be served on the service user by handing
it to him personally or mailing it, by postage prepaid
thereon, addressed to the service user at the address to
which billing was made by the service supplier required
to collect the tax, to this last known address.

may appeal to the City Council by filing a notice of appeal with
the director within fifteen (15) days of the serving or mailing of
the decision.

6

Section 3.36.220. Hearing Notice. The Council shall fix a
time and place for hearing such appeal. The director shall give
notice thereof in writing to such person by causing the same to be
personally served on such person or by depositing it in the United
States Mail, . postage prepaid, addressed to such person at his last
known place of address not later than ten (10) days prior to the
hearing date.

Section 3.36.230. Hearing; Determination. The Council shall
have authority to determine all questions raised on such appeal at
the time of the hearing. No determination so made by the Council
shall conflict with any substantive provisions of this chapter.

Section 3.36.240. Hearing; Penalties Suspended. No penalty
provided for in this chapter shall be imposed after the filing of
an appeal or prior to the completion of the hearing on the appeal
and the making of a determination on the subject of the appeal by
the Council.

Section 3.36.250. Records. It shall be the duty of every
service supplier required to collect and remit to the city any tax
imposed by this chapter, to keep and preserve, for a period of
three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of such tax that such sex-vice supplier may have been
required to collect and remit to the city, which records the
collector shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

Section 3.36.260. Refunds - Claims. Whenever the amount of
any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid or paid more than
once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the city under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in
this section provided a claim in writing therefor, stating under
penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is
founded is filed with the collector within three (3) years of the
date of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the
collector.

(a)	A service supplier may claim a refund or take as credit

against taxes collected and remitted an amount overpaid, paid
more than	once, or	erroneously	or illegally	collected or

received, when it is established in a manner prescribed by the
collector that the person from whom the tax has been collected
was not a service user.

(b)	Any service user may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid

more than	once, or	erroneously	or illegally	collected or

received by the City by filing a claim in the manner provided
in Section 3.36.260, but only when the service user having
paid the tax to the service supplier establishes to the
satisfaction of the collector that the service	user has been

unable to	obtain a	refund from	the sexvice	supplier who

collected the tax.

n/90

1

Section 3.36.270. Payment of Refunds. A refund of taxes due
and paid under the provisions of this chapter shall be made
annually whenever all of the following occur:

(a)	Annual gross income of the household in which the claimant
lives is 50% or less of the median income of Santa Cruz county
for the claimant's last preceding Federal or State Personal
Income Tax reporting period.

(b)	The claimant shall make application, and file a verified claim
under penalty of perjury, accompanied by utility bill stubs
and proof of payment. Such claim for a refund shall be made
at the office of the collector upon a claim form provided by
the collector, during the period of August 1 through September
30 to cover the preceding fiscal year.

(c)	The claim shall be approved by the collector as being in
conformance with this section.

(d)	Only one claim shall be filed for each individual household.

(e)	A refund shall not be claimed for any portion of such tax
which shall have been paid for directly by any federal, state
or county public assistance agency or any other similar
agency.

Section 3.36.280 Claimant. For the purposes of Section
3.36.270, the claimant shall be the person in whose name the bills
for utility services are rendered. Income of the household means
all income of members of the claimant's household while members of
such household, and related to the claimant as a spouse, or as
defined in Section 17056 and Section 17057 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

Section 3.36.290. Establishing Entitlement. No refund shall
be paid under the provision of this section unless the claimant
establishes his right thereto by written records showing
entitlement thereto."

********

SECTION 2. If any section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance or any part
hereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
ordinance or any part thereof. The City Council hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase hereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared unconstitutional.

8

SECTION 3. The City Council of the City of Scotts Valley
hereby declares and finds that there is an urgent need to increase
general fund revenues of the City in order to meet and maintain
acceptable levels of general municipal services; and that the
revenues derived from the imposition of the within Ordinance will
be used solely for the general fund purposes; and that the
adoption of this Ordinance is necessitated by and in the best
interest of the public health, safety and general welfare.

SECTION 4. This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force
according to law only if it is approved by majority vote of the
voters voting on the matter at the special municipal election
called for November 6, 1990. It is necessary that this Ordinance
be adopted immediately in order to preserve the public health,
peace, and safety. Pursuant to section 36927(b) and (d) of the
California Government Code, this Ordinance is for the immediate
preservation of the peace, health, or safety and, in addition,
relates to taxes for the usual and current expenses of the City.

SECTION 5. The basis of the urgency referenced in SECTION 3,
above, is as follows (and the City Council does hereby find that):

(a) City of Scotts Valley is confronted with a substantial budget
deficit for the current fiscal year. The City faces and will
continue to face in the future increasing costs for providing
services and increasing service demands.

(b)	It is anticipated that services and expenditures for services
provided by the City will have to be reduced unless additional
funds are provided.

(c)	Imposing the Utility Users' Tax as provided in the within
Ordinance will substantially assist in helping to maintain current
levels of service provided by the City, including, without
limitation, police protection, public works, recreation, and the
like.

SECTION 6. The City Clerk is hereby directed to cause this
Ordinance to be published by one insertion in the Scotts Valley
Banner, a newspaper of general circulation in the City.

* *******

This ordinance was introduced, passed and adopted on the 1st
day of August, 1990, at a duly held regular meeting of the City
Council of the City of Scotts Valley by the following vote:

AYES:	Miller, Koshland, Caffrey

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Schmidt

APPROVED:

ATTEST

10

H