<full> SANTA CRUZ COUNTY MEASURE E

EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY
(Full Text of Ordinance)

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF SANTA CRUZ AUTHORIZING
BOND ISSUE, IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION AND APPROVING SALES TAX SHARING CONTRACT

The People of the County of Santa Cruz ordain as follows:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Earthquake Re-
covery Bond, Transactions and Use Tax and Sales Tax Sharing Ordinance
The transaction and use tax provisions of this ordinance shall be applicable in
the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of Santa Cruz
which territory shall be referred to herein as "District".

Section 2. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other, purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted
in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To authorize the County of Santa Cruz to issue bonds in the form of
Certificates of Participation or other comparable financing bonds in the
amount not to exceed thirty-three million five hundred thousand dollars
($33,500,000) to be paid over a maximum period of six (6) years, with the
proceeds to be used for capital improvement and public project’s for the
general good of Santa Cruz County and its citizens;

B.	To impose a one-half of one percent retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and as specifically authorized
by Section 7285 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sale and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the require-
ments and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code;

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a
tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by
the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes;

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be
administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes
and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance; and

F.	To approve a contract for the sharing of the proceeds of the sales tax
with each city located within Santa Cruz County whose voters approve
participating in the sales tax sharing contract. The proceeds from the levy of
the additional one-half percent (1/2%) county-wide transaction and use tax
are intended to be used for capital improvement and public projects for the
general good of Santa Cruz County and its citizens.

Section 3. BOND/CERTIFICATE OF PARTICIPATION ISSUE. The County
of Santa Cruz is hereby authorized to issue bonds in the form of Certificates of
Participation or other comparable financing bonds in the amount not to
exceed thirty-three million five hundred thousand dollars ($33,500,000), with
the proceeds to be used for capital improvement and public projects for the
general good of Santa Cruz County and its citizens for general funding of
earthquake relief and such bonds to be redeemed over a maximum period of
six (6) years.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the
District shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and
use tax ordinance; provided, that if the District shall not have contracted with
the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall neverthe-
less so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the District at the rate of one-half
of one percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date
of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place of .business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the District of tangible personal proper-
ty purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordi-
nance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of
one-half of one percent of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use
tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.


Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATF I AW Except as other-
wise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.


Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLEC-
TION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this District shall be substituted therefor. However the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this District or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance;

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result
of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would
not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax
by the State under the said provisions of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711
6715, 6737, 6797, or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code

B.	The word “District" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the
phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued
to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code an
additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance
Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any State-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transac-
tions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property to operators of aircraft to be used

or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government;	.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped to a

point outside the District, pursuant to the contract of sales, by delivery to
such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the District shall be satisfied. 

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles subject to"
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of



Division 3 of the Vehicle Code), aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9850) of the
Vehicle Code, by registration to an out-of-District address and by a declara-
tion under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address
is, in fact, his principal place of residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-District and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicles will be operated from that address.

3 The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior
to the operative date of this ordinance;

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance;

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
he contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance the
storage, use or other consumption in this District of tangible personal
property;

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any State-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance;

2.	Purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to
the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California;

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
(Ordinance;

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing pur-
chase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date
of this ordinance; '

5- For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or
power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract of lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in busi-
ness in the District shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser
ot tangible persona! property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property
into the District or participates within the District in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the canvasser, solicitor
subsidiary, or person in the District under the authority of the retailer.
roH’i . reta,ler engaged in business in the District" shall also include any
retailer ot any of the following: vehicles subject to Division 3 of the Vehicle
ii???-’ llcensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
utilities: Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Divi-
Sion 3^5 (commencing with Section 9850) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer

,r,eqU'r5d,t0 collect use tax from anV Purchaser who registers or
jicenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the District.

■ "ny Person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against

.-any lransactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6
01 Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the

? ?a property ,Pe storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.

.Sec?°.[!12' AMENDMENTS, All amendments subsequent to the effective
date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation

> < c,r n: inp sa^es and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part
'1.6 Of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and ail amendments to
rt 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically

become a part of this ordinance; provided, however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance
,Sectl°n 13- ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ
of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit action
or proceeding in any court against the State or the District, or against any
officer of the State or the District, to prevent or enjoin the collection under
inis ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. CONTRACT FOR SHARING OF SALES TAX PRnCFFns The
County of Santa Cruz is hereby authorized to carry out the terms of the
contract to share proceeds from the additional transaction and use tax levied
under this ordinance, a copy of which contract is attached to this ordinance
as exhibit 1 . Except as otherwise provided in the contract for sharing sales
tax revenues with participating cities, the proceeds from the transaction and
use tax shall be allocated to the County General Fund for general governmen-
tal purposes.

Section 15. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES. This ordinance shall
become effective according to law only if a majority of the electors voting on
the measure at the election on November 6, 1990, vote to approve the
ordinance. If so approved, the provisions of this ordinance authorizing the
levy of an additional transaction and use tax shall become operative on April

Section 16. TERM. The provisions of this ordinance shall no longer be of

any force and effect on and after six (6) years following its operative date.

Section 17. IMPLEMENTING POLICIES. Upon approval of this ordinance

by a majority of the voters, the County of Santa Cruz may adopt policies and

take such other action as may be necessary for the implementation of the

one-half of one percent (1/2%) transaction and use tax authorized bv this
ordinance.

Section 18. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remain-
der of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.


EXHIBIT "1”

CONTRACT FOR SHARING OF SALES TAX REVENUES

THIS CONTRACT is entered into by and between the CITY OF SANTA CRUZ
CITY OF CAPITOLA CITY OF WATSONVILLE, CITY OF SCOTTS VALLEY
(hereinafter referred to as "Cities”) and THE COUNTY OF SANTA CRUZ
(hereinafter referred to as "County").

WHEREAS, Section 7285 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code
authorizes counties, such as the County of Santa Cruz, to levy an additional
one-half cent transaction and use tax ("sales tax") upon approval by two-
thirds vote of the Board of Supervisors and by majority vote of the voters of
the County; and

WHEREAS, Article XIII, Section 29, of the California Constitution and
Sections 55701, et seq. of the California Government Code authorizes cities
and counties to enter into contracts for sharing sales tax revenues subject to
approval of the voters; and

WHEREAS, the County and the Cities signing this agreement have jointly
developed a proposal for earthquake recovery for which funding will only be
available if an additional one-half cent sales tax is levied; and
WHEREAS, the County of Santa Cruz has proposed to seek approval by the
voters pursuant to Section 7285 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code
of the additional one-half cent sales tax to provide funds for capital Improve-
ment and public projects for the general good of Santa Cruz County and its
citizens; and

WHEREAS, the County and the Cities signing this contract desire to provide
for an equitable sharing of the revenues from the additional one-half cent
sales tax in the event it is approved by the voters, so that the revenues will be
available to carry out capital improvements and public projects for the general
good of Santa Cruz County and its citizens;

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:

1.	The net revenue from the one-half cent additional sales tax, levied
pursuant to Section 7285 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code by an
ordinance approved by the voters of the County of Santa Cruz, shall be
apportioned among the County and the Cities signing this contract In the
percentages specified on the attached Exhibit "A" up to the maximum
amount listed on Exhibit “B" for each jurisdiction or category for each year,
and any net revenue in excess of the maximum amount for any jurisdiction or
category for any year shall be apportioned among the County and the Cities
signing this contract in the percentages set forth for that year in the attached
Exhibit “C".

2.	The share of monies apportioned to the County and to each of the Cities
signing this contract shall be credited to their respective general funds and"
shall be available for use for general governmental purposes other than usual
current expenses.

3.	The County and each of the Cities signing this contract agree to
mutually cooperate in the joint issuance of bonds by a Public Financing
Authority established pursuant to the Marks-Roos Local Bond Pooling Act of
1985 (Sections 6584, et seq. of the Government Code) in the form of
Certificates of Participation or other comparable financing bonds as they
determine can be supported by the sales tax revenues resulting from the one-
half cent additional sales tax, and as they determine are needed to fund capital
Improvement and public projects for the general good of Santa Cruz County
and its citizens, such as listed on the attached Exhibit "A".

4.	In the event the voters of the County do not approve the one-half cent
additional sales tax and ratify this contract, then this contract shall be of no
force and effect. In the event the voters of a city signing this contract do not
ratify this contract, and if such voter approval is then required by law, the
sales tax revenues which would otherwise be apportioned to such a city shall
instead be apportioned among the remaining parties to this contract whose
voters ratified this contract in proportion to the population within their
respective jurisdictions.

5.	"Net Revenues" for purposes of this paragraph shall mean the reve-
nues resulting from the levy of the additional one-half cent sales tax after
deduction of the costs of administration payable to the State Board of
Equalization and the reasonable costs of the County as determined by the
Auditor-Controller in apportioning and auditing the distribution of sales tax
revenues In accordance with this contract.

6.	Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 4 above, this contract shall
remain in effect for the duration of the additional one-half cent sales tax levied
by the County pursuant to Section 7285 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have executed this contract on the
dates indicated below.

DATED: July 24, 1990

DATED: July 26,1990

DATED: August 1, 1990

DATED: August 1, 1990

DATED: August 7, 1990

CITY OF SANTA CRUZ
s/ Richard Wilson,

City Manager
CITY OF CAPITOLA
s/ Stephanie Harlan,

Mayor

CITY OF WATSONVILLE
s/ Charles Comstock,

Interim City Manager
CITY OF SCOTTS VALLEY
s/ Michael Caffrey,

Mayor

COUNTY OF SANTA CRUZ
s/ Susan A. Mauriello,

County Administrative Officer

Exhibit A

PROPOSED DISTRIBUTION OF 1/2 CENT SALES TAX PROCEEDS (AMOUNT	IN 000’S)	

First year sales tax proceeds for Earthquake Recovery to local governments
to offset economic impact of the Loma Prieta Earthquake.

Distribution on a Per Capita basis:

City of Santa Cruz	21.7%

City of Capitola	4.4%

City of Watsonville	13.1%

City of Scotts Valley	4.0%,

County of Santa Cruz	56.7%

Total First Year

1992-1996 Estimated Proceeds for Earthquake Recovery

$ 2,006
410
1,212
371
5,240

$ 9,240

City of Santa Cruz	38.9%	$13,000	
City of Watsonville	38.9%	13,000	
City of Capitola	3.8%	1,250	
City of Scotts Valley	3.8%	1,250	
County of Santa Cruz	14.6%	5,000	
Total			$33,500
	Exhibit B		

Year	(1.0)  Grand  Total	(2.0)  City of Santa Cruz	(3.0)  City of Watsonville	(4.0)  City of Capitola	(5.0)  City of Scotts Valiev	(6.0)  Unincorp.  Area
1991	$ 9,240	$ 2,006	$ 1,212	$410	$371	$ 5,240
1992	8,247	3,208	3,208	313	313	1,204
1993	8,247	3,208	3,208	313	313	1,204
1994	8,247	3,208	3,208	313	313	1,204
1995	8,247	3,208	3,208	313	313	1,204
1996	8,247	3,208	3,208	313	313	1,204
			Exhibit C			
		Percentages				
	(1.0)	(2.00)	(3.00)	(4.00)	(5.00)	(6.0)
	Grand	City of	City of	City of	City of	County
Year	Total	Santa Cruz	Watsonville	Capitola	Scotts Vallev	

1991

1992

1993

1994

1995

1996

(Per Capita Distribution for Years 1991-1996)

100.0% 21.71% 13.12%	4.44%	4.02%

56.71% <fullend> 










<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

EARTHQUAKE RECOVERY BOND, TRANSACTION AND USE TAX
AND SALES TAX SHARING MEASURE E

Effect of This Measure on Existing Law

This measure, it approved by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure, will:

1.	Authorize the County to issue financing bonds of $33,000,000 for
capital improvements and other public projects for the general good of Santa
Cruz County and its citizens;

2.	Adopt an ordinance imposing an additional 1/2% sales tax for a maxi-
mum period of 6 years for such capital.improvement and public projects; and

3.	Approve a contract for the sharing of the additional sales tax revenues
between the County of Santa Cruz and each city located within Santa Cruz
County whose voters approve the contract.

Operation of This Measure

Bond Issue. The proposed bond issue Is based on the additional local
funds estimated to be needed for earthquake recovery and which could be
repaid from the levy of the additional 1/2% sales tax pursuant to this
measure. The sales tax sharing contract included in this measure proposes
that the County and the participating cities cooperate in the sale of such
bonds. The joint sale of bonds would be expected to have lower bond
issuance expenses than separate bond issues by each jurisdiction.

Sales Tax Increase. State law authorizes counties with a population less
than 350,000 to adopt an ordinance levying an additional 1/2% countywide
sales tax if it is approved by a majority of the County voters voting on the
measure. The existing sales tax in Santa Cruz County is 6 3/4%, including a
1/4% sales tax for earthquake relief which will expire on December 31,1990.
If this measure is approved, a 1/2% sales tax will be added within the County
of Santa Cruz, beginning on April 1,1991, and continue in effect for 6 years.
Although it is the announced intent of the Board of Supervisors and the city
councils to use the sales tax revenues for earthquake recovery, the additional
sales tax is submitted as a general tax available for general governmental
purposes so that the measure can be decided by a majority vote of the voters.
(Under State law if a tax is limited for a specific purpose, it can only be levied
if approved by a 2/3rds vote of the voters.)

Sales Tax Sharing Contract. The sales tax sharing contract between the
County of Santa Cruz and the cities is submitted to the voters pursuant to
State law authorizing such a contract if approved by a majority of those voting
within each participating jurisdiction. The contract specifies that the first
year’s sales tax revenues be distributed among the County and each city
whose voters approve the contract on the basis of their respective popula-
tions; and the sales tax revenues for the remaining five years be distributed
among the County and each participating city based on the estimated amount
of additional local funds needed by each jurisdiction for earthquake recovery.
If actual sales tax revenues exceed such specified amounts, the balance is to
be distributed .among the participating jurisdictions on the basis of
population. <impartialend>









<impartialsigs> s/ Dwight L. Herr
Santa Cruz County Counsel <impartialsigsend>











<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Please vote YES on Measure E! Measure E will provide for a small, limited
term sales tax increase. The effect of this small increase, however, will be
dramatic. The proposed tax will raise $42.7 million for earthquake recovery.

The proposal is for an additional one-half cent sales tax. Effectively, this is
only a one quarter cent increase more than the sales tax you now pay,
because the State currently collects a one quarter cent surcharge, which will
expire on December 31, 1990, and the proposed tax will not go into effect
until April 1,1991.

Remember, this small tax increase is for a limited term! The tax will
terminate in six years, on March 31, 1997.

Let’s not try to fool ourselves! We can’t rebuild and recover from the
October 1989 earthquake unless we’re willing to make a community invest-
ment in recovery efforts. Measure E asks us to invest one quarter cent beyond
our present sales tax payments. This tax will raise $42.7 million, and the
Board of Supervisors and the City Councils are publicly committed to using
this additional sales tax for earthquake recovery.

The City of Santa Cruz will receive $15.0 million to restore its shattered
downtown. The City of Watsonville will receive $14.2 million to overcome
earthquake damage. The County of Santa Cruz will receive $10.2 million for
countywide earthquake recovery. The City of Capitola will receive $1.7 mil-
lion, and the City of Scotts Valley $1.6 million.

ALL THE PROCEEDS OF THIS LIMITED TERM TAX WILL GO TO REBUILD
THIS COMMUNITY! WE NEED TO PASS THIS MEASURE!

Please join us in voting "YES” on Measure E. <favorend>










<favorsigs> s/ Mardi Wormhoudt, Mayor, City of Santa Cruz
s7 Todd McFarren, Mayor, City of Watsonville
s/ Ted Whiting III, President, Santa Cruz Area
Chamber of Commerce
s/ Penny Schantz, President, Santa Cruz County
Central Labor Council, AFL-CIO
s/ Tony Campos, President, Watsonville
Chamber of Commerce <favorsigsend>







NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED
