<full> 

COMPLETE TEXT OF THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT
TO THE TRANSIENT TAX ORDINANCE

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Sacramento ordains as follows:

SECTION 1. Section 3.08.030 of Chapter 3.08 of Title 3 of the Sacramento County
Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

3.08.030 IMPOSED. For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient Is
subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of eleven percent (11 %) of the rent charged
by the operator. The tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the County which
is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the County. The transient shall
pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid
in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The
unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for
any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the tax and license
collected may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the tax and license collector.

SECTION 2. The additional tax provided for by this ordinance shall be collected at
the same time and in the same manner as that provided In Chapter 3.08 of Title 3 of the
Sacramento County Code.

SECTION 3. An election on the issue of increasing the transient occupancy tax
pursuant to this ordinance shall be held together with the statewide general election on
November 6,1990.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall become effective on November 15, 1990,
provided that it is approved by a majority of the voters on the measure at the general
election to be held November 6,1990. <fullend> 










<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

PREPARED BY COUNTY COUNSEL

By ordinance, the County of Sacramento imposes a tax on temporary lodging within the
unincorporated area. Operators of hotels, motels and similar establishments within the
unincorporated area collect the tax from patrons of lodging accommodations, and remit
the collections to the County. The tax receipts are deposited in the County’s general fund
and may be expended by the Board of Supervisors for any lawful purpose. The current
amount of the tax is ten percent of the rent charged.

This measure is an ordinance enacted by the Board of Supervisors which would Increase
the tax by one percent, from ten to eleven percent of the rent charged. The one percent
increase would also be subject to expenditure for any lawful purpose. By statute, such a tax increase cannot become effective unless approved by the electorate.

This measure will pass if it is approved by a majority of the voters in the entire County. <impartialend>












<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

YES ON U offers a way for Sacramento residents to enrich our community. It will help
to provide those activities that will keep Sacramento special to us and to those who visit
our area.

YES ON U' means the support for, but not necessarily limited to, more projects like
regional parks; help for our libraries; support for our symphony, ballet, theater, opera, and
arts; and encouragement of the economic growth that tourism and convention activities
bring to the County.

YES ON U means that approximately $400,000 raised by visitors staying In the
unincorporated part of Sacramento County will be spent to enhance the areas that make
Sacramento so attractive.

YES ON U means that the taxes paid by visitors to Sacramento will be the same as they
pay in Sacramento City and in San Francisco motels and hotels.

. YES ON U means that in times of reduced resources $400,000 in new revenue can help
to fund the activities which will keep Sacramento that special place to live, work, play and

visit. <favorend>









<favorsigs> s/Rev. A. C. Ubalde, Jr., Chairperson, s/Mary Anne Payne, Chairperson
Sacramento County Recreation	Sacramento Metropolitan

and Park Commission	Arts Commission

s/Richard WiHiams, Chairperson	s/Lynn Ericksen, President

Sacramento Convention	Sacramento Hotel Association

and Visitors Bureau

s/Jim Streng, Supervisor, Fourth District
Sacramento County Board of Supervisors <favorsigsend>






NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U WAS FILED