<summary> 
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

AGRICULTURAL LAND PRESERVATION
AND OPEN SPACE EXPENDITURE PLAN

EXHIBIT A

The purpose of this expenditure plan is to implement the 1989 Sonoma
County General Plan by preserving agricultural land use and open space. This
purpose will be accomplished primarily through the purchase of development
rights from willing sellers in areas of the County which are designated in the
General Plan Open Space Element but may include the purchase of fee
interests for public recreation where the public use would not be inconsistent
with the Open Space designation provided below.

Designated open space areas include community separators, scenic land-
scape units, scenic corridors, critical habitat areas and riparian corridors.

1.	Community separators are generally located between cities, providing
visual relief from continuous urbanization. These lands are frequently subject
to development pressures, and therefore, have been identified as priority
sites for acquisition to prevent urban sprawl, to retain the rural and open
character of the County and to preserve agricultural uses.

2.	Scenic landscape units and scenic corridors are areas of high visual
quality.

3.	Critical habitat areas and riparian corridors, such as wetlands, rare and
endangered species locations, fresh and salt water marshes, oak savannahs,
streams and watercourses, are environmentally sensitive areas requiring
protection and careful management.

4.	Other areas of biotic significance which may be adversely impacted by
development and incompatible land use are the Petaluma River, Laguna de
Santa Rosa, and San Pablo Bay margin.

5.	Other open space projects including, but not limited to, urban open
space projects within incorporated areas of Sonoma County. Funds for these
projects will be available on a competitive matching grant basis, with prefer-
ence given to acquisition and development projects which affect both incor-
porated and unincorporated lands and watercourses. Examples of such
projects include restoration of the Petaluma River and Santa Rosa Creek.

This expenditure plan shall be administered by the Sonoma County Agri-
cultural Preservation and Open Space District and the Authority shall enter
into a contract with the District for that purpose. <summaryend>









<full> ORDINANCE NO. 1
(FULL TEXT)

AN ORDINANCE OF THE SONOMA COUNTY OPEN SPACE AUTHORITY IM-
POSING A RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX, SUBJECT TO VOTER
RATIFICATION, IN THE INCORPORATED AND UNINCORPORATED TERRI-
TORY OF SONOMA COUNTY FOR A PERIOD OF TWENTY YEARS, AND
ESTABLISHING AN ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT.

The Board of Directors of the Sonoma County Open Space Authority
ordains as follows:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Sonoma County
Open Space Authority Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The Sonoma
County Open Space Authority hereinafter shall be called “District." This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory
of the County of Sonoma, which territory shall be referred to herein as
“District."

Section 2. OPERATIVE AND EFFECTIVE DATES. “Operative date”
means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the ratification of this ordinance by the voters as required by

Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.5(a); provided, however, that the
taxes imposed by this ordinance shall not be levied unless and until (1)
Assembly Bill 3670, now pending in the Legislature, is enacted into law or (2)
the State Board of Equalization acknowledges that the rate of the tax does not
exceed 0.25 percent. “Effective date" means the date that this ordinance is
adopted by the District's Board of Directors.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the follow-
ing, among other, purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code which authorizes the District to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorpo-
rates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the require-
ments and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a
tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by
the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board, of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be
administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes
and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which will
produce revenue for the purposes set forth in the Expenditure Plan adopted
by this Board of Directors on August 9, 1990 by its resolution no. 2
entitled: RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE SONOMA
COUNTY OPEN SPACE AUTHORITY ADOPTING AN EXPENDITURE PLAN and
which resolution is attached hereto, marked Exhibit “A" and incorporated
herein as though fully set forth.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the
District shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and
use tax ordinance; provided, that if the District shall not have contracted with
the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall neverthe-
less so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tan-
gible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in
the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the District at the maximum
rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25 percent) of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the
tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of
business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the District of tangible personal proper-
ty purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordi-
nance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one
quarter of one percent (0.25 percent) of the sales price of the property. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as other-
wise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a
part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued
to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 10. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLEC-
TION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this District shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

(1)	The word “State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equaliza-
tion, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against this District or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than
by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sec-
tions referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would
not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject
to tax by the state under the said provisions of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “District” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transac-
tions tax the gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped
to a point outside the District, pursuant to the contract of sales, by delivery to
such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this para-
graph, delivery to a point outside the District shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles other than commercial vehicles subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9850) of the
Vehicle Code, by registration to an out-of-District address and by a declara-
tion under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address
is, in fact, his principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-District and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior
to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of

such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this District of tangible personal
property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

(2)	Purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to
the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any
right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the District shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser
of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property
into the District or participates within the District in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the canvasser, solicitor, subsid-
iary, or person in the District under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the District” shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9850) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the District.

D.	Any person subject to a use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a
district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale
to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective
date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this ordinance; provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so
as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. TERMINATION OF TAXES. The taxes imposed by this ordi-
nance shall remain in effect for not longer than 20 years but may be reimposed
with a majority vote of the County’s electors.

Section 14. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the District, or against any officer of
the State or the District, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance,
or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 15. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Subject to voter approval, the
annual appropriations limit of the District shall be S40 million.

Section 16. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remain-
der of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 17. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the District transactions and use taxes and shall take effect
immediately upon its adoption by District.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Directors of the Sonoma County
Open Space Authority, State of California, on August 9,1990, by the follow-
ing vote:

DIRECTORS:

ALYS:aye ANDERSON:absent COOKE: aye GILLEN:aye GOUIG:aye MERZ:aye
AYES: 5	NOES:	0	ABSENT: 1	.	ABSTAIN: 0

WHEREUPON, the Chair declared the above and foregoing ordinance duly
adopted and

SO ORDERED.

Attest	s/	Charles Cooke

s/ Eeve T. Lewis	Chairperson <fullend>











<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
SONOMA COUNTY AGRICULTURE AND OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION
MEASURE C

Measure C requests voter approval of a one-quarter cent sales tax increase
to fund the preservation of agricultural and other open-space lands as part of
the general plans of the County and the County’s cities.

California’s land use planning laws require that every city and county have
a general plan to guide the physical development of the community. Among
other things, a general plan must have an open space element “for the
comprehensive and long range preservation and conservation of open-space
land.”

In 1989, the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors adopted a new general
plan whose open space element proposed the creation of an open space
district to acquire, through purchase and donation, lands meeting certain
open space criteria. This year, the Legislature authorized the creation of the
Sonoma County Agricultural Preservation and Open Space District for that
purpose. The formation of the District requires voter approval and appears on
this ballot as Measure A.

To provide the District with funds, the Board of Supervisors created the
Sonoma County Open Space Authority, which, subject to voter approval, may
impose a sales and use tax. In August, the Authority adopted an ordinance
that would impose a county-wide sales and use tax at the rate of 0.25 percent
($0.0025 per dollar) and requested an election for voter approval of the tax.
The tax would be imposed for 20 years and is estimated to raise $271 million
over that period.

The Authority also adopted an expenditure plan that identifies categories of
open-space lands that may be purchased from willing sellers. The expendi-
ture plan is set forth above in the full text of Measure C. Neither the District
nor the Authority has the power of eminent domain. That is, a land owner
cannot be compelled to sell land or easements for open-space preservation.
Categories of open-space land that may be purchased include, but are not
limited to, community separators, scenic landscape units and scenic corri-
dors, critical habitat areas, and riparian corridors. Revenue raised by the tax
is not “earmarked" for any specific project, and may be spent for any
purpose identified in the expenditure plan.

Other duties of the Authority include assuring that open-space acquisitions
meet the requirements of city or County general plans and periodically
auditing the District’s activities.

The California Constitution requires that a spending limit be established for
the Authority. The Authority would be prohibited from spending tax money in
excess of that limit, as adjusted according to law, without additional voter
approval. Measure C would set the Authority’s annual spending limit at $40
million. <impartialend>









<impartialsigs> s/ James P. Botz
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>







<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C
SONOMA COUNTY AGRICULTURE AND OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION

The Sonoma County Agricultural Preservation and Open Space District
established in Measure A on this ballot provides the necessary structure to
PRESERVE our AGRICULTURAL LANDS, retain our SCENIC VISTAS, PRO-
TECT our AIR and WATER QUALITY and PREVENT URBAN SPRAWL To
reach these vital and worthwhile goals, the District must have the necessary
funds.

We believe that Sonoma County residents are committed to keeping the
rural nature of our beautiful and scenic land. We also believe that our citizens
are willing to devote a small portion of their resources to achieve that goal.

This measure proposes that the residents of this county agree to tax
themselves and the visitors to this county one quarter of one cent per dollar of
taxable purchases made here. The funds thus raised will be used by the
District to buy land, development rights and easements FROM WILLING
SELLERS in those areas already designated in the Sonoma County General
Plan for priority protection - such as community separators.

For every 100 DOLLARS of taxable purchases that residents and visitors
make in the County, 25 CENTS will be collected to protect and maintain the
beauty and rural nature of our county. We believe that 25 CENTS is a small,
but meaningful and worthwhile investment to make to preserve the quality of
life in Sonoma County.

To keep Sonoma County the beautiful, productive and livable place that it
is: VOTE YES for our future. <favorend>









<favorsigs> s/ Fred Kunde
Viticulturist/Farmer
s/ Barbara Schneiders
Sierra Club
s/ Al Alys
President & CEO
Northbay Savings Bank

s/ Allan Hemphill, President
Vinwood Cellars, Inc.
s/ George Mertens 
Dairyman/Farmer <favorsigsend>








NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED
