<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY
COUNTY COUNSEL OF MEASURE K

Under the Local Transportation Authority and improvement Act
(California Public Utilities Code Section 180000, et seq.), a retail
transactions and use tax, applicable in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of San Joaquin County, may be imposed if
the county transportation authority has adopted, the tax ordinance
by a two-thirds vote, and the imposition of the tax is subsequently
approved by a majority of those electors voting on the measure at
an election. According to the Act, the revenues from the tax "may
be allocated by the transportation authority for the construction
and improvement of state highways, the construction,
maintenance, improvement, and operation of local streets, roads,
and highways, and the construction, improvement, and operation
of public transit systems."

On July 24, 1990, the San Joaquin County Transportation
Authority adopted Ordinance No. 91-01, which imposes a retail
transactions and use tax in San Joaquin County at the rate of one-
half of one percent (1/2%), in addition to any existing or future state
or local retail transactions and use tax. The tax will be for a period
not to exceed twenty (20) years.

The revenues received by the San Joaquin County
Transportation Authority will be expended for the transportation
improvement projects and programs set forth in the San Joaquin
County Transportation Authority’s adopted plan (included in the
voter information handbook). The tax revenues will be deposited in
special funds and used solely for transportation projects' and
programs, including administrative expenses. Ordinance No. 91-01
states that “pay as you go" is the preferred method of financing the
transportation projects and programs. However, if the measure
passes, the San Joaquin County Transportation Authority will have
the authority to issue bonds, payable from the proceeds of the tax.

The California Constitution requires that a public entity establish
an appropriations limit (the maximum amount a public entity may
expend in any given fiscal year) upon approval of the voters. The
ballot measure seeks voter approval to establish an appropriations
limit for the San Joaquin County Transportation Authority in the
annual amount of $100,000,000.00. In order to expend the tax
revenues, an appropriations limit must be established.

A majority of those voting on the measure must approve the
measure in order for it to pass.

A "yes" vote is to approve Ordinance No. 91-01 including the
retail transactions and use tax and the appropriations limit.

A “no" vote is to disapprove Ordinance No. 91-01, including the •
retail transactions and use tax and the appropriations limit.

If the measure passes, Ordinance No, 91-01, imposing the retail
transactions and use tax and establishing the appropriations limit,
will become operative on April 1,1991. <impartialend>










	
<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K	
We don’t want to make an argument. We feel that the projects and policies In this measure speak for themselves.  It repairs and maintains local streets and roads; provides special transit services to the handicapped and reduced fares for seniors.  It installs fog reflectors on roads in the rural areas of the County and constructs new railroad overpasses and underpasses to improve rail crossing safety.  It will improve rail service between San Joaquin County and the Bay Area, Sacramento and Fresno, and improve bus services between all cities and local communities in the County.  It will widen Highway 120 & 205; connect March Lane to 99; and assure timely completion of the Stockton Crosstown Freeway.  The list of other projects is longer than we’ve got space for. Every city is taken care of.  And the measure does some other things worth considering, it requires coordination of growth and traffic among all cities as a condition for participating in the construction projects. Cities are required to participate in growth management and coordinated planning; maintain traffic levels below set standards; and impose developer fees to pay for traffic improvements.  We urge you to consider the best, interests of the public and especially all of our children. Vote Yes on Measure K.   <favorend>











<favorsigs> Ben Schaffer, Lodi Businessman Robert M. Eberhardt, Stockton Businessman Floyd Weaver, Vice Mayor of Stockton Evelyn Costa, County Supervisor, Dist. 5	<favorsigsend>











<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST  MEASURE K
Here we go again! Tax increase upon tax increase. Remember the half-cent sales tax proposal for the jail? The officials, who. had this transportation tax in the planning stage at the time of the jail fax proposal, finally have come up with a way to get the transportation tax increase to the vote of the people. A poll was conducted by someone's idea on what people would be willing to support in the way of a tax increase. This so called transportation tax contains a potpourri of promises from bicycle lanes to senior citizen rides and anything else anyone said they would vote for and it would be .nice to have.  The current legislative analyst’s report gave Caltrans a poor report card on planning, getting reports in on time, wasting thousands of dollars on private contractors and being one of the worst run departments in state government. Perhaps that accounts for why our highways system is such a mess and in dire needs. Giving more money is not the answer, efficiency is.  Can your vote be bought? Some people believe high powered, high priced out of the county consulting firms can. Some call it educating the public. Don’t believe the people can be fooled anymore and are fed up with waste, high taxes, not knowing where their tax dollars are going and will vote no on the half-cent sales tax increase for transportation.  <againstend>









<againstsigs> San Joaquin County Committee Against the One-Half Cent Transportation Sales Tax Increase,  Georgianna Reichelt, Chairman Lois Findley, Secretary/Treasurer <againstsigsend>











<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K	
In June the voters approved Proposition 111 and 108 (gas tax increase) for roads and rail. Now we are being held Hostage. To get the gas tax money, we need to vote for the half-cent sales-tax, we are told. What a trick!  The sales-tax has become so important to city and county governments as a post-Proposition 13 revenue source that major development decisions now are often made on the basis of capturing more taxable sales. It makes for some very bad land-use planning decisions.  Sales taxes are regressive. They hit all economic classes equally in terms of rate, and the lower-and middle-income classes harder, because more of their incomes are spent on goods, rather than being invested. '  We have Environmental Impact Reports that are suppose to be mitigated to zero impact before annexations and developments are approved to control problems of growth such as traffic, air, schools, sewer and water. The EIRs are waived and ignored by the elected officials who are telling us their new plan will be the answer, just to get more of our dollars.  The officials want all the people to pay for roads and mitigations in the EiRs so developers can continue to build cities on farmland like the city proposed across the street from the supervisor and signer of the Argument for Measure K.  Will the sales-tax for roads"help our children" or destroy them with  air pollution and debt  Vote No on Measure K, enough is enough!  <rebutfavorend> 








<rebutfavorsigs> Georgianna Reichelt, Chairman Lois Findley, Secretary/Treasurer  For San Joaquin County Citizens Against the 1/2 cent sales tax.	<rebutfavorsigsend>














<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K
The opponents of Measure K object that we asked the voters in San Joaquin County what they wanted done to improve transportation.  The people said they wanted their local streets repaired and maintained.  So we wrote a guarentee into Measure K that 1/3 of the money would be used this way and that every community would receive its fair share. (Every city council supports us.)  The people said they wanted rail service to the Bay Area and improved air quality.  So we wrote a Guarentee into Measure K that 1/3 of the money would be used to improve air quality by building rail services and expanding bus services. (Yes, the opponents are right, we are guilty of providing reduced fares for senior citizens and special services for the disabled.)  The people said they wanted safer transportation and smoother traffic flows.  So we wrote a guarantee into Measure K that 1/3 of the money would be used to widen thoroughfares and dangerous highways, install fog reflectors on county roads, and rebuild railroad crossings. And the people said they wanted growth managed and congestion reduced.  So we wrote a requirement into Measure K that every city in the county must participate in countywide growth management. And any city that does not tie growth decisions into keeping traffic congestion below specific levels will lose their Measure K funding.  A good plan. It does what needs to be done.  <rebutagainstend>










<rebutagainstsigs> Ben Schaffer, Lodi Businessman Robert M. Eberhardt, Stockton Businessman Floyd Weaver, Vice Mayor, Stockton Evelyn Costa, County Supervisor, District 5 <rebutagainstsigsend>













<full> SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
LOCAL TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLAN: AIR
QUALITY, MANDATORY DEVELOPER PEES, AND GROWTH MANAGEMENT

ORDINANCE #91-01

The San Joaquin County Transportation Authority ordains as
follows:

SECTION l. TITLE. This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited
as the LOCAL TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLAN :	AIR	QUALITY,

MANDATORY DEVELOPER FEES AND GROWTH MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE (#91-01)
which shall establish and implement a retail transactions and use
tax.

SECTION 2. TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN PURPOSES. This
Ordinance provides for the implementation of the San Joaquin
County Transportation Expenditure Plan, as approved and adopted
by the San Joaquin County Transportation Authority, which will
result in countywide transportation facility and service
improvements including public transit improvements, and rail
passenger improvements, resulting in improved air quality. These
needed improvements shall be funded by the retail transactions
and use tax provided for in Section 21 of this Ordinance. The
revenues shall be deposited in a special fund and used solely for
transportation projects and programsThe specific projects and
programs to be implemented are' described in the Transportation
Expenditure Plan which is considered a part of this Ordinance and
hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

The revenues received by the Authority from this Ordinance, after
deduction .of required Board of Equalization costs for performing
the functions specified in Section 180204 of the Public Utilities
Code, and for the administration of the San Joaquin
Transportation Expenditure Plan commencing with Public Utilities
Code Section 180200, in an amount not to exceed one percent (1%),
shall be used for transportation projects and programs countywide
as set forth in -the Transportation Expenditure Plan and in a
manner consistent with the Transportation Expenditure Plan
developed by the Authority.

SECTION 3. REQUEST FOR ELECTION. The Authority hereby requests
the San Joaquin County Board of Supervisors place this Ordinance
before the voters for approval on the November 6, 1990 ballot.

The proposition to be placed on the ballot shall contain a
summary of the projects and programs and shall read substantially
as follows:

Shall the San Joaquin Transportation Authority be authorized
to establish, by Ordinance, a twenty year Transportation
Improvement Plan: Air Quality, Mandatory Developer Fees and
Growth Management program by imposing a one-half of one
percent retail transactions and use tax with an Article XIII
B appropriations limit of $100 million, for a period not to
exceed twenty years, with the proceeds placed in a special
fund solely for the transportation construction and planning

SECTION 4. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM PROCEDURES. It is
the intent of the Legislature and the Authority that revenues
provided from this Ordinance be used to supplement existing
revenues being used for transportation improvements and programs.
Each local jurisdiction receiving Local Street Repair Funds
pursuant to the Transportation Expenditure Plan shall meet the
requirements in that section.

Under state enabling legislation, a jurisdiction cannot redirect
monies currently being used for transportation purposes to other
uses, and then replace the redirected funds with local street
maintenance and improvement dollars from the retail transaction
and use tax. To meet the requirements of state law, a
jurisdiction must demonstrate maintenance or a minimum level of
local street and road expenditures in conformance with one of the
requirements below.

A.	The same level of local discretionary funds expended for
street and road purposes as was reported, in the State
Controller's Annual Report of Financial Transactions for
Streets and Roads - Fiscal Year '1988-89.

B.	If any local jurisdiction had extraordinary local
discretionary fund expenditures during FY 1988-89, it may
use, as a base for determining the minimum level of local
discretionary funds:

1.	the average amount of such funds reported to the State
Controller for the three-year period FY 1986-87 through
FY 1988-89 or;

2.	the net contribution obtained by subtracting those
extraordinary expenses (including but not limited to SB
300 funds, assessment district contributions,
development impact funds, redevelopment agency
contributions, or other non-recurring contributions)
from its total expenditures; or '

3.	a petition to the Authority for special consideration.
A local jurisdiction may need to revise its minimum
expenditure base beyond the subtraction of
extraordinary expenses. In this instance, the Authority
may allow the establishment of a new base for that
jurisdiction's maintenance of effort requirement. A
local jurisdiction petitioning the Authority under this provision must supply evidence of the need for special
consideration.

The use of provisions B. I. 2, or 3 of this Section by a local
jurisdiction shall be subject to Authority approval.

The Authority shall annually update the base year and preceding
three year base period for the establishment of an annual minimum
based on the information available, from the State Controller's

Annual Report of Financial Transactions for Streets and Roads.

An annual independent audit may be conducted to verify that the
Maintenance of Effort requirements were met by the local
jurisdictions. Any local jurisdiction which does not meet its
Maintenance of Effort requirement in any given year may have its
Local Street Repair funding reduced in the following year by the
amount by which the jurisdiction did not meet its required
Maintenance of Effort. Such funds shall be redistributed to the
remaining eligible jurisdictions.

SECTION 5. LOCAL AND REGIONAL TRAFFIC MITIGATION FEES. In order
to receive funds from the Local Road and Street Maintenance and
Improvement Fund, a city and the County of San Joaquin'must have
adopted a traffic fee program to assist in mitigating the impact
of new development on the local transportation system. The
Authority shall develop criteria for these traffic mitigation
fees. Local traffic impact mitigation fees shall be in place m
all communities for the fiscal year commencing with July_1,_1991.
Should a jurisdiction not have a qualifying local traffic impact
mitigation fee in place by the last day of the fiscal year, then
all revenue apportioned to that community under the Local Street
Repair Fund will be reapportioned for the following fiscal year
among all the eligible jurisdictions based on the adopted
formula.

It is the intent of this ordinance to have adopted in San Joaquin
County by January 1,	1993,	a	Regional	Traffic	Mitigation Fee

program to assess new. development for its impacts that go beyond
the local circulation system. Failure to achieve this date does
not effect any other provision of this ordinance.

The Authority shall coordinate expenditures from proceeds of the
1/2% sales tax with the adopted Congestion Management Plan for
San Joaquin County. The Authority shall work with and assist the
Congestion Management Agency in adopting minimum service
standards for regional roads, and transit programs so as to reduce
congestion, and promote alternative transportation modes.

SECTION 6. REGIONAL GROWTH MANAGEMENT. The Authority must adopt a
Growth Management Plan consistent with the Congestion Management
Program put into - effect by the voters in the passage of
Proposition 111. This Plan must consist of the following:

Traffic Level of Service standards for all regional

roadway facilities. This Level of Service standard will

not be below D.

Standards for the frequency and routing of public

transit.	

A trip reduction and travel demand element that

promotes alternative transportation modes.

□	A program to coordinate the development review process
to reduce automobile trip generation from newly
developed residential and employment centers.

□	Use of a regional transportation and traffic computer
model and data base to determine the quantitative
impacts of traffic from new and existing development on
the regional transportation system.

The Authority must adopt this program by January 1, 1992, and be-
consistent with the Regional Transportation Plan, the Regional
Air Quality Plan, and the Congestion Management Plan for San
Joaquin County.

SECTION 7. AMENDMENTS TO THE TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN. The
Authority may annually -review and propose' amendments to the
Transportation Expenditure Plan to' provide for the use of
additional federal, state and local funds, to account for
unexpected revenues, or to take into consideration unforeseen
circumstances. The Authority shall act on only one package of
amendments per fiscal year. The Authority shall establish a
process for proposed Transportation Expenditure Plan amendment(s)
which ensures that the affected Regional Transportation Planning
Committee(s) participate in the development of the proposed
amendment(s). Upon completion of this process, amendments(s) to
the.:Transportation Expenditure Plan must be passed by a roll call
vote entered in the minutes and must have a two thirds majority
of the Authority concurring with the proposed amendment(s) .
Subsequently, the Authority shall notify the Board of
Supervisors, the City 'Council of each city in the county and
provide each entity with a copy of the proposed amendment (s) .
Pursuant to Public Utilities Code 180207, proposed amendment(s)
shall become effective 45 days after notice is given, unless
appealed under the process outlined in the following paragraph.
The Authority shall. hold a public hearing on the proposed
amendment(s) within this 45 day period.

In the event that a local jurisdiction does not agree with the
Authority's amendments(s) , the jurisdiction's policy
decision-making body must, by a majority vote, determine to
formally notify the Authority of its intent, in writing via
.registered mail, to obtain an override of the Authority s
amendment (s) . The appealing jurisdiction will have 45 days from
the date the Authority adopts the proposed amendment (s) to obtain
resolutions supporting an override of the amendment(s) from a
majority of the cities representing a majority of the population
residing within the incorporated areas of the county and from the
Board of Supervisors. If a jurisdiction does not obtain the
necessary resolutions supporting the override, the Authority's
amendment(s) to.the Ordinance will stand.

SECTION 8. AMENDMENTS TO THIS ORDINANCE. This Ordinance may be
amended to further its purposes. The Authority shall establish a
process for proposed Ordinance amendment(s) which ensures that
the Regional Transportation Planning Committees participate m
proposed Ordinance amendment(s) . Upon completion of that process,
amendment(s) to this Ordinance must be passed by a roll call vote
entered in the minutes and must have two—thirds majority of the
Authority concurring with the proposed amendment(s). The
Authority must hold a public hearing on the matter before formal
adoption of any amendment to the Ordinance.

In the event that a local jurisdiction does not agree with the
Authority's amendments (s) ,	the jurisdiction's policy

decision-making body must, by a majority vote, determine to
formally notify the Authority of its intent, in writing via

registered mail, to obtain an override of the Authority s
amendment(s). The appealing jurisdiction will have
45 days from the date the Authority adopts the _ proposed
amendment(s) to obtain resolutions supporting an override of the
amendment(s) from a majority of the cities representing a
majority of the population residing within the incorporated areas
of the county and from the Board of Supervisors. If a
jurisdiction does not obtain the necessary resolutions supporting
the override, the Authority's amendment(s) to the Ordinance will
stand.

SECTION 9. AUTHORITY COMMITTEES. The following committee
structure will advise the Authority in the administration of the
Expenditure Plan and the Ordinance.

A.	The Management and Financial Advisory Committee_ is
established to guide administrative and financial decisions
of the Local Transportation Authority and is to be composed
of City Managers and the County Administrator.

B.	The Technical Coordinating Committee will serve as the
Authority's technical advisory committee and be composed of
Directors from the area Public Works Departments, Planning
Departments, Caltrans' District 10, the_ Stockton
Metropolitan Transit District ,the Air Pollution Control
District, and any other agency the Authority so names.

C.	The Citizens Review Committee will serve at the pleasure of
the Authority to provide community input on project
priorities, scheduling', amendments, and any other activity
the Authority so designates. The Authority must create a
Citizens Review Committee that fairly represents the
geographical, social, cultural, and economic mix of the
region.

SECTION 10. PRIVATE SECTOR FUNDING. Revenues provided from this
Ordinance shall not be used to replace private developer funding
which has been or will be committed for any project.

SECTION 11. BONDING AUTHORITY. "Pay as you go" is the preferred
method of financing transportation improvements and programs.
However, the Authority may use bond financing as an _alternative
method in the event that the scope of planned expenditures makes
"pay as you go" financing undesirable. Upon voter approval of
the Ordinance, the Authority shall have the authority to issue
bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax for the construction
of needed transportation facility improvements. The Authority, in
allocating the annual revenues from the Ordinance, shall meet all
debt service requirements prior to allocating funds for other
projects.

SECTION 12. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. Revenues may be expended by
the Authority for salaries, wages, benefits, overhead, auditing
and those services including contractual services necessary no
administer the Ordinance; however, in. no case shall an
amount exceeding one percent of the annual revenue provided by the Ordinance go towards paying the administrative salaries benefits of the staff of the Authority. Costs of performing or
contracting for project related, work shall be paid from the
revenues allocated to the appropriate purpose as set forth
herein.

An annual independent audit shall be conducted to assure that the
revenues expended by the Authority' under this section are
necessary and reasonable in carrying out its responsibilities
under the Ordinance.

SECTION 13. ESTABLISHMENT OF SEPARATE ACCOUNTS. The Authority
shall allocate funds to Transportation Expenditure Plan Projects
and Programs as necessary to meet contractual and program
obligations. The Authority may allocate funds as described but
may reserve the right not to disburse monies until needed to meet
contractual project or program obligations, exclusive of the
Local Street Repair Fund. Each agency receiving funds from this
Ordinance shall deposit said funds in a separate interest bearing.
Transportation Improvement Account. Any interest earned on funds
allocated pursuant to this Ordinance shall be expended only for
those purposes for which the funds were allocated or shall be
returned to the Authority. The Authority reserves the right to
audit such accounts.

SECTION 14. IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCES. Upon approval of this
Ordinance by the voters the Authority shall, in addition to the
local rules required to be provided pursuant to this Ordinance,
adopt implementing ordinances, rules and administrative
procedures, and take such other actions as may be necessary and
appropriate to carry out its responsibilities to implement the
San Joaquin Transportation Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 15. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES. This Ordinance shall
become effective on November 6,	1990 only if a majority of the

electors voting on the Ordinance at the election held on November
6, 1990	vote	to approve	the Ordinance. If so approved by the

provisions of this Ordinance shall become operative on April 1,
1991.

SECTION 16. DESIGNATION OF FACILITIES. Each project or program m
excess of $250,000 funded in whole or in part by revenues from
the Ordinance shall be clearly designated in writing via^ signs
and/or documents, during its construction or implementation as
being funded by revenues from the Ordinance.

SECTION 17. CONTRACTS, LOCAL PREFERENCE. It is the preference of
Authority, where feasible, and allowed under applicable law, to
contract with Northern California organizations and businesses
and to -'maximize contract opportunities for minority and women
owned businesses. The Authority shall develop administrative
procedures for contracts.

SECTION 18. CONTRACTING FOR PROJECT DELIVERY. The Authority
shall have the power to contract for project delivery of any

project in the Ordinance if it finds that:

1.	the project could be delivered faster under a contract:

issued by the Authority;


2.	a contract would provide economies of scale and reduce
project costs.

The Authority would have to have the agreement of all effected
jurisdictions to contract for a project.

SECTION 19. SEVERABILITY. If any section, part, clause or phrase
of this Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or
unconstitutional, the remaining portions shall not be affected
but shall remain in full force and effect.

SECTION 20. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Article XIII (a) of the
California Constitution re-quires the establishment of an annual
appropriations limit for certain governmental entities. The
maximum annual appropriations limit for the Authority has been
established as $ 100 million. The appropriations limit shall be
subject to adjustment as provided by law. All expenditures of the
retail transactions and use tax revenues imposed in Section 21
are subject to the appropriations limit of the Authority.

SECTION 21. IMPOSITION OF RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.

This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County of San Joaquin, which
territory shall be referred to herein as "District11.

Subsection 1. Operative Date. "Operative date" means the first
day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 12 0 days
after adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being
as set forth below.

Subsection 2. Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve^the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions
hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing
with Section 7251) of Division. 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code which authorizes the District to adopt
this tax ordinance which, shall be operative if a
majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called
for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance

which incorporates provisions identical to those of the
Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with
the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance

which imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor
that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as
fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
which can be administered in a manner which will be, to
the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes and at the same time
minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance.

Subsection 3. Contract With State. Prior to the operative date,
the District shall contract with the State Board of Equalization
to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided,
that if the District shall not have contracted with the State
Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it s^all
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date
shall be- the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract.

Subsection 4. Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of
selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the District at the rate of one-half of one percent
of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on
and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Subsection 5. Place Of Sale. For the purpose of this ordinance,
all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold _is delivered
by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to
a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such.charges are subject to the state sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business m the State
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be .determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

Subsection 6. Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on
the storage, use or other consumption m the District of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after th
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one
percent of the sales price of the property. The sales price
shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery

is made.

Subsection 7. Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6_of Division 2 of
the Revenue and. Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this
ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Subsection 8 . Limitations On Adoption Of—State —Law—And

collection Of Use Taxes. In adopting.the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to
as the taxing agency, the name of this District shall
be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of
the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board
of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this District or
any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather
than by or against the State Board, of Equalization,
in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to, sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect
to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the State under the said provisions of
that code;

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence
thereof), 6711,	6715,	6737,-6797	or 6828 of the

Revenue and Taxation Code.

B. The word "District" shall be substituted^ for the word
"State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in
this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of
that phrase in Section 6203.

Subsection 9. Permit Not Required. If a seller s permit has
been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of .	S

Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not:

required by this ordinance.

Subsection 10. Exemptions And Exclusions..

A. There shall be excluded from the measure of the

transactions tax and. the use tax the amount of any
sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California
or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to
the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law
or the amount of any state-administered transactions or
use tax.

B. There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the County in which the sale is made and directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the
authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the District
which is shipped to a point outside the District,
pursuant to the contract of sales, by delivery to
such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the District shall be
satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles a. With respect to vehicles (other
than commercial \ vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with (commencing with Section 4000) of Division
3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licenses in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9850) of the Vehicle
Code, by registration to an out-of-district
address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his principal place of
residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles by
registration to a place of business
out-of-District and declaration under penalty
of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the
seller is obligated to furnish the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property for any period of

*	time	for which the lessor is obligated to lease the

property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purpose of subsections (3) and (4) of this
section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the

contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this

ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in

this District of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been
subject to a transactions tax under any
state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively
in the use of such aircraft as common carriers. of
persons or property for hire or compensation under
a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided
in Section 6366 and 63 66.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	if the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this

ordinance.	,	.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right
or power over, the tangible personal property
arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase
of such property for any period of time for which
the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this
section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right of power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract of lease
for any period of time for which any party ^ to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the District shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the^ retailer
ships or delivers the property into the District or
participates within the District in making the sale
of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly
or indirectly, at a place of business of the
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person n the
District under the authority of the retailer. _

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the District

shall also include any retailer of any of the
following:	vehicles	subject to registration

pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered, under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9850) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax
from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the
District.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may
credit against that tax_ any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of
the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

Subsection 11. Amendments. All amendments' subsequent to the
effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and
which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this ordinance; provided, however, that no such
amendment shall operate to as to affect the rate of tax imposed
by this ordinance.

Subsection 12. Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or
writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue
in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State
or the District, or against any officer of the State or the
District, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Subsection 13. Effective Date. This ordinance relates to the
levying and collecting of the District transactions and use taxes
and shall take effect immediately.

SECTION 22.' COORDINATION. The Authority shall consult and
coordinate its actions to secure funding for the completion and
improvement of the priority regional projects with the California
Transportation Commission, transit operators and other interested
and affected parties for the purpose of integrating its
transportation improvements with other planned improvements and
operations impacting the county. In addition, the Authority shall
seek all ways to expedite the completion of Transportation
Expenditure Plan projects, the implementation of which is the
responsibility of other agencies.

SECTION 23. ALLOCATION OF RELEASED FUNDS. If additional funds
become available for a specific project or projects on the
Transportation Expenditure Plan, the Authority may reallocate the
retail transactions and use the funds released by the receipt of
those additional funds. In the allocation of the released funds,
the Authority shall give first priority to Transportation
Expenditure Plan Projects and Programs. Second priority shall be
given to other projects and programs which may be placed on the

Transportation Expenditure Plan through the amendment process
described in Section 7.

SECTION 24. ALLOCATION OF EXCESS FUNDS. In the event, that the
retail transactions and use tax revenues generated by this
Ordinance are greater than projected or contingency fund
requirements are less than projected, the Authority may allocate
those excess funds consistent with the program adopted by the
voters.

In the allocation of excess funds, the Authority shall give first
priority to Expenditure Plan Projects and^Programs, and^ second
priority to other projects of regional significance which are
consistent with the Regional Transportation Plan and may be
placed on the Expenditure Plan through the amendment process
described in Section 7.

SECTION 25. SUNSET OF THE AUTHORITY. In the_ event that this
Ordinance does not succeed in obtaining a majority of the vote of
the electorate•at the November, 1990 election, the legal entity
known as the San Joaquin County Transportation Authority shall
cease to exist within 30 days after the election.

SECTION 26. ANNUAL REPORT. An Annual Report will be prepared by
the Authority within 90 days of the., end of the Calendar year
identifying the actions and accomplishments of the Authority in
meeting the adopted Transportation Expenditure Plan. The first
report will be prepared within 90 days of January 1,	1992 for

Calendar Year 1991. <fullend>














<summary> SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
LOCAL TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLAN:

AIR QUALITY, MANDATORY DEVELOPER FEES

AND

GROWTH MANAGEMENT

San Joaquin County
Transportation Authority

adopted
July 24, 1990

This document contains the San Joaquin County Local
Transportation Improvement Plan. This Expenditure Plan, which
is required.to be adopted by the San Joaquin County
Transportation Authority pursuant to Public Utilities Code
commencinq with Section 180000, is the legal document
implementing the local retail transactions and use tax and
specifying the method of allocation of the local retail
transactions and use tax revenues and other requirements of the
Measure.

The Ordinance becomes effective at the close of the polls on the
day of the election at which, the local transportation measure is
approved by the voters.

The full text of the Expenditure Plan is provided on the
following pages.

MEMBER JURISDICTIONS: Cities of Escalon, Lathrop, Lodi, Manteca,
Ripon, Stockton, and Tracy, and the County of San Joaquin.

San Joaquin County Transportation Authority, 1860 E. Hazelton,
Stockton, California 95205,	(209)	468-3913...


these other revenue sources to meet San Joaquin County s
needs.

All investments in capital facilities and improvements must
be within San Joaquin County.

Reducing the need to make automobile trips is a key factor
in solving traffic congestion in San Joaquin County. The
Authority must coordinate with local government agencies,
Caltrans, the Stockton Metropolitan Transit District, and
the Air Pollution Control District to establish a
development review process that seeks to_reduce automobi e
trip generation from newly developed residential and
employment centers.

In order to accommodate San Joaquin County population
growth so that it does not occur at the expense of current
residents, the cities and the county m San Joaquin will
adopt and collect traffic mitigation fees to pay for
growth-induced transportation facilities.

It is an objective of' the Local Transportation Authority-
that a program of Regional Traffic Mitigation fees, _
assessments or other mitigations, as_appropriate, to fun
regional and subregional transportation projects, be
developed and implemented in San Joaquin County by January 1, 1993.

To implement the Plan, a process with management, technical
and most importantly citizen review is essential.

These principles are the basis of the Transportation Improvement
Plan.


CATEGORICAL ALLOCATIONS

PASSENGER RAIL & BUS (32.5%)

RAIL/BUS STATIONS
RAIL CORRIDORS
INTER-CITY TRANSIT
COMMUTE/INTRA-CITY TRANSIT
BICYCLES

CONGESTION RELIEF (25.0%)

RAILROAD CROSSINGS (7.5%)

STREET REPAIRS (35.0%)

MAINTENANCE

SIGNALS

SAFETY PROJECTS

A JURISDICTION CANNOT REDIRECT MONIES CURRENTLY BEING USED
FOR LOCAL STREET MAINTENANCE PURPOSES TO OTHER USES, AND
THRTJ PTVPT,ace THE REDIRECTED FUNDS WITH LOCAL STREET MAINTE-
NANCE DOLLARS FROM THE RETAIL TRANSACTION AND USE TAX. To

meet the requirements of state law, a jurisdiction must dem-
onstrate maintenance or a minimum level of local street and
road expenditures in conformance with procedures adopted in
ordinance by the Authority. Monies from this program may
not go to a city's or the County's "General Fund".

The Authority shall annually update the base year and
preceding three year base period for the establishment of an
annual minimum based on the information available from the
State Controller's Annual Report of Financial Transactions
for Streets and Roads.

An annual independent audit may be conducted to verify that
the Maintenance of Effort requirements were met by the local
jurisdictions. Any local jurisdiction which does not meet
its Maintenance of Effort requirement in any given year may
have its Local Street Maintenance funding reduced in the .-t
following year by the amount by which the jurisdiction d,id
not meet its required Maintenance of Effort. Such funds
phall ije redistributed to the remaining eligible jurisdic-
tions .

o A jurisdiction may use monies from this source to offset the
loss of traffic fee revenue from exempted "affordable
housing units" as defined in the Regional Fair Share Housing
Plan.

□	The County of San Joaquin will install and maintain raised
reflectors (FOG REFLECTORS) on appropriate roads in the
unincorporated area.

□	Local jurisdictions may "lend" any of their allocation to
another agency so that projects could be expedited as long
as a formal agreement is executed by. all agencies involved

- and is approved by the Local Transportation Authority.

□	The following table displays an estimate of each
jurisdiction's annual allocation of local streets
maintenance, safety and operations improvement funding:

SAN JOAQUIN COUNTY
LOCAL TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLAN

Congestion Relief Projects

A Seven Year Capital Improvement Program will be prepared to
guide the investment of Congestion Relief expenditures.

The Local Transportation Authority will fund the following
capacity increasing projects of regional importance, seeking
to maximize use of state highway revenue provided under
Proposition ill, and existing and future development fees.

ESCALON PLANNING AREA (2)

Route 120 Escalon Bypass

Two lane expressway ^ on
Stanislaus County line,
highway dollars.

new alignment from Rte. 99 to the
Project partially funded by state

Widen to 4 lanes from Mahon Road to the Stanislaus River. This
project will be partially funded with development fees.

LATHROP/MANTECA PLANNING AREA (4L

Route 120 Manteca Bypass	„	.

Highway is to be widened to 4 lanes from 1-5 to Route 99.
Project is to be state funded. This measure provides that in
order to forestall any delays in the project, the Authority be
allowed to advance to the State an amount necessary to keep
project on schedule with the principal to be paid back in full.
Manteca development fees are to go towards construction of.Union
Road interchange.

Lathrop Rd.	,

Widen road to 4 lanes from 1-5 to Route 99. A portion of the
project will be funded through development fees.

Louise Ave.	'

Widen to 4 lanes from 1-5 to the Manteca City limits,
project is to be funded through development fees.

Airport Way

Widen to 4 lanes from Yosemite Ave. to Route 120.
to be fully funded from sales tax revenue.

Portion of

This project

LODI AND THORNTON PLANNING AREAS (41
Lower Sacramento Rd.

Widen to 4 Lanes with improvements from Bear
community of Woodbridge. Project partially
development fees.

Creek to the
funded from

Widen to 6 lanes from Alpine to March Lane. Project is fully
sales tax funded.

El Dorado St.

Widen to 6 lanes from Alpine to Yokuts. Project is fully sales
tax funded.

Route 99

Widen to 6 lanes from Mariposa Road to Wilson Way. Project is to

partially funded from state highway funds.

Route 99 Interchanges	
Construct new interchange, and reconstruct existing interchanges
from Wilson Way to Hammer Lane. Project is partially funded from
development fees

TRACY PLANNING AREA (21

511.5 Million

1-2 05	

Widen to 6 Lanes from Alameda Co. to 1-5. Project to he

partially state highway funded.

Eleventh St.

Reconstruct and Increase Capacity from the SPRR near MacArthur to
Corral Hollow Road. Project to be fully funded from sales tax.

LOCKEFORD PLANNING AREA

Route 88/12 Lockeford Bypass

Preliminary Engineering and Environmental Analysis
alignment around the communities of Lockeford and
Project construction is not included in this sales tax

for a new
Clements,
measure.


Rail Corridor Development	4 6-s

improvements can include commuter , intercity service and
light rail and all aspects of that service- Potential
expenditures may include rolling stock, track upgrades, right of
way and trackage agreements. This category is intended primarily
for capital purchases. No more than 20% may be expended for
actual operation of rail service. The two primary corridors
identified for rail improvements are STOCKTON - BAY AREA, and
FRESNO-STOCKTON-SACRAMENTO. The intent is to upgrade these
corridors to high speed service.

The following may be funded from under this program:

STOCKTON-BAY AREA CORRIDORS
Altamont

□	stockton-Altamont Corridor improvements for high speed rail
passenger service.

□	Operations up to $12 million.

o	Locomotives and passenger rail cars,

o	Altamont Engineering Study

□	Connections to BART and other Bay Area transit systems.

Delta

o	Trackage Upgrades, Stockton to Martinez

□	Stockton to Oakland'grade crossing controls and improvements

□	stockton-Martinez Centralized Train Control

FRESNO-STOCKTON-SACRAMENTO

□	Modesto to Stockton to Sacramento; improvements to existing
tracks such as:

grade crossing controls

signalized train controls

improved sidings for train passing. .

□	Stockton to Sacramento existing track improvements and grade
crossing controls for high speed rail passenger service.

Inter-City and Elderly and Handicapped Transit	19%

The Authority shall prepare and annually adopt a three year
Transit Plan to allocate monies from this program for the
following purposes, in the following priority order:

Inter-city bus service between Stockton and the Cities of Lodi,
Manteca, Lathrop, Tracy, Escalon and Ripon for all trip purposes.

Capital purchases such as vehicles for providing transit service

in all communities to the elderly, the handicapped, and the
transportation disadvantaged.

Operating expenses for transit service to the elderly, the
handicapped, and the transportation disadvantaged.

commute Transit/Intra-City Service	23%

The Authority shall prepare and annually adopt a three year
Transit Plan to allocate monies from this program to promote the
ridership of and the efficiency of peak hour, commute time bus
service.

These funds are to provide additional peak hour service to foster
more commute trip making on transit. it would be available for
both capital and operations. It could go towards any project
that promotes the use of alternative transportation during the
commute hours. Eligible projects are:

□	park and ride lot locations in Stockton, Manteca, Tracy, and

other communities

□	1-5 and other north-south Express Bus Service

q Route Sp Express Bus Service between Lodi—Stockton—Manteca

□	Greater frequencies on existing peak hour routes

□	Commute transit service to new employment centers

□	Transit service to employment centers in other counties such
as Alameda County, Sacramento and Stanislaus, (capital and

start up operations only).	.

□	Trip Reduction Programs to reduce the need for trip making
at large employment centers.

This funding category is to supplement existing service, not to
replace funding for existing service. This program is also
available for facilities and the promotion of rideshare
alternatives such as carpools, vanpools, and buspools.

The Stockton Metropolitan -Transit District is to receive a
minimum of 50% of the funds allocated from this program for_
implementing the projects identified above in conformance -with
the Three Year Plan.

Bicycle Facility Funds	4	0

The Authority shall create and annually update a three year
bicycle facilities plan for allocating funds for bicycle facility
projects. The Authority will develop a process for accepting
applications from cities and the County ^ for these funds.	^

Priority will be given to commute facilities on separate rights
of way, but will be available to all facility projects including
recreational proposals. <summaryend> 