11

OFFICIAL BALLOT
County of Santa Clara

PRIMARY ELECTION
June 5.1990

SANTA CLARA COUNTY MEASURE

Amendment to County Charter of Santa Clara County

A Shall the County of Santa Clara Charter be amended to include the following provi-
sion: Article VI § 605
The County shall assess, levy and collect a tax of S5.00 per parcel per fiscal year
for a five-year period for the sole purpose of estao-shing an Earthquake Relief Fund.

The tax shall apply equally to all parcels throughout the County and shal terminate
after five years following the effective date of adoption of this measure by two-thirds of
the qualified voters of the County.

The limit on appropriations set forth in California Constitution. Article XIII B § 1 shai
be increased for a four-year period by the amount of the parcel tax imposed hereunder.

Revenues from this fund shall be distributed solely for loans to pay for expenses
incurred by individuals and or small businesses and other entities (as deemed appropriate
by the County) for the repair and reconstruction of property located in Santa Clara County
which is damaged in any future earthquake.

Additionally, if the Governor declares a state of emergency in Santa Clara County in
the wake of another type of disaster, any funds in the Earthquake Relief Fund in excess
of the amount of $7.5 million may, at the discretion of the County, be released for loans
for reconstruction and or repair of property damage resulting from that disaster pursuant
to the same critena established for the Earthquake Relief Fund.

The proceeds of the tax shall be deposited in a segregated interest-bearing account
to be administered by the County. The County administrative costs cannot exceed one
per cent of the assets of the Fund.

The special tax shall be collected in the same manner as general ad valorem property
taxes are collected and shall be subject to the same interest and penalties as general
ad valorem property taxes. Failure to pay when due will result in the imposition of penalties
and interest in the same manner as if the taxes were ad valorem property taxes.

The Board of Supervisors may from time to time adopt regulations neces-
sary for the enforcement and administration of the special tax provided for

»	•	*	m m H A	a ■■ M

herein. Such regulations shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of YES Z74

this charter amendment. An amount not to exceed five per cent of the total ---------

fund may be allocated for loans for earthquake hazard prevention measures. NO 275

CITY OF SAN JOSE MEASURE	
f\ CHARTER AMENDMENT — CONFORMANCE OF RETIREMENT I - PLANS TO STATE AND FEDERAL LAW  Adds Section 1506 to the San Jose City Charter to provide that the City Council may, subject to California Government Code Section 3500 et sec., provide for conformance of City retirement plans to Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code or other applicable state and federal law.	YES 279—►
	NO 280—►

---------------COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA MEASURE A

rniJNTY COUNSEL S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO
®: 55	ARTICLE VI OF THE CHARTER OF THE COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA

inified	This measure will add Section 605 to Article VI of the Charter of Santa Clara for the purpose

»rpo-	I	0f creating an earthquake relief fund. This fund will be supplemental to other already existing

earthquake relief programs.

ible. I	Currently,	neither State statutes nor the County Charter clearly authorizes the County to raise

In'ties	!	money for emergency relief. A “Yes" vote on this measure is a vote to amend the Charter to

rnuch	provide for County authority to levy a $5.00 parcel tax per fiscal year on each parcel in the

know	County, during a five-year period, commencing in 1991, to create a fund for earthquake relief.

The revenue from this fund shall be distributed solely for loans to pay for expenses incurred by
*y are	individuals, small businesses or other entities (to be determined at the discretion of the County)

to repair damages resulting from an earthquake. Additionally, any amounts over $7.5 million
which have accrued in the fund may be distributed for other emergency relief.

There will be no impact on the County general fund since the measure provides that the limit
on appropriations set forth in Article XIII B §1 (formerly the “Gann Initiative”) will be increased
by the parcel tax for only a four year period. The proceeds of the tax will be placed in a neutral
interest bearing account to be administered by the County. All costs of administering the fund
by the County will be paid out of the fund and will be limited to one per cent of assets of the
fund. The parcel tax shall be collected in the same manner as general ad valorem taxes and
shall be subject to the same interest and penalties as ad valorem taxes.

A “No" vote on this measure is a vote aginst this special tax.

STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel
County of Santa Clara

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE
A. THE FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A APPEARS IN THE SAMPLE BALLOT.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

: 45
>cial
I’ve
3ars
VCh
n at
eral
5 LA
trict
site
nee
re n
ent





Earthquakes strike with devastating force. Unfortunately, no one can predict when a quake
will occur or which neighborhoods will be most seriously harmed. If your home escaped major
damage last October, you may not be so fortunate the next time.

To protect our property, we should do all that we can to prevent significant damage. In addition,
it is wise to insure ourselves against the possibility that substantial destruction will happen,
despite our best efforts.

This measure proposes a form of public earthquake insurance for Santa Clara County resi-
dents. The cost will be $5.00 per year per parcel. After five years, the $5.00 parcel tax is
automatically terminated.

Funds raised by this program may be spent only for earthquake prevention measures and to
assist in reconstruction following a disaster.

We have learned from the major earthquake of October 17th that existing programs established
by the state and federal governments and by private charities do not meet all of the critical
needs of earthquake victims. Of 3173 applications to the federal government for home reconstruc-
tion loans, 551 families were turned down. Retired people may not show sufficient income to
qualify for loans. Also, the amounts of loans may not be sufficient to cover the full costs of
damage to hard hit homes.

When the next serious earthquake strikes, we cannot depend on other levels of government.
We must also practice self reliance; we must depend on ourselves.

By adopting this proposition for an earthquake reconstruction fund, Santa Clara County voters
will be establishing a resource that will be administered locally — by County government — for
County residents only.

Vote “yes" on Measure A.

Spending $5.00 a year now may make the difference whether a family which suffers serious
losses in the next earthquake will be able to return to normal living.

WILLIAM PARSONS
Director of Finance
Santa Clara County
SALLY REED
County Executive

SUSANNE WILSON
Chair, Board of Supervisors

STEVEN J. TEDESCO, President

San Jose Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce

M-1

ABUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

. v ast sentence in Measure A carefully. IT SAYS THAT NOT MORE THAN 5 PERCENT
vV von; n RASED BY MAY BE SPENT ON EARTHQUAKE HAZARD PREVENTION. That
.•> percent *as added solely to bolster the proponents' arguments.

.... s o ce administered by county bureaucrats at their sole discretion. There is no
.w	ans	of	:*e	money wi be spent to assist homeowners in the event of an earthquake.

VMs .'eavs a v property damage from earthquakes have resulted from unsafe government
> . .. . ?.> sv ac : es Also, the overwhelming majority of tax money spent on the repair of
wav? carnage ^as been spent on government structures and facilities.

>.\\ c .ve t* 'v the money from Measure A will be any different? In fact, the "other
.- :es : a.se paragraph 4 of Measure A allows this money to be spent on government
s . . . as c a-. t” mg eise the bureaucrats want. Nowhere does Measure A guarantee one cent
w vwa'w or residents.

v?a>. e 4 coes try to give one thing to residents: a false sense of security that our county
we went s prepared to take care of us in the event of a disaster.

EVxVt e? them think they fooled us.

Vote on Measure A

ERiC GARRIS

SecviPiMan Candidate for State Assembly,

21 si District

ED ROWEN

Resident. Mission City California
Republican Assembly

ALEXIA GILMORE

Secretary, Libertarian Republicans of

California

COLIN HUNTER

Chairman, Hunter Systems Software, Inc.

is

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

^"oposition A sets a dangerous precedent in the relationship between taxpayers and developers.

Passage of Proposition A will tell builders and developers that they do not have to be respon-
sive for making structures safe from earthquakes.

By taxing everyone across the board for this “Earthquake Relief Fund” the County relieves
developers and homebuilders of the responsibility to make structures safe from future earth-
quakes.

Why should a developer strive to build safer structures when he or she knows that, in the
event of a disaster, the County will pick up the tab?

What motivation will there be for a homeowner to get earthquake insurance when the County
will insure against his or her shortsightedness?

How can we control the reckless development of naturally hazardous areas if everyone is
forced to pick up the tab?

Proposition A is an insult to responsible developers and homeowners who have taken steps
to protect and insure against earthquake damage.

Rather than guaranteeing safer structures, Proposition A will result in a disregard for earthquake
safety. Instead of subsidizing those who fail to take necessary precautions, we need to encourage
greater safety by making property owners take reasonable steps to guarantee safety of their
buildings.

Don't vote to subsidize developers.

Don’t vote to disregard earthquake safety.

Vote NO on Measure A.

ALEXIA GILMORE
Secretary, Libertarian Republicans of
California
ERIC GARRIS

Republican Candidate for State Assembly,

21st District

ED ROWEN

President, Mission City California
Republican Assembly

COLIN HUNTER
Chairman, Hunter Systems
Software, Inc.

TO

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Earthquakes injure both Democrats and Republicans When disaster strmes the ast thing
we need are the kind of phony political arguments presented by Measure A s opponents

Measure A has almost nothing to do with new development.

Santa Clara County does not permit housing on steep hillsides. Ail new homes must oe
constructed under 1990 building codes to withstand severe earthquakes Puture devetopr-ent
is not our major earthquake problem.

Over 340,000 homes and businesses have already been built in this County ^ese a-e re
homes that the people who will pay this tax live in today. These are the homes -'ost at "s* -
a future earthquake. These are the families that will be protected by Measure A.

Measure A is a straightforward proposal. It provides a local fund that car ''e o County residents
after a severe earthquake even if other insurance policies or gove^^ent progra^s {a * you
want to pay $5.00 a year for some extra protection and security, vote *yes

Certainly, Measure A is not a substitute for taking other pruaent actions to protect yo-' nome
However, earthquakes are not predictable. Serious damage may occur eve" to those who p an
ahead.

By passing Measure A, as a community, we will be better able to reoutld quickly after an
earthquake. Whether we, as a community, are willing to spend tax doi ars to ac" eve that goa
is the only true issue in this election.

SUSANNE WILSON	SALLEY REED

Chair, Board of Supervisors	County Executive

STEVEN J. TEDESCO. President
San Jose Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce

TO SAVE TIME ON ELECTION DAY AND ENSURE THAT YOUR VOTES
ARE RECORDED CORRECTLY, MARK YOUR CHOICES ON THE
SAMPLE BALLOT BEFORE GOING TO THE POLLS —

USE IT AS A GUIDE WHEN PUNCHING YOUR
VOTES INTO THE OFFICIAL BALLOT CARD

REGISTRATION AND VOTING INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE TO
THE DEAF BY TTY COMMUNICATION — (408) 288-9820