Sample Ballet

SIDr

CARD E

E

IDE 2"

OFFICIAL BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED
PRIMARY ELECTION
JUNE 5, 1990

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)

j, IN THIS MANNER ONLY:	(

STATE MEASURES SUBMITTED
TO VOTE OF VOTERS

(3

O EC
><

120

121

EAR I'HQTAkf SAFETY AND H Hi 1C
I nn BMi.DINGS Ri HABII I PA HO\

I JLJL BUM) ACT OF WO This act provides ]
for a bond issue of three hundred million dollars I
($3(XK(XX).(KX)) to provide funds for ihe recon- ^ j
struetion. seismic retrofitting, repair, replace- YES ;
menu and relocation of state and local	h

government buildings which are unsafe NO j
primarily due to earthquake-related dangers.

1990 SCHOOL L AC !I ! LILS BOND

mAC!. This act provides f or a bond
issue of eight hundred million
dollars (SKOO.OOO.OtK)), to provide capital
outlay for construction or improvement of
public schools.

YES I

_^

NO

E501 VOTE FRONT AND BACK

I HAVE VOTED HAVE VOL

I

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)

j_IN THIS MANNER ONLY: L. J j

SCHOOL MEASURE SUBMITTED
TO VOTE OF VOTERS

o

is

Ok

><t

esi.) VOTE FRONT AND BACK

Sample Ballot

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF Mk^ORE P

The Governing Board of the Perns School District (the “Board") has
undertaken proceedings to form a Community Facilities District pursuant
to the "Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982" (the "Act”),
designated "Perns School District Community Facilities District No. 1"

1 and has called for an election asking voter approval on
8 P. Measure P, if adopted, will authorize the District to
mfebtedness in the principal amount of $30,000,000, to
levy a special fax on property within the District and to establish an
appropriations limit for the District for purposes of Article XIII B of the
California Constitution in the amount of $4,000,000.

The specific activities proposed to be undertaken by the District are
the ruction, acquisition and installation of certain public school
fa as set forth in the public report prepared for the District and
I .ed to the Board on January 22, 1990 (the "Facilities"), and the
mg of •	No other facilities or services are

jrized to 1	ed	by the District,

Thf	,s declared the necessity to incur bonded indebtedness

as auth ny the Act, for the purpose of financing the construction,
acquiSiiiuii and installation of the Facilities. This bonded indebtedness
shall not exceed $30,000,000 in aggregat ncipal amount. The
total amount of bonds which the District ultii issues may be less
than the amount specified above.

The Board has further determined that any bonds issued shall have
a maximum term not to exceed 40 years, with principal generally payable
in annual installments and bearing interest. The interest on the bonds
shall gr any be payable semiannually and, together with the principal
mstalln	5, shall be collected on the real property tax roll of the

County. The maximum rate of internet *n he paid on the bonds shall not
exceed the maximum legal rate at t j n e of the sale of the specific
bonds. Currently, the maximum let r it of interest on such bonds is
12% per annum.

The Board has also authorized that a special tax be levied within
the District boundaries (which are coterminous with the boundaries of
Perris School District) to secure the bonded indebtedness, to pay for the
proposed Facilities, to create or replenish any necessary reserve funds
arid to pay any incidental expenses of the District authorized by the
Act, The special tax may not exceed the maximum rates set forth in the
Rate and Method of Apportionment attached as Exhibit C to Resolution
No. 22 89/90 of the District for each type of land use identified m the
special tax. The Board has determined that it will levy the special tax at
the ma in rate beginning in Fiscal Year 1990-91.

II or.eeds of the special tax may only be used to pay for the
Faciliti i create or replenish any necessary reserve funds, to pay any
inciden	xpenses of the District authorized by the Act and to pay the

princip.	and interest on the outstanding bonded indebtedness of the

District. The bonds will not be secured by any raxing power or funds of
the Perns School District, the City of Perris, County of Riverside or any
other political subdivision of trie State of California.

Ballot Measure P, u approved, will also establish the "appropria-
tions limit" for the District as defined by subdivision (h( of Section 8 of
Article XIII B of the California Constitution. The appropriations limit
sets the maximum amount of the proceeds of taxes that the District may
expend during any fiscal year for items other than debt service on the
voter-approved bonded indebtedness of the District; provided that the
appropriations limit will be adjusted annually in accordance with the
procedures contained m Article XIII B from the limit stated in Ballot
Measure P.

in order for Ballot Measure P to be approved, two-thirds of the
voters voting on Ballot Measure P must vote in favor of the District
incurring the bonded indebtedness, levying the special tax to repay such
indebtedness and establishing the appropriations limit. The vote will
be by each registered voter within the boundaries of Perris School
District.

Approval of Ballot Measure P will not obligate the District to
construct the proposed Facilities, to incur any bonded indebtedness or to
levy any special tax. Approval of Ballot Measure P, however, will grant
the power and authorization to the District to undertake the previously

mentioned activities.

By: TIMOTHY J. DAVIS
Deputy County Counsel

33-59

MEASURE P

TAX RATE STATEMENT

As shown on the Sample Official Ballot on June 5, 1990, the Perris
School District (the "School District") will hold an election in its
Community Facilities District No, 1, Riverside County, California ("CFO

No. 1") to request voter authorization to issue and sell bonds up to the
principal amount of $30,000,000 to finance the construction of certain
public school facilities and incidental costs.

The principal and interest on the bonds is to be paid from the levy of a
voter approved special lax. In addition, the special tax may be levied
and accumulated to be used directly for authorized projects. The
special tax is not based on the assessed value of the property.

Expected Special Tax — First Year. The following rates are the

Maximum Special Tax rates for Fiscal Year 1990-91. The District
expects to levy the Special Tax at these rates.

t

ARGUME _ ,N FAVOR OF MEASURE P

The Perris Elementary School District needs your support for Measure P

to make sure we have adequate classrooms for our children.

The facts are:

*	Our schools are crowded. Projections demonstrate that the
district's student population will grow by more than 3,000
students over the next five years.

*	Our school district will need to find space for an average of three
new students every school day for each of those five years.

*	Our existing classrooms are old. Perris Elementary School is
over thirty years old. It and all our existing facilities are in need
of repair and rehabilitation.

Passage of Measure P will allow the School Board to:

Maximum Special Tax

Land Use	For	Fiscal	Year	1990-91

Developed Residents! Property The greater of:	(i)	$58	per	residen-

tial unit, or (ii) parcel acreage multi-
plied by the Maximum Special Tax for
Vacant Property

Move students out of existing portable classrooms.

Provide new, permanent classrooms for our kids.

Rehabilitate/expand existing facilities so they can continue to
serve our community.

Improve security systems and school site conditions.

Developed Non-Residential S116 per acre
Agricultural Property	$	15	per	acre

Make sure that the District has state-of-the-art educational
technology.

Vacant Property

$ 12 per acre

You can be assured:

Maximum Special Tax; Expected Special Tax in Subsequent Years:

m determining the Maximum Special Tax which maybe levied in a Fiscal
Year, on July 1, 1891 and each July 1 thereafter, the Maximum Special
Tax for each class of land use set forth above shall be increased by an
amount equal to 2.60% of the amount in effect for the previous Fiscal
Year. The ’District intends to issue bonds, from time to time, up to a
maximum amount of $30,000,000 In order to issue additional bonds.
Special Tax revenue must be available, either through the above-
mentioned increase in the Maximum Special Tax Rate or through
development of Agricultural Property and Vacant Property to a higher
land use category. Because CFD No. 1 expects to issue additional
bonds when there are sufficient additional Special Taxes or to levy and
accumulate Special Taxes to be used directly for authorized projects, the
expected Special Tax rate in later years will remain at the Maximum
Special Tax, as increased annually.

The bonds shall be secured only by the special rax and not by other funds

of CFD No. 1 or the School District.

* None of the funds raised will be spent on administrative salaries.

These are the facts. Help provide adequate classrooms for our
community's children by votina YES on Measure P.

A Yes vote on Measure P will do all of these things at a reasonable
cost. Passage of Measure P will increase taxes $58 per year for each
residential unit in our community — that amounts to less than $5 per
month to provide our children quality education.

Vote Yes on Measure P.

By:	Robert S. Fliehmann

Marion V. Ashley
Sylvia J. Spears
Robert A. West
Armando Cadena

By:	Dr.	Elaine	Rowen

Secretary of the School District