

AND VOTER INFORMATION

GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 6, 1990

REGISTRAR-RECORDER
5557 FERGUSON DRIVE
COMMERCE, CA 90022-5192
(213) 721-1100

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE
IS SHOWN ON THE BACK COVER

94

PLEASE DO NOT THROW THIS SAMPLE BALLOT AWAY
MARK AND TAKE IT TO YOUR POLLING PLACE

SAN MARINO CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

P

Shall Ordinance No. 982 continuing the Special Public Safety Tax for police,
paramedic and fire services be adopted?

261

262

END OF BALLOT

YES *40

NO *40

11-Q43E

LA 094-12

- PROPOSED ORDINANCE NO. 982 - PROPOSITION P ................-

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SAN MARINO, CALIFORNIA,
LEVYING A SPECIAL PUBLIC SAFETY TAX FOR PARAMEDIC
SERVICES, FOR POLICE PROTECTION AND FOR FIRE
PROTECTION AND PREVENTION AND INCREASING THE CITY OF
SAN MARINO SPENDING LIMIT SET IN ACCORDANCE WITH
ARTICLE XIIIB OF THE CALIFORNIA CONSTITUTION BY THE
AUTHORIZED AMOUNT OF THE SPECIAL PUBLIC SAFETY TAX.

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN MARINO, CALIFORNIA
DOES HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Pursuant to the authority of Section 4 of Article XIII-A of the
California Constitution, there is hereby levied and assessed a special public
safety tax by the City of San Marino on each parcel of property in the City
of San Marino for each fiscal year, commencing with the fiscal year 1991-92
and ending with the fiscal year 1994-95.

SECTION 2. Unless territory is annexed to the City of San Marino following
the date of adoption of this ordinance by the City Council, the maximum
amount of said special public safety tax for each fiscal year shall be as indicated
on Exhibit A of this ordinance incorporated herein in its entirety. In the event
territory is annexed to the City of San Marino following the date of adoption
of this ordinance by the City Council, the special public safety tax shall be
imposed on such annexed parcels in the same amounts as other parcels in the
same zoning classification, and the maximum amount of said public safety tax
for the fiscal year of such annexation and each of the fiscal years thereafter shall
be increased by amounts equal to the total special public safety tax imposed
on the annexed parcels.

SECTION 3.	(A)	The	special	public	safety tax zones shall be those

designated on the official zone map of the City.

(B)	The records of the Los Angeles County Assessor as of
March 1 of each year preceding the applicable fiscal year shall determine
whether or not any particular lot is unimproved for the purposes of this section.
“Parcel of property” as used in this ordinance shall mean any contiguous unit
of improved or unimproved real property held in separate ownership, including,
but not limited to, any single family residence, or any other unit of real property
subject to the California Subdivided Lands Act (Business and Professional
Code, Section 11000, et seq.).

(Q The tax imposed by this ordinance shall be a tax upon each
parcel of property, and the tax shall not be measured by the value of the
property.

(D) The City Council has determined that fifty-nine and one-
half percent (59.5%) of the police protection and the fire protection and
prevention component of such special public safety tax shall be for police
protection, and that forty and one-half percent (40.5%) shall be for fire
protection and prevention, and that one hundred percent (100%) of the
paramedic component of such special public safety tax shall be for paramedic
services.

PR-011.001

LA 084-36

SECTION 4. The specialpublic safety tax imposed by this ordinance shall
be due in two equal installments in accordance with the collection procedures
of the Los Angeles County Tax Collector, in the same manner, and on the same
applicable dates as established by law for the due dates for the other charges
and taxes fixed and collected by the County of Los Angeles on behalf of the
City of San Marino.

SECTION 5. The revenue raised by this ordinance shall be placed in a special
fund to be used only for the purposes of obtaining, providing, operating and
maintaining paramedic services, police protection and fire protection and
prevention including supplying equipment or apparatu# therefor; paying the
salaries and benefits to paramedic, police protection and fire fighting protection
and prevention personnel; and for other necessary paramedic expenses, police
protection expenses and fire protection and prevention expenses of the City
of San Marino.

SECTION 6. The City Council , by three (3) affirmative votes, is empowered:

(A)	to establish the amounts of the special public safety tax
levy annually each fiscal year in amounts not to exceed the maximum amounts
specified for each component of the special public safety tax in Section 2 of
this ordinance as is required to provide an adequate level of paramedic service,
police protection and fire protection and prevention services in the City in
accordance with the purposes set forth in this ordinance;

(B)	to sit as a Board of Equalization under procedures to be
adopted to equalize inequities and reduce hardships created by a literal
application of this ordinance, and such shall be deemed an administrative
remedy;

(C)	to annually provide an official Assessment Book
designating the actual tax levy on each parcel, and to place same on file in the
office of the City Clerk.

SECTION 7. The City Council shall be empowered to amend this ordinance
by three (3) affirmative votes of the members thereof for the purposes of
carrying out the general purposes of this ordinance in order to conform to state
law that permits the County Tax Collector, or other proper official, to collect
a special tax such as is levied by this ordinance in conjunction with County
taxes or in order to assign duties pursuant to the ordinance to other officers.

SECTION 8. This ordinance shall be null and void as of midnight, June 30,
1995, and shall have no force and effect whatsoever after said time and date,
and any action by the legislative body of the City of San Marino to the contrary,
notwithstanding, except that Section 10, relating to the collection and
enforcement of liens or obligations for the special public safety tax previously
levied hereunder, shall continue in effect until such time as the collection and
enforcement procedures have been completed.

SECTION 9. No section of this ordinance shall be construed to permit, and
the City Council is expressly prohibited from extending, the terms of this
ordinance beyond June 30, 1995, or increasing the maximum amount of any
special public safety tax levy, or component thereof, or penalty imposed by this
ordinance.

PR-011.002"

LA 094-37

SECTION 10. The special public safety tax imposed hereby shall be collected
in the same manner, on the same dates, and subject to the same penalties and
interest in accordance with the established dates as, or with, other charges and
taxes fixed and collected by the County of Los Angeles on behalf of the City
of San Marino and the said County may deduct its reasonable costs incurred
for such services before remittal of the balance to the City.

Said special public safety tax, together with all penalties and interest thereon,
shall constitute a lien upon the parcel upon which it is levied until it has been
paid, and said special public safety tax, together with all penalties and interest
thereon, shall, until paid, constitute a personal obligation to the City of San
Marino by the persons who own the parcel on the date the tax is due.

SECTION 11. The special public safety tax hereby imposed shall not be
imposed upon a Federal or State Governmental agency or another Local agency
or upon any parcel of property that is exempt from the special tax imposed by
this ordinance pursuant to any provision of die Constitution or any paramount
law.

SECTION 12. Pursuant to the California Constitution, Article XIIIB, the
appropriations limit for the City of San Marino will be increased by the
maximum projected aggregate collection authorized by levy of this special
public safety tax, as indicated in Section 2, in each of the years covered by the
ordinance plus the amount, if any, by which the appropriations limit is
decreased by law as a result of the assessment of the special public safety tax
set forth in this ordinance.

SECTION 13. Unexpended residue of any money raised by the City under
this ordinance may only be used in the succeeding year for the purposes stated
in this ordinance by lowering the next year’s tax by the amount unexpended
or returned to the taxpayers on the same pro rata basis as originally levied.

SECTION 14. If any provisions of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstances is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect
any other provision or applications, and to this end the provisions of this
ordinance are declared to be severable. The City Council, and the electorate
by referendum, do hereby declare that they would have adopted this ordinance
and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, part or portion thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses,
phrases, parts or portions thereof, be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION IS. This ordinance, or any provisions thereof other than those
provisions, if any, which provide for modification by the City Council of the
City of San Marino, may only be amended or repealed by approval of two-
thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on the provisions at any initiative or
referendum election.

PR-011.003

LA 094-38

SECTION 16. This ordinance shall be referred to and shall be effective only
if approved as an initiative or referendum measure by two-thirds (2/3) of the
voters voting at an election to be held on November 6,1990, and go into effect
ten (10) days after the City Council has, by resolution, declared that such
initiative measure was approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting
thereon.

SECTION 17. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of
this ordinance and shall cause same to be published as required by law.

PR-011.004



R

Ui O

O Cl



^iNr-SNlAin
O O CO '•O 00 o -o
N- O A CM PA PA AJ

AJ AJ CM AJ IMIM CM

sr sr 'J- sr "if ^ sr

OMNNMON
/> sQ IA K 'O O' »A

>o a nt pa aj cm

u p-
at

Q ill
LU Z

5S

35

Q. U
LU

Q£ I-
*■* SB

U. UJ

u. u

- <

O O

Q. INI

O 111
U
oc
<

NOstPA sO 'O



cm co cm aj cm aj ^
nJ- s«*	>* *# >»■	«o

AJ	A A 00	O 4T-	CM
A	O Nf PA	PA O	O
CM	'O 0"O	r* r“	PA  <r»

o o o o o o o

sp sj- »4- N*- Nf %*■ sf

oi-'Osf'O'Oo
m w N in n. >#
sQ A s*- pA AJ CM

o o o o o o

S* *4* *4- N* >*

sOOO Also
A- O 'O PA o*
IA O' IA «-

CO 00 00 CO CO 00 CO
PA PA PA PA NT PA PA

CO CO CO 00 00 00 «0
PAPA PA PA PA PA N-

^•OOr-CMMCO
MOOMN'OM
3 A PA CM AJ

00 A AJ	MD CM	A
sf A CO	CM O*	A
A CO		

OKlO'O'vf inO
O sO «r~ CO nJ- »- O

O LA O IAO
sf N. IA AN*

• r- AJ PA O O

N* •“ "O ^ IA »— (M O N- Nf
lANMlAN-SS PA 00 PA
I AJ PA PA NO AJ

, > > > — M ~

(/?(/) W £/5	(/?	(/)

tn in in m t)i ii| iii
QC Q£ OC OC OC OC OC

§11

2*3

• in

|j;g

•-* Hi <

§8>i

PR-011.005

LA 094-40

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION P

Proposition P simply renews San Marino’s assessment for police, fire and
paramedic services. Although San Marino residents have twice approved these
public safety assessments, they will expire in 1991 unless renewed by your vote.
Proposition P will not raise the existing formula for our current public safety
assessment, it simply continues our support.

If Proposition P is not passed by 66-2/3 of San Marino Voters, we will lose
approximately 38% of the police budget, 44% of the fire budget, and 75% of
the paramedic budget. We cannot afford to do without our present level of
safety services.

Every penny of this assessment will remain right in San Marino to ensure our
safety and protect our property and property values. It is local control of funds
raised in San Marino for San Marino.

The City Council, various citizen committees and others have investigated ways
to obtain additional funds and to reduce City expenditures. It has been
universally concluded there is no current practical alternative to the
continuation of our present assessments. We certainly don’t want to change
the safe residential character of our city.

The City must maintain by law required reserves for emergencies, self insurance
and to ensure minimum working capital to avoid costly borrowing. The City
does have the required positive balance in its bank account but has no “surplus”.

Donald Cotton, Co-Chairman

Bernard Le Sage, Co-Chairman

Robert Twist, Co-Chairman

SAN MARINO CITIZENS FOR PUBLIC SAFETY

PR-011.006

LA 094-41

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IKPAVOR OF PROPOSITION P

BRIBERY is the technique for separating you small homeowners from your
hard earned money. They try to make you think you are getting a break by
paying only $226., that they’ll “soak the rich” for the real dough. Don’t you
believe it. That’s a ploy that works both ways. Let’s trick them this time by
voting “No” on the assessment, and saving even the $904. they expect to get
from us over four years.

THREATS - They want you to think you won’t have adequate fire and police
protection if you vote “no.” This is pure baloney. If they cut it for you, they’ll
cut it for themselves.

SUGAR COATING is the technique of spending extravagantly and calling it
“Public Safety.” I have the budget and will give the “low-down” on it later.

OUTRIGHT LYING is a technique I hate to see used in a civilized community,
but how else can you classify their statement that: “It has been universally
concluded there is no alternative to...an assessment.”

I know an alternative, and so do you, and the council. I worked behind the
scenes with Mayor Paul Crowley on a wonderful plan to eliminate the $700,000
deficit without costing the taxpayers a cent. The city attorney was not
enthusiastic about doing the necessary work, so the council went along with
him.

IT’S NOT A MATTER OF LIFE OR DEATH. Let’s have some fun in this
election. Vote against this tax assessment and watch the scaredy cats squirm.

BEN AUSTIN

San Marino Citizens For Honest And
Responsible Government

PR-011.007

LA 084-42

= ==^MllOMEIira
Just say “NO” to all new taxes.

That’s the only way we are ever going to regain control of our purse strings.
At present our pockets are an “Open Sesame” for office holder whims.

Our hard earned dollars mean nothing to these people.

Have they prosecuted any of the local people who were responsible for a theft
of almost two million dollars from our reserve funds?

They publish an expensive news letter... just so they can lull us to sleep while
they are throwing our money to the winds.

Have they challenged the county for giving more than 75 Percent of our Real
Estate taxes, which are supposed to be used locally... to support pet projects
all over the county? That is disgraceful.

They have a built-in “House Organ,” called “HIGHLIGHTS” ...so they can
fight off any citizen so audacious as to challenge their majesties... (Watch it
carefully for political overtones between now and November 6.)

If you are a small homeowner, vote “NO” and save $226. per year, or $1,064.
in four years.

If you are a large homeowner, you will save a whopping $722.00 per year, or
$2,888.00 in four years.

Isn’t that worth a simple little “NO” to the local politicians who are trying to
bribe us again with the unconscionable “Zone” trick, which only a Bird court
would consider honest and constitutional.

BEN AUSTIN

San Marino Citizens for Honest
And Responsible Government

PR-011.008

LA 094-43

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION P

San Marino is a residential community and its real estate values depend upon
its ability to maintain the current level of safety services. Proposition P merely
renews the assessment to maintain the current level of police, fire and
paramedic services.

Review of the city budget will show that the city is being economically run.
Through good management, only 87% of the total amount we authorized for
our safety services was actually assessed by the City Council. Suggestions of
fiscal irresponsibility by the opponent of Proposition P are without any merit
whatsoever.

San Marino is already receiving every tax dollar it is entitled under law to
receive from the County of Los Angeles. It is not rational for the opponent
of Proposition P to suggest that San Marino should expect the County to
provide San Marino with a greater percentage of tax revenue. The City Council
has reviewed numerous proposals for obtaining additional funds, including the
means suggested by the opponent of Proposition P, which was determined by
the City Attorney to be illegal under current state law.

If Proposition P is not passed by two-thirds of the voters, our safety services
as well as other city services will have to be drastically reduced.

Vote YES on Proposition P to maintain the current level of our safety services.

Donald Cotton, Co-Chairman

Bernard Le Sage, Co-Chairman

Robert Twist, Co-Chairman

SAN MARINO CITIZENS FOR PUBLIC SAFETY

PR-011.009

LA 094-44