CLAREMONT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

RESOLUTION NO. 13-90
PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX AND CALLING
AN ELECTION FOR VOTER APPROVAL

On a motion by Dr. J. Michael Fay, seconded by Mr. Paul Held, the following resolution is adopted:

WHEREAS, the Claremont Unified School District (the "School District") is devoted to
providing high quality education in order to enhance the quality of life for residents of the
community;

WHEREAS, property values within the School District are directly affected by changes in
the quality of education available in the public schools;

WHEREAS, future funding for the School District from the State of California and other
sources is projected to be inadequate to provide the level of support to the School District's
educational programs which the citizens of the School District expect;

WHEREAS, Article XIIIA, Section 4 of the California Constitution and Sections 50075 et
seq. of the California Government Code permit a school district, following notice and a public
meeting, to propose the adoption of a special tax for specified purposes and to levy the special tax
following approval by at least two-thirds of the voters voting upon the proposition; and

WHEREAS, in the judgement of the Board of Education of the School District it is
advisable to levy a special tax upon parcels of land within the School District for the purposes set
forth in this Resolution;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Education (the "Board") of
the Claremont Unified School District as follows:

Section 1. The Board hereby proposes to levy a special tax for the specific purposes
enumerated in Section 6 of this Resolution.

Section 2. The special tax shall be a parcel tax of $97.00 per year, as increased in each year
by an inflation factor (or less as provided in Section 4) assessed against each Parcel. The amount
of the special tax shall be increased in each fiscal year by an inflation factor equal to the Consumer
Price Index established by the United States government for the Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside
area for the year ended June 30 of the prior fiscal year. As used herein, the term "Parcel" means
any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the School District, for
which the Assessor of the County of Los Angeles has assigned an assessor's parcel number;
provided, however, that any such parcels which are (i) contiguous, (ii) used solely for owner-
occupied single family residential purposes, and (iii) held under identical ownership, may, by
submitting an application of the owners thereof to this Board in accordance with rules and
regulations to be adopted by this Board (the "Rules and Regulations"), be treated as a single parcel
for purposes of the levy of this special tax. The special tax shall be levied in each fiscal year for
eight (8) full years.

Section 3. Subject to voter approval as set forth below, the special tax shall be levied
commencing with the 1992/93 fiscal year of the School District, and shall be collected with, and in
the same manner and subject to the same interest and penalties as, general gd valorem taxes
collected by the Los Angeles County Treasurer and Tax Collector.

Section 4. The levy and collection of the special parcel tax is not intended to decrease or
offset any increase in local, state or federal government funding sources that would otherwise be
available to the School District at any time during which the special tax may be levied. In the event
that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the School District shall reduce the special tax
levy to the extent of any such decrease or offset.

Section 5. Subject to the approval of not less than two-thirds of the voters voting on the
proposition, and pursuant to Article XIIIB, Section 4, of the California Constitution, the annual
appropriations limit of the School District shall be increased in the 1992/93 fiscal year of the
School District and each of the next three fiscal years thereafter, by the aggregate amount of the
special tax levied in each of such fiscal years.

Section 6. (a) The Board hereby orders that the Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder
submit the following ballot measure to the voters of the School District:

"Special Tax for Claremont Unified School District.

"To maintain and enhance the quality of the public education system within Claremont and
to protect the value of property and enrich the quality of life within Claremont, shall the
Claremont Unified School District levy a special tax in order to provide for any or all of the
following:

•	Reduce class size;

•	Address the needs of students who are at risk of failing in school;

•	Maintain and enhance remedial reading programs;

•	Improve resources for the classroom; and

•	Implement up-to-date science programs.

"The special tax shall be $97.00 (or less as provided below) per year, as adjusted in each
year for inflation, for eight (8) full years assessed against each Parcel within the boundaries
of the Claremont Unified School District. The amount of the special tax shall be increased
in each fiscal year by an inflation factor equal to the Consumer Price Index established by
the United States government for the Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside area for the year
ended June 30 of the prior fiscal year. For purposes of the special tax, the term "Parcel"
means any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the
Claremont Unified School District, for which the Assessor of the County of Los Angeles
has assigned an Assessor's parcel number; provided, however, that any such parcels which
are (i) contiguous, (ii) used solely for owner-occupied single family residential purposes,
and (iii) held under identical ownership, may, by submitting an application of the owners
thereof submitted to the Board of Education of the Claremont Unified School District in
accordance with certain rules and regulations to be adopted by the Board, be treated as a
single parcel for purposes of the levy of the special tax.

"The collection of the special tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in local,
state or federal government sources that would otherwise be available to the Claremont
Unified School District during the period of the special tax. In the event that the levy and
collection does have such an effect, the Claremont Unified School District shall cease to
levy or shall reduce the special tax to the extent that such action would restore the amount
of the decrease or offset.

6/26/91 8:57 AM

"Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriations limit for the
Claremont Unified School District will be increased by the aggregate sum collected by the
levy of this special tax in each of the years for which this special tax is authorized."

(b) The text of the ballot proposition with respect to the foregoing measure shall read

as follows:

"Shall the Claremont Unified School District be authorized to levy a maximum special tax
of $ 97.00, as increased in each fiscal year for inflation in an amount equal to the
Consumer Price Index established by the United States government for the Los Angeles-
Anaheim-Riverside area for the year ended June 30 of the prior fiscal year, on each parcel
of land lying within the District each year for eight (8) full years to be used to

•	Reduce class size;

•	Address the needs of students who are at risk of failing in school;

•	Maintain and enhance remedial reading programs;

•	Improve resources for the classroom; and

•	Implement up-to-date science programs.

and also shall the annual appropriations limit of the District be increased?"

Section 7. The measure set forth in Section 6 shall be submitted to the voters of the
School District at an election to be held on November 5,1991. If approved by at least two-thirds
of the voters voting on the measure, the measure shall take effect on July 1,1992.

Section 8. This Resolution shall stand as the order to the County Registrar to call an
election within the boundaries of the School District on November 5, 1991. This Board requests
that the School District election be consolidated with any and all elections to be held within the
boundaries of the School District on November 5,1991.

Section 9. The Board hereby requests that the Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder
take all actions which are necessary or appropriate in connection with the election including, but
not limited to, printing and mailing sample ballots, arguments and applications for absentee ballots,
canvassing election returns and certifying the results of the election to the Board. The Board
hereby agrees to reimburse the County of Los Angeles in full for any services performed by the
Registrar of Voters for the School District upon presentation of an invoice to the School District.

Section 10. The Secretary of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to deliver a copy
of this Resolution to the Los Angeles County Superintendent of Schools and the Los Angeles
County Registrar-Recorder not later than July 3, 1991, and to give notice of the election by
publishing a copy of this Resolution in a local newspaper of general circulation within the School
District once, not later than fifteen days before the date of the election. The Secretary of the Board
is hereby further authorized and directed to post a copy of this Resolution on or near the doors of
the School District's office and in three public places within the School District for at least two
weeks before the date of the election.

Section 11. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this Resolution is for any
reason found to be invalid, such section, subsection, phrase or clause shall be severed from, and
shall not affect the validity of, all remaining portions of this Resolution which can be given effect
without the severed portion.

6/26/91 8:57 AM

Section 12. The officers of the School District are, and each of them acting alone is,
hereby directed to take such other actions, including, but not limited to, altering the wording of the
ballot proposition submitted to the County Registrar-Recorder in order to comply with statutory
requirements regarding word limitations on the November 5, 1991 ballot, and to execute such
other documents as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this Resolution.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 25th day of June, 1991, by the Governing Board of the Claremont Unified School
District of Los Angeles County, California, by the following vote:

AYES:	Five
NOES:	-0-
ABSENT:	-0-

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

) SS

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES)

I, Douglas J. Keeler, Secretary to the Governing Board of the Claremont Unified School District of Los Angeles
County, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a full, true, and correct copy of a resolution adopted by the said Board
at an adjourned meeting thereof held at its regular place of meeting at the time and by the vote above stated, which
resolution is on file in the office of the said Board.

Secretary to the Governing Board of the
Claremont Unified School District

t

6/26/91 8:57 AM