SAN MATEO CITY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

MEASURE B

“Shall the San Mateo City (elementary) School District, for the benefit of students in San Mateo and Foster City, be authorized to
impose a qualified special tax to reduce class size and maintain educational programs at the rate of $55 per year per parcel of land
(with exemptions for parcels owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older, upon application, and certain other property
exempted by law) adjusted each year by the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index for California and, in connection
therewith, shall the appropriations limit of the District be raised each year in an amount equal to the levy of said tax for said year?”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE B

Section 4 of article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Gov-
ernment Code section 50079, et seep, authorize a school district, upon
approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified special
tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the San Mateo City
School District proposes to levy a qualified special tax. This tax shall
be at the rate of $55.00 per year assessed against each parcel of taxable
land in the District. This may be adjusted annually by the percentage
change in the California Consumer Price Index. A parcel shall be defined
as any unit of land in the District which now receives a separate tax
bill from the San Mateo County Assessor’s Office. Upon application,
an exemption will be granted for parcels owned and occupied by a
person 65 years or older. All property which would otherwise be exempt
from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of the
special tax.

The Board of Trustees has listed the specific purposes of the tax
as (a) to maintain instructional programs and (b) to reduce class size.

In connection with the proposal of the special tax, this measure
would also increase the District’s appropriations limit per fiscal year,
in an amount equal to the levy of special taxes for that year, as permitted
by article XIIIB, section 4 of the California Constitution.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax
to be levied on property within the boundaries of the San
Mateo City School District at a rate of $55.00 per parcel,
which may be adjusted annually by the percentage change
in the California Consumer Index. It would also allow the
appropriations (spending) limit of the District to be raised
each year in an amount equal to the levy of the tax for
that year.

A “no" vote on this measure would not allow the special
tax to be levied and it would not allow the appropriations
limit to be raised.

The measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure
vote “yes.”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The San Mateo City Elementary School District needs your support
for Measure B to reduce class size and maintain quality classroom
programs in elementary and middle schools in San Mateo and Foster
City.

The facts are:

•	Class sizes in the San Mateo City Elementary District are higher
than in neighboring districts.

•	Funds are not available in the existing budget to reduce class sizes.

•	Without additional local funds, the District may be forced to in-
crease class size and to make further cuts in instructional programs.

•	The School District cannot rely on the State to meet its local needs.
Passage of Measure B will provide funds annually:

•	To reduce class size.

» To provide local funds to meet critical local needs.

•	Maintain educational programs.

Passage of Measure B cannot do the job alone . . .

a Passage of Measure B will raise funds to reduce class size and
maintain our instructional program. It is essential, however, that
Measure C also pass. Measure C will raise the funds needed to
rehabilitate our classrooms and improve our libraries. Without
adequate classrooms, we cannot reduce class size.

These are the facts. Help reduce class size and maintain quality educa-
tional programs. Good schools mean good communities. Vote “yes”
on Measure B.

The cost is reasonable. Passage of Measure B will cost property owners
in our community $55 per year (that’s less than $4.60 per month). A
full exemption from this cost is available for senior citizens upon appli-
cation.

Vote “yes” on Measure B.

Is/ Jennifer Stuppi, President, San Mateo-

Foster City PTA Council	March	18,	1991

NO ARGUMENT SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE B