SAN LORENZO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE B
(Full Text ol Resolution 1991-92-24)

RESC1UTICN PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX
AND

calling for ELECTION for voter approval
WHEREAS, the San Lorenzo Valley Umtied School District (District") has re-
ceived inadequate funding from the State ol Catilcrra lor several years; and
WHEREAS, future lunding lor the District from the State ol California is pro-
jected to be inadequate to provide the level of Support to the District’s educa-
tions programs necessary to provide a quality education to the students ol the
District; ano

WHEREAS, the quality of life of this community and the quality of life ol its
children wit to adversely affected by a decline in the quality of education pro-
weed by the District; and
WHEREAS, Article XlilA, Section 4 of the California Constitution and Govern-
ment Code Sections 50075 and 50079 authorize a school district to propose
tr.e adoption of a parcel tax for the purposes specified in such proposal upon
approval of two thirds of the electorate voting on the measure; and
WHEREAS this Beard has thoroughly considered the recommendations, needs
ana desires of the community and information and recommendations prepared
by its consultants, administration and staff; and
WHEREAS, this Board believes mat such a special tax is necessary to restore
and maintain the excellence of the District's programs,

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED.

This Board proposes to adopt a measure to raise special taxes in the District,
said measure to be placed on the Novernper 3. 1592, ballot.

1.	The amount of the special tox snail be $39.00.

2.	Trie special tax authorized by this Resolution shall be collected for three
years from the date first collected by the County of Santa Cruz.

3.	A ‘parcel" shall be defined as any parcel cl land, developed or undeveloped,
wnoliy or partially located within the District, tor which the County Assessor cl
Santa Cruz County rras assigned an assessor's identification number and is val-
ued in excess ol $1,000.00,

4.	On and after July 1,1993, the special tax shat! be collected by the Santa
Cruz Tax Collector. The special tax snail become a lien upon each parcel. Failure-
to pay the special tax shall be subject to the same penalties and interest as is
imposed by sad Counties for unpaid general ad valorem taxes.

5.	The purpose of Inis parcel lax is to provide a tetter education lor the
students through increased funding for the District

6.	This Board hereby requests toe Santa Cruz County Registrar/Recoroer to
place on the ballot tor toe electron to be held November 3, 1992 the following
condensed ballot measure

"Measure B"

"Shan the San Lorenzo VaBey unified School District be authorized to levy a
spec.OJ tax of $3900 on each parcel within the District, each year for three
years?"

The Furl Ballot Measure shall read as follows;

"To restore ana maintain the quality of toe education provided to the students
within the San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District, shall toe San Lorenzo
Valley Unified School District levy a special tax of $39.00 on each parcel of
Sand as defined within the District, developed and undeveloped, each year for
three full fiscal years in order to provide the following programs:

Elementary Computer
Elementary Music
Instructional Materials
After School Sports grades 7-12
Building Repair and Maintenance
The term 'Parcel' shall mean any parcel of land, developed or undeveloped,
wholly or partially located within the District, for which the Santa Cruz County
Assessor has assigned an assessor's identification number and is valued in ex-
cess cl $1,000.00,"

7.	This measure shall be submitted to the voters of the District at a regular
election to be held on November 3, 1992, and shat! take effect immediately
upon its confirmation by two-thirds (2/3) cf such voters upon the measure at
such election

8 This Board requests that the District ejection be consolidated with any and
ail electors to be field on November 3, 1392.

9, Tins Board requests that the Santa Cruz County Registrar/Recorder carry
cut ail necessary duties in connection with the consolidated election, including
printing and mailing sample ballots; arguments and applications lor absentee
ballots; providing adequate polling places; canvassing returns and certifying me
results to this Board; and all other election duties prescribed by law.

10 Tne Clerk ol this Board is ordered and directed to cause notices ol toe
holding of such special election to be given by publishing a copy of this Res-
olution in a focal newspaper of general circulation within the District, once a
week for two (2) successive weeks, the first publicaion to be made not less
than fifteen (15) days before the date of such election.

11.	The Clerk ol tons Board is funner ordered and directed to cause further
notices ol toe hotoing of such specai eieceon to be given by posting a copy
of this Resolution on or near the door of the District's office and in three (3)

public places within toe District for at east two (2) weeks before toe tone fixed |
tor such special election-

12. If any portion ol this Resolution is for any reason held to oe Invalid, such
holding stall not affect toe validity ot the remaining portions ol this Resolution.
This Board declares that it would have adopted this Resolution irrespective ol
toe lact that any portion may be held to be invalid.

s/ Ann Wise

President, Board of Trustees
San Lorenzo VaBey Unified School District
s/ Vince R. Waskeli
Clerk, Beard of Trustees
San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District

Attest Deb OuCharme

Secretary to the Superintendent

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE B

If this Measure is approved by two-thirds of those voting on it the San Lorenzo j
Valley Unified School District will be authorized to levy an annual special tax
assessment on reorf property. The tax wools be imposed for three years at toe
rate of $39.00 per year on every Assessor's parcel located wholly or partial
wtthm the School District which <s valued over $1,000.00

The revenues raised by toe special tax would be designated for any or an cl
the following purposes: elementary computer; elementary music; instructional
materials: after-school sports (grades 7-12); and building repair and mainte-
nance, to the extent permitted by California Law.

The tax would be collected by the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector starting
with the fiscal year that begins July 1, 1993 If unpaid, toe special tax wcud
become a lien upon the parcel and may subject the owner to penalties and
interest.

A ‘yes" vote would authorize imposition of the parcel tax for a three-year
penod.	j

A ‘no" vote would reject imposition cf the parcel tax.

DWIGHT L. HERR
County Counsel
By/ Jane M. Scott

Assistant County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District depends on the State for 8C% ;
of its budget. Our District has endured three consecutive years of budget cuts j
amounting to $2,132,734.00. This year cur District cut an additional $893,000.

This meant no funding (a instructional supplies tor toe classroom, elimination
of elementary music programs, elimination of alter school sports programs in
grades 7 through 12, elimination of ail but critical building maintenance and
elimination of support for our elementary computer program

This parcel tax revenue will be totally dedicated to these programs;

•	ELEMENTARY STUDENT COMPUTER PROGRAM	|

•	ELEMENTARY MUSIC PROGRAM	j	L

•	AFTER SCHOOL SPORTS IN GRADES 7-12

•	CLASSROOM SUPPLY BUDGET

< BUILDING REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE

These programs are essential to a quality education for our children. Our stu-
dents deserve these programs as they team personal responsibility, how to work i
cooperatively with others, skits to take their place in the work lorce, and to j
contribute positively to toe betterment of their communities
VOTE YES ON MEASUREB

s/	Ann Wise	j	!

Board	President/SLVUSD	i

$/ Nick R Pagninl
Businessman
s/	Nancy	B Macy	!

Valley	Women's	Club	j

s/ Bob Slawinski
Businessman

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

44 52

52

ntaj
I in'

> 3

ind

an-

ms

ity.

Tin

nd

et-

aw

ca

er-

alv

iil-

ix-

nd

■nt

T3

Id

id

a,

It.

'5

id

it,

ie

:h

>9

ty

re

SAM LORENZO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE K
(Full T»xt of Resolution 1993-M-12)

RESOLUTION PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX
AND

CALLING FOR ELECTION FOR VOTER APPROVAL

WHEREAS, the San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District ('District')
has received inadequate funding from the Slate of California for several
years; and

WHEREAS, future funding for the District from the Slate of California
is projected to be Inadequate to provide the level of support to the
District's educational programs necessary to provide a quality education
to the students ot the District; and

WHEREAS, the quality of life of this community and the quality of life
of its children will be adversely affected by a decline in the quality ot
education provided by the District; and

WHEREAS, Article XlllA, Section 4 of the California Constitution and
Government Code Sections 50075 and 50079 authorize a school district
to propose the adoption of a parcel tax tor the purposes specified in
such proposal upon approval of two thirds ot the electorate voting on
the measure; and

WHEREAS, this Board has thoroughly considered the recommenda-
tions, needs and desires of the community and information and recom-
mendations prepared by its consultants, administration and staff; and
WHEREAS, this Board believes that such a special lax is necessary
to restore and maintain the excellence of the District's programs;

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:

This Board proposes to adopt a measure to raise special taxes in the
District, said measure to be placed on the June 7, 1994 ballot.

1.	The amount of the special tax shall be $45 00 per parcel, as defined,

2.	The special tax authorized by this Resolution shall be collected for
four years from the date first collected by the County of Santa Cruz.

3.	A 'parcel' shall be defined as any parcel of land, developed or un-
developed, wholly or partially located within the District, lor which the
County Assessor of Santa Cruz County has assigned an Assessor's
identification number and tor which the Assessor issues a tax bill as
of June 7, 1994. The following exemptions aro allowed and must be
applied tor on a yearly basis:

а.	Owner-occupied parcels in which the owner is a senior citizen. Se-
nior citizen ts defined as a person sixty-live (65) years of age or older,
b Non-developabte parcels, pursuant to County rules and regulations,
which are adjacent and/or contiguous to owner-occupied properly.

The District shall establish an administrative review process to grant
exemptions and consider appeals.

4.	On and after July 1, 1994. the special tax shall be collected by the
Santa Cruz County Tax Collector. The special tax shat! become a lien
upon each parcel. Failure to pay the special tax shall be subject to the
same penalties and interest as is imposed by said County for unpaid
general ad valorem taxes.

5 The purpose ot this measure is to restore and maintain quality ed-
ucation programs for the students of the San Lorenzo Valley School
District. Should Local, State and Federal funding be threatened by the
implementation ot the parcel tax, the amount cf parcel tax collected
shall be reduced so that the District will continue to receive the max-
imum level ot funding from these primary sources.

б,	This Board hereby requests the Santa Cruz County Registrar/Re-
corder to place on the ballot for the election to be held June 7, 1994
the following condensed ballot measure:

'Measure K’

‘Shalt the San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District be authorized to
levy a special tax of $45 00 on each parcel within the District, each year
for four years?

The Full Ballot Measure shall read as follows:

'To restore and maintain quality education programs (or the.students
of the San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District, shall the San Lorenzo
Valley Unified School District levy a special tax ot $45.00 on each parcel
ot land as defined within the District, developed and undeveloped, each
year for four full fiscal years.

The funds from this special tax would be used to cover cost of re-in-
staling curricular and extra-curricular programs cut since fiscal year
1992-93. computer technology cut since fiscal year 1991-92, and instruc-
tional materials cut since fiscal year 1990-91. These programs and ma-
terials are:

Libraries

Instructional Materials
Computer Technology

peer counseling/con-
developed or unde-

Curriculum Development
Sports
Art

Music
Drama

Other Student Co-curricular Activities,
eg. student government, yearbook, speech/debafs,
flict resolution

The term 'Parcel' shall mean any parcel of land,
veloped, wholly or partially located within the District, lor which the
County Assessor ot Santa Cruz County has assigned an assessor's iden-
tification number and lor which the Assessor Issues a tax bill as of June
7 1994, The following exemptions are allowed and must be applied lor
on a yearly basis:	.

a.	Owner-occupied parcels in which the owner is a Senior citizen. Se-
nior citizen is defined as a person sixty-five (65) years of age or older.

b.	Non-developable parcels, pursuant to County rules and regulations,
which are adjacent and/or contiguous to owner-occupied property.

The District shall establish an administrative review process to grant

exemptions and consider appeals.

7.	This measure shall be submitted to the voters ot the District at a
primary election to be held on June 7. 1994. and shall take effect im-
mediately upon its confirmation by two-thirds (2/3) of Such voters upon
the measure at such election.

8.	This Board requests that the District election be consolidated with
any and all elections to be held on June 7, 1994,

9.	This Board requests that the Santa Cruz County Registrar/Recorder
carry out all necessary duties in connection with the consolidated elec-
tion, including printing and mailing sample ballets; arguments and appli-
cations for absentee ballots; providing adequate polling places,
canvassing returns and certifying the results to this Board; and all other
election duties prescribed by law.

10 The Clerk of this Board is ordered and directed to cause notices
of the holding ot such special election to be given by publishing a copy
of this Resolution in a local newspaper of general circulation within the
district, once a week for two (2) successive weeks, the first publication
to be made not less than fifteen (15) days before the dale ot such elec-
tion.

tt. The Clerk of this Board is further ordered and directed to cause
further notices of the holding of such special election to be given by
posting a copy of this Resolution on or near the door ot the District's
office and in three (3) public places within the District for at least two
(2) weeks before the time fixed for such election.

12. If any portion of this Resolution is for any reason held to be invalid,
such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Resolution. This Board declares that it would have adopted this Reso-
lution irrespective ot the fact that any portion may be held to be invalid.
Passed and adopted by the Board of Trustees of the San Lorenzo
Valley Unified School District, Santa Cruz County. State of California,
this 27th day of January. 1994, by the following vote:

AYES: Ann Wise, Randi Hughes, Bettie Wilson, Liz Taylor-Selting,
Julie Phillips
NOES: none
ABSENT; none

5/ Julie Phillips

President, Board of Trustees
San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District
si Liz Taylor-Seliina

Clerk, Board of Trustees

San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District

Attested: Jeanne Haas
Secretary to the Superintendent

-/fV

44-503



IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
SAN LORENZO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE K

If this Measure is approved by two-thirds of those voting on it, the
San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District will be authorized to levy
an annual special tax assessment on real property. The tax would
be imposed for four years at the rate ol $45.00 per year on every
Assessor’s parcel located wholly or partially within the School District
for which the Assessor issued a tax bill as of June 7, 1994.

The revenues raised by the special tax would be used tor reinstating
rograms, computer technology and materials which have previously
een cut.

Exemptions from the tax are allowed in the following circumstances,
rovlded that applications for the exemptions are filed on a yearly
asis: owner-occupied parcels in which the owner is sixty-live years
of age or older; and parcels which are nondevelopabie pursuant to
County rules and regulations and which are adjacent and/or contig-
uous to owner-occupied property.

A ’yes’ vote would authorize imposition of the parcel tax for a four-
year period.

A ‘no* vote would reject imposition of the parcel tax.

Dated; March 21, 1994
DWIGHT L. HERR, COUNTY COUNSEL
by/ JANE M. SCOTT

Assistant County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

The Sari Lorenzo Valley Unified School District depends on the
State for 98% of its budget. Our students have endured 4 consecu-
tive years of Stale funding cuts totaling over 3 million dollars. This
year we anticipate an additional decline in State revenues.

To react responsibly to these budget cuts, the Governing Board was i
forced to cut funding for sports programs in grades K through 12, !
school libraries, K-S art instruction, elementary music programs, and j
7-12 drama. Further, support lor the elementary computer program j
was eliminated and our entire budget for classroom instructional sup- !
plies slashed.

Our budget has been reduced to a skeleton. No further reductions j
are possible without significantly reducing the effectiveness of the I
existing program. More cuts will measurably reduce student perfor- |
mance and therefore their competitive advantage in life.

To raise the funds necessary to reinstate these programs which are j
vital to our students, a community effort has arisen to propose and j
pass this parcel tax. In consideration of community concerns, this j
proposal allows lax exemptions for parcels owned and occupied by j
senior citizens, and tor non-deveiopable parcels which are contigu- i
ous to owner-occupied parcels.

The revenue from this parcel tax will be totally dedicated to rests- !
ration of those items cut from the budget which directly benefit slu- j
dents. It is guaranteed to be spent for only these programs:

•	SCHOOL LIBRARIES

•	INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS

•	K-12 SPORTS PROGRAMS

*	ART PROGRAMS

*	MUSIC INSTRUCTION

*	DRAMA

*	OTHER STUDENT CO-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES,

(eg. student government, yearbook, speech/debate, peer counsei-

ing/conflict resolution)

CLASSROOM COMPUTERS

•	CURRICULUM DEVELOPMENT

These programs are essential to a quality education for our chil-
dren. Our students deserve these programs as they learn personal
responsibility, how to work cooperatively with others, skills for being
successful in the work force, and to contribute positively to their
community's improvement.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE K!

s/ Randi Hughes

Board Member/SIVUSD
sl James T. Keeffe
Businessman
s/ Nancy Macy

Measure K Campaign Co-chair
si Pa! Verutti
Businessman

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

|

I

I

«•»*	 ~	iiiitiuiiiiiitit