RESOLUTION NO. 32

GOVERNING BOARD OF THE LA CANADA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTION PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX

AND

CALLING FOR ELECTION FOR VOTER APPROVAL '

WHEREAS, the La Canada Unified School District (the "District") has received inadequate funding from the State
of California for several years;

WHEREAS, such inadequate funding has had a detrimental effect on the students and programs of the District;

WHEREAS, the District and the community have engaged in a variety of efforts to generate funds for the District’s
educational programs, including lobbying in the California State Legislature and local fund-raising activities;

WHEREAS, the District has reduced expenditures by closing schools, reducing services, laying off employees and
deferring maintenance;

WHEREAS, the present level of funding has required severe cutbacks in the educational program of the District
resulting in a significant increase in student/teacher ratios and the curtailment of student activities;

WHEREAS, future funding for the District from the State of California is projected to be inadequate to provide the
level of support to the District’s educational programs necessary to provide a quality education to the students of the
District;

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Sections 50075 et. seq. of the California
Government Code authorize a school district, following notice and public hearing, to propose the adoption of a special
tax for the specified purposes upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting on the measure; and

WHEREAS, this Board believes that such a special tax is necessary at this time to restore and thereafter maintain
superior educational opportunities for the students of this District and to protect against further decline in the quality
of the educational programs of the District;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that:

1.	Adoption. This Board hereby proposes to adopt a special tax for the purposes set forth in Section 9 of this
Resolution.

2.	Amount. The special tax shall be the amount of Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($250.00) (or less) per fiscal year
assessed against each Parcel (as defined below).

3.	Term. The special tax authorized by this Resolution shall not be collected for more than four (4) full fiscal
years without additional authorization from the voters of the District.

4.	Parcel. The term "Parcel" shall mean any parcel of land, wholly or partially located within the District, for
which the Los Angeles County Assessor has assigned an assessor's identification number. Parcels which are
contiguous, held under identical ownership, and used solely as an owner-occupied single family residence are
eligible to be treated as a single parcel for purposes of the special tax. Such parcels shall be treated as a single
parcel upon application by the owner(s) of such parcels to the District, in conformance with the Los Angeles
County Tax Collector’s procedures and timeline, and verification by the District of such contiguity, ownership,
and use.

Taxpayers 65 and Over. Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079(b), any owner(s), 65 years
of age or older, of a Parcel used solely as an owner-occupied single family residence is eligible for an
exemption from the special tax. Such exemption shall be obtained upon application by such owner(s) to the
District, in conformance with Los Angeles County Tax Collector’s procedures and timeline, and verification
by the District of such age and use.

Collection. The special tax shall be collected by the Los Angeles County Tax Collector at the same time as
and along with the general ad valorem taxes collected by the Los Angeles County Tax Collector, beginning
with the July t, 1992 to June 30, 1993 fiscal year, in conformance with Los Angeles County Tax Collector’s
procedures and timeline. The special tax shall become a lien upon each Parcel. Failure to pay the special tax
shall be subject to the same penalties and interest as is imposed for unpaid general ad valorem taxes.

Decrease in Other Funding. In the event the special tax results in a decrease in any local, State or Federal
government funding that would otherwise be available to the District, the special tax shall be reduced to the
extent necessary to restore such government funding.

Condensed Ballot Measure. This Board hereby requests that the Los Angeles County Registrar/Recorder
schedule an election to be held on Tuesday, November 5, 1991, to submit to the voters of this District the
following condensed version of the ba	:	voting machine and sample ballot:1

"-Shall the La Canada Unified School District be authorized to lev]) a special tax of S250.00 (or less) on each
parcel of land within the District, developed and undeveloped, each year for four (4) full fiscal years, beginning
with the July 1,1992 to June 30,1993 fiscal year, to be used to restore and thereafter maintain the educational
programs cut from the District; to maintain quality classroom instruction, including reading, writing, foreign
language, mathematics and science; to reduce average classroom student-teacher ratios; and to assure
classroom programs to achieve high academic standards of performance?"

Full Ballot Measure. The full text of the ballot measure shall read as follows:

"To restore and thereafter maintain and enhance the quality of the education provided to the students within
the La Canada Unified School District, shall the La Canada Unified School District levy a special tax of
$250.00 (or less) on each parcel of land within the District, developed and undeveloped, each year for four
(4) full fiscal years in order to provide any or all of the following:

A Restore and thereafter maintain quality classroom programs of basic instruction including reading,
writing, foreign language, mathematics and science;

B.	Reduce average class size and student/teacher ratios;

C.	Retain and attract highly qualified teachers;

D.	Acquire textbooks, library books and equipment including computers and science equipment; and

E.	Assure classroom programs to achieve high academic standards of performance.

The term "Parcel" shall mean any parcel of land, wholly or partially located within the District, for which the
Los Angeles County Assessor has assigned an assessor’s identification number. Parcels which are contiguous,
held under identical ownership, and used solely as an owner-occupied single family residence are eligible to
be .treated as a single parcel for purposes of the special tax. Such parcels shall be treated as a single parcel
upon application by the owner(s) of such parcels to the District, in conformance with the Los Angeles County
Tax Collector’s procedures and timeline, and verification by the District of such contiguity, ownership, and use.

Pursuant to California Government Code Section 50079(b), any owner(s), 65 years of age or older, of a Parcel
used solely as an owner-occupied single family residence is eligible for an exemption from the special tax.
Such exemption shall be obtained upon application by such owner(s) to the District, in conformance with Los
Angeles County Tax Collector's procedures and timeline, and verification by the District of such age and use.

(Special Tax fc	:d	School	District)

10.	Appropriations Limit. Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIII B, the appropriations limit for the
La Canada Unified School District shall be increased by the aggregate sum collected by the levy of the special
tax in each of the years for which the special tax is authorized.

)	11.	Election.	This	measure	shall be submitted to the voters of the District at a special election to be held on

Tuesday, November 5,1991, and shall take effect beginning with the July 1,1992 to June 30,1993 fiscal year,
upon its confirmation by two-thirds (2/3) of such voters voting upon the measure at such election.

12.	Consolidated Election. This Board requests that the District election be consolidated with any and all
elections to be held on Tuesday, November 5,1991.

13.	Election Duties. This Board requests that the Los Angeles County Registrar/Recorder carry out all necessary
duties in connection with the consolidated election, including printing and mailing sample ballots; arguments
and applications for absentee ballots; providing adequate polling places; canvassing returns and certifying the
results to this Board and all other election duties prescribed by law.

14.	Publishing Notices. The Clerk of this Board is ordered and directed to cause notices of the holding of such
special election to be given by publishing a copy of this Resolution in a local newspaper of general circulation
within the District, once a week for two (2) successive weeks, the first publication to be made not less than
fifteen (15) days before the date of such special election.

15.	Posting Notices. The Clerk of this Board is further ordered and directed to cause further notices of the
holding of such special election to be given by posting a copy of this Resolution on or near the door of the
District’s office and in three (3) public places within the District for at least two (2) weeks before the time
fixed for such special election.

16.	Headings. Headings at the beginning of each paragraph of this Resolution are solely for convenience and are

not a part of this Resolution.	'

\	17. Severability. If any portion of this Resolution is for any reason to be invalid, such holding shall not affect the

J	validity of the remaining portions of this Resolution. This Board declares that it would have adopted this

Resolution irrespective of the fact that any portion may be held to be invalid.

Passed adopted by the Governing Board of the La Canada Unified School District, Los Angeles County, State of

California this 25th day of June, 1991, by the following vote:

AYES __^

NOES

ABSENT 0

Attested ^une 25> 1991