ppqp »< aa n

Prtp- M

l~A OMAM

USD

OFFICIAL
SAMPLE
BALLOT

Spec-
n7>%
ELecr.

Ofw

CoPJ

AND VOTER INFORMATION

CONSOLIDATED ELECTIONS

NOVEMBER 5, 1991

REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK
5557 FERGUSON DRIVE
LOS ANGELES, CA 90022-5192
(213) 727-1900 or (213) 721-1100

THE LOCATION OF YOUR
POLLING PLACE

IS SHOWN ON THE BACK COVER

20

PLEASE DO NOT THROW THIS SAMPLE BALLOT AWAY
MARK AND TAKE IT TO YOUR POLLING PLACE

LA CANADA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

Governing Board  Unmhor	MEREDITH REYNOLDS  Attorney	1*
nfwlllwwl  Vote for no more then Tern	CAROLE SIEQLER  Incumbent	t  CM
	NED CORPOLONGO  Educator	3*

o

o

LA CANADA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX ELECTION

8

M PROPOSITION M. Shill the La Canada Unified School District be
authorized to levy a special tax of $250 00 (or less) on each parcel of land
within the District developed and undeveloped, each year tor four (4) full
fiscal years, beomrano with the July 1. <99? to June 30. <993 fiscal year, to be
used to restore and thereafter maintain the educational programs cut from the District to maintain quality
classroom instruction, mdudmg reading, writing, foreign language, mathematics and science; to reduce
average classroom student-teacher ratios: and to assure classroom programs to achieve high academic
standards of performance?

YES^O

N0*O

END OF BALLOT

i

or 096E

LA-020-St

ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION M

By D«Witt W. Clinton, County Counsel

Approval of this ballot measure would allow the La Canada Unified School
District to impose a special tax of up to $250 per year upon each parcel of real
property located wholly or partially within the District, effective July I, 1992.

The maximum permissible yearly tax may not be exceeded in any year in
which the tax is assessed, but may be lower. The tax would be levied for a maxi-
mum four-year period.

Taxpayers 65 years of age or older who own and occupy single residential par-
cels shall, upon application to the District and upon verification of eligibility,
be granted an exemption from the special tax. Taxpayers who own and occupy
contiguous parcels used for single family residential purposes shall, upon appli-
cation to the District and upon verification of eligibility, have such parcels
treated as a single parcel for purposes of the special tax.

The tax would be used to restore educational programs of basic instruction,
reduce class size and student-teacher ratios, recruit and retain qualified teach-
ers, purchase textbooks, library books, and instructional equipment, and pro-
vide classroom programs to achieve high academic standards of performance.

The approval of the measure would also allow the District to increase the legal
ceiling on expenditures currently imposed by the State Constitution, in an
amount equal to the tax collected each year. This increase in the ceiling is lim-
ited to four (4) years, without additional voter approval.

A two-thirds vote is required for passage of the measure.

i

PR 008

u»;

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION M

In June a number of dire predictions were made about what would happen
if the school tax measure failed. It did fail — by only 19 votes — and the predic-
tions are now reality. Over one million dollars have been slashed from our
school budget.

Quality education programs that we've all worked so hard for are disappearing.
Class size is increased, as high as 36. Advanced Placement and honors classes
are significantly reduced, and many courses are no longer offered at the high
school. District support for elementary music and drama programs is elimi-
nated. Athletic and extra-curricular programs for high school students are
drastically reduced also.

Money for instructional supplies and textbooks is cut by S0% — forcing schools
to depend on donations to maintain adequate instructional materials. Even
remedial education is dependent upon donations! We cannot count on volun-
tary contributions for the long-term solutions to our funding needs.

There simply is not enough money, no matter how carefully managed, to offer
the quality education that was received by the thousands of children who have
come before. We continue to lobby Sacramento to provide us our fair share
of funding to restore excellence in education, but until then, today’s children
deserve no less than yesterday’s.

Proposition M lasts four years only! Exemptions are available for owner-
occupied residential property of seniors 65 and over, and for owner-occupied
contiguous (adjacent) residential parcels. These exemptions are easy to obtain;
applications are already being accepted at the school district main office.

Our children are not only the concern of school families but the responsibility
of our community. La Canada and our nation are made stronger by citizens
with the tools to lead us into the future.

Public education is the responsibility of us all. JOIN US IN VOTING YES
ON PROPOSITION M.

DR. JOEL SMITH, President
LCUSD Governing Board

JOY GIFFORD, Teacher
Paradise Canyon School

ARLENE KUSHIDA, President
La Canada PTA Council

JACK HASTINGS, Mayor
City of La Canada Flintridge

ELIZABETH CRAVEN
Concerned Citizen

PB40600?

LA 020 S



REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION M

The argument in favor cites that educational programs for our children are dis-
appearing, class sizes have increased, honors programs eliminated and extra-
curricular programs reduced....

What does an ordinary person do when faced with increased financial bur-
den??? Tightens his belt., reduces spending., reviews expenses.

Likewise, when businesses finds themselves with problems they reduce person-
nel, implement strategies such as early retirement and cut unnecessary costs.
They do not offer raises. This is called coping with a tough situation.

Sacramento Board of Education, Office of Financial Planning, stated this date
that funds are dispersed evenly to all schools, spending approximately $3,000
per student statewide. Funds are augmented by lottery, property taxes, state
aid, etc.; these moneys should be adequate to educate our children.

Property tax revenues are higher in upscale communities such as La Canada,
San Marino, Beverly Hills, Rolling Hills and Palos Verdes. Additionally, the
City of La Canada enjoys fund raising organizations (S.O.S.) and enormous
parental involvement, which are the real reasons for the continued excellence
of our schools.

In closing, this proposition has been on the ballot TWICE in succession. The
voters have said “NO”. What is it about the word “NO" that needs further
explaining?

JANICE WOJCIAK
Concerned Taxpayer

GISELLE ANAYA
Concerned Taxpayer



*

PA-006003

LA-020-6

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION M

The problem is not that the La Canada Unified Schools need extra money;
the problem is that existing moneys are being mismanaged. Having this parcel
tax approved is not going to solve this problem; the schools will continue to
mismanage funds and at the end of this four year parcel tax another tax most
likely be levied for the same reason. What the School District needs is to use
existing funds more wisely.

The 1989-90 budget, as supplied by the La Canada School District to these
writers, indicates a $ 15+ million revenue, 3,724 students, indicated by A.D.A.
(known as average daily attendance). Number of teachers, (155), administra-
tors, = (10); teacher and administrative salaries = $8 million; Instructional
aides, administrative/clerical/maintenance/food service salaries = S2.5 mil-
lion. Salaries and benefits are in excess of $13. million or 82% of the total
budget!

The remaining 18% of the budget is used for school maintenance, operations,
books, supplies, personal services, building improvements.

This proposed Parcel Tax has been on the ballot TWO times and FAILED cost-
ing of $12,000 EACH TIME. AGAIN the Parcel Tax is going on the ballot to
be voted on by not only property owners of La Canada BUT also RENTERS
(NOT PROPERTY TAXPAYERS) who rent homes in La Canada. Addition-
ally, families living OUTSIDE La Canada send their children to our schools,
DO NOT pay property taxes in La Canada nor do they pay tuition; however,
our schools receive A.D.A. for these students, too. There are 17+ private
schools within La Canada City limits which further relieve public schools of
congestion. These property owners still pay property taxes to the La Canada
Schools and DO NOT receive any services.

Comparable school districts, i.e. San Marino, budget $10.8 million/2800 stu-
dents ($3857. per student), and Beverly Hills, budget $28.8 million/4651 stu-
dents ($6185. per student). La Canada at $5035. student ratio, we should be
able to educate our children with current funding.

JANICE WOJCIAK

GISELLE ANAYA

pflooeow

! *-020-10





REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION M

DON'T BE MISLED BY MISINFORMATION. The La Canada Unified
School District is very well managed! Yearly, an independent audit of the Dis-
trict’s finances is required by the state. In addition, the Governing Board of
the District requested an operational audit and a Special Education audit this
last year. All three audits confirmed the District is well managed.

Good management requires that we hire and retain high quality staff. All of
our salary levels allow us to staff our District with the type of professionals
our community demands. Because of good management, the percent of the
budget spent on salaries is well below that of comparable districts.

The fact remains that despite our District's sound management and the contin-
ued exceptional commitment from groups such as Assistance League of Flin-
tridge. La Canada Flintridge Educational Foundation (SOS), La Canada PTAs,
and Spartan Boosters, there is an ever-increasing gap between what the state
provides and what our community has historically demanded for our children.

The FACTS are.

-	Over $ I million has been slashed from our District’s budget;

-	Some elementary class sizes are as high as 36:1 (just two years ago the aver-
age in grades 1-3 was 25:1);

-	40 percent of administrators have been cut; and.

-	YOUR property values are significantly higher because of our school dis-
trict’s excellent reputation.

We must RESTORE and maintain the quality education our children have
enjoyed in the past. The education of our youth is the responsibility of us all.

VOTE YES ON PROPOSrTION M.

DR. JOEL SMITH, President
LCUSD Governing Board

JOY GIFFORD, Teacher
Paradise Canyon School

ARLENE KUSHIDA, President
La Canada PTA Council

JACK HASTINGS, Mayor
City of La Canada Flintridge



PR 006 005

LA-020-11