OFFICIAL BALLOT	COUNTY OF SANTA	CLARA

CONSOLIDATED SCHOOL ELECTIONS	MARCH	5,1991

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

EAST SIDE UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

A Shall East Side Union High School District of Santa Clara County incur a
bonded indebtedness of $108,000,000 with an interest rate not to exceed
the current limit set by law (12%) to be used as follows: the addition of class-
room space; the renovation and remodeling of various school facilities to meet
certain public health and safety standards; and the construction, reconstruction,
and acquisition of school facilities and property to the extent permitted by law?

BONDS

YES 3"^

BONOS 4 =&►

N0

OAK GROVE SCHOOL DISTRICT

C "Shall the Oak Grove School District be authorized to implement a special
tax and Increase its Gann Appropriations Limit by the amount of revenue
generated by that special tax?"

The rate for the first three years of the special tax shall be $68 per parcel per
year, beginning July 1,1991. In accordance with State law, the voters shall have
the opportunity to approve the continuation of the increase in the Gann Approp-
riations Limit at least every four years. Such approval is required for the District
to use the revenues generated by the tax. No later than two weeks after a Gann
election, the Board shall reset the parcel tax rate, but may not set a rate higher
than $68 per parcel per year.

The purpose of the special tax is to improve the quality of service to the
students of the District by taking actions including;

1.	Provide remetial services for students.

2.	Repair deteriorating school buildings and grounds, including repair or replace-
ment of roofs, heating and air conditioning equipment, plumbing systems, and
electrical systems.

3.	Purchase supplies and equipment for instructional use, including library books
and related learning materials.

4.	Install energy conservation equipment to ensure future cost savings.

5.	Restore services reduced in prior years, including library, counseling, custo-
dial,and maintenance services.

An exemption shall be granted annually:

a)	On any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over who
occupies said parcel as a principal residence,

b)	For the owner of multiple parcels which are contiguous and one economic
unit, meaning they have the same primary purpose as the principal parcel,

c)	For the property owner who has had his/her home or business extensively
damaged by a natural disaster,

d)	The District shall establish an administrative review process to grant exemp-
tions and consider appeals for senior citizens, owners of contiguous parcels
and hardship due to natural disaster.

YES 14"#"
NO 15-^

D

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

Statements and information concerning measures

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the
proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

All authors have filed signed
statements that their arguments
are true and correct to the best of
their knowledge and belief.

Although the materials in this pamphlet have been carefully proofread,
typographical errors occasionally remain undetected.

If any substantive errors are discovered after the pamphlet has
been printed, correction notices will be printed in appropriate
local newspapers on Friday, March 1, 1991.

D