

PROPOSITION C

PROPOSITION C

Shall approval be given to (1) the levy of a
special parcel tax by the San Dieguito Union High
School District in the amount of Fifty ($50.00)
dollars per parcel beginning July, 1991, to
support existing programs for all students, for
library and media services, programs for under-
achieving students and the purchase of
computers and other technology for classroom
use, and (2) an increase in the appropriation
limit of the San Dieguito Union High School
District for the next four years in the amount
equal to the amount of such tax to be collected;
future increases in the appropriations limit will
be subject to voter approval at least once every
four years and will be required for the District to
use the revenues from the special parcel tax?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The San Dieguito Union High School District is proposing a levy of a qualified special tax
of a flat amount of $50.00 per yeartor each parcel of real property within the District. This special
tax is authorized by California Government Code section 50079. The California Constitution
requires a 2/3rds vote of approval of the qualified electors voting at the election to levy and
collect the parcel tax. The revenues from the parcel tax will be used for: support of existing
educational programs for all students, library and media services, programs for underachieving
students and purchase of computers and other technology for classroom use.

In order to use the revenues collected from the parcel tax levy, the San Dieguito Union High
School District is proposing an increase in the annual appropriations limit for the District in an
amount equal to the amount of the special parcel tax levy. The California Constitution permits
changes in the annual appropriations limit for a four year period if approved by a majority vote
of the qualified electors voting at the election. Continued use of the parcel tax levy after the
four year period covering fiscal years 1991-92 through 1994-95 would occur if the School
District's appropriation limit is again increased by majority vote of the qualified electors vpting
at an election for that purpose.

A “yes" vote is a vote in favor of levying the flat amount of $50.00 per year for each parcel
of real property within the School District for use for existing educational programs, library and
media services, programs for underachieving students, the purchase of computers and other
technology for classroom use, and for authority to increase the School District’s appropriation
limitation to permit expenditure of the collected funds.

A "no” vote is a vote not to levy the flat amount of $50.00 per year for each parcel of real
property for use for School District purposes as specified and not to increase the appropriation
limit.

PR-0520-1

SD 002-05