passed

Y______ N.

SPECIAL TAX

ELECTION DATE:

NOVEMBER 5, 1991

REGISTERED VOTERS:.

6.555

RESULTS

BENNETT VALLEY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

C Shall the Bennett Valley Union School
District, serving the children of Ben-
nett Valley, provide funds for the purpose or
the maintenance and enhancement of aca-
demic and educational programs by levying
a sDecial tax assessment on each assessor s

parcS of $80.00 per year Tfive^!'
annual payment) for a period of five year^
beginning July 1, 1991 and increase its ap-
propriations limit by the amount of revenue
generated by that speclaltax.vrithcerteln
specific exemptions as set forth m the Res
lution and Order of Election?

YES	C3
NO	a

2/3 MAJORITY?--£

SIMPLE MAJ0RITY?__

YES___JkxX22.

NO

RESOLUTION NO. 90069, 1990-91
BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
BENNETT VALLEY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SONOMA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of a	)	RESOLUTION	AND	ORDER

Special Tax Election	)	OF ELECTION

________________________________)

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide adequate
and necessary funding to the continued operations of the Bennett Valley
Union School District; and as a result of this lack of funding and financial
support for the Bennett Valley Union School District, the District is in danger
of eliminating many programs beneficial and necessary to the children who
attend the Bennett Valley Union School District; and once eliminated these
programs will be extremely difficult to reinstate; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program delivers
many long lasting benefits and advantages to all of the residents of ou,r
community; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code Sections 50075, 50076, and 50077, 50079 and 53720 et.
seq. authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the
purpose of conducting its business upon the approval of two-thirds of the
votes cast by voters voting upon such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution allows
the appropriations limit of school districts to be increased by the electors.
Such approval is required for the District to use the revenues generated by the

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Governing Board of the Bennett
Valley Union School District resolves to conduct a special election on Novem-
ber 5, 1991, at which time will be submitted to the qualified voters of the
Bennett Valley Union School District a measure to authorize a special tax for
the purpose of the maintenance and enhancement of the Bennett Valley Union
School District academic and educational programs, including, but not lim-
ited to science and computer technology, music and arts, and books and
libraries, and to increase its appropriations limit by the amount of revenue
generated by the special tax.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries
of the Bennett Valley Union School District at which election shall be submit-
ted to the qualified voters within the Bennett Valley Union School District the
following measure, to wit:

MEASURE C

Shall the Bennett Valley Union School District, serving the children of
Bennett Valley Union, provide funds for the purpose of the maintenance and
enhancement of academic and educational programs, including, but not
limited to science and computer technology, music and arts, and books and
libraries, of the Bennett Valley Union School District by imposing a special tax
based upon the use or right of use on each assessor’s parcel within the
boundaries of the Bennett Valley Union School District for a period of five (5)
years beginning July 1, 1992 and increasing its appropriations limit forme"
maximum time allowed by law by the amount of revenue generated by that
special tax?

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of S80.00 per year for each
assessor’s parcel. The proceeds of the tax shall be deposited in a special fund
to be used for the purpose of the maintenance and enhancement of academic
and educational programs, including, but not limited to science and computer
technology, music and arts, and books and libraries, of the Bennett Valley
Union School District. Exemptions from the assessment will be made avail-
able as follows:

a.	To each individual in the District who will attain 65 years on or before
May 1 of the assessment year, and who owns a beneficial interest in the
parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of such parcel, and who uses
that parcel as his or her principal place of residence.

b.	For the owner of a parcel which has been determined to be unusable by
the Sonoma County Assessor's Office.

c.	For multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part of one economic
unit under the same name and ownership. Such multiple parcels may
be charged as one parcel.

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before May 1,
1992, or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any one application from
a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining
term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to qualify for the
exemption. The District shall establish an administrative review process to
grant such exemptions.

Section 2. The text of.the measure as displayed on each individual ballot
shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

BENNETT VALLEY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX
ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
Shall the Bennett Valley Union School District, serving the children of
Bennett Valley, provide funds for the purpose of the maintenance and
enhancement of academic and educational programs by levying a spe-
cial tax assessment on each assessor's parcel of $80.00 per year
($40.00 per semi-annual payment) for a period of five years, beginning
July 1, 1991 and increase its appropriations limit by the amount of
revenue generated by that special tax, with certain specific exemptions
as set forth in the Resolution and Order of Election?

______________YES	 NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1,1992, the special tax collected annually
on all assessor’s parcels at the rate specified above, shall be collected and
administered in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and
collected under provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Sonoma County is hereby
requested to call a special election of the said special tax to be held on
November 5, 1991 and to consolidate this election with any elections to be
held on this same date. The Sonoma County Board of Supervisors is hereby
requested and authorized to consolidate this election with any elections to be
held on this same date. The County Clerk is hereby requested and authorized
to: 1) set forth all sample ballots relating to said election to be mailed to the
qualified electors of the Bennett Valley Union School District; and 2) to
provide absent voter ballots for said special tax election for use by qualified
electors of the Bennett Valley Union School District who are entitled thereto in
the manner provided by Law.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this resolution is
for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portion of this resolution. The Governing Board declares that it
would have adopted this resolution and each section, subsection, phrase or
clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsec-
tions, sentences, phrases or clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6. The clerk of the Bennett Valley Union School District Governing
Board is hereby authorized and directed to certify to the due adoption of this
resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so, certified to the Superintendent of
Schools of Sonoma County, the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors, and to
file a copy hereof so certified with the County Clerk of Sonoma County.

The foregoing resolution was introduced by Board Member Kelly Ording,
who moved its adoption, seconded by Board Member Katherine Sanchez, add
adopted on roll call on June 26,1991, by the following vote;

	TRUSTEE	VOTE
	Philip Kelly	Absent
	Kelly Ording	Aye
	Jerry Reighley	Aye
	Katherine Sanchez	Aye
	William Stephens	Aye
AYES: 4	NOES: 0	ABSENT OR NOT VOTING: 1
		SO ORDERED.
		s/ William Stephens, President
CERTIFIED		

s/ Philip Kelly, Clerk
Board of Trustees

I certify that I have reviewed the records of the meeting of June 26,1991, am
that this is a true and accurate copy of the resolution adopted by the Board o
June 26,1991.

s/ Philip Kelly, Clerk
Board of Trustees