RESOLUTION NO. 4	1990-91

BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
KENTFIELD SCHOOL DISTRICT
MARIN COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of a	)	RESOLUTION AND	ORDER

Special Tax Election	)	OF ELECTION

__________________________)

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to
provide adequate and necessary funding to the continued operations
of the schools (Anthony Bacich Elementary School and Adelaine E.
Kent Middle School) of the Kentfield School District; and as a
result of this lack of funding and financial support for the
schools, the Kentfield School District is in danger of eliminating
many study programs beneficial and necessary to the children who
attend the schools of the District; and once eliminated these
programs of study will be extremely difficult to reinstitute; and
WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of
efforts to generate funds for the educational program, including
lobbying in the State Legislature and many local fundraising
efforts, and has undertaken cost-cutting measures, including
employee layoffs, reduction of programs and services beneficial
and necessary to the students of the Kentfield School District;
and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education
program delivers many long lasting benefits and advantages to all
of the residents of our community; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077,
50079, and 53720, et seq. authorize school districts to levy a

1

special tax to raise funds for the purpose of conducting its
business upon the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by-
voters voting upon such a special tax proposal;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the governing board of
the Kentfield School District resolves to conduct a special
election on March 5, 1991, at which will be submitted to the
qualified voters of the Kentfield School District a measure to
authorize a special tax for the purpose of continuing vital
educational programs critical to the educational process in the
schools of the Kentfield School District; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held
within the boundaries of the Kentfield School District at which
election shall be submitted to the qualified voters within the
Kentfield School District the following measure, to wit:

MEASURE

th£^

the

* «
MQuCfalrt

Shall the Kentfield School District, serving
children of Kentfield, provide funds to	the

specific educational programs described below by levying
a special tax assessment for a limited period of five
years, beginning July 1, 1992, at the rate of $167.00
per assessor's parcel ($83.50 semi-annual payment) with
an exemption for any beneficial owner of a parcel who
has attained the age of 65 years on or before a May 1 of
any applicable year and who uses that parcel as his or
her principal place of residence?

t

The following educational programs and services shall
oentinuo- and shall be supported by the special tax:
be.

English:	Second	period daily of English Literature,

grammar and writing skills in grades 6, 7, and 8 and
special resource staff to teach specific groups in
grades 1 through 5.

Mathematics:	Curriculum	offerings in pre-algebra and

algebra for grades 7 and 8 and special resource staff to
teach specific groups in grades 1 through 5.

2

Foreign Language:	Basic	instruction	in	Spa-ni-s-h	and» French

at Kent Middle School.

Library Sciences:	Library	staff	(Librarian	at	Kent Middle

School and Library Specialist at Bacich School) to support
the study of literature at all grade levels.

Increase Classroom Time;	Continuation of additional

academic time and study time above state minimum
requirements.

Special Student Needs:	Special	resources	and	staffing

for students with special requirements.

Science:	Instructional	programs	for	all	grade	levels with

a full three-year program at Kent Middle School.
Textbooks/Librarv Books:	Adequate	quantity	and quality

of textbooks, library books and instructional materials
for all students.

Computer Education:	A	computer	education	program will be

established to provide instruction in the use of
computers.

Citizenship:	Program	of	instruction for all grades.

Class Size:	Maintain	present	class	size	ratios.

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of one
hundred and sixty seven dollars per year for each assessor's
parcel. An exemption from the assessment will be made available
to each individual in the District who will attain age 65 years
prior to May 1 of the assessment year, and who owns a beneficial
interest in the parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of such
parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of
residence, and who applies to the District on or before May 1,
1992, or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any one appli-
cation from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for
the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as
such applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her principal
residence.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each

individual ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

KENTFIELD SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX
ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

Shall the Kentfield School District, serving the
children of Kentfield, provide funds to cu^pert ,

NUUH&UI

3

specific educational programs by levying a
special tax assessment on each assessor's parcel
of one hundred sixty-seven dollars per year
(eighty-three dollars and fifty cents per semi-
annual payment) for a period of five years,
beginning July 1, 1992, with an exemption for
any beneficial owner of a parcel who has
attained the age of 65 years on or before May
1 of any applicable year and who uses that
parcel as his or her principal place of
residence?

______YES	______NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1, 1992, the special tax
collected annually on all assessor's parcels at the rate specified
above, shall be collected and administered in the same manner as
ad valorem property taxes are fixed and collected under provisions
of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Marin
County is hereby requested to call a special election of the said
special tax to be held on March 5, 1991. The County Clerk is
hereby requested and authorized to: 1) set forth on all sample
ballots relating to said election to be mailed to the qualified
electors of the Kentfield School District said measure; and 2) to
provide absent voter ballots for said special tax election for use
by qualified electors of the Kentfield School District who are
entitled thereto in the manner provided by Law.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause
of this resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of
this resolution. This governing board declares that it would have
adopted this resolution and each section, subsection, phrase or
clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more

4

sections, subsections, sentences, phrases or clauses shall be
declared invalid.

Section 6. The clerk of the Kentfield School District
governing board is hereby authorized and directed to certify to
the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof
so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Marin County and
to file a copy hereof so certified with the County Clerk of Marin
County.

The foregoing resolution was moved by board member

Philip Salz , seconded by Nancy Caleshu f and adopted on

roll call on

n(i(4o

by the following vote:

Board Member:	Philip	Salz

Board Member:	Nancy	Caleshu

Board Member:	Randy	Fong

Board Member:	Jean	Howe

Board Member:

AYES: C

Judy Allen
NOES:	O

ABSENT/NOT VOTING:	O

WHEREUPON, the President declared the foregoing

resolution duly adopted and SO ORDERED.,
Date* November 1, 1990

/x

President, Governing Board
Kentfield School District

The Clerk of the Kentfield School District Governing
Board certifies to the adoption of this Resolution.



Date: //, fo

Clerk, Governing Boarc
Kentfield School District

5