s

A

M

P

L

E

B

A

L

L

O

T

SIDE 1

SIDE 2

01

TOP

OFFICIAL BALLOT

SPECIAL DISTRICT ELECTION
BUTTE COUNTY	NOVEMBER	5,	1991

This ballot stub shall be removed by a precinct
board member and handed to the voter before
the ballot is placed in the ballot container.

BBBB

JUUU

TTTT

TTTT

lEEEE

CCC

pooo

JUUU
*JNNN
TTTT
YYYY
BBB
LUUU
TTTT
TTTT
|EEEE
CCCC
3000
JUUU
S1NNN
TTTT
YYYY
BBBB
UUUU
TTTT
TTTT
EEEE
CCC
0000
UUUU
SINNN
TTTT
YYYY
BBBB
IIUUU
TTTT
TTTT
EEEE
CCC
0000
UUUU
NNNN
TTTT
YYYY
BBBB
UUUU
TTTT
TTTT
EEEE
CCC
3000
JUUU
'JNNN
TTTT
YYYY
3BBB
JUUU
TTTT
TTTT
EEEE
CCCC
3000
JUUU
MNNN
TTTT
YYYY
3BBB
JUUU
TTTT
TTTT
——

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

DISTRICT

LIBRARY DISTRICT FORMATION
MEASURE L

L Shall the Chico Library District of Butte
County be formed and an ordinance
adopted levying a special library tax of
$37.25 per dwelling unit per year
therein?

YES

NO

+

+

END OF BALLOT

C

}

IV

F

L

E

E

L

L

C

1

04-101

VOTE THIS SIDE ONLY

04-SB1

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE L
CHICO AREA LIBRARY DISTRICT ORDINANCE

Shall the Chico Area Library District of Butte County be formed under
Chapter 8 of Part 11 of Division 1 of Title 1 of the Education Code
commencing with Section 19400 and an ordinance adopted levying a
special library tax therein in substantially the language set forth below?

“ORDINANCE IMPOSING SPECIAL TAX FOR THE PURPOSE OF PROVID-
ING PUBLIC LIBRARY FACILITIES AND SERVICES IN THE CHICO AREA
LIBRARY DISTRICT OF BUTTE COUNTY

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Butte ordains as follows:

Section 1:Pursuantto Government Code Section 50077 (c) and Article
3.6 of Chapter 4 of Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the California
Government Code (commencing with Section 53717), there shall be
levied annually within the Chico Area Library District of Butte County a
special tax for the purpose of providing public library facilities within said
district.

Section 2: (a) It is hereby found thatthe operation and maintenance of
public library facilities within the Chico Area Library District of Butte
County will benefit each parcel of real property upon which any dwelling
unit is located within the Chico Area Library District of Butte County by
benefiting the persons residing therein. It is further found that, due to the
free and equal access which all persons within said district will have to the
public library facilities, the benefit to each such parcel is proportional to
the number of dwelling units thereon.

(b)	The said special tax shall be levied annually upon each
arcel of real property on which any dwelling unit is located in the County,
or purposes of this ordinance the term “dwelling unit” shall mean any

building or mobile home or portion thereof, or any mobile home space
within a mobile home park, designed or used as an independent residence
or space for a family. "Dwelling unit” includes but is not limited to a single
family residence, a mobile home and individual units in a duplex, triplex,
fourplex, apartment or condominium. For purposes of this ordinance
“family” shall mean an individual or two (2) or more persons related by
blood or marriage or a group of not more than six (6) persons who need
not be related by blood or marriage, living together in a dwelling unit.

.

(c)	Nothing contained herein shall authorize the levy of said
special tax on property utilized primarily for commercial, industrial,
agricultural, mining, timber, or similar purposes, except in cases where
the property is occupied by a residence for which a homeowner's
exemption is in force.

Section 3: Any property owner aggrieved by the classification assigned
to said owner's property for the purpose of the special tax authorized by
this ordinance may appeal said classification in accordance with proce-
dures and regulations to be adopted by resolution of the Board of

Supervisors.

Section 4: The special tax authorized by this ordinance shall not be
imposed upon a federal or state governmental agency or any local public
agency.

Section 5: The special tax authorized by this ordinance shall be fixed
annually by the Board of Supervisors at a rate reasonably necessary to
operate and maintain the public library facilities within the Chico Area
Library District of Butte County, but notto exceed $37.25 per dwelling unit
initially, with annual adjustments to that maximum not to exceed the
County of Butte s percentage increase authorized by Article XIII B of the
California Constitution (Gann limit), and the revenues generated thereby
shall be dedicated exclusively to the operation and maintenance of public
library facilities within said district, after payment of any administrative
expenses incidental to the assessment and collection of the said special
tax and payment of the costs incurred by the County of Butte in calling and
conducting the election pertaining to the formation of said district and
imposition of such special tax. As used in this section, the phrase "operate
and maintain” may include but is not limited to payments pursuant to a
sublease of the library facilities within the District currently owned by the
Butte County Library Corporation and leased by the County of Butte and
personnel and other costs of operating and maintaining such facility.

Section 6: The special tax authorized by this ordinance shall be levied
and collected at the same time and in the same manner by the same
officers and with the same penalties and interest as general county taxes.

Section 7: It is hereby declared to be the intention of the people of the
County of Butte and the Board of Supervisors of the County of Butte that
the sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this ordinance
are severable, and if any section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
herein shall be determined unconstitutional or unenforceable by the valid
judgment or decree of any Court or competent jurisdiction, such uncon-
stitutionality or unenforceablility shall not affect any of the remaining
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this ordinance."

Said election shall be held and conducted pursuant to Education Code
Section 19405, Government Code Section 58131 and the provisions of the
Uniform District Election Law commencing at Elections Code Section
23500, and Articles 2 and 3 of Chapter 2 of Division 5 of the Elections Code,
commencing at Sections 3750 and 3780, respectively.

If said measure is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting in the
election, then the Board of Supervisors shall declare the district duly
formed under Education Code Section 19400, et seq., shall enact said
ordinance levying a special library tax, and shall within 30 days after the
filing with the Secretary of State of a Resolution declaring the organization
of the district, appoint the first five person Board of Library Trustees from
the district at large, pursuant to Education Code Section 19420. The terms
of thefirst library trustees shall be determined pursuantto Education Code
Section 19423 and they shall each hold office until his or her successor is
elected and qualified.



04-VP1

04-VP1

	
CHICO AREA LIBRARY DISTRICT	Date: 1991 Scale: 1*=1 mile

04-VP2

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY BUTTE COUNTY COUNSEL
CHICO AREA LIBRARY DISTRICT - MEASURE L

The Chico Area Library District ballot measure is being submitted to the
voters within said proposed District pursuant to existing law.

If the measure is approved by % of the voters voting in the election, then
the Board of Supervisors shall declare the Chico Area Library District of
Butte County (“District") duly formed under Education Code Section
19400, et seq. and shall enact an ordinance levying a special library tax in
the District.

The boundaries of the District would be as described in Board of
Supervisors' Resolution 91-93. The District would include the
unincorporated area of the County within County Service Area 114 and the
incorporated area within the City of Chico.

The tax ordinance would be in substantially the language set forth in
Resolution 91 -93 and would levy an annual tax upon each parcel of real
property on which any dwelling unit is located within the District. The tax
would be at a rate reasonably necessary to operate and maintain the public
library facilities within the District, but not more than the maximum
permissible rate. During the first year the maximum permissible rate
would be $37.25 per dwelling unit. Annual adjustments could be made
thereafter in an amount not to exceed the County of Butte's spending limit
percentage increase authorized by Article XIII B of the California Consti-
tution (Gann limit). During the thirteen years for which such spending limit
has been calculated (fiscal years 1979-80 through 1991 -92), the average
annual increase in such spending limit was 8.87%. The average increase
in such spending limit for the five years ending 1991 -92 was 7.79%. It is
not known what the percentage increase will be in future years.

The revenues generated by the special library tax would be required to be
dedicated exclusively to the operation and maintenance of public library
facilities within the District, after payment of any administrative expenses
incidental to the assessment and collection of the tax and payment of the
cost incurred by the County in calling and conducting the election
pertaining to this measure. The tax would be levied and collected at the
same time and in the same manner as general county taxes.

If the measure is approved by the voters and the District formed, the Board
of Supervisors shall appoint the first five person board of library trustees
from the District at large, pursuant to Education Code Section 19420. The
terms of the first library trustees shall be determined pursuant to law and
each shall hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified.

If the measure is not approved by of the voters voting in the election,
the District will not be formed and the ordinance levying a special library
tax will not be enacted.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure L. If you desire
a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the elections official's
office at (916) 538-7761 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

s/ Neil H. McCabe

Assistant County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Measure L will provide an adequately funded, fully independent library,
and will avoid underfunding, staff reductions, and annual threats of
closure.

Measure L is a response by local citizens to the present sad state of our
library.

The Chico library is currently a branch of the County library system. But
over the past several years, Butte County has shown that it is unable to
adequately support its libraries. And the future of County financing looks
worse.

The Chico library is understaffed, has a meager book purchase budget,
and for many years has not been open full time. It has been closed twice
in the last four years.

Half the current library cardholders live outside the city limits of Chico, so
it is not fair to expect city residents to assume the whole cost of the library.

Children are a third of the cardholders. If we expect our children to value
reading, to occupy their minds productively during leisure hours, and to
think critically, then we should encourage access to reading by supporting
more books and more open hours for our library.

Public libraries have been a part of our free nation almost since its
beginning. The benefits of a local public library are many: an informed
citizenry, a place of self-improvement, a source of factual information
useful to home and business alike. A library is a way that we and our
children can continue to learn throughout our lives.

Vote YES for a local library district, locally controlled, locally funded, and
free of State and County mandates and fiscal maneuvering. SAVE OUR
LIBRARY! Vote YES on Measure L.

s/ Leonard Whitegon, Chair	s/ Marilyn Warrens
Save Our Library Committee	Homemaker
s/ John Copeland	s/ James Mabry
Physician	Banker
s/ John Nopel	
Retired citizen	

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L WAS SUBMITTED

04-VP3

04-VP3