Sample Ballot

BALLOT CARD

TOP

OFFICIAL BALLOT

IRVINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ELECTION

ORANGE COUNTY

JUNE 4, 1991

This ballot stub shall be torn off by precinct board
member and handed to the voter.

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

IRVINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ELECTION

P Shall the Irvine Unified School Dis-
trict be authorized to levy a special
tax for the purpose of raising additional
revenue to be expended solely for the sci-
ence programs, library programs, and
programs for teachers to improve their
classroom skills, and shall the appropria-
tions limit of the district be increased for a
period of four years from June 4,1991, in
an amount equal to the revenue raised by
the special tax? The special tax shall be
levied at a rate not to exceed $35 for each
Assessor’s Parcel within the District as
shown on the then current secured Assess-
ment Roll prepared by the Orange County
Assessor, shall be levied only in fiscal years
1991-92, 1992-93, 1993-94, 1994-95 as
subsequently acted upon by the Board of
Education and be collected and enforced
in the same manner and procedures pre-
scribed by law for the collection of other
taxes and assessments collected on said
secured Assessment Roll.

30-113A

Sample Ballot

■

j

:

>

i

i

BOARD OF EDUCATION
IRVINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
COUNTY OF ORANGE, STATE OF CALIFORNIA
RESOLUTION NO. 90-91-15
ORDERING SPECIAL TAX ELECTION
AND SETTING FORTH THE SPECIFICATIONS THEREOF

WHEREAS, the Board of Education of the Irvine Unified School District is
authorized to order elections within the District and to designate the specifica-
tions thereof, pursuant to Education Code Section 5322, et seq.; and
WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution provides
that “Special Districts, by a two-thirds vote of the qualified electors of such
District, may impose special taxes on such District, except ad valorem taxes
on real property or a transaction tax or sales tax on the sale of real proper-
ty...; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution provides
that the appropriations limit of any entity of government may be changed by
the electors of such entity, for a period of up to four years from the date of the
vote making such change; and
WHEREAS, Government Code 50079 authorizes any school district to
impose special taxes upon the District pursuant to the procedures established
in Article 35 (commencing with Section 50075) and any other procedures
provided by law; and
WHEREAS, the present revenues of the District are inadequate to meet the
expenses of operating science programs, library programs, and programs for
teachers to improve their classroom skills; and
WHEREAS, it is, in the judgment of this Board, following notice and public
hearing, advisable to order a special election and submit to the electors of this
District the questions whether the District shall levy a special tax within the
District for the purposes of raising additional revenue for the District and
whether the District’s appropriations limit be increased in the amount of
revenue so raised for a period of four years from June 4,1991.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE IRVINE UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

1.	That pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution
and Government Code Section 50079, a special election shall be held within
the boundaries of the Irvine Unified School District on June 4,1991.

2.	That the purpose of the election shail be to submit the questions
whether two-thirds of the voters voting at the election shall approve the levy
of a special tax within the Irvine Unified School District and an increase in the
appropriations limit of the District by the amount of the revenue generated by
the special tax.

3.	The special tax shall be a school tax levied at a rate not to exceed $35
for each Assessor’s Parcel within the District. The special tax shall be levied
only in fiscal years 1991-92,1992-93, 1993-94, and 1994-95 upon subse-
quent approval thereof by this Board, and shall be collected and enforced in
the manner and procedure prescribed by law for the collection of other taxes
and assessments collected on said secured Assessment Roll. The levy of the
special tax shall only take place subsequent to the Board conducting two
public hearings thereon, notice of which shall be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation within the District. The revenue derived from
the special tax shall be expended solely for science programs, library pro-
grams, and programs for teachers to improve their classroom skills.

4.	The form of the ballot measure shall read as follows:

“Shall the Irvine Unified School District be authorized to levy a special
tax for the purpose of raising additional revenue to be expended solely
for the science programs, library programs, and programs for teachers
to improve their classroom skills, and shall the appropriations limit of
the district be increased for a period of four years from June 4,1991, in
an amount equal to the revenue raised by the special tax? The special
tax shall be levied at a rate not to exceed $35 for each Assessor’s Parcel
within the District as shown on the then current secured Assessment
Roll prepared by the Orange County Assessor, shall be levied only in
fiscal years 1991-92, 1992-93, 1993-94, 1994-95 as subsequently
acted upon by the Board of Education and be collected and enforced in
the same manner and procedures prescribed by law for the collection of
other taxes and assessments collected on said secured Assessment
Roll.”

5.	That, pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA and Section 4 of Article
XIIIB, the measure will become effective only upon the affirmative vote of
two-thirds of those voting on the measure.

6.	That the County Superintendent of Schools of the County of Orange and
the Registrar of Voters of the County of Orange are hereby requested to take
all necessary steps to call and hold the election in accordance with law.

7.	That this special tax shall not apply to the parcel(s) used as the principal
place of residence by the owner(s)/taxpayer(s) of record as of midnight on
February 28/29 of each year who are 65 years of age or older as of midnight
February 28/29 of each year and who shall apply for an exemption by showing
proof of said/such age to the Irvine Unified School District by the close of the
last working day of March of each year; .

8.	That the foregoing specifications of the Election Order are made pur-
suant to Education Code Section 50077.

PASSED and ADOPTED this 29th day of January, 1991, by the following
vote:

AYES: Members Hadley, Regele, Smith, Wakeham, Cameron

NOES: None

ABSENT: None

ABSTAIN: None

s/Helen Cameron
President of the Board

s/David Brown
Secretary of the Board

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE P

Each year an ad valorem property tax is levied and collected on every parcel
of real property located in the Irvine Unified School District. The amount of
this tax is based on the value of the property, subject to the limitations
imposed by Article XIIIA of the State Constitution, also known as the “Jarvis
Initiative.” The District receives a portion of the property taxes collected, and
the remainder of the tax monies are distributed among various other taxing
agencies.

This measure, if enacted, would give the Governing Board of the District
the authority to levy a special tax on each parcel of real property within the
School District, in addition to the regular ad valorem property tax. This
special tax would not be subject to the limitations of the Jarvis Initiative, and
would be authorized for a maximum of four (4) years. A property owner/
taxpayer of record may apply for an annual exemption from his obligation to
pay the special tax for a parcel used as his principal place of residence if he is
65 years of age or older.

All proceeds from the special tax would go to the District, to be used for
science programs, library programs and programs for teachers to improve
their classroom skills. The special tax would be levied at a rate not to exceed
thirty-five (35) dollars per year on each parcel of real property within the
District for the fiscal years 1991-1992 through 1994-1995. The decision to
impose or not to impose this special tax, and the amount of such tax if
imposed, not exceeding the maximum dollars specified per parcel per year
and within the appropriations limit, would be made annually by the Governing
BoM.ofthe District after two public hearings.

^51 (H addition, this measure would increase the/appropriations limit of the
District for a period of four years in an amount equal to the total amount of the
special taxes levied in the District pursuant to this measure. The appropria-
tions limit is imposed by Article XIIIB of the State Constitution, also known as
the “Gann Initiative,” and generally restricts the amount of monies a public
agency can spend each year. Subject to certain specified exceptions, the
Gann Initiative limits the amount of monies a public agency can appropriate in
a given year to no more than the appropriations limit of the prior year, plus
increases to reflect any increase in the cost of living or local population.

This measure requires an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the electors
voting on the measure.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

The Irvine Unified School District needs your support for Measure P to make
sure we have the funds necessary to maintain quality educational programs
for our children.

Over the years, the Irvine Unified School District has built and maintained an
excellent educational environment for the children of our community; how-
ever, due to limited state funding, the superior education system the commu-
nity has built and supported is being threatened. In 1990-1991, the school
board was forced to cut $2.4 million from the district budget. To avoid future
cuts that directly affect the children and their classroom instruction, Measure
P must be passed.

Passage of Measure P will allow the district

1.	to maintain classroom science programs,

2.	to maintain and increase Children’s library services and programs,

3.	to provide quality programs for teachers to improve their classroom
skiils.

It is important to understand that the funds raised from Measure P by law will
be used only to expand and improve instructional programs. Normal operat-
ing expenses and salaries will continue as always to be paid from regular
revenue sources.

Passage of Measure P will maintain and improve classroom instruction at a
reasonable cost. Property owners in the Irvine Unified School District will pay
$35 a year per parcefr That's less than $3.00 a month to give our children the
quality education they deserve.	,,	*i?,‘

1.	The term of the levy is four years.

2.	Senior citizens are exempt.

Passage of Measure P will help maintain quality education for the children of
Irvine. Vote YES on Measure P.

s/Helen T.Cameron
Irvine Unified School District, Board President

s/Barbara B. Reynolds
Past President, Irvine Education Foundation

s/Steve McArthur
Chair, Budget Advisory Committee, IUSD

s/Stan Wolcott
Attorney

s/Gail H. Rothman
Irvine Teachers Association, Executive Board Member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

The proponents’ pompous twaddle doesn’t show that this unfair tax boost
will improve the schools. Tax increases without reform will do for education
no more than a penicillin shot will do for a corpse.

The tax proponents aren't telling you the whole story:

-If you own a home, your tax will be the same as that for a hotel or office
building worth many times more.

--The School Board and the union, whose head signed the pro-tax argu-
ment, are raising salaries at the same time. Private businesses have to
cut back during a recession. The School Board doesn’t want to econo-
mize like the rest of us.

-The “special programs" are budget manipulation. They could have
named any program they chose. There is just one budget. They haven’t
shown that they’ve cut out the waste.

-The Superintendent, who heads the state association for school bureau-
crats, wants this tax to show off to his friends and advance his career.

Proposition 13 was passed to force government to economize and protect
our homes. Ever since, the bureaucracy has been trying to get around it,
through the courts, through special districts, and through one proposition
after another.

Many of us pay double or more the normal property tax because of
extravagant requirements. The last thing we need is a new tax during a
recession, while salaries and administrators’ vanity continue to inflate.

THIS TAX IS UNNEEDED AND UNFAIR! SEND A MESSAGE!

VOTE NO ON PROPOSITION P!

S/DAVID G. EPSTEIN
Private Citizen

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

VOTE NO ON THE PARCEL TAX!

Once again the educational establishment is reaching into your pockets,
this time in a sneak election for an unfair increase in property taxes.

They say it's for children, but it’s not. It’s for high salaries for bureaucrats,
useless paperwork, and programs the public would reject if they knew about
them.

Don’t be fooled. We are not getting our money’s worth, and we never will,
without a complete housecleaning and educational reform.

The parcel tax is unfair!

-- A single-family homeowner would pay the same tax as the owner of a
hotel or an office building - another attack on the middle class.

-- Parents who choose private schools are double-taxed. The poor and
middle class are forced into the failing public schools.

The parcel tax election is an underhanded political maneuver.

-	The School Board deliberately scheduled a sneak election when only the
school interest group was likely to vote.

Fight back by voting no, by absentee ballot or at the polls.

Yes, the public schools are failing, but money wiil not cure their problems:

-- Overpaid administrators.

-	Intellectual incompetence.

-- Bad values.

-	Lack of discipline.

-- No competition. Everyone forced into the failing public schools.

-	Politically imposed curriculum.

The tax junkies in the school bureaucracy already get:

-	A mandated share of the state budget from your income and other
taxes.

-	Lottery money.

-- Property tax money.

-	Students forced to attend unless their parents are wealthy, no matter
how bad the schools are.

The schools don’t need more money! They need a thorough
housecleaning!

The parcel tax is just another attack on Proposition 13. Be warned. Your
home could be in danger.

JUST SAY NO TO NEWTAXESI VOTE NO ON THE PARCEL TAX RIPOFF1

s/DAVID G. EPSTEIN

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

In 1990-91, the Irvine Unified School District was forced to cut 2.4 million
from the District's budget, if further cuts that directly affect the children and
their classroom instruction are to be avoided, Measure P must pass. In order
to have these funds for students in the 1991 -92 school year, Measure P must
be approved on the June ‘91 ballot.

Due to limited state funding, many instructional programs within the District
may have to be cut or eliminated. We can not afford to deprive our children of
these essential instructional classroom programs.

Your yes vote on Measure P will insure that the children of Irvine continue to
receive essential educational programs and services including science in-
struction, library programs, fine arts instruction, and classroom training
programs for teachers.

We urge you to take the time to learn the facts about Measure P:

By law all of the money raised by Measure P will stay in local schools to
directly benefit the children of Irvine.

By law the money raised by Measure P can only be used to expand and
improve instructional programs.

By law none of the money can be used for administrator salaries.

By law property owners only pay $35 per year.

By law the term of the levy is only four years.

By law all senior citizens 65 years old and older, upon application, are
exempt from the tax.

We urge you to vote YES on Measure P.

s/Helen T. Cameron, Board of Education President
Irvine Unified School District
s/Barbara Reynolds, Past President
Irvine Education Foundation
s/Steve McArthur, Chair of the Budget Advisory Committee
Irvine Unified School District
s/Gail Rothman, Executive Board Member
Irvine Teachers Association

s/Stan Wolcott, Attorney