COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The Government Code authorizes school districts to impose a special tax through the imposition
of a parcel tax on real property upon approval erf two-thirds of the votes cast by voters in an
election held for the purpose of imposing such a tax.

The Saratoga Union School District governing board proposes to implement a parcel tax in
the amount of $179.00 per parcel per year for the first four years of the special tax beginning
July 1, 1991. In accordance with state law, the voters have the opportunity to approve the
continuation of the increase m the Gann Appropriations limit at least every four years. A parcel
is defined as any parcel of land as shown on the then current assessment roll prepared by the
County Assessor,

A “yes“ vote is a vote in favor of levying the proposed special tax. The funds derived from
the parcel tax would be expended to:

1.	Avoid cuts in basic education programs.

2.	Repair deteriorating school buildings, including repair and/or replacement of heating sys-
tems, roofs, blacktop, flooring, plumbing, electrical and other capital needs.

3.	Restore funds for services and programs reduced in prior years in such areas as library
services, textbooks, instructional supplies,

4.	Provide specialist teachers and services to enhance instruction for students in the district.

5.	Avoid large class sizes.

A “no" vote is a vote not to authorize the imposition of said special tax.

STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel

by: Brian L. Carr

Deputy County Counsel

F-1

MEASURE A

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Vote YES on Measure A to preserve the excellence.of the schools in the Saratoga Onion
School District. Make no mistake, our schools are in jeopardy. We face a future budget deficit
of over $1,000,000 due to the state budget crisis, falling, lottery revenues, and rising district
costs. This deficit will bring larger class sizes and severe program cuts; overdue maintenance
of thirty-year-old buildings will be lurther delayed.

One of the strengths of Saratoga has always been its outstanding schools. Ail four schools
in the district have been1 designated California Distinguished Schools, and our children consis-
tently achieve state test scores in the 98th and 99th percentiles.

Measure A seeks to preserve quality education for our children. Faced with financial pressures,
the citizens of surrounding communities such as Los Altos and Los Gatos have already approved
similar measures. These communities now enjoy the benefits of their good judgment
Measure A'is an annual tax of $179 per parcel. It is a direct investment in our future. Ail ot
the money goes directly to our own Saratoga schools, it also has built-in protections for taxpayers:

■	annual exemptions are available for residents over 65

■	termination of the tax after four years

It may be that Measure A will yield more than $179 per year in enhanced property values
and the preservation of Saratoga’s special community character. But more important, Measure
A will assure that the Saratoga Union School District will continue to be recognized as one of
California's finest
Keep quality education in Saratoga. Vote YES on Measure A.

JILL HUNTER	ADRIAN	STANGA

President, Saratoga Union School District	1990Saratoga Citizen of the Year

Board of Trustees

REIKO iWANAGA
Past PTA President
Saratoga and Redwood Schools

DR. F. L. STUTZMAN
Mayor of Saratoga

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A WAS SUBMITTED