SPECIAL ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 4,1991

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS

STEP 1. Insert the ballot card all the way into the Votomatic device.

STEP 2.	Be sure the two slots in the stub of your card fit down over the two red pins.

STEP 3.	To vote on any measure, punch through the ballot card at the point of the arrow opposite

the word "YES’ or opposite the word “NO".

STEP 4. After voting, lift ballot card from red pins and withdraw the ballot card from the device.
Remove any punchouts still hanging on the back of the ballot card.

STEP 5. Fold the ballot card at the perforation (as demonstrated at the polls), with the stub
showing, and return it to the precinct board member.

NOTE:	If	you	make	a	mistake	return your ballot card to the precinct board member and obtain

another. Distinguishing marks or erasures are forbidden and make the ballot void.

FP-02-4

SD 002-02

OFFICIAL BALLOT

SAN DIEGU1T0 UNION
HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ELECTION
Tuesday, June 4, 1991

I HAVE VOTED — HAVE YOU?

SAN DIEGUITO UNION
HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ELECTION
Tuesday, June 4, 1991

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS
PROPOSITION C

Shall approval be given to (1) the levy of a
special parcel tax by the SanOieguito Union High
School District in the amount of fifty ($50.00)
dollars per parcel beginning July, 1991, to
support existing programs for all students, for
library and media services, programs for under-
achieving students and the purchase of
computers and other technology for classroom
use, and (2) an increase in the appropriation
limit of the San Qieguito Union High School
District for the next four years in the amount
equal to the amount of such tax to be collected;
future increases in the appropriations limit will
be subject to voter approval at least once every
four years and will be required for the District to
use the revenues from the special parcel tax?

yes»Q

_____ NO+-Q

VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLET

The following pages contain

BALLOT MEASURE, ANALYSIS,
ARGUMENTS AND REBUTTALS

ARGUMENTS

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the
authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

F P-03-4

SD 002-04

PROPOSITION C

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROPOSITION C

Shall approval be given to (1) the levy of a
special parcel tax by the San Dieguito Union High
School District in the amount of Fifty ($50.00)
dollars per parcel beginning July, 1991, to
support existing programs for all students, for
library and media services, programs for under-
achieving students and the purchase of
computers and other technology for classroom
use, and (2) an increase in the appropriation
limit of the San Dieguito Union High School
District for the next four years in the amount
equal to the amount of such tax to be collected;
future increases in the appropriations limit will
be subject to voter approval at least once every
four years and will be required for the District to
use the revenues from the special parcel tax?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The San Dieguito Union High School District is proposing a levy of a qualified special tax
of a flat amount of $50.00 per year for each parcel of real property within the District. This special
tax is authorized by California Government Code section 50079. The California Constitution
requires a 2/3rd$ vote of approval of the qualified electors voting at the election to levy and
collect the parcel tax. The revenues from the parcel tax will be used for: support of existing
educational programs for all students, library and media services, programs for underachieving
students and purchase of computers and other technology for classroom use.

In order to use the revenues collected from the parcel tax levy, the San Dieguito Union High
School District is proposing an increase in the annual appropriations limit for the District in an
amount equal to the amount of the special parcel tax ievy. The California Constitution permits
changes in the annual appropriations limit for a four year period if approved by a majority vote
of the qualified electors voting at the election. Continued use of the parcel tax levy after the
four year period covering fiscal years 1991-92 through 1994-95 would occur if the School
District’s appropriation limit is again increased by majority vote of the qualified electors voting
at an election for that purpose.

A “yes’’ vote is a vote in favor of levying the fiat amount of $50.00 per year for each parcel
of real property within the School District for use for existing educational programs, library and
media services, programs for underachieving students, the purchase of computers and other
technology for classroom use, and for authority to increase the School District’s appropriation
limitation to permit expenditure of me collected funds.

A “no" vote is a vote not to levy the fiat amount of $50.00 per year for each parcel of real
property for use for School District purposes as specified and not to increase the appropriation
limit.

PR-0520-1

SD 002-05

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

Passage of Proposition C is essential if the San Dieguito Union High School District is to have
the funds necessary to maintain the award-winning educational programs which, over the years,
it has built and maintained.

When compared with other California high school districts, the San Dieguito Union High School
District receives the 6th lowest revenue limit per student Limited state funding over the last
three years has exhausted the district’s reserves. The dramatic cuts in state funding for the
1991-92 school year will leave the district with a projected $2.2 million deficit This shortfall will
cause the layoff of significant numbers of staff with accompanying adverse effects on
educational programs, such as increased class size and reduced library, counseling and other
student services.

In the first year, passage of Proposition C will allow the district to maintain existing programs
at or near current levels. In subsequent years, Proposition C will allow the district to:

1.	upgrade library services and materials,

2.	provide computers and technology for the classroom,

3.	support programs for underachieving students.

Passage of Proposition C will maintain and improve educational programs at reasonable cost.
Property owners in the San Dieguito Union High School District, while enhancing the value of
their property, will pay less than $4.17 per month to give our students the quality education they
and this community deserve.

SAN DIEGUITO UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF TRUSTEES

MARY LOU SCHULTZ
President

DAVID H. THOMPSON
Vice President

SHERRY HODGES
Member

BILL COX
Clerk

DEANNA RICH
Member

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

According to figures provided by the San Diego county office of education the San Dieguito
Union High School District budget has projected expenditures of $32,126,516 this year.
Projected revenues are $30,985,593. That leaves a projected deficit of $1.1 million. The district's
reserves of $938,485 for an "economic emergency" should cover that shortfall.

$32,126,516 is an average of $4,722 per pupil. We don’t know what the board of trustees means
by the statement that the district “receives the 6th lowest revenue limit per pupil." We do know
that $4,722 is 21% more than the $3875 per pupil average for the Catholic High Schools in the
area.

We believe that passage of Proposition C will not enhance property values. It will not enhance
education. It will only add to an already heavy tax burden.

We urge you to VOTE NO on Proposition C.

RICHARD L. ARNOLD	SCOTT A, CAMERON

Director	Member

Californians for Quality Education	Green Party

PR-0520-2

SO 002-06

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION C

This tax is not needed

We Californians are currently spending more than $4,000 per student per year to educate our
children. Education accounts for more than fifty percent of the state budget. Compare this cost
with the average private school where the cost per student runs almost $1,000 less. Yet private
school students consistently score higher in reading and math tests. We need accountability
and efficiency in education. We don’t need more money for the public schools. What we do need
is a system that allows all parents to choose the school their child will attend.

This tax is unfair

This parcel fee levies a set tax on a piece of land, regardless of its size or value. Thus a single
family homeowner will be paying as much as the owner of an office building or apartment
complex.

This tax adds to an already heavy tax burden

A typical home in this area is currently taxed to pay bond debts and fixed charge benefit fees
for:

Elementary school	Metro water district	Mosquito/rat control

High school	County water authority	Landscaping & Lighting

Other Educational Purposes Emergency Ambulance service	Sewer service charge

County Water District	Fire improvement zone	CWA water availability

Municipal water district

The above fees add 25% to the maximum property tax authorized under Proposition 13.
VOTE NO. We urge you to VOTE NO on Proposition C.

RICHARD L. ARNOLD, Director	FRANK	T.	ZOECKLER, Member

Californians for Quality Education Libertarian Party of San Diego
FRANCIS J. JOYCE	BENJAMIN A. EKELAND

Retired	Police Officer

THALEIA WIDENMANN
Certified Public Accountant

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION C

PROPOSITION C IS NEEDED

San Dieguito Receives Less Income Per Student Than Other High School Districts.

Since passage of Proposition 13, funding for local schools has been based on state allocation
formulas, not local property tax revenues. Although property values in our district are high, San
Dieguito has the sixth lowest revenue limit per student in the state, and the lowest in San Diego
County when compared with other high school districts.

State Financial Problems Mean Further Reductions

California ranks 8th in per capita income but 33rd among the states In education spending and
50th in class size. The governor's proposed budget for next year would put California $8<Xt per
pupil below the national average, the greatest disparity in state history. Without Proposition C,
our district faces a $2.2 million deficit for the 1991-92 school year.

The Quality of A Community is Linked to die Quality of its Schools

Our quality of life, and our property values, are directly linked to the quality of public education
in our area. Proposition C is the only way under state law for our community to supplement
the state formula for school funding.

The $4.17 per month that Proposition C will cost is not just a good investment in maintaining
and improving our schools, it's a wise investment in our community and in our property values.
As voters and parents in the San Dieguito Union High School District, we urge you to vote YES
on Proposition C.

BONNY J. CONFORTO	LOU ASPELL

Parent - Oak Crest Junior High School	Parent - San Dieguito High School

DEBBIE WILLIAMS

Parent - Dieguerio Junior High School

GRACE C. GODEFROY

Parent - Torrey Pines High School

JOYCE DALESSANDRO

Parent - Earl Warren Junior High School

PR-0520-3

SD 002-07