RESOLUTION NO. 92000, 1991-92

BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
THE LAGUNITAS SCHOOL DISTRICT
MARIN COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of a	)	RESOLUTION AND ORDER

Special Tax Election	)	OF ELECTION

)

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide adequate and
necessary funding to the continued operations of the schools (Lagunitas Elementary
School and San Geronimo Valley Elementary School) of the Lagunitas School District;
and as a result of this lack of funding and financial support for the schools, the
Lagunitas School District is in danger of suffering irreparable damage to its facilities
and of eliminating many study programs beneficial and necessary to the children who
attend the schools of the District; and once eliminated these programs of study will be
extremely difficult to reinstitute; and

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to generate funds for
the educational program, including lobbying in the State Legislature and many local
fundraising efforts, and has undertaken cost-cutting measures, including employee
layoffs, reduction of programs and services beneficial and necessary to the students of
the Lagunitas School District; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program in a safe and
attractive environment delivers many long lasting benefits and advantages to all of the
residents of our community; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government code Sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079, and 53720, et seq.,
authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the purpose of
conducting its business upon the approval of the requisite number of votes cast by
voter’s voting on such a special tax proposal;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Governing Board of the Lagunitas
School District resolves to conduct a special election on November 5, 1991, at which
will be submitted to the qualified voters of the Lagunitas School District a measure to
authorize a special tax for the purpose of continuing vital educational programs critical
to the educational process in the schools of the Lagunitas School District; and for the

purpose of repairing and maintaining older, degenerating facilities; and,

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries of the
Lagunitas School District at which election shall be submitted to the qualified voters
within the Lagunitas School District the following measure, to wit:

MEASURE

Shall the Lagunitas School District, serving the children of Woodacre, San
Geronimo, Forest Knolls and Lagunitas, provide funds to maintain the specific
educational programs described below, and to repair and maintain aging
facilities, by levying a special tax assessment for a limited period of five years,
beginning July 1, 1992, at the rate of $145.00 per assessor’s parcel ($72.50
semi-annual payment) with a 5% cost-of-living adjustment to be applied in each
successive year, and with an exemption for any beneficial owner of a parcel
who has attained the age of 65 years on or before May 1st of any applicable
year and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence?

The following educational programs and services shall be maintained and shall
be supported by the special tax:

*	Class size: Maintain present class size ratios of 25:1 or less, whenever

possible.

*	Science: Continuation of a science program that includes staffing a
technician in the Science Resource Center, and adequate materials for
science instruction.

*	Computer Education: Basic computer education program to provide
instruction in the use of computers and integration of technology in the
various curricula.

*	Facilities Repair and Maintenance: Repair and maintenance of
school facilities including heating, plumbing, and electrical systems,
roofing, flooring, and routine carpentry repair.

*	Counseling Services: Professional counseling resources to provide
services for students in need, and to support a high quality educational
environment.

*	Art: Basic instruction and enrichment of art education including paid
specialists and adequate art materials.

*	Music: Basic instruction and enrichment of music education including
paid specialists for both instrumental and vocal music and adequate
music materials and equipment.

*	Foreign Language: Basic instruction at'San Geronimo School and
Lagunitas School.

*	Library Services: Library staff to support the study of literature at ail
grade levels, to help students develop research skills and an
appreciation of the wide uses of a library facility.

*	Physical Education: Basic instruction and enrichment of physical
education including paid specialists and adequate physical education
equipment.

*	Instructional Materials: Adequate quality and quantity of
supplemental learning materials to compliment the various curricula.

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of one hundred and forty-five
dollars per year for each assessor’s parcel. A five percent cost-of-living adjustment
will be added to the tax in each successive year of the five year tax. An exemption
from the assessment will be made available to each individual in the District who
attains age 65 years prior to May 1st of the assessment year, and who owns a
beneficial interest in the parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of such parcel, and
who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence, and who applies to the
District on or before May 1st, 1992, or May 1st of any succeeding assessment year.
Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel
for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to use
the parcel as his or her principal residence.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual ballot shall
be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

LAGUNITAS SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX
ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

Shall the Lagunitas School District, serving the children of Woodacre, San
Geronimo, Forest Knolls, and Lagunitas, provide funds to maintain specific
educational programs, and provide funds to repair and maintain aging facilities,
by levying a special tax assessment on each assessor’s parcel of one hundred
forty-five dollars per year (seventy-two dollars and fifty cents per semi- annual

payment), with a 5% cost-of-living adjustment to be applied in each successive
year for a period of five years, beginning July 1,1992, with an exemption for any
beneficial owner of a parcel who has attained the age of 65 years on or before
May 1st of any applicable year and who uses that parcel as his or her principal
place of residence?

_______________YES	_____________NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1, 1992, the special tax collected annually on
all assessor’s parcels at the rate specified above, shall be collected and administered
in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and collected under
provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Marin County is hereby requested
to call a special election of the said special tax to be held on November 5, 1991. The
County Clerk is hereby requested and authorized to: 1) set forth on all sample ballots
relating to said election to be mailed to the qualified electors of the Lagunitas School
District said measure; and 2) provide absent voter ballots for said special tax election
for use by qualified electors of the Lagunitas School District who are entitled thereto in
the manner provided by Law.

Section 5. if any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this resolution is for
any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portion of this resolution. This Governing Board declares that it would have
adopted this resolution and each section, subsection, phrase or clause thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases
or clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6. The clerk of the Lagunitas School District Governing Board is hereby
authorized and directed to certify to the adoption of this resolution and to transmit a
copy hereof so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Marin County and to file a
copy hereof so certified with the County Clerk of Marin County.

The foregoing resolution was moved by Board Member Mr, Schiro, seconded by
Mrs. Klein, and adopted on roil cal! on July 16, 1991, by the following vote:

Board Member: Nancy Boxer
Board Member: Steve Charrier

Board Member: Brian Dodd
Board Member: Laurie Klein
Board Member: Bob Schiro

AYES:	5	NOES:	0	ABSENT/NOT	VOTING:	0

WHEREUPON, the President declared the foregoing resolution duly adopted

and SO ORDERED.

Date:	 0/	fftl

Brian W. Dodd
President, Governing Board
Lagunitas School District

The Clerk of the Lagunitas School District Governing Board certifies to the
adoption of this Resolution.



fancy A. Boxer
Clerk, Governing Board
Lagunitas School District