June 4, 1991
Measure A
$42

Resolution No. 90-91-14 of the
Governing Board of the Acalanes Union High School District
Proposing a Qualified Special Tax and
Establishing Specifications of the Election Order

WHEREAS, the Acalanes Union High School District ("District")
has been forced to eliminate and curtail many essential education
services due to inadequate funding from the State Legislature; and

WHEREAS, increased revenues are necessary to continue meeting
the students' basic educational needs; and

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to
generate funds for the District's educational program, including
lobbying in the State Legislature, local fundraising efforts, and
cost-cutting measures, but these efforts have not produced
sufficient revenues; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and Government Code Section 50079 authorize a school
district, upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting on
the measure, to levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes
following notice and public hearing; and

WHEREAS, this Board believes that such a qualified special tax
is necessary to provide an adequate educational opportunity for the
students of this District;

WHEREAS, this Board has held public hearings after due notice
regarding said tax; and

WHEREAS, the annual appropriations limit of the District
should be raised concurrently for the 4 years allowed by law to
allow the District to expend the amounts raised by said tax.

THEREFORE, be it resolved that:

1.	This Board hereby proposes to adopt a qualified special

tax for the following specific purposes:	(a) to maintain and

improve comprehensive educational and academic programs for
students of the district; (b) to provide and upgrade additional
library materials and equipment; (c) to provide up-to-date
instructional materials and equipment for the schools and students
of the district; and (d) to maintain small class size.

2.	Said qualified special tax shall be in an amount not to
exceed §42 per year for 10 years assessed against each parcel of
taxable land in the District.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District
which now receives a separate tax bill from the Contra Costa County
Assessor's Office. All property which would otherwise be exempt
from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of said
special tax.

3.	In connection with the proposal of said special tax, this
Board further proposes to increase the District's appropriations
limit for 4 fiscal years, in an amount equal to the levy of special
taxes for each of said years, as permitted by Article XIIIB,
Section 4 of the California Constitution.

4.	This Board hereby requests the Contra Costa County Clerk
("County Clerk") to submit to the voters of this District on June
4, 1991 the followinq ballot measure:

"Shall the Acalanes Union High School District of Contra
Costa County, for the benefit of its students, be
authorized to impose a qualified special tax (a) to
maintain and improve comprehensive educational and
academic programs for students of the district; (b) to
provide and upgrade additional library materials and
equipment; (c) to provide up-to-date instructional
materials and equipment for the schools and students of
the district; and (d) to maintain small class size—at
the rate of $42 per year for 10 years per parcel of land,
excluding property exempted by law—and, in connection
therewith, shall the appropriations limit of the District
be raised for 4 years for each of said years in an amount
equal to the levy of said tax for said year?"

5.	That the authority for the specifications of this
election order is contained in Section 5322 of the California
Education Code.

6.	That this Resolution shall stand as the order to the
County Superintendent of Schools to call an election within the
boundaries of the District on June 4, 1991.

7.	That	the	Clerk of this Board is hereby directed

immediately to send a certified copy of this Resolution to the
County Superintendent of Schools so that said Superintendent
receives it on or prior to January 30, 1991.

8.	That the Clerk of this Board is hereby directed to send
a certified copy of this Resolution to the County Clerk no later
than February 1, 1991.

9.	That the County Superintendent of Schools is hereby
requested to deliver this Resolution, which constitutes the order
of election, and a formal notice of the election to the County
Clerk no later than February 1, 1991.

10.	That this Board requests the governing body of any such
other political subdivision, or any officer otherwise authorized by
law, to partially or completely consolidate such election and to
further provide that the canvass be made by any body or official
authorized by law to canvass the returns of the election; and, that
this Board consents to such consolidation.

2

11.	The Clerk of this Governing Board is ordered and directed
to cause all notices required by law in connection herewith to be
published and posted, as the case may be.

12.	Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the
qualified special tax shall be collected by the Contra Costa County
Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be
subject to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected
by said tax collector. The tax and penalty shall bear interest at
the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes
until paid.

13.	The collection of the qualified special tax provided for
herein shall not decrease the funds available from other sources of
the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Governing Board of the Acalanes
Union High School District on the 23rd day of January, 1991 by the
following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

I	hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was duly
introduced, passed, and adopted at the time and place and by the
vote stated.

President of the Governing Board
of the Acalanes Union High School
District of Contra Costa County

ATTEST:

Clerk of the Governing Board

3