

LIVERMORE VALLEY JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS	
mm MEASURE E: Shall the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District be authorized to levy f—‘ a special tax of $50.00 for each assessor's parcel of vacant property, $150.00 for each assessor's parcel of single family residential, commercial or industrial property, or real property not otherwise defined. $250.00 for each assessor's parcel of multiple residential property containing 2 to 4 units or mobile homes, and $500.00 for each assessor's parcel containing 5 or more units, toward providing special programs and sendees supplementary to the regular program, exempting taxpayers 65 years or older upon their filing of appropriate application, for a limited period of4 years beginning July 1.1992 and ending June 30.1996, and in connection therewith, shall the appropriations limit of the District be raised in each of the fair years by an amount equal to the amount collected by the levy of the tax for that year, to allow the District to make use of the funds raised by this special tax?	YES
	NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E

RESOLUTION NO 110-9091
PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX
AND CALLING FOR APPROVAL OF THE ELECTORATE

WHEREAS, the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District ("District”) has been inadequately funded by the
State Legislature fora period of years to the detriment of its educational programs; and
WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to generate funds for the educational program, including
lobbying in the State Legislature, local fund-raising efforts, and cost-cutting measures, including employee layoffs and
deferred maintenance, and these efforts have not produced sufficient revenues to maintain the quality of education in the
District; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government Code Section 50075 el seq.
authorize a school district, following notice and public hearing, to levy a special tax for specified purposes upon approval
of two-thirds of the electorate voting on the measure; and
WHEREAS, because the District must increase its appropriations limit in order to use the funds raised from a qualified
special tax, the Board proposes to increase the District’s appropriation limit per fiscal year in an amount equal to the levy
of special taxes per said year, as permitted by Article XIIIB, Section 4 of the California Constitution, in the manner set
forth in Government Code Section 7902.1
WHEREAS, this Board believes that such a special tax is necessary at this time to continue to provide adequate
educational opportunities for the students of this District; and
WHEREAS, it is the intention of the Board of Education of the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District to
conduct a special tax election on November 5,1991. at which election will be submitted to the qualified electors of the
Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District a measure to authorize a special tax intended to enhance the quality of
education offered the students of the District while restoring greater local control; and
WHEREAS, the special tax election will take place on Novembers, 1991, and it is the desire of the Board of Education
that same be consolidated with the municipal election to be held in the City of Livermore on the same date.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School
District as follows:

Section 1. The following definition shall apply throughout this resolution: "Parcel" means a unit of real property and
any improvement thereon designated by an assessor's parcel map and parcel number and carried on the last equalized
assessment roll within the District of the Counties of Alameda and Contra Costa.

*

Section 2. A special tax election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries of the Livermore Valley Joint Unified
School District and shall be requested to be consolidated with the municipal election to be held in the City of Livermore
on Novembers. 1991. The full text of the ballot measure shall be submitted to the qualified electors within the Livermore
Valley Joint Unified School District and shall read as follows:

in order to pursue a locally initiated program to raise the quality of education benefiting all students and citizens,
shall the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District serving the City of Livermore, the unincorporated portions of
eastern Alameda County and an unincorporated portion of southern Contra Costa County be authorized to
implement a special tax toward providing the following special programs and services commensurate with a superior
education program.

a.	Providing a more comprehensive and strengthened basic education/skills curriculum at all grade levels.

b.	Providing supplemental books and instructional materials and supplies.

c.	Providing specialized library/media services at each school.

d.	Providing specialized motor skills programs for elementary students.

e.	Providing specialized classes in basic skills to help “at risk" students.

f.	Providing diverse curriculum offerings at the middle school and high school levels.

g.	Providing guidance and student support services./

h.	Providing a specialized elementary instrumental and vocal music program.

i.	, Providing a more comprehensive level of maintenance and repair of District facilities.

j.	Providing equipment and facilities based on technology to expand educational opportunities.

k.	Providing increased access to school facilities to benefit students, parents, and the community.

Said special tax shall not exceed a maximum rate per year for a maximum of four (4) years assessed against each parcel
of land as follows:

Multiple Residential (2-4 units and mobile homes)	$250
Multiple Residential (5 or more units)	500
Vacant Land (with misc. improvements)	50
Single Family Residential	150
Commercial	. 150
Industrial	150
All Others Not Uniquely Defined	150

For Parcels divided by Tax Code Area Line, the payment for the portion of the parcel within the Livermore Valley Joint
Unified School District shall be the same as the above designated rates.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XJIIB, and Government Code Section 7902.1, the appropriations limit for
the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District will be increased by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this
special tax in each of the years covered by this Resolution."

Section 3. This Board hereby requests the Registrar of Voters of the County of Alameda and the Contra Costa County
Clerk, and each of them, to submit to the voters of this District on November 5,1991, the following abbreviated ballot
measure:

LIVERMORE VALLEY JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

"Shall the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District be authorized to levy a special tax of $50.00 for
each assessor's parcel of vacant property, $150.00 for each assessor's parcel of single family residential,
commercial or industrial property, or real property not otherwise defined, $250.00 for each assessor's
parcel of multiple residential property containing 2 to 4 units or mobile homes, and $500.00 for each
assessor's parcel containing 5 or more units, toward providing special programs and services supplemen-
tary to the regular program, exempting taxpayers 65 years or older upon their filing of appropriate
application, for a limited period of 4 years beginning July I, 1992 and ending June 30. 1996, and in
connection therewith, shall the appropriations limit of the District be raised in each of the four years by an'
amount equal to the amount collected by the levy of the tax for that year, to allow the District to make use
of the funds raised by this special tax?"

Section 4. This measure shall take effect beginning in Fiscal Year 1992 upon its confirmation by two-thirds of the voters
voting upon this proposition at said election. The special taxes shall be collected and administered in the same manner as
ad valorem property taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, insofar
as not inconsistent with this cesolution.

Section 5. Consistent with adopted policies and procedures of the Assessor's Offices in Alameda and Contra Costa
Counties, and pursuant to Government Code Section 50079. taxpayers 65 years of age or older may seek exemption from
the per parcel tax by filing the appropriate, approved. County form.

Section 6. Prior to establishing the specific enhanced education program for the subsequent school year the Board shall
conduct a public hearing. The hearing shall consider the recommendations for site specific activities of each site and/or for
Districtwide activities as proposed by the District Committee and approved by a simple majority of the Site Committees.
Notice of time, date, and place of hearing shall be published pursuant to Government Code Section 6061 and be posted at
least twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the District; posting shall commence at least fifteen (15) days prior to
the hearing. Following the hearing, the Board of Education shall adopt a resolution authorizing approved activities,
including Districtwide activities for which the combined expenditures are less than or equal to twenty percent (20%) of
the projected per parcel tax revenues to be collected in the subsequent year. In recognition of the costs to administer the
procurement and personnel activities associated with the enhanced education program, the District, in preparing the
budget associated with the approved Site Committees and District Committee activities shall include an overhead charge
of not more than five percent (5%) within the total enhanced education program budget. The funds derived from this
charge shall be expended at the discretion of the Board of Education in support of the enhanced education program.

If certain Site Committee(s) and/or District Committee recommendations are not authorized in the first adopted
resolution, the Site Committee(s) and/or District Committee shall have thirty days in which to modify and/or appeal the
rejected activities. Following the second hearing concerning rejected activities, the Board of Education shall adopt a
resolution authorizing the requested activities as modified or appealed, or may authorize an alternative activity
previously identified as a lower priority activity by the Site Committee(s) and/or District Committee.

Section 7. It is not intended that the collection of the special tax provided for herein will decrease the funds available
from other sources of the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District in any period from the effective date hereof, f n
the event that the collection of the special tax results in a decrease in other previously available funds, the Livermore
Valley Joint Unified School District shall cease to levy said special lax.

Section 8, If any section, sub-section, phrase or clause of this resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this resolution. This Board declares that it would have
adopted this resolution and each section, sub-section, phrase or clause thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more section, sub-section, sentences, phrases or clauses may be declared invalid.

Section 9. The Boards of Supervisors of the Counties of Alameda and Contra Costa are hereby requested to order the
consolidation of the said special tax election with the municipal election to be held on Tuesday. November 5. 1991. and to
further provide that within the territory affected by said order of consolidation, to wit. the Livermore Valley Joint Unified
School District, the election precincts, polling places, and voting booths shall in every case be the same where a
consolidation is possible, and there shall be only one set of election officers in each of said precincts. The Boards of
Supervisors of the Counties are further requested to order the County Clerks of the Counties to:

1)	set forth on all sample ballots relating to said consolidated election to be mailed to the qualified electors of the
Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District said measure and to mail with said sample ballot to said electors, printed
copies of arguments (if any) for and against said measure; and

2)	to provide absent voter ballots for said consolidated election and said special tax election herewith for use by
qualified electors of the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District who are entitled thereto in the manner provided
by law.

Section 10. The County Clerks of the Counties of Alameda and Contra Costa are further requested to canvass, or cause
to be canvassed, as provided by law. the return of said consolidated and special tax election with respect to the votes cast
on said measure and to certify such canvass of the votes cast for said measure to the Livermore Valley Joint Unified
School District Board of Education.

Section 11. The Clerk of the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District Board of Education is hereby authorized
and directed to certify to the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Board of
Supervisors of the Counties of Alameda and Contra Costa and to file a copy hereof so certified with the County Clerks of
the said Counties.

Section 12. The County Superintendent is hereby requested to deliver this resolution, which constitutes the order of
election, and a formal notice of the election to the County Clerks of Alameda and Contra Costa Counties.

Section 13. The qualified special tax shall be collected by the Alameda and Contra Costa Counties Tax Collectors the
same as. and along with, and shall be subject to the same penalties as, general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax
collectors. The tax and penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem taxes until paid.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

Measure E, the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District Special Tax Measure, seeks voter approval to authorize
the District to levy a special tax on real property for four years, beginning July 1.1992, to fund educational programs and
services supplementary to the District’s regular educational programs. The maximum tax rate per parcel in each year
would be as follows; vacant property—$50; single family residential property, commercial or industrial property, or
property not uniquely defined—$150; multiple residential property (2-4 units and mobile homes)—$250; multiple
residential property (5 or more units)—$500. Upon proper application to the District, taxpayers 65 years or older would
be exempt from the tax. The Measure also seeks approval of an increase in the District s appropriations limit equal to the
sum collected by the levy.

According to the provisions of the measure, the programs that could be funded by the tax include strengthened and
supplemented curricula, supplemental instructional materials, specialized library/media and music programs, increased
public access to school facilities and better maintenance of District facilities.

s/KELVIN H. BOOTY. JR.
County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure E, which measure is printed in full in
this sample ballot pamphlet. If yon desire an additional copy of the measure, please call the
Elections Officiate office at 272-6933 mid a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

On November 5, the voters in the Livermore Valley Joint Unified School District will have die opportunity to vote for
local control of their schools. Measure E will:

•	Bring decision making to individual schools and their neighborhoods

•	Provide a predictable source of school income

•	Enhance library services

•	Furnish technological equipment for students

•	Protect Livermore's excellent school system

•	Provide a measure of independence from Sacramento

•	Demonstrate community pride

The taxes raised by Measure E are deductible from state and federal income taxes. Measure E has a four year limit,
expiring in June 1996. Each year the school board, in a public hearing, will determine which activities will receive parcel
tax revenue.

Property owners age 65 and over can apply for an exemption from this tax on their primary residence.

Historically Livermore citizens have benefitted from a highly acclaimed level of education. Our expectations are high.
The full text of Measure E lists the programs to be secured by the tax.

We want an outstanding school system. Our children deserve an outstanding school system. All of us profit from good
schools. Good schools increase property values and improve the quality of life. Because the state fails to provide
adequate school funding, the local community must take control. Predictable school income is essential for a superior
educational system.

We are proud of our stude nts and schools. Let’s continue to excel. A YES vote on Measure E is a YES vote for our future.

s/Lynne Stein
President. Board of Education
s/Joyce Brown
Clerk. Board of Education
s/Carol Myers
Member, Board of Education

s/Timothy Ryan
Member, Board of Education
s/Anne White
Member, Board of Education

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Would the parcel tax last only 4years? Past commitments were also made to have a toll free Bay Bridge and to remove the
extra sales tax that was used to construct BART. Should this measure pass, you can be sure that in 4 years an effort will be
made to have it continued. It’s Board of Education and other supporters are free to do so.

The worn predictable source of school income argument used for Proposition 98 is again used here. Trite predictable
income only exists in Utopia, not in a real world that is subjected to the vagaries of economic climates.

Will the funds being derived from this tax be used only for the benefit of students? When they say local control they are
talking about control at the administration level. Bureaucratic systems utilize complex accounting methods which
commingle funds. Money that was previously designated to Dow to the individual school and classroom level can easily be
redirected elsewhere using the Parcel Tax collections in it's stead. The School Board, though well intentioned, will find it
difficult to resist the public school system ami the demands exerted by the administrators, staff and teachers.

Parents can only control the use of funds that they can raise themselves. At this time, fund raising for specific special
programs they desire for their children would be their better approach.

A NO vote on Measure E will keep the pressure on Sacramento to do what is right.
s/Ben A. Cerruti

zmmmmMmmurnmm

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

Once again a recession is being used as an excuse to raise taxes that history tells us are unlikely to ever be removed. The
facts are that California enjoyed a robust 8 percent annual increase in tax revenues over the past decade but our state
government had spending rising at an 11 percent annual rate. In 1965-66 the legislature had budgeted $9.2 million for 485
staffers, rising to 1172 staffers and a budget of $131.6 million in 1985-86. By 1990 nearly 3000 staffers served 120 legislators
costing nearly $200 million. This parcel tax would simply free up additional revenue for the state bureaucracy to use to
maintain it's high spending ways.

Further, this proposed parcel tax is unfair because it imposes a series of different parcel tax rates on residential parcels
depending on the number of residential units on the parcel, with the tax ranging up to $500 for apartments with 5 units or
more. All commercial parcels, no matter how large, are taxed at $150 per parcel, the same rate as the most modest house.
A small duplex will be charged almost twice as much as a large warehouse, industrial building, shopping mall, or
supermarket.

Imposing an additional tax, disproportionally distributed, on those local residents who have paid and are still paying their
fair share in supporting the local community, in order to perpetuate fiscal mismanagement in our state capitol. is plain
wrong. Vote nO'on thiS'propcsition.
s/Ben A. Cerruti

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

The funds raised through the parcel tax cannot be used to offset state spending for any purpose, if the courts or state try to
somehow use this money to offset state obligations, the tax will be rescinded. That's in the Board Resolution calling for
the election. And in spite of growth of state revenues and state spending, the simple fact is that Livermore schools will
receive about the same level of funding for 1991-92 as they received in 1988-89... not adjusted for inflation, but actual
dollars. The realities are that the state tells our educators how much money they can spend on education and then how
they must spend it.

By raising through the parcel tax about 10% of the money we spend on education in Livermore, we can have a much
greater role in deciding what is important at each school site. Teachers and parents can make decisions that can and will
make our schools better... and the graduates better prepared to become contributing citizens.

The tax is fair... residential property owners will pay one flat rate. This is the only way we can raise revenues locally, and
it avoids the unfair property valuations used by the Assessor, And speaking of property values, the better the schools in
our community, the more secure are our property values!

This is truly a self-help initiative. It’s time for Livermore’s voters to say YES to better schools, YES to better education,
and YES to greater local control

Vote YES on Measure E.

s/Gilbert R. Marguth	s/Mary Ann Hannon

sAVilliam Nebo	s/Dorothy J. Svets

s/Barry Schrader