II

.00 per
e Index
ssessed

n shall ;
cted by j

f land,
hin the
Ventura
number;
.s, used
ses and
of an
ad as a

solely

obtain

ication

hall be
Ventura
an upon
ject to
ies for

svide a
for the
eatened
cel tax
inue to
urces.

Unified
5 Joint

.es and
ballot
llowing

mi iqql

"Measure

"Shall the Las Virgenes Unified School District be
authorized to levy a special tax of $150.00, adjusted by the CPI,
on each parcel within the District, each year for four years to be
used to restore budget cuts, reduce class size, and restore seventh
period elective classes? Shall the State Appropriations Limit be
increased accordingly?"

The Full Ballot Measure shall read as follows:

"To restore and maintain the quality of the education
provided to the students within the Las Virgenes Unified School
District, said $150.00 to be adjusted annually in accordance with
the Consumer Price Index for the Los Angeles Standard Metropolitan
Statistical Area, shall the Las virgenes Unified School District
levy a special tax of $150.00 on each parcel of land as defined
within the District, developed and undeveloped, each year for four
full fiscal years in order to provide any or all -of the following:

1)	Restoration of 1991-92 priority budget cuts or
reductions that directly affected the classroom.

2)	Reduction of primary, upper elementary, middle
school and high school grade class sizes (student-
teacher ratios) as follows:.

a.	Reduced primary grade (kindergarten through
third grade) class sizes or pupil: teacher ratio
by four students per class.

b.	Reduce upper elementary grade (forth and fifth
grade) class sizes or pupil:teacher ratio by
two students.

c.	Reduce academic class loads at the middle
school by three students per class.

d.	Reduce high school academic classes by four
students with a goal of not more than 35 per
class.

3)	Addition of a seventh period at the middle school.

4)	Add an additional elective seventh period of not
less than 40 classes at the high school level.

5)	Addition of elementary specialists (e.g. music, art,
physical education, computer).

Funds collected but not needed for above shall be
used for additional class size reductions.

3

6)

The above programs will be funded in the priority listed,
unless the Board determines in any given year that student
population or fiscal constraints or changes in state funding
prevent it from doing so. In any event, no program or reduction
other than the above shall be funded by the proceeds of the special
tax. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL ANY OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE TAX
BE USED FOR GENERAL SALARY INCREASES OR ADMINISTRATIVE SALARIES.

The term "Parcel" shall mean any parcel of land,
developed or undeveloped, wholly or partially located within the
District, for which the Los Angeles and Ventura County Assessors
have assigned an assessor's identification number; provided,
however, that any such parcels which are contiguous, used solely
for owner-occupied single family residential purposes and held
under identical ownership, may, upon approval of an application of
the owners thereof submitted t-; the Governing Board of this
District, be treated as a single parcel for purposes of the special
tax.

Pursuant to California Government Code section 50079(b),
any owners, 65 years of age or older, of a parcel used solely for
owner-occupied single family residential purposes may obtain an
exemption from the special tax upon approval of an application
submitted to the Governing Board of the District.

Pursuant to California .Constitution Article XIII B, the
appropriations limit for the Las Virgenes Unified School District
shall be increased by the aggregate sum collected by the levy of
the special tax in each of the years for which the special tax is
authorized.