OFFICIAL BALLOT	COUNTY OF SANTA	CLARA

CONSOLIDATED SCHOOL ELECTIONS	MARCHS,	1991

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS
LOMA PRIETA JOINT UNION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL PURPOSE TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL IMPROVEMENT

Shall the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District be
authorized to implement a special tax and increase its Gann Appropria-
tions Limit for a period of five years by the amount of revenue generated
by that special tax?

YES

NO

D

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

Statements and information concerning measures

Arguments in support of or In opposition to the
proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

All authors have filed signed
statements that their arguments
are true and correct to the best of
their knowledge and belief.

Although the materials in this pamphlet have been carefully proofread,
typographical errors occasionally remain undetected.

If any substantive errors are discovered after the pamphlet has
been printed, correction notices will be printed in appropriate
local newspapers on Friday, March 1, 1991.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

Loma Prfeta Joint Union Elementary School District
Special Purpose Tax for Quality Education

Shall the Loma Prieta Joint Union Elementary School District be authorized
to implement a special tax and increase its Gann Appropriations Limit for a
period of five years by the amount of revenue generated by that special tax?”
The rate for the five years of the special tax shall be $150 per parcel per
year, beginning July 1,1991. In accordance with State law, the voters shall
have the opportunity to approve the continuation of the increase in the Gann
Appropriations Limit in the year 1996. Such approval is required by the District
to use the revenues generated by the tax. No later than two weeks after a
Gann election, the Board shall reset the parcel tax rate, but may not set a
rate higher than $150 per parcel per year.

The purpose of the special tax is to improve and maintain the quality of
education in the district by taking actions at the discretion of the Board
including but not limited to:

a.	Restore funds for services reduced or eliminated in prior years, such as
those for School Nurse, Developmental Kindergarten, Computer Education,
Staff Development, Developmental Physical Education, Math/Science Enrich-
ment, and middle school enrichment Elective Programs.

b.	Restore funds for instructional materials reduced or eliminated in prior
years, including those for library books, textbooks, and basic supplies and
equipment.

c.	Provide funds for maintaining and or expanding current programs, such
as those for emergency preparedness, after school sports, instrumental
music, vocal music, and other visual and performing arts.

d.	Provide funds for the repair and replacement of buses.

e.	Provide funds for leasing portable classrooms.

f.	Provide funds for equipping the school facilities and grounds.

These purposes specifically exclude salary improvements or
negotiated employee benefits.

PROVISIONS OF ITEM 3 OF RESOLUTION
NO. 91-IV, ORDERING SPECIAL TAX ELECTION

3. That the special tax shall be in the amount of $150 per year for each
Assessor's Parcel within the District as shown on the then-current secured
Assessment Roll prepared by the Santa Clara County Assessor and Santa
Cruz County Assessor, beginning July 1,1991, with the following exemptions:

a.	for the owner of a minor unimproved parcel of less than one acre
upon which no habitable structure exists.

b.	for the owner, or one owner in joint ownership, of a parcel who has
attained 65 years of age or older on or before July 1 of an applicable
year and who uses that parcel as his or her principal residence, and
on whose property no other habitable structure exists,

G-3

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A — continued

c.	for the owner of multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part
of one economic unit in the same name.

d.	for a property owner who has had his/her residence rendered unin-
habitable by the damages of a natural disaster and declared so by
county government on or before July 1 of an applicable year, and
where no other habitable structure exists on that same parcel. Such
exemption shall end when said structure becomes habitable during
any given year.

e.	for a property owner who has had his/her business structure rendered
uninhabitable by the damages of a natural disaster and declared so
by county government on or before July 1 of an applicable year.
Such exemption shall end when said structure becomes habitable
during any given year.

The District shall establish an administrative review process to grant
exemptions and consider appeals, for senior citizens, owners of minor
unimproved parcels of less than one acre, contiguous parcels, and
hardship due to natural disasters.

so/£

a

f

G-4