SPECIAL TAX_____________________

ELECTION DATE:	NOVEMBER	5.	1991

KENWOOD SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX
ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

D Shall the Kenwood School District,
serving the children of Kenwood, pro-
vide funds for the purpose of reduction of
class size and maintenance and enhance-
ment of academic and educational pro-
grams by levying a special tax assessment on --------

each assessor’s parcel of $48.00 per year YES 1—1

($24.00 per semi-annual payment) for a pe-----------

Hod of five years, beginning July 1, 1992 NQ q
and increase its appropriations limit by the I
amount of revenue generated by that special
tax, with certain specific exemptions as set
forth In the Resolution and Order of
Election?

REGISTERED VOTERS:

3,494

RESULTS

PASSED

YES 1.560

Y X N

NO

483

2/3 MAJORITY?__X

SIMPLE MAJORITY?

Sample Ballot

■SIDE 1

OFFICIAL BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED ELECTIONS

COUNTY OF SONOMA

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 1991

This ballot stub shall be torrr off by precinct board
member and handed to the voter.

r-------------------1

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)

IN THIS MANNER
ONLY

CARD A

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

SCHOOL

SANTA ROSA CITY HIGH 8CHOOL DISTRICT

B Shall the City of Santa Rota High
School District incur bonded indebted-
new in the amount of $129,000,000 to bear
Interest at a rate not to exceed the statutory
limit per annum for the purpose of raising
money for the building or purchasing of
school buildings: the making of alterations
or additions to the school building or build-
ings other than such as mat be necessary for
current maintenance, operations, or re-
pairs; the permanent Improvement of the
school grounds; and the carrying out of nec-
essary or convenient projects or purposes as
authorised in Section 39613 of the Educa-
tion Code?

KENWOOD SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX
ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

D Shall the Kenwood School District,
serving the children of Kenwood, pro-
vide funds for the purpose of reduction of
class size ind maintenance and enhance-
ment of academic and edocational pro-
grams by levying a special tax assessment on
each assessor 1 parcel of $48.00 per year
($24.00 per semi-annual payment) for a pe-
riod of five tears, beginning Jniy 1, 1992
and increase Its appropriations limit by the
amount of revenue generated by that special
tax, with certain specific exemptions as set
forth in the Resolution and Order of
Election?

49-107A

49-SB4





Sample Ballot



RESOLUTION NO. 492,1990-91
BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
KENWOOD SCHOOL DISTRICT
SONOMA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of a
Special Tax Election

RESOLUTION AND ORDER
OF ELECTION

___________________________________)

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide adequate
and necessary funding to the continued operations of the Kenwood School of
the Kenwood School District; and as a result of this lack of funding and
financial support for the Kenwood School, the Kenwood School District is in
danger of eliminating many programs beneficial and necessary to the children
who attend the Kenwood School; and once eliminated these programs will be
extremely difficult to reinstate; and
WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program delivers
many long lasting benefits and advantages to all of the residents of our
community; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079 and 53720 et seq.
authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the purpose of
conducting its business upon the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by
voters voting upon such a special tax proposal; and
WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XllfB of the California Constitution allows
the appropriations limit of school districts to be increased by the electors.
Such approval is required for the District to use the revenues generated by the
tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Governing Board of the Ken-
wood School District resolves to conduct a special election on November 5,
1991, at which time will be submitted to the qualified voters of the Kenwood
School District a measure to authorize a special tax for the purpose of
reduction of class size and the maintenance and enhancement of the Ken-
wood School District academic and educational programs and to increase its
appropriations limit by the amount of revenue generated by the special tax.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries
of the Kenwood School District at which election shall be submitted to the
qualified voters within the Kenwood School District the following measure, to
wit:

KENWOOD SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX
ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
Shall the Kenwood School District, serving the children of Kenwood,
provide funds for the purpose of reduction of class size and maintenance
and enhancement of academic and educational programs by levying a
special tax assessment on each assessor's parcel of $48.00 per year
($24.00 per semi-annual payment) for a period of five years, beginning
July 1, 1992 and increase its appropriations limit by the amount of
revenue generated by that special tax, with certain specific exemptions as
set forth in the Resolution and Order of Election?

_____________YE$	 NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1,1992, the special tax collected annually
on all assessor’s parcels at the rate specified above, shall be collected and
administered in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and
collected under provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.-
Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Sonoma County is hereby
requested to call a special election of the said special tax to be. held on
November 5, 1991 and to consolidate this election with any elections to be
held on this same date. The Sonoma County Board of Supervisors Is hereby
requested and authorized to consolidate this election with any elections to be
held on this same date. The County Clerk is hereby requested and authorized
to: 1) set forth all sample ballots relating to said election to be mailed to the
qualified electors of the Kenwood School District; and 2) to provide absent
voter ballots for said special tax election for use by qualified electors of the
Kenwood School District who are entitled thereto in the manner provided by
Law.

Section 5. if any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this resolution is
for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portion of this resolution. The Governing Board declares that it
would have adopted this resolution and each section, subsection, phrase or
clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsec-
tions, sentences, phrases or clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6. The clerk of the Kenwood School District Governing Board is
hereby authorized and directed to certify to the due adoption of this resolution
and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of
Sonoma County, the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors, and to file a copy
hereof so certified with the County Clerk of Sonoma County.

The foregoing resolution was introduced by Board Member Ellen Friedman,
who moved its adoption, seconded by Board Member Barney Locke, and
adopted on roll call on May 14,1991 by the following vote:

MEASURE D

Shall the Kenwood School District, serving the children of KenWood,
provide funds for the purpose of reduction of class size and the maintenance
and enhancement of academic and educational programs of the Kenwood
School District by imposing a special tax based upon the use or right of use
on each assessor's parcel within the boundaries of the Kenwood School
District for a period of five (5) years beginning July 1,1992 and increasing its
appropriations limit for the maximum time allowed by law by the amount of
revenue generated by that special tax?

\



The special tax will be imposed in the amount of $48.00 per year for each
assessor’s parcel. The proceeds of the tax shall be deposited in a special fund
to be used for the purpose of reduction of class size and the maintenance and
enhancement of academic and educational programs of the Kenwood School
District. Exemptions from the assessment will be made available as follows:

a.	To each individual in the District who will attain 65 years on or before
May 1 of the assessment year, and who owns a beneficial interest In the
parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of such parcel, and who uses
that parcel as his or her principal place of residence.

b.	For the owner of a parcel which has been determined to be unusable by
the Sonoma County Assessor’s Office.

c.	For multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part of one economic
unit under the same name and ownership. Such multiple parcels may
be charged as one parcel.

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before May 1,
1992 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any one application from
a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining
term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to qualify for the
exemption. The District shall establish an administrative review process to
grant such exemptions.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual ballot
shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

Member Fine	Yes
Member Ham	Yes
Member Friedman	Yes
Member Locke	Yes
Member Phillips	Yes

AYES: 5	NOES:	0	ABSENT OR NOT VOTING: 0

SO ORDERED.

s/ Nancy L. Fine
President

CERTIFIED

s/ Barney L. Locke
Clerk, Board of Trustees

aww—

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
KENWOOD SCHOOL DISTRICT

State law requires school districts to have voter approval before imposing
special taxes for school purposes. The Governing Board of the Kenwood
School District has called for such an election.

If two-thirds of the Kenwood School District voters who vote on the
measure vote for approval, the District will be authorized to levy a special tax
of S48 per year per parcel for each parcel of land within the District’s
boundaries. The tax is based on the privilege of using the parcel, and will
remain in effect for five fiscal years beginning July 1,1992. Proceeds of the
tax would be used to reduce class size and to maintain and enhance academic
and educational programs.

The measure exempts (1) parcels owned or partially owned by a person
who will be over the age of 65 on or before May 1 of the year for which the tax
is assessed and who uses the parcel as his or her principal place of residence
(for example, if a husband and wife own a parcel, and one of them will be
over 65, the parcel will be exempt); (2) parcels determined to be unbuildable
by the Sonoma County Assessor’s Office; and (3) contiguous parcels used as
one economic unit under the same ownership: those parcels would be taxed
as one parcel. Persons claiming exemptions must apply to the District by the
May 1 preceding the fiscal year in which the exemption is first claimed.

The measure also provides that the spending limit of the District would be
increased by the amount of revenue generated by the tax. Voter approval of
the change in the spending limit permits the District to keep and spend money
raised by the new tax.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Kenwood School District who vote on this
measure vote “yes," the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied.
The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes
starting with the 1992-1993 fiscal year.

s/ James P. Botz
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

•	INVEST IN A WINNER - Kenwood School is recognized by the State
Department of Education as one of the best elementary schools in California.

•	MAINTAIN EXCELLENCE - Preserve our quality education at Kenwood
Elementary School. We have already reduced our teaching staff creating
larger classes. Valuable programs such as music, library, art, physical
education, and classroom aides are being reduced or eliminated.

•	PROTECT PROPERTY VALUES - Studies have shown that the value of
real estate can be directiy linked to the quality of the school district by which it
is served. A $4.00 per month or 13 cents per day tax will help our children
and enhance property value.

•	LOCAL CONTROL - This tax money will stay In our community and
benefit us all rather than being sent to Sacramento. The Kenwood School
administration is accountable to the voting community. Kenwood School
District has been administered conservatively, Expenditures have been priori-
tized. Extravagances have been avoided. Revenues have been spent wisely.
This modest tax will expire in 5 years.

•	FAIRNESS - This measure includes exemptions for homeowners over
65 years old and for certain adjacent and unusable parcels.

•	LOOK TO THE FUTURE - Our children are the future. This tax money will
be used to reduce class size and promote a comprehensive education of
academics, the arts and physical education, This tax money will NOT be spent
on salary raises administrative costs or new facilities.

•	VOTE YES ON MEASURE D.

s/ Nancy L. Fine
Parent

School Board President

s/J. Michael Mullins
Assistant District Attorney, Sonoma County

s/ Michael J. Lee
Owner, Kenwood Vineyards

s/ Juelle Hinman
Founding Director, Santa Rosa Childrens Chorus

s/ Louis W. Parente
Former Administrator, Palo Alto School District

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

49-58