<resolution> MEASURE E

RESOLUTION NO. 92-37
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
NEVADA IRRIGATION DISTRICT

(CALLING A SPECIAL ELECTION ON AN AMENDMENT
TO RESOLUTION NO. 1054 AND CONSOLIDATING
THAT SPECIAL ELECTION WITH THE GENERAL
ELECTION ON NOVEMBER 3, 1992)

WHEREAS, this Board of Directors (the "Board") of
the Nevada Irrigation District (the "District"), Nevada and
Placer Counties (each, a "County") has adopted
Resolution No. 93-36 to amend Resolution No. 1054,
adopted by the Board on April 26, 1963 (the "Original
Resolution"), to authorize purchase of the District’s
outstanding Yuba-Bear River Development Revenue
Bonds, Fifth Issue, First Division, which are currently
outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of
$40,261,000 (the "Bonds") in lieu of redemption at par;
and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 10.01 and 10.03 of
the Original Resolution, any amendment to the Original
Resolution is required to be submitted to and approved
by a majority vote of the voters of the District voting
thereon at an election called and held for that purpose;
and

WHEREAS, in the further judgment of the Board, it is
advisable to order the Clerk of each County to call an
election on November 3, 1992, on the question of
whether the Original Resolution shall be amended for the
purposes described above (the "Amendment"):

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Directors of the
Nevada Irrigation District hereby finds, determines,
declares and resolves as follows:

SECTION 1. A special election shall be held on
November 3, 1992, on the question of amending
Resolution No. 1054 to authorize the Amendment as
provided for by Resolution No. 92-36.

SECTION 2. That the purpose of the election shall
be for the voters in the District to vote on a proposition,
substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit "A"
and incorporated by reference herein, containing the
question of whether the District shall amend Resolution
No. 1054 for the purposes stated therein.

SECTION 3. Pursuant to Elections Code Sections
23300, 23301.5, and 23302, request is hereby made to
the Nevada County Board of Supervisors and the Placer
County Board of Supervisors to consolidate the aforesaid
special election with the general election to be held on
November 3, 1992.

SECTION 4. Under the provisions of Elections
Code Section 22003, the Clerk of the County of Nevada
and the Clerk of the County of Placer shall each be
authorized to render all services necessary for the
conduct of the election.

SECTION 5. Under the provisions of Elections
Code Section 23306, each Board of Supervisor is
authorized to canvass the election returns of the voters
within the applicable County.

SECTION 6. Under the provisions of Elections
Code Section 23312, the precincts, polling places, and
precinct board members shall be the same as those
provided for in the general election to be held on
November 3, 1992.

SECTION 7. Under the provisions of Elections
Code Section 22003 and 23311, the Nevada Irrigation
District shall reimburse the County of Nevada and the
County of Placer for the conduct of the election.

SECTION 8. The President, the General Manager
and the Secretary and any other proper officer of the
District, acting singly, be and each of them hereby is
authorized and directed to execute and deliver any and
all documents and instruments and to do and cause to be
done any and all acts and things necessary or proper for
carrying out the transactions contemplated by this
resolution.

SECTION 9. This resolution shall become effective
immediately.

ADOPTED by the Board of Directors of the Nevada
Irrigation District at a regular meeting of said Board, held
on the 24th day of June, 1992, by the following vote of
said Board:

Ayes:	Directors: Southern,	Bierwagen,

Beisswinger

Noes:	None

Absent:	Williams; Vacant Division 3

Abstaining:	None

Dorothy P. Miller
Secretary

I certify that the foregoing Resolution was adopted by the
Board of Directors of the Nevada Irrigation District at a
regular meeting held on June 24, 1992.

DOROTHY P. MILLER
Secretary of the Board of Directors
 <resolutionend>








<fiscal> TAX RATE STATEMENT OF MEASURE E

Approval of Measure E will not increase the tax rate on
real or personal property within the District. <fiscalend>










<fiscalsigs> James P. Chatigny
General Manager <fiscalsigsend>











<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL S IMPARTIAL
ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

The Board of Directors of the Nevada Irrigation District is
requesting approval of the voters within the District in
order to allow the District to retire the Yuba-Bear River
Development Revenue Bonds (the "bonds") which were
issued by the District in 1963. In 1963 the District issued
approximately $63,000,000 worth of bonds to finance the
development of District facilities. Under the terms of the
bond documents, the District would be required to retire
the bonds at their face value.

This measure would authorize certain amendments to the
bond documents in order to allow the District to retire the
bonds at their present market price which is presently
less than their face value. The savings to the District
would go equally into the Yuba-Bear River Project’s
operation and maintenance fund and to the District’s
general fund.

A "yes" vote would authorize the required amendments to
the bond documents in order to allow the District to retire
the bonds at their current market price rather than at face
value. A "no" vote would not authorize such
amendments.

Dated: August 19, 1992 <impartialend>










<impartialsigs> JAMES A. CURTIS
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>












<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Measure E amends the provision of Nevada Irrigation
District’s outstanding Yuba-Bear bonds. Currently, the
District is required to pay above-market price to retire
these bonds. Measure E will allow the District to retire
bonds at market price. The amendment would increase
the amount of revenue in the District general fund to
offset the District's water system expenses.

Measure E will not authorize any bonds or increase
District indebtedness.

Measure E will not increase property taxes or water rates.

Measure E would prevent the bonds owners from
receiving a windfall profit and distribute that profit to
District rate payers. <favorend>










<favorsigs> JAMES P. CHATIGNY	ROGER L. KRILL

General Manager

NELDA MAUDIE WALKER	JACK MOORHEAD <favorsigsend>







ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

(None Filed)
