CITY OF OAKLAND

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AND PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
TO THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF OAKLAND

TO BE VOTED UPON AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTION (RUN-OFF) CONSOLIDATED WITH
THE STATEWIDE GENERAL ELECTION
TO BE HELD IN THE CITY OF OAKLAND
ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3,1992

PROPOSED ORDINANCE AND PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF
OAKLAND TOGETHER WITH LEGAL ANALYSES OF EACH MEASURE PREPARED BY THE CITY
ATTORNEY, FINANCIAL ANALYSES OF EACH MEASURE PREPARED BY THE CITY AUDITOR,
ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF ADOPTION AND ARGUMENTS AGAINST ADOPTION AND REBUTTALS
TO ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR AND REBUTTALS TO ARGUMENTS AGAINST. ARGUMENTS IN
SUPPORT OR OPPOSITION OF THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS.

Copies of the Pamphlet In Spanish may be obtained by phoning
238-3611.

Copias de este Panfleto en Espanol se puedent obtener llamando
por telefono al numero 238*3611.

The Council of the City of Oakland does hereby submit on its own motion the following proposed ordinance and
proposed amendments to the Charter of the City of Oakland to be voted on by the qualified electors of the City of
Oakland at the Gehinal Municipal Election (Run-Off) consolidated with the General Election to be held in the City of
Oakland on TUesday, November 3,1992.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

LIBRARY SERVICES RETENTION ACT OF 1992
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N

The proposed ordinance reads as follows:

Be It Ordained by the People of the City of Oakland as follows:

Section 1. TITLE AND PURPOSE

(A)	Title. This Ordinance may be cited as the “Library Services Retention Act of 1992.”

(B)	Purpose. The tax imposed under this Ordinance is solely for the purpose of raising revenue necessary to retain and
enhance library services in the City of Oakland.

In recognition of the potential hardship on low-income families and enterprises, the Ordinance provides a complete
exemption from the tax for low-income homeowners, non-profit residential hotels, schools, hospitals, churches, and land
used for agricultural purposes.

The Library Services Retention Act of 1992 is for the sole purpose of raising revenue that will be utilized for library
services. This special tax is not an ad valorem tax on real property nor a transaction tax nor sales tax on the sale of real
property within the City.

Section 2. USE OF PROCEEDS

The proceeds of this tax may only be used in accordance with the following objectives:

1.	to keep at least one neighborhood library per Council District open 6 days per week, including evenings;

2.	to retain Main Library evening and Sunday hours;

3.	to enhance and expand library collections;

4.	to provide children’s service programs in every neighborhood library; and

5.	to expand programs in support of literacy and lifelong learning.

Section 3. DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this Ordinance only, the following terms shall be defined as set forth below:

(A)	“Building” shall mean any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and designed for the shelter or
housing of any person, chattel or property of any kind. The word “Building” includes the word “structure”.

(B)	“Exempt Organization” shall mean a non-profit organization that is exempt from taxation under Section 501(c) (3)
or 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code.

(C)	“Family” shall mean one or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, who are living together in a
single Residential Unit and maintaining a common household. Family shall also mean all unrelated persons who live
together in a single Residential Unit and maintain a common household.

(D)	“Hotel” shall mean any Building, or portion of a Building that is occupied or intended or designed for Occupancy
by Transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home, house, motel, studio
hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobile home
or house trailer at fixed location, or other similar Building or portion thereof.

(E)	“Improvements” shall mean all Buildings, structures, fixtures, fences and paving in the City erected or affixed to
land, and all items which are permanently affixed to land which have become a part of real property by having been
physically incorporated therein or permanently affixed thereto.

(F)	“Non-Residential” shall mean all parcels that are not classified by this Ordinance as Residential Units, and shall
indude, but not be limited to, industrial and institutional Improvements, as well as Vacant Parcels.

(G)	“Qccupancy" shall mean the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any room or rooms or
portion thereof, in any Hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes.

(H)	“Operator” shall mean the Person who is a proprietor of a Hotel, whether in the capadty of owner, lessee,
sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or any other capadty. Where the Operator performs his functions through a
managing agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall be deemed an Operator for
the purposes of this Ordinance.

(I)	“Owner” shall mean the Person having title to real estate as shown on the most current offirial assessment roll of the
Alameda County Assessor.

(J)	“Parcel” shall mean a unit of real estate in the City of Oakland as shown on the most current offidal assessment roll
of the Alameda County Assessor.

(K)	“Person” shall include individuals, and for profit and non-profit organizations, inducting, but not limited to,
corporations, partnerships, business assodations and trusts.

(L)	“Possessory Interest” as it applies to property owned by any agency of the government of the United States, the
State of California, or any political subdivision thereof, shall mean possession of, claim to, or right to the possession of,
land or Improvements and shall include any exdusive right to the use of such land or Improvements.

(M)	“Residential Unit” shall mean a Building or portion of a Building designed for or occupied exclusively by one
Family.

(N)	“Transient” shall mean any individual who exercises Occupancy of a hotel or is entitled to Occupancy by reason of
concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar daysor less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any individual so occupying space in a Hotel shall be deemed to be a
Transient until the period of thirty (30) days.

(O)	“Vacant Parcel” shall mean an unimproved Parcel, but shall not include unimproved Parcels which have been
dedicated as open space or parklands.

(P)	“Main Library” is defined as the central library of the Oakland Public Library system.

(Q)	“Library Collections” are defined as books, magazines, newspapers, electronic databases, materials for public use
that are in video and audio formats, as well as learning materials used to enhance reading and literacy skills.

Section 4. IMPOSITION OF PARCEL TAX

There is hereby imposed a special tax on all parcels in the City of Oakland, except where the parcels are otherwise
exempt from taxation by Section 6 of this Ordinance.

(lie tax imposed by this section shall be assessed to the Owner unless the Owner is by law exempt from taxation, in
which case, the tax imposed shall be assessed to the holder of the Possessory Interest in such parcel, unless such holder is
also by law exempt from taxation.

The tax hereby imposed shall be at the following rates:

(A)	For all single family Residential Parcels, the tax shall be at the annual rate of $30 per Parcel

(B)	For all multiple unit Residential Parcels, the tax shall be at the annual rate of $20 per Residential Unit located on
such Parcels.

(C)	For Non-Residential Parcels the tax rate shall be at the annual rate of $15 for every single family Residential Parcel
unit equivalent. Equivalents will be based on square footage and frontage and by land use category as follows:

LAND USE CATEGORY

Commercial / Institutional

Industrial

Public Utility

Golf Course

Quarry

FRONTAGE (FT)
80
100
1,000
500
1,000

AREA (SF)
6,400
10,000
100,000
100,000
250,000

Example: assessment calculation for a commercial or institutional parcel with a frontage of 160 feet and an area of
12,800sq. ft.:

Frontage	Area

160 FT	12.800 SF

6,400 SF/SFE = 2SFE

2SFE + 2SFE = 4SFE;4 x $15 = $60

80FT/SFE = 2 SFE;

Sections. HOTELS

(A) General Rule. The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be imposed on each Hotel within the City in accordance
with the following:

1.	Residential Hotels. Notwithstanding the previous subsection, if rooms in a Hotel were occupied by individuals who
were not Transients, for 80% or more of the previous fiscal year such Hotel shall be deemed a Residential Hotel, and such
rooms shall be deemed Residential Units and shall be subject to the Parcel tax imposed on Residential Units. The
remainder of the Building shall be subject to the applicable Square Footage and single family equivalent calculations for
this tax.

2.	TVansient Hotels. If 80% or more of the Operator’s gross receipts for the previous fiscal year were reported as rent
received from Transients on a return filed by the Operator in compliance with Section 5, Article 20 of the Oakland
Municipal Code (commonly known as the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax of the City of Oakland), such Hotel shall be
deemed a Transient Hotel. The entire Building shall be deemed a Commercial Improvement, shall be subject to the
Square Footage and single family equivalent calculations applicable to this tax, and the Parcel tax imposed on Residential
Units shall not apply.

Section 6. EXEMPTIONS

The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be subject to the exemptions set forth in this section.

(A)	Low-Income Homeowner Exemption. Exempt from this tax are owners of single-family Residential Units in
which they reside whose combined Family income, from all sources for the previous calendar year, is at or below the
income level qualifying as “very low-income” for a Family of such size under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act
of 1937 [42 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437 et. seq.], for such year. Owners must apply for the exemption provided for in this
section annually by petition to the Director of Finance of the City of Oakland in the manner and at the time set forth by
the Director of Finance. Such petitions shall be on forms provided by the Director of Finance and shall provide such
information as the Director of Finance shall require, including, but not limited to, federal income tax returns and W-2
forms of owner-occupants eligible for this exemption.

(B)	Low-Income Residential Hotel Exemption. Notwithstanding the apportionment requirements of Section
5-30.05(D) above, there are exempt from the tax imposed by this Ordinance owners of Residential Hotels owned and
operated by Exempt Organizations or by limited partnerships in which the controlling general partner is an Exempt
Organization. This exemption shall only apply if the Residential Hotel is subject to a recorded regulatory agreement
between the Owner and the State of California or a federal or local public agency, and if, pursuant to such agreement, the
Owner is obligated to maintain rents in the Residential Hotel at “affordable” levels and rent to “low income” persons as
such terms are defined in the applicable regulatory agreement. Owners must apply for this exemption to this tax annually
by petition to the Director of Finance of the City of Oakland in the manner and at the time set forth in regulations to be
promulgated by the City Council as hereafter provided for.

Section 7. REDUCTION IN TAX; RATE ADJUSTMENT

(a)	Subject to paragraph (b), the tax rates imposed by this Ordinance are maximum rates and may not be increased
by the City Council above such maximum rates. The tax imposed by this Ordinance may be reduced or eliminated by
the City Council for a subsequent fiscal year upon a vote of the City Council on or before June 30th in any year in
which the City Council determines that after such reduction or elimination there will be sufficient revenues available to
balance the City Council’s Adopted Policy Budget. Such reduction or elimination shall be effective for the fiscal year
following such vote.

(b)	After the third year of imposition of this tax, the City Council may increase the tax imposed hereby only upon a
finding that the cost of living in the immediate San Francisco Bay Area, as verified by Official United States economic
reports, has increased; the increase of the tax imposed hereby shall not exceed such verified index. It is further provided
that in no event shalFtfK! tax rate adjustment imposed hereby exceed, on an annual basis, five percent (5%) of the tax
rates imposed by the City of Oakland during the immediately preceding fiscal year.

Section 8. MINIMUM LIBRARY APPROPRIATION

________PREREQUISITE AT FY 91-92 LEVEL

For any year this tax is in effect, the City Council may collect this tax only if the General Fund appropriation for Library
services is maintained at a level that is no lower than the General Fund appropriation for FY 1991-92. The General Fund
appropriation for Library services for FY 1991-92 was $7.8 million.

Section 9. TERM OF TAX IMPOSITION

The tax imposed by the Library Services Retention Act of 1992 shall become effective on December 1,1992 for the
15-year period thereafter. The tax imposed by the Ordinance shall be deemed extended for an additional 15-year period if
on or before June 30th of the fifteenth year, the City Council submits an ordinance to the voters of the City of Oakland
and the voters approve such extension. The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall remain in full force and effect during the
pendency of such election if it is held subsequent to June 30th of the fiscal year the tax is to be extended. In the event that
this Ordinance is extended as provided in this section, this Ordinance shall be deemed extended for all purposes and such
extension shall relate back to the original passage of this Ordinance and shall not constitute a reimposition of the tax
imposed by this Ordinance.

Section 10. ANNUAL AUDIT

The City Auditor will perform an annual audit to assure accountability for the disbursement of these tax proceeds in
accordance with the objectives stated herein.

Section H. DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE;

_____________NOTICE	OF DECISIONS_________________

It shall be the duty of the Director of Finance to collect and receive all taxes imposed by this Ordinance, and to keep an
accurate record thereof.

Said Director of Finance is hereby charged with the enforcement of this Ordinance, except as otherwise provided
herein, and may prescribe, adopt, and enforce rules and regulations relating to the administration and enforcement of
this Ordinance, including provisions for the re-examination and correction of returns and payments. The Director of
Finance may prescribe the extent to which any ruling or regulation shall be applied without retroactive effect.

Upon disallowing any claims submitted pursuant to Section 15, the Director of Finance shall mail written notice thereof
to the claimant at his/her address as shown on the Alameda County Assessor’s property tax rolls.

Section 12. EXAMINATION OF BOOKS, RECORDS,

__________WITNESSES; PENALTIES__________________

The Director of Finance, or his/her designee, is hereby authorized to examine assessment rolls, property tax records,
records of the Alameda County Recorder and any other records of the County of Alameda deemed necessary in order to
determine ownership of Parcels and computation of the tax imposed by this Ordinance.

The Director of Finance, or his/her designee, is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers and records of any
person subject to the tax imposed by this Ordinance for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any petition, claim or
return filed and to ascertain the tax due. The Director of Finance, or his/her designee, is hereby authorized to examine
any person, under oath, for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any petition, claim or return filed or to ascertain the
tax due under this Ordinance and for this purpose may compel the production of books, papers and records before
him/her, whether as parties or witnesses, whenever s/he believes such persons have knowledge of such matters. The
refusal of such examination by any person subject to the tax shall be deemed a violation of this Ordinance.

Section 13. COLLECTION OF TAX; INTEREST AND PENALTIES
The City Council of the City of Oakland is authorized to have the taxes imposed by this Ordinance collected by the
County of Alameda in conjunction with the County's collection of property tax revenues for the City of Oakland. In the
event that the County of Alameda collects the taxes imposed by this Ordinance, the imposition of penalties, additional
fees and interest upon persons who fail to remit any tax imposed by this Ordinance, or who fail to remit any delinquent
remittance under this Ordinance, shall be subject to and governed by the rules, regulations, and procedures utilized by
the County of Alameda in its collection of property taxes for the City of Oakland and its collection of this additional tax
for the City of Oakland.

%1

In addition to any other penalties otherwise imposed, a one-time penalty at a rate set by the City Council, which in no
event shall exceed 25% of the tax due per year, is hereby imposed by this Ordinance on all taxpayers who fail to timely pay
the tax provided by this Ordinance, in addition, interest shall be assessed at the rate of 1% per month on the unpaid tax
and the penalty thereon.

Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of this Ordinance shall become a part of the
tax herein required to be paid.

Section 14. COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES
The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under the provisions of this Ordinance shall be deemed a debt to
the City. Any person owing money under the provisions of this Ordinance shall be liable to an action brought in the name
of the City for the recovery for such amount.

Section 15. REFUND OF TAX, PENALTY, OR INTEREST
PAID MORE THAN ONCE; OR ERRONEOUSLY OR

_______________ILLEGALLY	COLLECTED______________

Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or •
illegally Collected or received by the City under this Ordinance, it may be refunded provided a verified claim in writing
therefor, stating the specific ground upon which such claim is founded, is filed with the Director of Finance within one (1)
year from the date of payment. The claim shall be audited by the Director of Finance and shall be made on forms
provided by the Director of Finance. If the claim is approved by the Director of Finance, the excess amount collected or
paid may be refunded or may be credited against any amounts then due and payable from the Person from whom it was
collected or by whom paid, and the balance may be refunded to such Person, his/her administrators or executors.

Section 16. SAVINGS CLAUSE
The provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to any Person, or to any property as to whom or which it is beyond the
power of the City of Oakland to impose the tax herein provided. If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this
Ordinance is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect
only such provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this Ordinance and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining
provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or parts of this Ordinance. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City of
Oakland, that this Ordinance would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid provision, sentence,
clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.

Section 17. MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION
Any person who fails to perform any duty or obligation imposed by this Ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for a period of not
more than one year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.

The penalties provided in this section are in addition to the several remedies provided in this Ordinance, or as may
otherwise be provided by law.

Section 18. BOARD OF REVIEW

Any person dissatisfied with any decision of the Director of Finance adversely affecting the rights or interests of such
person made by the Director of Finance under the authority of this Ordinance, may appeal therefrom in writing to the
Business Tax Board of Review (the “Board”) within sixty (60) days from the date of mailing such decision by the Director
of Finance. All filings with the Board relating to appeals or otherwise shall be made to the Chairperson of the Business
Tax Board of Review in care of the City Manager’s Office, One City Hall Plaza, Oakland, CA 94612. The Board may
affirm, modify or reverse such decision or dismiss the appeal therefrom, as may be just, and shall prescribe such rules and
regulations relating to appeals as it may deem necessary. The Board's decision on appeal will become final upon mailing
notice thereof to the taxpayer at the taxpayer’s last known address shown on the Library Services Retention Tax Records.

Any tax, penalty or mterest found to be owing is due and payable at the time the Board’s decision becomes final.

The Board shall approve, modify or disapprove all forms, rules and regulations prescribed by the Director of Finance
in administration and enforcement of this tax; such forms, rules and regulations shall be subject to and become effective
only on such approval.

All decisions rendered by the Board shall be final, and no further administrative appeal of these decisions is provided
or intended.

Section 19. REGULATIONS

The City Council is hereby authorized to promulgate such regulations as it shall deem necessary in order to implement
the provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 20. NO AMENDMENT

This Ordinance may not be amended by action of the City Council without the applicable voter approval.

LIBRARY SERVICES RETENTION ACT OF 1992	
MEASURE N. Shall the City of Oakland impose a special tax to provide funds necessary to maintain and enhance library services?	YES
	NO

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

This Ordinance, known as the “Library Services Retention Act of 1992," would impose a City-wide special tax to fund
City library services. If approved, the tax would be in effect for fifteen years and it could only be extended upon voter
approval. It is estimated that this special tax would provide revenues necessary to finance the operation of the City’s
library services at a level that would permit: 1) at least one neighborhood library per Council District to remain open
6 days per week, including evenings; 2) sufficient funds to retain evening operation at the Main branch library and add
Sunday hours; 3) provision of children’s service programs in every neighborhood library; 4) enhancement and expansion
of library collections; and 5) expansion of programs in support of literacy and lifelong learning. The Ordinance allows the
City Council to adjust the annual tax rates by a maximum of 5% after the third year of the tax’s implementation consistent
with any annual increases in the cost of living that may occur in the San Francisco Bay Area. The Ordinance provides a
complete exemption from the tax for low-income homeowners, non-profit residential hotels, schools, hospitals, church-
es, and land that is used for agricultural purposes. To qualify for the low-income exemption, taxpayers would be required
to provide documentation of their income.

The tax is based upon a per parcel rate of $30 for single family residential units, $20 per unit for multi-unit residential
parcels and $15 per “single family equivalent” units for non-residential parcels, such as industrial and commercial
property. That is, for the different categories of non-residential property, the tax liability is calculated by using a formula
that is based on a standard measurement that has been determined to be the equivalent of a single family residential unit.
This formula is expressed in terms of parcel frontage and area. The tax for such properties would be the product of $15
times the number of “single family equivalents” (“SFE”) corresponding to the particular non-residential property. For
example: the formula for an industrial parcel with a frontage of 80 feet and an area of 6400 sq. ft. is the equivalent of one
single family unit (1 SFE); another industrial parcel with a frontage of 160 feet (computed as 2 single family equivalents, as
160 4- 80 = 2) and an area of 19,200 sq. ft. (computed as 3 single family equivalents, as 19,200 4- 6400 = 3) would pay tax of
$75. That is, 2SFE’s+3SFE’s = 5SFE’s and such 5 SFE's x the non-residential tax rate of $15 = $75.

It is estimated that the tax would generate an average of $3,950,000 in revenues, after allowable exemptions, during
each of the first three fiscal years.
s/JAYNE WILLIAMS
City Attorney

CITY AUDITOR’S FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

Adoption of Measure “N” will not increase the cost of City government. The purpose of Measure “N” is to ensure that
the projected $3,950,000 proceeds resulting from the levying of this special Library tax would be available to maintain
and enhance Library services. This would occur for each year that this tax is in effect only if the Council approves an
annual budget from the General Fund of not less than $7,800,000 (budget for fiscal year 1991-92) for Library services.

Restrictions on Use of Proceeds

•	The proceeds from this special Library tax may be used only in accordance with the objectives as described under the
“Spending Plan” shown below.

•	The proceeds may not be used to supplant expenditures previously provided for in the General Fund budget.

Spending Plan

Anticipated Proceeds:	$4,159,000

Less: Exemptions for Low Income Home Owners, Schools, Hospitals,

Non-Profit Residential Hotels, Churches, and Others, and

for Alameda County Collection Charges	209.000

Amount Available.	$3,950.000

Spending Objectives:

Keep at least one neighborhood Library per Council District

open 6 days per week, including evenings	$1,350,000

Retain Main Library evening hours and add Sunday hours	900,000

Enhance and expand Library Collections	750,000

Provide children’s service programs in every neighborhood Library	450,000

Expand programs in support of literacy and lifelong learning	500.000

Total	$3,950,000

Allocation of funds among the five spending objectives may vary according to the community’s changing priorities.
Unspent funds at the end of a fiscal year will be carried over to the following year, to be spent only in accordance with the
stipulations of Measure “N”.

The Director of Finance will administer and enforce this tax to ensure appropriate collection.

The City Auditor will perform annual audits to ensure that the tax proceeds are being spent in accordance with the
objectives stated in the Spending Plan.

Additional Information

•	Duration: Tax will be effective December 1, 1992, for 15 years. Council must submit an Ordinance for voters’
approval if a 15-year extension is to be made.

•	Annual Rates: $30 per single family residential parcel; $20 per residential unit on multiple unit residential parcels;
and $15 per single family “equivalent” (a function of area and frontage) for non-residential parcels.

•	Rate Increase: There will be no increase in the first three years. After the third year. Council may increase the tax
rates if the cost of living in the San Francisco Bay Area has increased. Such annual tax rate adjustments may not exceed
5% of the rates imposed during the preceding fiscal year.

•	Rate decrease/elimination of tax: Council may vote to decrease or eliminate the tax for a subsequent fiscal year upon
its determination that there are sufficient revenues to balance the budget. Such decrease or elimination will take effect in
the fiscal year following such vote.

•	A Community Advisory Committee is to be established to provide community input on Library services and needs.
s/NORMA NG LAU ’

City Auditor

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

A vote for Measure N is a vote in support of children’s and adult education, literacy and community.

Oakland deserves a quality library system. Your NEIGHBORHOOD LIBRARY is threatened by City and State
budget short-falls which could CLOSE your neighborhood library!

Measure N guarantees Oakland a high quality neighborhood library system. For just $2.50 per month, less than the
cost of a movie rental, we can improve our library system! Literacy and children’s programs can be expanded to help
more Oakland residents become readers and lifelong learners!

The funds from Measure N may only be used to:

►	Keep 7 neighborhood libraries open 6 days per week, including evening hours, others open at least 5 days per week

►	Increase and expand library collections by 125%

►	Enhance library programming for children in every neighborhood library

►	Expand literacy programs which teach Oakland residents to read

►	Open the Main Library 7 days and 4 evenings per week

Funds from Measure N may only be used if the City operates the library at the same level as in 1991. This guarantees
that the City will maintain the Library System and that your neighborhood branch will be IMPROVED!

A vote for Measure N is a vote for your neighborhood library; a YES vote shows your commitment to educating our
community and increasing literacy for adults and children. A quality library system increases the value of your
neighborhood AND your property!

SUPPORT THE PUBLIC LIBRARY SYSTEM TO PROVIDE A BRIGHTER FUTURE FOR
ALL OAKLAND RESIDENTS. VOTE YES!

s/RICHARD SPEES
Councilmember, District 4
s/LAURA COURTNEY GUTTERSON
Friends of the Oakland Public Library
s/ARABELLA MARTINEZ
s/ELIHU M. HARRIS
Mayor of Oakland

■'	i-	.

,	i	,	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT FOR MEASURE N

This Measure is not about preserving library services, it’s about a special interest group trying to place one city
department above all others—and imposing yet another tax on homeowners for that special privilege. The new taxes
would also apply to apartments, certainly resulting in higher rents for tenants.

While the public library system deserves an equitable share of the city budget, so do other essential services such as
police, fire, parks and recreation. This Measure is bad public policy, BAD GOVERNMENT, because it sets a
GUARANTEED BUDGET LEVEL for libraries—something no other essential service has! If future budget cuts have
to be made, they would come out of ESSENTIAL SERVICES, not the libraries! This is budget anarchy, and leaves
Oakland taxpayers with an unequal distribution of their tax dollars!



This Measure was brought to the City Council at the last moment, without time for proper evaluation. Oaklanders
already have too many of their hard-earned dollars being siphoned off by special taxes and assessments. Enough
is enough, the city must live within its means, like all of us! VOTE NO ON MEASURE N, the $60-million, 15-year
parcel tax!

s/NICOLAS SAKKIS
President, Apartment House
Association of Alameda County
s/ARTHUR B. GEEN

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

While Oaklanders support the public library system, they also support parks and recreation, police and fire services,
the museum and many other essential services paid for by existing taxes. It’s bad governmental policy to single out one
department for a special parcel tax to be imposed on property owners. This can lead to budget anarchy. Oakland has
imposed enough new taxes on its citizens: lighting and landscaping assessments, utility user taxes, sewer and street
sweeping fees and a host of others. Enough is enough! Protect an equitable city budget. VOTE NO ON MEASURE N!
s/ARTHUR B. GEEN

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

Yes, Oaldander’s do support the public library. Over 150,000 of us have library cards and are saddened to see the
DETERIORATION OF OUR PUBLIC LIBRARY SYSTEM. Unfortunately, the general fund support for the public
library is inadequate and has led to cut-backs of library hours, reductions to the book collection and the closing of
neighborhood libraries. We are simply asking the voter’s to help KEEP OUR LIBRARIES OPEN!

It is not bad government to dedicate funding for our public library. Measure N states very specifically how this
money will be spent. A Citizen's Advisory Committee will be created to assure that Measure N funds be used to enhance
existing services.

Is it equitable for a department that receives less than 4% of the general fund, but serves more than half of the
population to continue to be forced to reduce its budget while still being expected to deliver a full compliment of services?
Don’t be fooled by the MISLEADING TACTICS of the opponents of this measure. Oaklander’s want and need a
good public library. Vote YES ON MEASURE N!
s/EDWARD CHENG
Friends of the Oakland Public Library

PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT

ELECTION OF THE CITY OF OAKLAND TO EXEMPT
THE POLICE AND FIRE RETIREMENT SYSTEM PENSION
PLAN FROM THE ANNUAL PENSION BENEFIT LIMITS OF
UNITED STATES INTERNAL REVENUE CODE SECTION 415
THEREBY MAINTAINING THE CURRENT TAX TREATMENT
OF SUCH PLAN MEMBERS’ PENSION BENEFITS

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE O

The proposed charter amendment reads as follows:

City Charter Article XXVI to be amended by adding Section 2608(j) and Section 2610(d) and 8 new Section 2620
that shall provide the following:

Section 2608(j)

(j) The retirement allowances payable pursuant to this section are subject to the limitations provided by Section
2620. This subsection shall be null and void and without further effect should the United States Internal
Revenue Code Section 415 be amended to exempt municipal pension plans from the stated benefit limitations.
Section 2610(d)

(d) The retirement allowances payable pursuant to this section are subject to the limitations provided by Section
2620. This subsection shall be null and void and without further effect should the United States Internal
Revenue Code Section 415 be amended to exempt municipal pension plans from the stated benefit limitations.
Section 2620.

EXEMPTION FROM REQUIREMENTS OF UNITED STATES INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
SECTION 415

This section effects an election as authorized under the provisions of Section 415 of the United States Internal
Revenue Code to exempt members of the System from the annual pension benefit limitations of United States
Internal Revenue Code Section 415.

Notwithstanding any other statute or section of this Charter, the retirement allowance payable to any member of the
System shall be subject to the greater of the following limitations as provided by United States Internal Revenue
Code Section 413(b), subdivision (10):

(1) The limitations set forth in Section 415 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or
‘	(2) The accrued benefit of the plan member (determined without regard to any amendment to the System after

October 14,1987).

If any of the provisions of United States Internal Revenue Code Section 415 should be repealed, the provisions of
this section shall be deemed repealed to the same extent.

ELECTION OF THE CITY OF OAKLAND TO EXEMPT THE POLICE AND
FIRE RETIREMENT SYSTEM PENSION PLAN FROM THE ANNUAL PENSION
BENEFIT LIMITS OF UNITED STATES INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
SECTION 415 THEREBY MAINTAINING THE CURRENT TAX TREATMENT
OF SUCH PLAN MEMBERS’ PENSION BENEFITS

MEASURE O. Shall the Charter of the City of Oakland be amended to reflect the election of the
Police and Fire Retirement System Board to exempt such retirement plan from the annual pension
benefit limits of United States Internal Revenue Code Section 415 and thereby maintain the current
tax treatment of such plan members’ pension benefits?

YES

NO