ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION K

The City Clerk should be an elected position. It is now, and has been since it was decided by
the electorate at the last election. There is no reason for a change to an appointive post.

When a City Clerk is elected, he or she is more responsive to the needs of the public. The Clerk
keeps the City’s records and supports the administration with orderly files that can be checked
quickly for needed back-up material on any matter. But he also caters to the public's needs in
handing out information that is requested.

An appointed City Clerk would be completely under the control of the administration, and this
is exactly what the City wants. I think the City Clerk should be elected, so the office can have a
certain amount of independent discretion in its direction.

There is no reason for a change to an appointive position. Voters in Coronado know this and
they wish to retain the City Clerk's position just like it is at present.

I urge you to vote and keep the City Clerk’s spot as an elective position.

LOUIS DYER, Member	DORIS C. WIENECKE

Coronado Taxpayers Association

JOYCE P. FORSLUND	SUSAN ADAMS

JOSEPH A. ADAMS

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION K

The argument written by those against Proposition K actually makes an excellent point in favor of
the Coronado City Clerk being appointed. It states, in part, “The Clerk keeps the City’s records and
supports the administration with orderly files that can be checked quickly for needed back-up
material on any matter." It Is precisely because there are specific administrative duties assigned
to the City Clerk that the position should be filled by appointment of the most qualified applicant
based on experience and skills.

The argument against Proposition K also says, “I think the City Clerk should be elected, so the
office can have a certain amount of discretion in its direction." Discretion to do what? Not to keep
proper records? Not to support the citizens of Coronado when they need information from those
records?

City Clerk Is a task position, not a policy making office. We do need to elect officials who make
Coronado City policies and laws. We do not need to elect a City Clerk to keep records or be
responsive to citizens’ requests any more than we need to elect the City Manager, the Director of
Community Development, the Fire Chief, the Chief of Police or any of the other City personnel.

PLEASE VOTE YES on PROPOSITION K

EDGAR C. CHAPMAN, JR.	MARY	GWEN	BRUMMITT

PAT CALLAHAN	GEORGE	D.	COOKSEY,	JR.

Former Mayor

LARRY J. BROWN

D SD 161-14

CITY OF CORONADO
Proposition L

.	ADVISORY VOTE ONLY

™ Do you support using a minimum of $500,000 in Coronado public
funds for the renovation of the city structure located at 7th and Orange Ave-
nue known as Babcock Court?

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION L

No argument in favor of the proposition was filed in the Office of the City Clerk.

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION L

The corner of 7th and Orange, commonly known as Babcock Court, is the property of every
taxpayer In Coronado. This site was purchased for civic use with your tax dollars. This central
location Is Ideal for civic use. The land beneath the structures has been estimated to be worth from
$1,400,000 to $2,000,000. The cost to bring these structures up to present building codes has
been estimated to be $500,000 to over $1,000,000. After these enormous costs, we would then
own several small buildings that, as in the past, would be given to groups to use at no rent or at
best, very little.

The recent historical designation has arguable historic significance to Coronado since there are
several similar privately owned properties with like court style architecture in the city.

Buildings on this location would compromise the architecture and set backs of the planned police
station and any other needed public buildings, adding further costs. In addition, the adjacent
public property may not be sufficient for our needs, resulting in the forced purchase of the private
property adjoining which could cost $1,400,000 or more.

Vote NO on this waste of your tax dollars.

JAMES M. CAHILL, Past Chair	LULA	M.	COLEMAN

State Historical Resources	Political	Activist

LOUIS DE BEER
Engineer

JANE B. WINN
Community Activist

RICHARD W. PARKER
Former Mayor

D SD 161-15