PROPOSED ORDINANCE NO. 539-C.S.
Measure N

Bill No. 581-C.S.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF EUREKA, CALIFORNIA, LEVYING A
SPECIAL TAX FOR POLICE PROTECTION SERVICES AND INCREASING THE CITY OF
EUREKASPENDING LIMIT SET IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE XIIIB OFTHE CALIFORNIA
CONSTITUTION BY THE AMOUNT OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE SPECIAL TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF EUREKA, CALIFORNIA, DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Pursuant to the authority of California Government Code Sections 53978, et seq.,
there is hereby levied and assessed a special tax by the City of Eureka on each parcel of property, each
residential unit in a multiple dwelling, or each mobile home site as hereinafter set forth, in the City of
Eu reka for each fiscal year, commencing with the fiscal year 1992-93 and ending with fiscal year 2002-

03.

Section 2. Said special tax for each fiscal year shall be as follows:

(a)	For each parcel containing a single family residential unit, the maximum special tax
shall be (including condominium units) - $20.00 per unit.

(b)	For each residential unit in a multiple dwelling the maximum special tax shall be -
$20.00 per unit.

(c)	For each mobile home site the maximum special tax shall be - $20.00 per unit.

(d)	For each parcel upon which there is located commercial and/or industrial improve-
ments the maximum special tax shall be - $145.00 per acre.

(e)	For each parcel of vacant land the maximum special tax shall be - $145.00 per acre.

(f)	For every other parcel not enumerated above, the maximum special tax shall be -
$20.00 per unit.

The records of the Humboldt County Assessor as of March 1 of each year preceding the applicable
fiscal year shall determine whether or not any particular lot is unimproved for purposes of this section.
“Parcel of property” as used in this Ordinance shall mean any contiguous unit of improved or
unimproved real property held in separate ownership, including, but not limited to, any single family
residence, any condominium unit, as defined in California Civil Code Section 783, or any other unit of
real property subject to the California Subdivided Lands Act (Business and Professions Code Section
11000, et seq.).

The tax imposed by this section shall be a tax upon each parcel of property, and the tax shall not
be measured by the value of the property.

Section 3. The special tax imposed by Section 2 shall be due in two equal installments in
accordance with the collection procedures of the Humboldt County Tax Collector with the first
installment for the first fiscal year, to wit: 1992-93 being due November 1,1992, and the second
installment for said fiscal year being due on February 1,1993. The special tax for subsequent fiscal
years shall be due on the same basis, in the same manner, and on the same applicable dates as
established by law for the due dates for the other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the County
of Humboldt on behalf of the City of Eureka.

Section 4. The revenue raised by this Ordinance shall be placed in a special fund to be used only
for the purposes of obtaining, furnishing, operating, and maintaining police equipment or apparatus,
for paying the salaries and benefits to police personnel, and for such other necessary police protection
and prevention expenses of the City of Eureka.

Section 5. The City Council, by three (3) affirmative votes, is empowered to suspend all or any
part of the tax imposed by this Ordinance and shall suspend such part of said tax as the City Council
finds in the exercise of reasonable discretion and fiscal prudence is not required to provide an adequate
level of Police Department services in the City in accordance with the purposes set forth in this
Ordinance.

Section 6. The City Council shall be empowered to amend this Ordinance by three (3) affirmative
votes of the members thereof in order to carry out the general purposes of this Ordinance in order to
conform to state law that permits the County Tax Collector, or other proper official, to collect a special
tax such as is levied in this Ordinance in conjunction with County taxes or in order to assign duties
pursuant to the Ordinance to other officers.

Section 7. The special tax imposed hereby shall be collected in the same manner, on the same
dates, and subject to the same penalties and interest in accordance with the established dates as, or
with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the County of Humboldt in behalf of the City of
Eureka and the said County may deduct its reasonable costs incurred for such services before remittal
of the balance to the City.

Said special tax, together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall constitute a lien upon the
parcel upon which it is levied until it has been paid, and said special tax, together with all penalties and
interest therein, shall, until paid, constitute a personal obligation to the City of Eureka by the persons
who own the parcel on the date the tax is due.

Section 8. The special tax hereby imposed shall not be imposed upon Federal or State
Governmental agencies or another Local agency or upon any parcel of property that is exempt from the
special tax imposed by this Ordinance pursuant to any provision of the Constitution of any paramount
law.

12-VP8

Section 9. Pursuantto California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriations limit for the City
of Eureka will be increased by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax in each of the years
covered by the Ordinance plus the amount, if any, by which the appropriations limit is decreased by law
as a result of the assessment of a special tax set forth in this Ordinance.

Section 10. Unexpended residue of any money raised by the City underthis Ordinance may only
be used in the succeeding year for the purposes stated in this Ordinance by lowering the next year’s
tax by the amount unexpended or returned to the taxpayers on the same pro rata basis as originally
levied.

Section 1! If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity
or unconstitutionality shall not affect any other provision or applications, and to this end the provisions
of this Ordinance are declared to be severable. The people hereby declare that they would have adopted
this Ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, parts
or portions thereof, be declared invalid, or unconstitutional.

Section 12. This Ordinance, or any provision thereof other than those provisions, if any, which
provide for modification by the City Council of the City of Eureka, may only be amended or repealed by
approval of two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on the provisions at any initiative or referendum
election.

Section 13. This Ordinance shall be adopted if approved as an initiative measure by two-thirds
(2/3) of the voters voting at an election to be held on June 2,1992, and go into effect ten (10) days after
the City Council has be Resolution declared that such initiative measure was approved by two-thirds
(2/3) of the voters voting thereon.

Section 14. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance and shall
cause the same to be posted as required by law.

CITY ATTORNEY’S ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE N

This proposal, if adopted by a two-thirds vote of the voters voting on the measure, would impose a
special tax on the parcels of property in our City based upon the zoning classification use of or size of
the property. Said tax would be for the specific purpose of funding police protection services. The
proceeds therefrom would be placed in a special fund and the use of the monies would be restricted
to police protection services only. The tax will continue until repealed or modified by the voters, or until
ten (10) years from adoption of this ordinance whichever occurs first. The City Council will be unable
to increase the taxes charged above the maximum set by this measure, but will be authorized to reduce
or suspend the taxes if they find and determine they are unnecessary.

The expenditure limitations imposed by Article XII IB of the California Constitution will be increased in
the amount collected from the tax so that the additional funds may be used fortheir restricted purposes.

s/David E. Tranberg
City Attorney

12-VP9