SISKIYOU COUNTY
COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 1
LIBRARY FUNDING MEASURE H
Full Text of Measure

Shall Siskiyou County Community Facilities District No, 1 be authorized to
finance improvements to County Library services, consisting of restoration of
and improvements to fibrary services, including hours of operation, book acqui-
sition budget and library staff, desip and installation of a computerized materials
catalog and circulation system, and other improvements in County Library col-
lections, services, hours of operation, and salaries for all library facilities and
personnel, and the addition of front-desk librarian staff and other particular im-
provements in branch library services, collections and hours of operation; as
well as costs of planning and designing the services, all costs associated with
the establishment of the Siskiyou County Community Facilities District No. 1,
the determination of the amount of any taxes or the collection or payment of
any taxes, and costs otherwise incurred in order to carry out the authorized
purposes of the Siskiyou County Community Facilities District No. 1, together
with any other expenses incidental thereto; and shall a special tax with a max-
imum rate and method of apportionment as provided in Resolution No. 92-213
adopted by the Board of Supervisors of Siskiyou County on July 28, 1992,
which is incorporated herein, be levied to pay the costs of such service im-
provements, and shall an appropriations limit in the amount of $1,300,000 per
fiscal year in connection therewith be established for the Siskiyou County Com-
munity Facilities District No. 1?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASUREH

BALLOT MEASURE PROVIDING FOR A SPECIAL TAX
TO FINANCE SISKIYOU COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY SERVICES

Pursuant to a petition certified to contain the requisite number of signatures
of registered voters in the County of Siskiyou, the Siskiyou County Board of
Supervisors has established the Siskiyou County Community Facilities District
No. 1 (the "Community Facilities District") under the Mello-Roos Community Fa-
cilities Act of 1982. The Board of Supervisors, in response to this petition, is
placing before the voters of Siskiyou County the authorization to levy a special
tax which will be used to finance operations of the County Lfcrary, including the
restoration of library services, collections, hours of operation and staffing levels
and salaries, and other improvements to services in the central and branch
libraries. The proceeds of this special tax shall be used only for public library
services.

The Board of Supervisors of the County, by Resolution No. 92-213 adopted
on July 28, 1992, and on file with the County Clerk (the "Resolution"), has
established the manner by which the special tax would be levied within the
Community Facilities District to pay for such library services, aid has also es-
tablished a proposed maximum annual tax rate and appropriations limit for the
Community Facilities District which cannot be exceeded, and has called an elec-
tion to be consolidated with the general election to be held on November 3,
1992, at which the registered voters residing in the proposed Community Fa-
cilities District (the boundaries of which are shown by a map on file with the
County Recorder and which is attached to the Resolution as Exhibit B) will be
asked to approve the levy of the tax and the appropriations limit A copy of
that portion of the Resolution containing the proposition and the special tax
formula is reproduced herewith, and reference should be made to said Resolution
for a specific description of the proposition and the special tax. The amount of
the special tax to be collected would be established annually by the Board of
Supervisors, but in no event would be greater than the maximum rate approved
by the voters.

If two-thirds of the votes cast on the proposition vote "Yes," the Board of
Supervisors may set an appropriations limit'm the maximum amount of One
Million Three Hundred Thousand Dollars ($1,300,000) per fiscal year, and levy
a special tax according to the method set forth in the Resolution. If more than
one-third of the votes cast on the proposition vote "No," the Board of Supervisors
may not levy the special tax for the Community Facilities District.

s/ Frank J. DeMarco
Siskfyou County Counsel

47-51

STATEMENT OF RATE AND METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT
OF SPECIAL TAX ■ MEASURE H

1.	Definitions

“Act" means the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982 (Caifomia
Government Code Sections 53311 et. seq.

“Administrator” means the Auditor of the County, or his or her designee.
“Annual Costs" means for each Fiscal Year, the total of 1) Incidental Ex-
penses; and 2} costs of the authorized Library Services and Facilities less any
revenue provided by the County General Fund or other funding sources.
“Auditor" means the auditor for the County, or his or her designee.

“CFD means The Siskiyou County Community Facilities District No. 1.
“County" means the County of Siskiyou,.

“Fiscal Year” means the period starting on July 1 and ending the following
June 30.

“Incidental Expenses" means any and all incidental expenses, authorized
under the Act, in order to provide the Services and Facilities as defined in Exhibit

B.

“Maximum Annual Special Tax” means the maximum Special Tax that
may be levied against a taxable Parcel within the CFD in any Fiscal Year.
“Parcel" means any County Assessor's parcel or portion thereof that is within
the boundaries of the CFD, based on the equalized tax rolls of the County as
of June 1 in the prior Fiscal Year, as adjusted by the Administrator.

“Public Parcel" means a Parcel that is, or is irrevocably offered for dedi-
cation so as to be, publicly owned, and which is normally exempt from real
property taxation under California law, including a Parcel on which any of the
following are located: public streets, schools, parte, public drainage ways, public
landscaping, greenbelts, and open space. Each such Public Parcel is exempt
from the Special Tax.

“Special Tax” means any tax levied within the CFD pursuant to the Act
“Tax Collection Schedule" means the document prepared by the Admin-
istrator for use by the Auditor in collecting the Special Tax each Fiscal Year.
“Taxable Parcel” means any Unique-Name Landowner Parcel other that a
Tax-Exempt Parcel.

“Tax-Exempt Parcel" means any Parcel that is a Public Parcel or any
additional parcels owned by a Unique-Name Landowner.

“Unique-Name landowner" means that any unique landowner will pay
the annual special tax for only a single parcel once per year regardless of the
number of parcels owned. If a property is owned jointly, then the partnership
will be taxed once. If an individual owns land singly and as part of a partnership,
each parcel will be taxed once. Different landowners with the same name fisted
on the Auditor's roll will each be taxed for the first parcel which they own. If a
landowner is taxed for more than one parcel in the case of the same name
being recorded slightly different the landowner can ask for and will receive an
exemption for each additional parcel taxed.

2.	Basis of Special Tax Levy

A Special Tax under the Act shall be levied upon each parcel owned by a
Unique-Name Landowner included within the boundaries of the CFD shall be
levied and shall be collected according to the tax liability determined by the
Administrator through the application of the procedures described below.

3.	Determination of Parcels Subject to Special Tax

The Administrator shall prepare a list of each Parcel owned by a Unique-Name
Landowner subject to the Special Tax using the records of the County Assessor
and County Recorder and other records maintained by the County. Using the
definitions above, within ten days prior to the beginning of each Fiscal Year, the
Administrator shall cause each Parcel to be classified as a Tax-Exempt Parcel,
or as a Taxable Parcel.

4.	Apportionment, Levy and Collection of Special Tax Rates

A Special Tax applicable to each Taxable Parcel in the CFD shall be levied
and shall be collected according to the tax liability determined by the Adminis-
trator through the application of the rate and method of apportionment of the
Special Tax set forth below.

The Maximum Annual Special Tax for a Taxable Parcel shall not exceed $44.
The Special Tax will be levied annually for ten years ending Fiscal Year June,
2003. The Special Tax is to be levied each Fiscal Year in an amount sufficient
to pay Annual Costs. The Administrator will use the following tax formula to
determine the Special Tax for each Taxable Parcel.

1)	Calculate the Annual Costs for the Fiscal Year less any County General Fund
revenue or other library funding (i.e., overdue book fines).

2)	Determine the number of Taxable Parcels in the CFD.

3)	The actual Special Tax to be levied each Fiscal Year will be calculated for
each Taxable Parcel as follows:

Annual Costs

—■—■------------------------= Special Tax Per Parcel

Number of Taxable Parcels

4)	The Special Tax per Taxable Parcel calculated in step 3 shall not exceed
the Maximum Annual Special Tax.

After the annual Special Tax levy for each Taxable Parcel has been calculated,
the Administrator shall prepare the Tax Collection Schedule and send it to the
Auditor, requesting that it be placed on the secured property tax roll for the
current Fiscal Year. The Tax Collection Schedule shall be sent not later than the
date required by the Auditor for such inclusion. The Special Tax will be collected
in the same manner and at the same time as ad valorem property taxes.

5.	Termination of toe Special Tax

The Special Tax shall be levied until the Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2003.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

Our public library is in danger. We can preserve our library, our way of life,
and our traditional values. We can do this by creating a library district

The county general fund can no longer pay for a decent level of public library
services. Since 1978 inflation and county budget shortfalls have cut the library
budget by 74%. Since 1989: Hours open are down 30%; the book/materials
budget was cut 72%; 5 1/2 toll time equivalent employee positions were lost.
The result has been a dramatic loss of services to the public. The future looks
worse.

So often we do not have a choice or a vote. This is a rare chance to speak
with one voice, to make a permanent and positive difference, for ourselves and
for our children.

A 2/3 yes' vote will create funding to restore public library services in our
county. Hours open and library books/materials will be restored at all 12 of our
branch libraries countywide. Special priority will be given to evening and Saturday
hours whenever possible. Best of all, not a single penny of library district funds
may be used for ary non-library purpose.

The annual tax of $44 per landowner can never go up during the life of the
district; it is a maximum rate. For about the price of two new hardcover books,
every library user can save hundreds of dollars each year in goods and services
that would be unavailable without a public library.

Let’s KEEP IT OPEN! Vote “YES’ on Measure H!

s/ Andrea Herr	s/	Russell Paulson

President	President

Siskiyou Reading Council	Friends of Libraries,

Siskiyou County

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

47-52