COUNTY OF INYO

Compiled and Distributed by Beverly J. Harry, County Clerk - Recorder

CONSOLIDATED

GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3,1992

& Voter Information Pamphlet

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR ABSENT VOTER BALLOT ENCLOSED

f	>

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

• POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M. •

SAVE THIS SAMPLE BALLOT TO HELP YOU LOCATE YOUR POLLING PLACE ON ELECTION DAY

m I  e I OFFICIAL BALLOT - GENERAL ELECTION ^ | COUNTY OF INYO- NOVEMBER 3,1992	
MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS	
STATE	
1 fifl PROPERTY tax exemption, legislative constitution-  1 UU AL AMENDMENT. Permits Legislature to exempt from property taxa- tion the home of a person (or person’s spouse) who died while on active military duly from a service-connected injury or disease. Eiscal Impact: No direct impact. If the Legislature establishes a new exemption, it could reduce local property lax revenues by potentially millions of dollars annually.	YES 78^ NO 79^
■I CM PHYSICIAN-ASSISTED DEATH. TERMINAL CONDITION. INI- 1 U 1 TIATIVE STATUTE. Establishes right of mentally competent adult to request willing physician to assist in dying in the event terminal condition is ' diagnosed. Declares "not suicide.” Physician not liable. Prohibits effect on insurance. Fiscal Impact: Potential costs and savings to state and local govern- ment health programs. Net impact is unknown, hut probably not significant.	YES 81^  no 82^
H CO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES’ RETIREMENT SYSTEMS. INITIATIVE 1 Ufa CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Grants boards of public employ-	
including actuarial services. Restricts changes to boards. Gives precedence to duty to participants and beneficiaries. Fiscal Impact: Unknown impact on public pension costs from increasing governing hoards’ authority. Potential public costs from giving priority to providing benefits for members and bene- ficiaries. Annual actuarial savings of $1 million to $3 million to the state’s pension system.	YES 84^ NO 85^
■ICQ ENDS TAXATION OF CERTAIN FOOD PRODUCTS. INITIATIVE 1 U0 CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Prohibits sales or use taxes on food products exempt from taxation. Exempts candy, bottled water, and snack foods from sales and use taxation. Fiscal Impact: Reduces sales and use tax revenue to the state by $210 million in 1002-93 and $330 million annually thereafter. Reduces sales and use tax revenue In local govern- ments by $70 million in 1902-03 and $120 million annually thereafter.	YES 87^ NO 88^
■|C4 CONGRESSIONAL TERM LIMITS. INITIATIVE STATUTE. For 1 U4 seats in U.S. Congress, denies ballot access to persons who have alrcndv held such office for specified period. Does not count pre-1093 service. Does not restrict “write-in” candidates. Fiscal Impact: No direct fiscal impact. If the measure results in more write-in candidates, counties would incur additional elections-related costs to count write-in votes. These costs probably would not be significant on a statewide basis.	YES 90^ NO 91^
1 CC BUDGET PROCESS. WELFARE. PROCEDURAL AND SUBSTAN- 1 UU TIVE CHANGES. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Grants Governor constitutional power to reduce certain expenditures to balance budget during "fiscal emergency." Amends statutes to reduce certain benefits in specified welfare programs. Fiscal Impact. Budget: potential slate savings or costs up to several hundred million or billions in some years. Welfare: state savings of $680 million annually, increasing signifi- cantly in future; county savings from $80 million to several hundred million annually.	YES 93^ NO 94 ^

14-501-ALL.

14-SB12

6l

OFFICIAL BALLOT - GENERAL ELECTION

COUNTY OF INYO- NOVEMBER 3,1992

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

STATE	
■j CC BASIC HEALTH CARE COVERAGE. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Re- 1 UU quires employers to provide health care coverage for most employees and dependents. Implements ns federal law permits. Limits employee contri- butions. Specifies benefits. Provides employer tax credits. Establishes admin- istrative bodies. Appropriates money. Fiscal Impact: Potential state revenue losses of several hundred million dollars annually coupled with potential savings in the Medi-Cal program of approximately $250 million annually. Potential county savings of over $100 million annually. Net fiscal impact is unknown.	YES 98^  no 99^
“J C7 STATE TAXES. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Increases taxes on top per- 1 U I sonal income taxpayers, corporations, banks, insurance companies, and oil producers. Repeals 1991 sales tax increases. Provides for renters’ tax credits. Changes business-owned real property reappraisal rule. Fiscal Im- pact: Net state gains of $560 million to $910 million annually from 1993-94 through 1995-96; thereafter, approximately an additional $1 billion annually. Net increase in revenues to local governments of $550 million to $1.2 billion beginning 1993-94.	YES 101^ NO 102^
DISTRICT	
SOUTHERN INYO COUNTY LOCAL HOSPITAL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX MEASURE A	
A Shall the Southern Inyo County Local Hospital District Ih‘ authorized to #» levy a special tax for a period of four (4) years at the annual rate of Flighty and 00/100 ($80.00) Dollars on all parcels of laud within the District whether improved ur unimproved; plus an additional Eighty and 00/100 ($80.00) Dollars for each additional dwelling unit more than one dwelling unit per parcel of land; plus an additional Three Hundred Fifty ami 00/100 ($350.00) Dollars for each commercial enterprise which owns or uses commercial improvements within the District?	YES 106^ NO 107^
SOUTHERN INYO COUNTY LOCAL HOSPITAL DISTRICT APPROPRIATION LIMIT INCREASE MEASURE B	
D Shall the annual appropriations limit of the Southern Inyo County Local U Hospital District be increased from $188,484 to $1,500,000 for the fiscal years July 1, 1993 and ending June 30, 1997 be adopted?	YES 109^ NO 110^

14-602-10,11,12,13,15.	F

J

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A
SPECIAL TAX FOR
SOUTHERN INYO COUNTY LOCAL HOSPITAL DISTRICT

'Shall the Southern Inyo County Local Hospital District be authorized to levy an annual special tax
lor a period ol four (4) years in the following manner:

Eighty and 00/100 ($80.00) Dollars for each parcel of land, improved or unimproved, within the
District. Plus an additional Eighty and 00/100 ($80,00) Dollars for each dwelling unit more than one
dwelling unit per improved parcel of land. Plus an additional Three Hundred Fifty and 00/100 ($350.00)
Dollars for each commercial enterprise which owns or uses commercial improvements within the District.

For the purposes of this tax, a dwelling unit is defined as a single family residence, a mobile home,
an apartment unit, a condominium unit or other place of abode, designed for one or more persons to
be domiciled for more than thirty (30) day intervals, whether occupied or not.

For the purpose of this tax, a parcel of land Is defined as a parcel of land as shown on the County
Assessor's records as of the March 1st prior to the following fiscal year.

Parcels that are Improved with residential rental dwelling units designed to be used as domiciles for
more Ilian thirty (30) day intervals, whether occupied or not, are residential improvements and shall
be faxed at the residential rale of Eighty and 00/100 ($80.00) Dollars per dwelling unit more than
one dwelling unit per parcel,

Parcels that are improved for both commercial and residential purposes shall be taxed at the com-
mercial rate of Three Hundred Fifty and 00/100 ($350.00) dollars per commercial enterprise, plus an
additional Eighty and 00/100 ($80.00) Dollars for each dwelling unit more than one dwelling unit per
parcel.

For ttie purposes of this tax, the commercial enterprise improvements tax rate shall apply for each
separate and distinct commercial enterprise which has commercial improvements on a parcel of land
The commercial enterprise improvements tax rate shall apply only to improvements of commercial en-
terprises conducted with the intent of making a profit. Provided, however, that separate commercial
enterprises with improvements on Ihe same parcel and owned by ihe same legal entity shall be taxed
as a single commercial enterprise improvement. If commercial enterprise improvements are located on
a parcel ol land and are integral to the operation of a commercial enterprise that is taxed on a separate
parcel of land under this tax, such commercial Improvements shall not constitute additional taxable
commercial improvements for the purposes of this tax, provided there Is no other commercial enterprise
which owns or uses said commercial Improvements. Provided, further, that fences, corrals, wells, pump-
houses, towers and storage sheds not exceeding 400 square feet shall not constitute commercial
improvements.

In the case of tax exempt parcels of land, the owner of any otherwise taxable possessory interest
therein which is used or possessed for a commercial or residential purpose shall be taxed for the
purpose of this tax as though the commercial or residential possessory Interest was a taxable improved
parcel of land.

Said special tax to be used for providing the following services: the funding of the standby emergency
services and equipment, and laboratory and x-ray services and equipment, physician recruitment and
retention, and the maintenance, operation and replacement of the hospital physical plant and grounds?"

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE A

A “Yes" vote on Measure A will approve imposing a special tax on all parcels of land within the
Southern Inyo County Local Hospital District each year for four years.

If Measure A is approved, each parcel of land within the District will be taxed at a rate of Eighty
Dollars ($80.00) per parcel whether improved or not. A parcel improved with only one dwelling unit
will be taxed a total of Eighty Dollars ($80.00). Parcels that are Improved with more than one dwelling
unit will be taxed an additional Eighty Dollars ($80.00) for each dwelling unit more than one located
on the parcel.

Parcels that are improved for commercial enterprise purposes will be taxed the Eighty Dollars ($80.00)
for the parcel, plus an additional Three Hundred Fifty Dollars ($350.00) for each separate and distinct

commercial enterprise which uses improvements on the parcel However, if the same commercial en-
terprise is taxed on one parcel within the District, the commercial improvements of that commercial
enterprise on another parcel of land within the District will not be taxed again.

Parcels containing residential rental property will be taxed at the residential rate ol Eighty Dollars
($80.00) for each dwelling unit more than one located on the parcel, and not at the commercial rate.
Parcels which contain both residential and commercial Improvements will be taxed at both rates, the
tax will be cumulative, depending upon the number of dwelling units more than one on the parcel and
the number of separate commercial enterprises using improvements located on the parcel.

Owners of taxable possessory interest in residential or commercial enterprise improvements located
on otherwise tax exempt property within the District will be taxed at the same special tax rate as if
they were the owners of the parcel which contained the improvements.

The Inyo County Assessor's Office has estimated that this special parcel tax would raise approximately
Three Hundred Forty-Five Thousand Dollars ($345,000) per year for the Southern Inyo County Local
Hospital District. This tax, if imposed, will be for four (4) years beginning the fiscal year 1993-94
through, and including, the fiscal year of 1996-97.

The proceeds of this special parcel tax, if imposed, can only be used for the following Hospital District
purposes: the funding of the standby emergency services and equipment, laboratory and x-ray services
and equipment, physician recruitment and retention, and the maintenance, operation, and replacement
of the Hospital physical plant and grounds.

A "No" vote on Measure A will disapprove imposing this special lax.

This special tax to be imposed must receive sixty-six and two-thirds percent (two thirds) of the votes
cast at the election on the special tax.

s/ County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

A 'yes' vote helps to ensure that our hospital will remain open. Having a hospital is important for
the following reasons:

1.	Emergency services with a physician on call for any emergency 24 hours of every day. The other
option is to drive 60 miles to Bishop or 80 miles to Ridgecrest. Without a licensed acute care hospital
there can be no emergency room.

2.	The local economy is significantly affected by the 50 employees and the effect of their salaries
to the local businesses.

3.	Future economic development is always conditioned by the availability of hospital services for
prospective employees, employees, and their families.

4.	School athletic programs and teacher recruitment are affected by local hospital services.

5.	The moving of retired persons to a community Is often dependent upon the proximity of a hospital.

6.	Property values are usually affected by the availability of hospital services.

7.	The future recruitment of physicians Is enhanced by a local hospital.

8.	The viability of the volunteer ambulance system is improved by having a local hospital.

Vote YES on Measure A and B.

We need Southern Inyo Hospital!
s/ D. L. Christenson, M.D.	s/	Margaret	V.	Denton,	M.D.	Director,

s/ Dwight R. Van De Walker, President	Southern	Inyo	Hospital

Board of Directors	Outpatient	Clinic

s/ Larry E. Clements, Administrator

Southern Inyo Hospital

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED