TO;

MAYOR AND MEMBERS OP THE CITY COUNCIL

BEFORE THE VOTERS AT THE NOVEMBER 3,
1992 GENERAL ELECTION REGARDING
IMPLEMENTATION OF A UTILITY USER TAX TO
FUND GENERAL GOVERNMENTAL USES
INCLUDING RECREATIONAL FACILITIES,
PROGRAMS, AND YOUTH-RELATED ACnVITIES.

can if they wish take action in adopting a Resolution
proposing the establishment of a utility use tax, and
submitting an advisory question of imposing such tax to
the City’s voters, and requesting the Sutter County
Board of Supervisors consolidate this advisory measure
with the Statewide direct general election.

place the proposed utility tax measure on the November
3, 1992 ballot as an "advisory measure. If the utility
user tax is implemented, it is projected that it will
generate approximately $800,000 the first year with
increases annually over a 15 year period.

FROM:

CITY ADMINISTRATOR

SUMMARY

SUBJECT:

PROPOSAL TO PLACE AN ADVISORY VOTE

RECOMMENDATION:	Based	on	the	findings	of	the	City	staff,	the	City	Council

ALTERNATIVE:

Modify the Resolution, or do not adopt the proposed
Resolution.

FISCAL IMPACT:	No	fiscal	impact	based	on	the	City	Council’s	action	to

As you know, Let’s Play Ball! initially appeared at your June 2nd meeting seeking your
endorsement on behalf of their effort to bring a single A minor league professional
baseball team to Yuba' City. Again, Let’s Play Ball! appeared at your July 7th meeting
and presented to the City Council a financing proposal aimed at funding the construction

AGENDA ITEM

of a baseball stadium meeting professional minor league standards as well as other needed
community recreational facilities. At that time, the City Council directed City staff to meet
with representatives of a public committee, Let’s Play Ball!, to discuss and review their
proposal to place the question before the voters in November on whether a utility user
tax should be imposed to finance recreational facilities, programs, and youth-related
activities within the City.

The funding source proposed by Let’s Play' Ball! is the creation of a 2 1/2% utility users
tax which would be imposed on monthly residential, commercial and industrial telephone,
natural gas and electricity utility billings. . They propose that the tax be collected for a
period of fifteen (15) years, after which time it would "sunset" and cease to exist. In their
presentation of July 7th, Let’s Play Ball! identified a list of general governmental uses
including recreational facility and program improvements which they propose to fund
through the tax proceeds. Some of these projects are the construction of a baseball
stadium which would be owned by the City, completion of the final phase work at
Blackburn-Talley Park on Garden Highway, improvements to the tennis courts, pool and
picnic area at Sam Bran nan Community Park, renovation and parking lot improvements
at the Cit/s Senior Citizens Center, construction of a public gardens and rentable building
in the Town Center area, and establishing an annual contribution program for local youth-
related athletic, recreational and cultural programs. Let’s Play Balll’s proposal also calls
for allowing people 62 years of age and older whose incomes meet the Federal Housing
& Urban Development’s ’Very low income" levels to file for an exemption with the
appropriate utility.

City staff met with Let’s Play Ball! representatives to review their proposal and suggested
use of a utility user tax to fund the list of public recreational improvements. Staff has
used its best cost estimates in analyzing the allocation of user tax proceeds. A copy of
the cost allocation list is submitted to the City Council as part of this staff report. City
staff estimates that a utility user tax will generate approximately $15 million over the
proposed fifteen years, which will be sufficient to fund the recreational facilities, programs
and youth-related athletic, recreational and cultural activities proposed.

Though Let’s Play Ball! has suggested that the individual interested in bringing the minor
league team to Yuba City would "front" the funds necessary to construct a stadium, City
staff would suggest that if a utility user tax was approved and the proceeds of the utility
user tax follow what the Finance Director anticipates, the City Council could, if they so
chose, make the stadium project one of the fundable projects. The improvements
proposed by Let’s Play Ball! can be accomplished through bonding and/or certificates of
participation financing as has been done in the past by the City.

City staff has reviewed the list of projects and analyzed the associated costs in relationship
to the feasibility of financing them through the use of a 2 1/2% utility user tax. It is our
judgement that the use of the proceeds of a general utility user tax is financially feasible
and its use by local government is "constitutionally protected" in California. Approximately
100 cities in California have implemented a utility user tax, including Chico, Oroville,

Roseville, Sacramento and Woodland.

On the matter of placing the question before the voters, City staff would offer the
following observations. Let’s Play Ball! proposed that the question of imposing a 2 1/2%
utility user tax for general fund purposes, including the financing of recreational facilities,
programs, and youth-related activities within the City go on the November 3, 1992 ballot
to let the voters decide. In reviewing Election Code statutes and the Government Code,
it is the City Attorney’s opinion that if the City Council chooses to place this matter
before the voters of Yuba City, it would be appropriate to conduct an "advisory” vote.
Based on recent legal decisions, the court has found that voters cannot decide if a utility
tax should be imposed due to the fact that local government’s right to impose such general
use fees is "constitutionally protected”. This was reaffirmed in recent court cases: Fenton
vs City of Delano, and Woodlake vs Logan. That being the case, it would be the City
staffs recommendation that if the City Council wishes to place this matter on the
November 3rd ballot, the question of imposing a 2 1/2% utility user tax for the above
referenced purposes be placed on the ballot as an advisory measure. The City Council
can take the results of the advisory vote into consideration when considering imposing
the utility user tax.

As further background on Let’s Play Balll's proposal to bring a professional minor league
baseball team to this area, City staff contacted a few of the cities that "host” California
League Single A minor league teams. We have found that the teams lease the cities*
stadium facility for a lease fee of from $50,000 to $80,000. This money typically goes
directly back into the maintenance of the facility. Furthermore, some teams collect an
additional ticket charge that goes back to off-set the cost of the facility. This ticket charge
is a means of having the users of the facility who come from outside the City pay a share
of the facility’s upkeep and repair.

City staff also contacted the California League offices in San Jose to determine if they
have developed an economic impact profile on what a minor league team financially brings
to an area. Though the league has yet to develop such information, the General Manager
of the Stockton Ports, a Milwaukee Brewers affiliate, told us that his organization
estimates a $5-7 million dollar economic benefit to the Stockton area. He indicated that
those numbers reflect actual economic impacts and a multiplier effect as dollars turn
over. In the case of Stockton, one hotel has seen a $75,000 increase in business due to
the baseball team’s operation, visiting teams coming to town, etc. This reflects only the
experience of one team’s operation but is probably consistent of the infusion of new
dollars and new economic activity into an area.

The City staff would like to make the following findings that the City Council should take
into account when considering placing the proposed question of imposing a utility user tax
on the November 3rd ballot. First, our review of the proposal indicates that use of a
utility user tax is financially feasible and is also a well established revenue source used
by California cities. Finance Director Colby Smith has reviewed the proposed 2 1/2%
utility user tax’s imposition and estimates that approximately $800,000 will be raised the

first year with annual increases thereafter based on inflation and new utility users that can
be used to finance the proposed public improvements and programs through a number of
financing options.

Second, based on review of the Election Code, Government Code and recent legal
decisions. City staff would suggest, if the City Council chooses to place this matter on the
November 3rd ballot, that the question of imposing a utility user tax for general
governmental puposes be placed oh the ballot as an "advisory vote" only.

According to the City Attorney's review, the right to impose a utility user tax which will
be used for general governmental uses rests with the legislative body, in this case the City
Council. If you wish to place the matter before the voters in an "advisory capacity", the
City Council can consider the results of that vote after the election and consider, at that
time, the adoption of an Ordinance which would impose the 2 1/2% utility user tax.

As a point of information, in order to place this matter on the November 3, 1992 ballot,
the City Council will have to take action at tonight’s meeting to meet the filing deadlines
with the Sutter County Clerk's Office. The City staff and City Attorney will be on hand
to answer any questions you may have regarding this matter.

City Administrator

RESOLUTION NO.

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
YUBA CITY PROPOSING THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
UTILITY USER - TAX AND FOR THIS PURPOSE,
SUBMTltlNG TO THE VOTERS AN ADVISORY MEASURE
ON THE QUESTION OF THE IMPOSITION OF SUCH TAX,
AND REQUESTING OF THE SUTTER COUNTY BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS PURSUANT TO ELECTIONS CODE
SECTION 23302 AND GOVERNMENT CODE SECTION
53724(C) THAT THE ELECTION ON THAT QUESTION BE
CONSOLIDATED WITH THE STATEWIDE DIRECT
GENERAL ELECTION.

WHEREAS, the Q'ty Council desires to place be fore the voters an advisory measure
pursuant to Election Code Section 5353 on the question of the imposition of a Utility User
Tax; and

WHEREAS, the Q'ty Council is required under the law dealing with the imposition
of any general tax to consolidate an election on that question with a statewide election
pursuant to Elections Code Section 23302 and Government Code Section 53724(b); and

WHEREAS, statewide elections are scheduled to be held on November 3,1992.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AND ORDERED by the dty Council of
the Q'ty of Yuba .Q’ty that it proposes by this resolution to conduct an advisory measure
asking the voters residing within the corporate boundaries of the Q'ty of Yuba City the
question, should a utility user tax be imposed.

1.	The rate of such tax to be 21/2% which shall be assessed on all monthly billings
for natural gas, electricity and telephone utilities.

2.	The method of collection of such tax to be by payme nt to the appropriate utility
when, in turn, pays said tax over to the Qty.

3.	Proceeds of the utility user tax will be collected for general fund purposes
including the financing of recreational facilities, programs and youth-related
activities within the Q'ty of Yuba Q’ty.

4.	Persons 62 years of age and older with incomes mee ting the Federal Housing &
Urban Development (HUD) agency's definition of "very low income" may apply
with the appropriate utility for reimbursement of fees paid at the end of the year.
HUD’s "v ery low income" definition is designated as an annual family income of
$11,050 for one person or $12,650 for two persons.

5.	The date upon which the advisory measure shall appear on the ballot wiU be the
election to be held on November 3, 1992.-

The terms herein used shall mean the following:

a. "Utility shall mean those public utilities serving the Yuba-Sutler area whose
monthly billings shall include a utility user tax assessment which will be collected
by the utility and, in turn, shall pay said lax assessment over to the Qty of Yuba
City. The utility user tax will be assessed on monthly billings for telephone and
for natural gas and electric utilities.

lx 'HUD Very low income"1 designation shall mean the definition and income levels
annually provided by the federal Housing & Urban Dev elopment Administration
(HUD). HUD's Very low income" definition identifies various income levels
based upon family size. Per 1992 HUD information, the following data would
be used to determine eligibility for reimburse ment at the end of the year of utility
user taxes paid: Based on 1992 HUD income levels: One person, $11,050; two
persons, $12,650; three persons, $14,150; four persons, $15,750; Eve persons,
$17,000, sis persons, $18,250.

BE rr FURTHER RESOLVED AND ORDERED that for this purpose, the City
Council resolves as follows:

1.	An election within the corporate limits of the Q'ty of Yuba City is hereby called
to be held on the 3rd day of November, 1992 in the City of Yuba City;

2.	That said election subject to the approval of the Sutter County Board of
Supervisors is ordered consolidated with the County election and in turn with the
statewide November general election to be held on the same date, November 3,
1992;

3.	That said ejection and all proceedings incidental thereto and in connection
therewith shall be regulated and dorie in accordance with the provisions of law
regulating the statewide November general election as provided by Section 23314
of the Elections Code; that the voting at said election shall be done upon
regularly prepared ballots which shall be furnished (o the voters upon which
ballot there shall be stated the following proposition:

CITY OF YUBA CITY ADVISORY MEASURE A

Shall the Qty of Yuba City implement and collect a 2 172% utility user tax for
a period of fifteen (15) years for general governmental purposes including the
financing of recreational facilities, programs, and youth related activities within
the Qty of Yuba Qty?

For the measure ________________

Against the measure ____________

4.	This vote wiU be an "advisory vote only," and the Ballot Heading above the ballot
proposal will so indicate. The result of the advisory vote will in no manner be
controlling on the City Council. The results will be an indication of general voter
opinion regarding the, ballot proposal w hen the City Council of the Qty of Yuba
Qty considers the matter of imposing a utility user tax for ordinance adoption.

5.	That said advisory measure election is called pursuant to law and shall be held
and conducted in accordance with the provisions thereof, including but not
limited to Sections 5010 through and including 5016 together with Elections Code
Section 5350 through and including 5353. Thai pursuant to Section 23302, the
Qty Clerk be and she is hereby authorized and directed to file with the Sutter
County Board of Supervisors and the Sutter County Qerk a copy of this
resolution requesting such consolidation with the statewide November general
election.

6.	The Qty Council of the Qty of Yuba Qty pursuant to Elections Code Section
23306, 23307 and 23308 authorizes the Sutter County Board of Supervisors to
canvass the returns of said election, said authorization to include the following:
(1) the election to be held in all respects as if there were only one election, (2)
only one form of ballot to be used, (3) the returns of the election need not be
canvassed by the Qty Council of the Qty of Yuba Qty.

7. Pursuant to Ek^ons Code 23314 inasmuch as said election is to be held on the

same day as the statewide general election and to be consolidated the re with, said
election to be held arid conducted and election officers appointed^ voting
precincts designated, candidates nominated, Ballotsprinted, polk opened and
closed, ballots counted and returned, returns canvassed, results declared,
certificates of election issued and all other proceedings incidental to and
connected with the election to be regulated and done in accordance with the
provisions erf law regulating said statewide election and precincts used at the
consolidated election to be those used for statewide elections.

hereby directed to transmit a copy of the proposed Advisory Measure in the form included
herein to the City Attorney for analysis.

The forgoing Resolution of the City Council of the Q'ty of Yuba City was duly
introduced, passed and adopted at a regular meeting hereof held on the 21st day of July,
1992, by the following vote:

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED AND ORDERED that the City QerV be and she is

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

MAYOR

ATTEST:

CITY CLERK

v-

V- '•

I

POTENTIAL PROJECTS AND THEIR ASSOCIATED COSTS
(These projects or other projects can be prioritized at the time of funding)

1.	Stadium Facility:	Construction	of	stadium	facility	for	minor

league baseball operation and multiple community activity usage.
The stadium facility will be owned by the City of Yuba City,
$6.000.000

2.	Blackburn-Talley Park: Completion of Final Phase of Blackburn-
Talley Master Plan-third softball field; construction of a group
picnic area. $550.000

3.	Fujishiro Gardens:	Construction of public gardens and small

public building in the Town Center project area. The building
could be used for community meetings and rental to the public,
and possibly used for the Tiny Tots program and day care.
$900.000

4.	Sam Brannan Community Park Improvements:	$815.000

1.	Reconstruction of lighted tennis courts. $140.000

2.	Construction of new group picnic area. $75.000

3.	Renovation and redesign of Sam Brannan pool facility to
multi-use/family oriented facility. $600.000

5.	Local Youth-Related Programming: Contributions to local youth-
related athletic, recreational and cultural programs, equaling
$50,000 annually. $750.000

6.	Senior Citizens Center: Renovation of Yuba City Senior Citizens
Center facility, improvements to accomodate addition of Tiny
Tots, and expanded parking iot, $200.000

Total expenditure (#1):	S6.000.000
Total exoendifures f#2-#6):	S5.2t5.000
Sub-Total:	S9.215.000
Interest*	S5.000.000
Issuance CostfReserve:	S 750.000
Reserve Fund/Malntenance on Sludium:	S 600.000
TOTAL:	SI 5.565.000

ADVISORY MEASURE A

Shall the City of Yuba City implement and collect a 2 1/2% utility user tax for a
period of fifteen (15) years for general fund purposes including the financing of a
professional minor league baseball stadium, recreational facilities, programs, and
youth related activities within the City of Yuba City?

BALLOT TEXT FOR ADVISORY MEASURE A

Proposed is the eslabUshmentand collection of a 2 1/2% utility users tax which will
go towards financing local recreational facilities, programs, and youth-related
activities within the City of Yuba City, The utilityuser tax would be applied to
monthly telephone, electric and natural gas bills for residential, commercial and
industrial users. If approved by the voters, the utility user tax Would be
implemented and collected for a period of fifteen (15) years only, after which time
it will cease to exist

Hie proceeds of the utilityuser tax are intended to be used to construct a stadium
facility for professional minor league baseball use; complete the final phase of the
Blackburn-Tailey Park Master Plan with a third softball field and a group picnic
area; make physical improvements to Sam Bran nan Community Park by
reconstructing the lighted tennis courts, renovating the pool facility and constructing
a new group picnic area; renovate the Yuba City Senior Citizens Center facility with
interior and parking lot improvements; construct a public gardens and small
rentable public building in the Del Monte/fown Center area; and make annual
contribution to local youth-related athletic, recreational and cultural programs.

The Yuba City Parks & Recreation Commission will be assigned to review written
requests for City contributions for youih-related programs, and make
recommendations to the City Council for annual allocations.

Persons 62 years of age and older with an income meeting Federal Housing-&
Urban Development's (HUD) definition of "very low income" (one person -
$ll,050/two persons - $12,650) may apply with the appropriate utility for
reimbursement of fees paid at the end of year.