oh*

Mf

4r. 9

JOHN SWETT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE 8 ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 1992

Arguments in support of or In. opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors ”

MEASURE i

JOHN SWETT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX FOR
EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES

“Shall the John, Swett Unified School District provide funds for the reinstate- ment and continuance of District-wide educational programs by levying each year a qualified special, tax as follows;		
L $40.00 per residential unit or $40.00 per residential parcel whichever is greater.	YES	
2. $.005 per sq, ft, for commercial, industrial, institutional, and other non-residential nroperty or $40.00 per such parcel, whichever is greater;		
and		
3. $.50 an acre or $40,00, whichever is greater, for agricultural property.	MO	
excluding property exempted by law, for a limited period of four (4) years, beginning July 1, 1992, and ending June 30, 1996, with an exemption for any owner of a parcel who has attained the age of 65 on or before January 1 of any applicable year and who uses that, parcel as his or her principal place of resi- dence?”		

COUNTY COUNSEL’S ANALYSIS OF JOHN SWETT UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX

The governing board of the John Swett Unified School District, has adopted a resolution
proposing a special tax.

The ballot measure proposes a special tax at a rate of $40 .....n______ntial unit and

$.005 per square foot for each parcel used for commercial, ir ,n-t"	-	;>■

non-residential (except agricultural) purposes or $40, which' >i •	.	.>	.	>	-	>	,

for agricultural property or $40, whichever is greater, with <,t	,	,*	’	>	"	>	<

parcel who is 65 or older and who uses the parcel as his or her; t*i«	>

of the proposed special tax would be four years. If approved, s ■, - i •’ > ,	,

would be collected and administered in the same manner at

The proceeds of the proposed special tax would be used in >v -i-t..'	1	tinue	district-

wide educational programs. The resolution proposing the spew d : m .i„, > > - these include:
si) reducing K-12 class size: (2) retaining and recruiting the h toe )	u,"	*	L	,	■

maintaining student support through library, counseling, ai'd fey..	.»	. ,

maintaining existing facilities and acquiring much needed instructional ,o ”, m. ■ .

and supplies. Proceeds from the proposed special tax may be used or I ' ■ .

forth its the ballot measure and in accordance with governing consti uiutniai a.i.iu c . ’	■>

provisions.

Two-thirds of those voting on the measure must, approve the measure in order for it to

pass,

A ‘"yes” vote is to authorize the special tax.

A “no” vote is against, authorizing the special tax.

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS Of THE BALLOT MEAS-
URE. IF YOU DESIRE COPIES OF THE BALLOT MEASURE, PLEASE CALL THE ELEC-
TION OFFICIAL'S OFFICE AT 510/646-4166 AND A COPY WILL BE MAILED TO YOU AT
NO COST.

ili

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
JOHN SWETT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE B ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 1992

Last year, because of inadequate state funding, the John Swett Unified School District cut
approximately $600,000 in programs. For the next school year, we must make another $260,000
In arts. To meet this new crisis, the District has already eliminated two administrative positions:
the Business Manager and the Assistant Superintendent. However, more cuts now have to he
made, and these cuts will have a direct impact upon the classroom.

Busing to and from school has already been reduced. As funding from the state continues to
fall short in meeting our expenses, large classes will grow larger. We will be forced to offer
even fewer classes at the high school. We will also reduce or eliminate other important programs: •
library, counseling. Tiny Tots, swimming, tennis, the Mock Trial Program, and the high school
newspaper. We will be unable to afford either the maintenance, the supplies, or the repairs
we need.

This proposed tax is small, costing the average homeowner $40.00 a year. The proposal has
been written to allow business and agricultural interests to pay their fair share based upon
the size of their property: senior citizens may apply for an exemption from the tax. By voting
YES to this proposal, taxpayers can restore the programs which our children will otherwise
lose at a cost of roughly eleven cents a day.

Our children a precious resource and. today, their education is being threatened. They

deserve tmr • lasses, more materials, and the best education we can give them. Eleven cents
a day *'	•	•	verage homeowner is a small price to pay to protect their future. Vote YES

fsr	•:	.e	children.

i, Bel. Pres.

Clerk
Joseph P. Brenkle

Franklin A, Jurik

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
JOHN SWETT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE B ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 1992

VOTE NO!

The thousands of tax dollars spent to pursue this District’s two tax proposals this past year

would have paid for a number of the programs scheduled to be eliminated next, year, including
Tiny Tote, the tennis and swim teams, the Mock Trial Program, and the High School newspaper.

This District convieniently blames its financial woes on the state; however, financial problems
have been ongoing in this District for the past eleven years. Many of the problems have been
aggravated by irresponsible policymaking.

The Business Manager will be retained as a paid consultant. The Assistant Superintendent
will remain employed under another title, but will continue to receive her present salary. Only
job titles have been eliminated.

The list. est restructuring of the District in 1991 resulted in overcrowded and often dangerous
conditions at Hillcrest School, while much needed classroom space at Garreteon School remains
unused and in. disrepair. Class size reduction at Hillcrest is impossible under present conditions.
The 1100 students crammed into Hillcrest fill every available classroom to capacity.

The District continues to sgend hundreds of thousands of dollars annually to unnecessarily
bus Kindergarten through Eighth grade students out of their communities to attend school.

Perhaps the “average homeowner" will pay $40.00 annually for this tax, but MANY property
owners, including senior citizens, will pay MUCH more than $40.00 annually.

We have excellent teachers and support staff. The District needs a new direction. If this School
Board truly wants to help our children, they should all resign.

VOTE NO!

Joseph Irving Nancett
Taxpayers for School Reform

ARGUMENT AGAINST
JOHN SWETT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE B ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 1992

In November, 1991, voters in the John Swett School District rejected the District’s
attempt to raise local taxes by art overwhelming margin. The vote against Measure A i nearly
3 to 1) was a clear message of “No Confidence’ in the District’s policies. In a blatant disregard
for the will of the voters, the District has put virtually the same measure on the ballot again.
We urge a “NO” vote on this measure.

Various programs at the state level, to increase funding for schools, are being established.
If Governor Wilson’s proposed budget is implemented, tax money now used by special districts
(such as Sanitation and Fire Protection) will be shifted to school districts. This loss of revenue
will force special districts to increase their rates. Raising local taxes under these circumstances
would be unwise.

This isn’t straight parcel tax, but a “special” tax. Many property owners will pay much
more than $40.00 annuallvforthis tax. Many small businesses are already feeling the recession.
This tax will put even more pressure on them.

Senior citizens aren’t completely exempt from this tax; only their primary residence
can be exempted. The exemption isn’t automatic; it must be applied for through the District,

The District is still burdened by excessive K-S transportation costs, the result of the
District’s various restructuring plans since 1980. Community K-8 schools would eliminate
unnecessary transportation, costs, saving hundreds of thousands of dollars annually.

Reducing class sizes at the overcrowded Hillcrest School isn't possible unless even mare
tax money is spent for portable buildings.

THE SCHOOL BOARD STILL REFUSES TO REDUCE OR ELIMINATE THEIR OWN
BENEFITS. Administrative costs haven't been reduced enough. Some administrators may
actually INCREASE their salaries.

Next November there will be a School Board election. Hopefully a new board will seek
alternatives to raising taxes.

VOTE NO!

Joseph Irving Nancett
Carl N. Bennett
Barbara L. Kirk
Shirley A. Moirano
Fred A. Moirano

Members of Taxpayers for School Reform

(31

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
JOHN SWETT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE B ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 2, 1992

We how have a fair tax measure due to the excellent work of a committee made up of ranchers,
business people and parents. This new tax will cost most residents and businesses $40.00. 80%
of the businesses will only pay $40. The tax on. agricultural property will not put ranchers out
of business. Seniors continue to be exempt from a tax on their primary residence,

The District has taken steps to reduce administration by approximately $100,000 and to make
other cuts to live within the District's means. Program cuts total $.800,000 + over two years.
This spring, the Board responded to community concerns regarding benefits and the size of
the Board.

A K-8 community school is not cost effective. Currently there are only 26 8th grade students
in Crockett and this number could not be provided the classes and services they need to prepare
them for high school. Given limited State funding, the District cannot duplicate services in
both communities. Finally, the majority of parents want a richer experience for their children
than the concept of a “one. room school house.”

Finally, this tax is needed because students at our High School are barely able to take enough
classes to be eligible for state colleges, classes are too large and our children need more oppor-
tunities. Do not. hold our children back but help them prepare for the future. Remember the
tax is $3.33 per month or 11 cents a dav. VOTE YES ON THE SPECIAL TAX FOB JOHN
SWETT STUDENTS.

Kay Nelson, Bd. Clerk
Joseph P. Brenkle
Franklin A, Jurik

(4J