VR-007.007

OFFICIAL BALLOT
County of San Bernardino
General Election__________________________________________NOVEMBER	3,1992

CITY		
CITY OF YUCAIPA		
Shall the ordinance establishing manufactured home (mobilehome) H space rental adjustment procedures, providing for manufactured	YES	79
1 1 home rent control, and creating a manufactured home fair practices commission, be adopted?	NO	80
DISTRICT		
COUNTY SERVICE AREA 38 SPECIAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT		
Shall there be an increase of $4,000,000 in the appropriations limit	YES	81
for County Service Area 30, pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIID of ^ the California Constitution for Fiscal Years 1993/94, 1994/95, 1995/96 and 1996/97 to enable said County Service Area to expend the proceeds of taxes in the furnishing of authorized fire protection services?	NO	82

YOU HAVE JUST COMPLETED VOTING

MSB 066-16

I

BALOTA OFICIAL
Condado da San Bernardino
Eleccibn General	3	de	NOVIEMBRE	de	1992

79	Si

80	no

_______________MUNICIPAL

__________CIUDAD	PIE	YUCAIPA____________________

RiDebe ser adoptada la Ordenanza qua establece el procedimlento
para el ajuste de la renta para casas rodantes, la cual dispone el con-
trol de rentas para casas tabricadas y causar que sea originada una
comisibn para la pricticas justas para casas fabricas?_

81	si

82	no

_______________DISTRITO_________________________

COUNTY SERVICE AREA 38
LIMITE DE APROPIACIONES ESPECIAL______________

SADebe haber un aumento de $4,000,000 en el limlte de apropiaciones
para el area de servicio del condado num. 38, de acuerdo a la Seccibn
4 del Articulo XIIIB de la Constitucibn de California para los Anos Fis-
cales 1993/94, 1994/95, 1995/96 y 1996/97 y capacitar a dicho area de ser-
vico del condado a disponer de fondos de los rbditos para proveer los ser-
vicios autorizados contra incendios?

HA TERMINADO DE VOTAR

<

I

i

n ssoee-i7



MEASURE “R”

ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY*

AN INITIATIVE ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILEHOME)
SPACE RENTAL ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURES, PROVIDING FOR MANUFACTURED HOME
RENT CONTROL, AND CREATING A MANUFACTURED HOME FAIR PRACTICES
COMMISSION

The City of Yucaipa presently regulates manufactured home (mobilehome) rents through
Ordinance 63 (amended) (“Ordinance 63"), and as that Ordinance has been amended by
the City Council since its adoption in January 1990. Ordinance 63 establishes rent control
procedures for mobilehome park spaces, and provides for the creation and appointment of
a Mobilehome Rent Review Commission to review rent adjustment applications and appeals.
Ordinance 63 requires registration of mobilehome parks and permits the City to adopt fees
covering costs of administration and implementation of the Ordinance; imposes a rent
rollback to December 31, 1988; restricts annual adjustments to 66.67% of the increase in
the Consumer Price Index (“CPI”); authorizes limited capital improvement rent adjustments;
and establishes an application procedure allowing additional adjustments in rent where a
park owner is not receiving a just and reasonable return on investment related to net
operating income (“NOI”).

Since 1990, the City Council has amended and clarified Ordinance 63 to prohibit park owners
from requiring long-term leases as a condition of tenancy, and to control rent increases when
vacancies occur. The City Council has initiated enforcement actions and defended litigation
challenging the legality of its rent control ordinances and Mobilehome Rent Review
Commission decisions.

The proposed Initiative Ordinance (the “Initiative") also creates rent control procedures for
mobilehome park spaces; provides for the establishment of a Manufactured Home Fair
Practices Commission comprised of the City Council; requires registration of mobilehome
parks; and establishes a registration fee to defray the costs of ordinance administration. The
Initiative establishes a fee for NOI adjustment applications to cover costs of review and
administration, and an assessment of $3.00 per month per park space to defray costs of
enforcement of the ordinance. The Initiative would impose a rent rollback to December 31,
1986, or the first date space rent was charged after that date; and allows permissive annual
rent adjustments to the lesser of 3% or 50% of the increase in CPI. NOI adjustment
applications may be made where the permissive increase does not provide a just and
reasonable return on investment. The NOI adjustment process and maximum increase
allowed under an NOI application is ambiguous and subject to interpretation. The Initiative
prohibits increases in rent upon vacancy.

It is impossible to compare the specific effect on rents which would be created under
Ordinance 63 and under the Initiative.

The effects must be determined on a case-by-case basis.

If enacted, the Initiative may only be amended by a vote of the electors. This severely restricts
the City’s ability to maintain flexibility as the law changes. An adverse court determination
as to the legality or constitutionality of any provision of the Initiative would leave the City
Council unable to make adjustments to avoid further attacks and exposure. Amendment by
ballot measure would be costly and cumbersome.

The proposed Initiative Ordinance includes provisions which may be interpreted as a special
tax. In order to pass, this Initiative Ordinance must be approved by a two-thirds vote of the

qualified electors of the City.

'Section SO11 ot the Elections Code requires City Attorney to prepare an impartial analysis o< measures appearing on the

ballot.

PR-008.001

N SB 06S-24

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “R"

VOTE FOR RENT STABILIZATION-ELIMINATE “RENT GOUGING”

This initiative benefits all residents of Yucaipa.

For mobilehome owners, it rolls back the rent to December 1986, eliminating huge space
rent increases forced on them during 1987/88. Then, it allows the rents to be increased yearly
by 50% of the Consumer Price Index, or 3% of the current rent, whichever is less. This gives
the Park Owners a fair return on their investments, and insures the mobilehome owner that
he will not be “rent gouged" out of his home.

This initiative will boost the local economy by approximately $1,000,000 (one million) per
year. This money comes from the monthly rent savings of the mobilehome owners. Since
the majority of them are senior citizens, they tend to spend their money locally, whereas most
Park Owners do not reside in Yucaipa, so their money does not remain here to benefit
citizens or businesses. Increased money spent locally means increased revenue realized by
the City of Yucaipa, thus, better services to all Yucaipa residents.

Through fees levied by the Ordinance, the Park Owner pays for all Administrative costs.
Mobilhome owners will incur all costs for the enforcement of this initiative. Taxpayers pay
absolutely nothing I

THIS INITIATIVE ELIMINATES PARK OWNERS “PASS THROUGHS”, WHICH ARE
THINLY VEILED RENT INCREASES.

This initiative clearly describes what is permitted as a ‘pass through”, and what is normal
upkeep and general maintenance of the park facilities. This will avoid the ten year additional
payments listed as ‘pass throughs”, but which are actually only normal park maintenance.

WE STRONGLY URGE YOUR “YES” VOTE ON MEASURE “R”
s/Edward G. Ferguson
Chairman
s/Leonard Tyler
1st Vice-Chmn.
s/James G. Pethtel
2nd Vice-Chmn. *

*	PfW)08.002	_	NMOeS-25

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “R”

VOTE NO ON MEASURE R

“Onerous." That's how Yucaipa's City Attorney describes Measure R. He also warns that
Measure R could cost the city an untold amount in legal damages. These costs would be
paid not by mobilehome park owners, but by YOU - * the taxpayers of Yucaipa.

The burden of these enormous court awards will be in addition to HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS of dollars for administration of the big government rent control bureaucracy
created by Measure R.

The Yucaipa City Manager estimates that START-UP COSTS for this special interest program
will run nearly $100,000.

The City Manager also estimates that costs to pay for Measure R’s bureaucrats, lawyers,
payroll taxes, benefits and other bureaucratic perks will run nearly $200,000 -FOR THE
FIRST YEAR ALONE!!

Worst of all, advocates of Measure R have placed NO LIMITS on the size of their special
interest program - - or its cost.

It's true. Measure R creates an UNCONTROLLED new government bureaucracy. It gives the
bureaucrats a BLANK CHECK - guaranteed by Yucaipa taxpayers.

You are being asked to sign that blank check when Yucaipa already faces budget deficits
and service cutbacks. City workers have been laid off, and now the city is faced with the
possibility of losing police officers, firefighters and other essential services.

But we don’t NEED the big government rent control created by Measure R. Because Yucaipa
ALREADY has one of the toughest mobilehome rent control laws in California.

We don’t need the unnecessary, unreasonable, unconstitutional and uncontrolled
bureaucracy created by Measure R. And we sure can't afford it.

Signatures: “Citizens Against New Taxes”

s/Nancy Downer

Taxpayer and life time resident

s/John Stange

Local businessman

s/C.T. Giles

Yucaipa homeowner

s/John H. Sealander

Taxpayer and long time resident

s/Kathie Shedd

Homeowner

PR-008.003

N SB 066-26

MEASURE “R”

ORDINANCE

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF YUCAIPA, CALIFORNIA, CREATING THE
MANUFACTURED HOME FAIR PRACTICES COMMISSION AND ESTABLISHING RENTAL
ADJUSTMENT PROCEDURES

The people of the City of Yucaipa do ordain as follows:

Section 1. Preamble.

A.	There is presently, within the City of Yucaipa and surrounding communities, a shortage
of rental spaces for the location of manufactured homes commensurate with the demand
therefor. This inequitable market situation has resulted in low vacancy rates and contributed
or threatens to contribute rapidly escalating rents. This situation has resulted or threatens
to result in serious concern, anguish and stress among a significant portion of Yucaipa
residents living in manufactured home parks.

B.	Alternative sites for the relocation of manufactured homes are difficult to find due to
the shortage of vacant spaces, the restrictions on the age, size, or style or manufactured
homes permitted in many parks, and requirements related to the installation of manufactured
homes, including permits, landscaping and site preparation. Additionally, the cost for moving
a manufactured home is substantial and the risk of damage in moving is significant.

The result of these conditions is the creation of a captive market of manufactured
homeowners. This immobility, in turn, contributes to the creation of a great imbalance in the
bargaining position of the park owners and manufactured homeowners in favor of the park
owners.

The citizens find and declare it necessary absent such agreements the citizens further
find and declare it necessary.

C.	Manufactured home owners are property owners with sizeable investments in their
manufactured homes and appurtenances. Collectively, the manufactured home owners have
a greater investment than does the manufactured home park owner. The residents of
manufactured home parks consider their relationship with the park owner as a joint housing
venture.

The continuing possibility of unreasonable space rental increases in manufactured home
parks threatens to diminish the value of the investment of the manufactured home owners.

D.	The Citizens find and declare it necessary to facilitate and encourage fair bargaining
between manufactured home owners and park owners in order to achieve mutually
satisfactory agreements regarding space rental rates in manufactured home parks. Absent
such agreements, the Citizens further find and declare it necessary to protect the owners
and residents of manufactured homes from unreasonable space rental increases while
simultaneously recognizing and providing for the need of park owners to receive a just and
reasonable return on their property.

Section 2. Definitions.

A.	“Commission” - The Manufactured Home Fair Practices Commission established by
this ordinance.

B.	“Manufactured Home” - For purposes of this Ordinance, the term “manufactured
home” shall be synonymous with the term “mobile home.”

C.	“Manufactured Home Park” - An area of land where two or more manufactured home
sites are rented, or held out for rent, to accommodate manufactured homes used for human
habitation. Also referred to herein as “park.”

D.	“Manufactured Home Park Owner” - The owner, lessor, operator or designated agent
thereof of a manufactured home park. Also referred to herein as “park owner.”

E.	“Manufactured Home Resident" - Any person entitled to occupy a manufactured home
as the owner thereof or pursuant to a rental or lease agreement with the owner of a
manufactured home. Also referred to herein as a “resident*

Pfi-008.004	N	SB	06S-Z7

F.	“Space Rent" - the consideration, including any bonus, benefits, or gratuities
demanded or received for and in connection with the use or occupancy of a manufactured
home within a manufactured home park or the transfer of a rental agreement of such a
manufactured home. The use and occupancy of a rental unit shall include the exercise of
all rights and privileges and use of all facilities, services and amenities accruing to the
residents thereof for which a separate fee authorized by the Mobile Home Residency Law
(California Civil Code Sec. 798 et seq) is not charged. Nothing herein shall be construed to
prevent a park owner from establishing such fees as may be authorized by the Mobile Home
Residency Law. Space rent shall not include utility charges for utility services, including gas,
electricity, water, trash, and/or sewer service, provided to an individual manufactured home
residence (as opposed to the park in general) where such charges are billed to such a
residence separately from the space rent and such charges are limited to the actual value
of the utility services provided to the individual residence.

Section 3. Applicability.

A.	The provisions of this Ordinance shall apply only to manufactured home parks
containing more than 10 manufactured home sites.

B.	The provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to tenancies covered by a rental
agreement in existence at the time this Ordinance becomes effective where such agreement
has a duration exceeding that of a month to month tenancy. This exemption shall apply only
for the duration of the agreement. Upon the expiration or other termination of such
agreement, this Ordinance shall automatically become applicable to the tenancy.

Section 4. Manufactured Home Fair Practices Commission.

A.	Establishment. The Manufactured Home Fair Practices Commission of the City of
Yucaipa is hereby established.

B.	Membership. The commission shall consist of the members of the City Council.

C.	Meetings. Except as expressly provided herein, the Commission shall establish the
time and place of its meetings. All meetings of the Commission shall be conducted in
accordance with the provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act.

D.	Guidelines. The Commission shall make and adopt its own rules, regulations and
guidelines for conducting its business consistent with the laws of the state and this chapter.
Any such rules and regulations shall be reduced in writing and be on file with the Secretary
of the Commission at all times.

E.	Officers. The Commission may appoint such officers as it may deem necessary to carry
out its duties hereunder.

F.	Records. The Commission shall keep a record of its proceedings, which shall be open
for inspection by any member of the public.

G.	Appointment of Committees and Hearing Officers. The Commission may appoint
hearing officers to hear matters on which testimony must be taken, which officers shall report
to the Commission the findings and results of any such hearing on a matter referred to such
person.

H.	Compensation. Each member of the Commission shall be entitled to such
compensation as may be set by the City Council. Such members shall be entitled to
reimbursement for expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties. The City
Council shall appropriate and authorize expenditure of all funds necessary to enable the
Commission to carry out the duties designated in this ordinance.

I.	Staff. The City Manager shall provide all administrative staff necessary to serve the
Commission. The City Clerk shall serve as the Secretary of the Commission and shall be
responsible for the maintenance of all records of the Commission. The City Attorney or his/
her designee shall act as legal counsel to the Commission. The City Manager shall appoint
a Rent Administrator who shall be qualified by virtue of experience to conduct detailed
investigations of applications for rental increases.

J.	Quorum. Three (3) commissioners shall constitute al quorum. A majority vote of all
commissioners, i.e., three (3) votes, is required for adoption of any findings and/or order
pertaining to an application filed hereunder and for the adoption, amendment or repeal of
any rules and regulations of the Commission. A majority vote of the quorum of the
Commission is required for the Commission to take action on any other matter.

PR-008.005	N	SB	066-28

K.	Duties. The Commission shall undertake and have the following duties, responsibilities,
and functions together with all powers reasonably incidental thereto:

1.	To meet from time to time as may be specified by the rules and regulations of the
Commission in order to carry out its duties.

2.	To require such registration or manufactured home parks as the Commission may
deem necessary to enable it to carry out its duties.

3.	To make adjustments in space rent ceilings as provided for in this Ordinance.

4.	To make such studies, surveys and investigations, conduct such hearings, and obtain
such information as is necessary to carry out its powers and duties.

5.	To adopt, promulgate, amend and rescind such administrative rules as may be
necessary to effectuate the purposes and policies of this Ordinance and to enable to
Commission to carry out its powers and duties thereunder.

6.	To render at least semi-annually a comprehensive written report to the City Council
concerning the Commission’s activities, holdings, actions, results of hearings, and all other
matters pertinent to this Ordinance.

Section 5. Registration

Within thirty (30) calendar days after the effective date of this Ordinance, manufactured
home park owners are required to register all manufactured home parks and manufactured
home rental spaces within such parks with the commission.

The initial registration shall include: the name(s), business address(es), business
telephone numbers) of each person or legal entity possessing an ownership interest in the
park and the nature of such interest; the number of manufactured home rental spaces within
the park; a rent schedule reflecting space rents within the park on the effective date of this
ordinance; a listing of all other charges, including utilities not included in space rent, paid
by manufactured home residents within the park and the approximate amount of each such
charge; and the name and address to which all required notices and correspondence may
be sent Registration under any existing City mobile home rent control ordinance shall satisfy
the registration requirement provided above. '

The Commission is hereby empowered to require such re-registration as it deems
necessary.

No park owner shall be eligible to receive any rent ceiling adjustment as provided for
under the provisions of this Ordinance unless such current registration as may then be
required for the manufactured home park is on file with the Commission at the time the
petition for the rent ceiling adjustment is filed.

The registration requirements provided for in this section or which may be established
by the Commission shall apply to all manufactured home parks.

Section 6. Registration Fee.

A.	At the time of initial registration or any subsequent re- registration, manufactured home
park owners shall pay to the City of Yucaipa such registration fee for each manufactured
home rental space within the park as may be established by resolution of the Commission.

B.	If a park owner does not pay the fee provided for in subsection A. above within the
time period established therein, a late charge shall be assessed in an amount equal to one
dollar ($1.00) for each manufactured home rental space within the park for each month or
fraction thereof that such payment is delinquent.

C.	No petition will be accepted from any park owner for a space rent ceiling adjustment
of any kind, no hearing or other proceeding shall be scheduled or take place, and space
rent ceBing adjustment granted or take effect for any manufactured home park for which
there is an unpaid registration bill.

D.	The registration fee provided for by this section is intended to defray any reasonable
and necessary costs associated with the administration of the regulations contained in this
Ordinance.

E.	The City Manager is hereby directed to maintain an accurate accounting of all direct

and indirect costs of administering the regulations contained in this Ordinance and all
PR-008.006	N SB 066-29

revenue received from assessments and fees provided for in this Ordinance. In addition to
the registration fee, every manufactured home park owner shall pay a fee upon the filing of
an application for an NOI rental adjustment to defray reasonable and necessary costs
associated with the conduct of a review of said application and the necessary expenses of
hearing said application. Said fees shall be established by the Commission. The City
Manager shall submit a report to the Commission and City Council of such costs and any
recommendation for a change in the registration fee at least annually from and after the
effective date of this Ordinance.

Section 7. Manufactured Home Resident Assessment.

A.	Each manufactured home space which is subject to a space rent ceiling shall be
assessed the amount of $3.00 per month to defray the reasonable and necessary costs
associated with the enforcement of the regulations contained in this Ordinance. Said sums
shall be collected from each manufactured home by the manufactured home park.

B.	The revenue generated from the resident assessment shall be deposited with the City
Treasurer in a separate fund identified as the “Resident Assessment Fund" and shall be
utilized only for the purpose of paying the reasonable and necessary expenses to enforce
the provisions of this Ordinance. The Rent Administrator shall be charged with the duty of
retaining legal counsel to enforce the provisions of the regulations of this Ordinance. Said
counsel must be experienced in the representations of municipalities in litigation challenging
mobilehome rent stabilization ordinances.

C.	The payment of the assessment by the park owner shall be paid at the time of the initial
registration or any subsequent reregistration pursuant to Section 6 of this Ordinance.

D.	If a park owner does not pay the amount of the assessment provided for in Subsection
A above within the time period established therein, a late charge shall be assessed in an
amount equal to One Dollar ($1.00) for each manufactured home space within the park for
each month or fraction thereof that such payment is delinquent. Said delinquency payment
shall not be considered a governmental assessment within the meaning of this Ordinance.

E.	No petition will be accepted from any park owner for any space rent ceiling adjustment
of any kind, no hearing or other proceeding shall be scheduled or take place, and space
rent ceiling adjustment granted or take effect for any manufactured home park for which
there is an unpaid assessment bill.

Section 8. Base Year.

Beginning the first month which commences following the thirtieth day after the effective
date of this Ordinance, no manufactured home park owner shall charge space rent for any
manufacturers home space in an amount greater than the space rent in effect on December
31, 1986. The space rent in effect on that date shall be known as the “space rent ceiling.”

If there was no space rent in effect on December 31, 1986, the space rent ceiling shall
be the space rent that was charged on the first date that space rent was charged after
December 31, 1986.

Section 9. Space Rent Ceiling Adjustments.

A.	No increase in space rent ceilings shall be permitted except as provided for herein.

B.	Initial Adjustments.

1.	Permissive Adjustment. A park owner shall be entitled to an initial permissive
adjustment of gross space rental income in an amount equal to the lesser of a 3% increase
per annum since the base year or an increase equal to 50% of the increase in the Consumer
Price Index (CPI) from the end of the base year to the date of application for the adjustment.

The percentage increase in the CPI shall be calculated by subtracting the CPI reported
for December, 1986, from the most recently reported monthly CPI preceding the application
and then dividing this remainder by the December, 1986, CPI.

2.	NOI Adjustment. In the event a park owner does not receive a just and reasonable
return on the park property after receiving the maximum permissive adjustment provided for
above, or chooses to seek a NOI adjustment instead of a Permissive Adjustment a park
owner may file an application with the Commission for an initial NOI adjustment of the space
rent ceiling.

PR-008.007

N SB 066-30

A park owner shall be entitled to an adjustment of the space rent ceiling so as to enable
the park owner’s base year Net Operating Income (NOI) to be increased by a rate equal to
40% of the percentage increase in the CPI shall be calculated by using the procedure set
forth in Section 9.B.I.

No further space rent ceiling adjustment shall be permitted in calendar 1992, with the
exception of any applicable pass through adjustment provided for herein.

3.	An application for either an initial permissive or NOI adjustment may be filed with the
Secretary to the Commission no sooner than thirty days following the effective date of this
Ordinance. The application shall be submitted on such form as may be provided by the
Commission.

The Commission shall review any such application in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance.

C.	Annual Adjustments. Commencing in calendar year 1993, park owners shall be entitled
to the following annual adjustments.

1.	Permissive Adjustment. A park owner shall be entitled to an annual permissive
adjustment of gross space rental income equal to the lesser of an 3.0% increase or an
increase equal to 50% of the percentage increase in the CPI from the date of the most recent
initial or annual adjustment to the date of application for the proposed adjustment.

2.	NOI Adjustment. In the event a park owner does not receive a just and reasonable
return on park property after receiving the maximum permissive adjustment provided for
above or chooses to seek in NOI adjustment instead of a Permissive Adjustment; a park
owner may file an application with the Commission for an NOI adjustment of the space rent
ceiling.

A park owner shall be entitled to an adjustment of the Space rent ceiling so as to enable
the park owner’s Net Operating Income (NOI) for the subsequent year to be increased by
a rate equal to 40% of the percentage increase in the CPI since the date of the most recent
annual or initial adjustment.

3.	No annual adjustment shall become effective if a previous annual adjustment became
effective within the previous twelve (12) months. An annual adjustment may, however, be
approved by the Commission within such twelve (12) month period provided that such an
adjustment shall not become effective within such twelve (12) month period.

D.	Pass Through Adjustments.

1.	A manufactured home park owner may, at any time, file an application with the
Commission for a pass through adjustment of the space rent ceiling to enable the park owner
to pass on specific increases in utility costs where such utility costs are included in the space
rent and where said utility costs were increased by the utility provider at a rate which was
at least 100% of the most recent CPI. The application shall be submitted on such a form as
may be provided by the Commission.

Pass through adjustments shall be available for the following utility costs: gas, electricity
and water service.

2.	When such an adjustment is permitted, if a flat utility rate is charged for each dwelling
unit served by the utility and the rate for each dwelling unit is increased, the Commission
shall permit the park owner to adjust the space rent ceiling for each manufactured home by
an amount equal to the increase in the utility rate per dwelling unit

3.	If the utility expense is dependent upon the level of utilization, as in the case of gas
and electricity, the Commission shall permit the park owner to adjust the space rent ceiling
by an amount deemed necessary to cover the projected increase in the cost of such utility
service. The Commission shall determine the projected monthly increase in file utility cost
for the entire park. This projected monthly increase for the entire park shall be divided by
.the number of manufactured home rental spaces to determine the projected monthly
increase in utility costs for each such space. The Commission shall then permit the park
owner to adjust the space rent ceiling for each manufactured home by an amouht equal to
the projected monthly increase in utility costs for each manufactured home.

PR-008.008	N SB 066-31

4.	If a mobilehome park provides in the rent, without separate charge, utilities or similar
services (including, but not limited to natural gas, electricity, water, sewer, trash, cable
television) and converts to separate charge for said service by separate metering, separate
charge or other lawful means of transferring to the tenant the obligation for payment of such
services, the cost of savings shall be passed through to tenants by a rent reduction the actual
cost to the park of such transferred utility or similar service (less common area use), based
on costs for the twelve (12) month period prior to notice to the tenants of the change.

5.	For purposes of Section D.4., above, in determining cost savings to be passed on to
tenants in the form of decreased rent, the cost of installation of separate utility meters, or
similar costs incurred by the owner to shift the obligation for payment of utility costs to the
tenants shall not be considered. However, this shall not be construed to prohibit or prevent
the consideration of inclusion of such costs as an increased operating expense.

E.	Relationship of Pass Through Adjustments to Annual Adjustments.

When considering an annual adjustment application, pass through adjustments received
by the park owner since the most recent preceding annual or initial adjustment shall not be
included in the gross space rent income used to calculate any current annual adjustment
to which the park owner may be entitled.

F.	Uniform space rent ceiling adjustments.

In reviewing petitions, the Commission shall determine the amount of gross space rental
income that the park owner will be entitled to receive in order to receive the appropriate
adjustment. In translating this total dollar adjustment into specific space rent ceiling
adjustments, the park owner shall be required to adjust the space rent ceiling equally for all
manufactured home rental spaces within the park and to impose this adjustment
simultaneously to all manufactured home rental spaces in the park.

G.	Consumer Price Index (CPI).

The Consumer Price Index utilized herein shall be the Los Angeles/Riverside Metropolitan
Area Consumer Price Index.

Section 10. Presumption of Just and Reasonable Return on Property.

Except as provided hereinbelow, it shall be presumed that the Net Operating Income
produced by a manufactured home park during the base year provided the park owner with
a just and reasonable return. Park owners shall be entitled to maintain and increase their
Net Operating Income from year to year in accordance with the adjustment procedures
contained in this Ordinance.

It shall be presumed that where NOI is less than fifty percent (50%) of Gross Income in
the base year, the park owner was receiving less than a just and reasonable return on the
manufactured home park. In such a case, for purposes of determining base year NOI, Gross
Income shall be adjusted upward to twice the amount of the base year operating expenses.

For new manufactured home parks, it shall be presumed that the average Net Operating
Income for the first three years of operation after the first resident occupies a manufactured
home rental space therein would provide the park owner with a just and reasonable return.
A park owner of such a new manufactured home park shall be entitled to maintain and
increase the average NOI for such three year period from year to year thereafter in
accordance with the adjustment procedures contained in this Ordinance.

For new manufactured home parks, it shall be presumed that where the average NOI for
the first three years of operation as defined above is less than fifty percent (50%) of the
average Gross Income for such period, the park owner was receiving less than a just and
reasonable return. In such a case, for purposes of determining the average NOI for such
three year period, the average Gross Income shall be adjusted upward to twice the amount
of the average operating expenses for this period.

Section 11. Base Year.

Except as otherwise provided herein, the base year for all manufactured home parks shall
be 1986.

PR-008.009

N SB 066-32

Section 12. Net Operating Income (NOI).

For purposes of this Ordinance, the Net Operating Income (NOI) of a manufactured home
park shall equal Gross Income (Gl) less Operating Expenses (OE).

Section 13. Gross Income (Gl).

For purposes of this Ordinance, the Gross Income (Gl) of a manufactured home park shall
equal the following:

A.	Gross space rents, computed as gross space rental income at 100% occupancy, plus

B.	Other income generated as a result of the operation of the park, including, but hot
limited to laundry and recreational vehicle storage, plus

C.	Revenue received by the park owner from the sale of gas and electricity to park
residents where such utilities are billed individually to the park residents by the park
owner. This revenue shall equal the total cost of the utilities to the residents minus the
amount paid by the park owner for such utilities to the utility provider, minus

0.	Uncontrolled space rents due to vacancy and bad debts to the extent that the same
are beyond the park owner's control. Uncollected space rents in excess of three
percent (3%) of gross space rents shall be presumed to be unreasonable unless
established otherwise and shall not be included in computing gross income. Where
uncollected space rents must be estimated, the average of the preceding three (3)
years experience shall be used, or some other comparable method.

Section 14. Operating Expenses (OE).

A.	For purposes of this Ordinance, the Operating Expenses (OE) of a manufactured home
park shall include the following:

1.	Real Property taxes and assessments.

2.	Utility costs to the extent that they are included in space rent.

3.	Management expenses including the compensation of administrative personnel (may
include the value of any manufactured home space offered as part of compensation
for such services), reasonable and necessary advertising to ensure occupancy only,
legal and accounting services as permitted herein, and other managerial expenses.
Management expenses are presumed to be not more than five percent (5%) of gross
income, unless established otherwise.

4.	Normal repair and maintenance expenses for the grounds and common facilities
including but not limited to landscaping, cleaning, repair of equipment and facilities.

5.	Owner performed labor in operating and/or maintaining the park. In addition to the
management expenses listed above, where the owner performs managerial or
maintenance services which are uncompensated, the owner may include the
reasonable value of such services. There shall be a maximum allowance of five percent
(5%) of gross income unless such a limitation would be substantially unfair in a given
case. It shall be presumed that a park owner must devote substantially all of his or
her time, i.e., at least forty hours per week, to performing such managerial or
maintenance services in order to warrant the maximum 5% allowance. No allowance
for such services shall be authorized unless a park owner documents the hours utilized
in performing such services and the nature of the services provided.

6.	Operating supplies such as janitorial supplies, gardening supplies, stationary, and so
forth.

7.	Insurance premiums prorated over the life of the policy.

8.	Other taxes, fees, and permits.

9.	Reserve for replacement of long life items. This amount shall not exceed five percent
(5%) of gross income and shall only be allowed if such a fund exists.

10.	Necessary capital improvement costs exceeding existing reserves. A park owner may
include the cost of necessary capital improvement expenditures which would exceed
existing reserves for replacement A necessary capital improvement shall be an
improvement required to maintain the common facilities and areas of the park in a
decent, safe, and sanitary condition or to maintain the existing level of park amenities
and services.

PR-008.010

N SB 066-33

Expenditures for capital improvements to upgrade existing facilities or increase
amenities or services shall be an allowable operating expense only if the park owner
has:

a.	Consulted with the park residents prior to initiating construction of the
improvements regarding the nature and purpose of the improvements and the
estimated cost of the improvements.

b.	Obtained the prior written consent of at least one adult resident from a majority of
the manufactured home rental spaces to include the cost of the improvement as
an operating expense. Evidence of such consent must be presented at the time
of filing the application seeking to include such a capital improvement expenditure
as an operating expense.

Any capital improvement expense shall be amortized over the reasonable life of the
improvement or such other period as may be deemed reasonable by the Commission under
the circumstances.

In the event that the capital improvement expenditure is necessitated as a result of an
accident, disaster, or other,event for which the park owner receives insurance benefits, only
those capital improvement costs otherwise allowable exceeding the insurance benefits may
be calculated as operating expenses.

No expense for capital improvements shall be allowed if said expense is necessitated by
deferred maintenance of the park as evidenced by physical deterioration and/or lack of
expenditure for maintenance.

11.	Involuntary refinancing of mortgage or debt principal. A park owner may, under the
provisions of this subsection, be able to include certain debt service costs as an
operating expense. Such costs are limited to increases in interest payments from
those interest payments made during the base year which result from one of the
following situations or the equivalent thereof: 1) refinancing of the outstanding
principal owed for the acquisition of a park where such refinancing is mandated by
the terms of a financing transaction entered into prior to January 1, 1986, e.g.,
termination of a loan with a balloon payment, or 2) increased interest costs incurred
as a result of a variable interest rate loan used to finance the acquisition of the park
and entered into prior to January 1, 1986.

In refinancing, increased interest shall be permitted to be considered as an operating
expense only where the park owner can show that the terms of the refinancing were
reasonable and consistent with prudent business practices under the circumstances.

12.	Involuntary increase in land rent.

A.	A park owner may, under the provisions of this subsection, be able to include certain
payments delineated as land rent as an operating expense. Such costs are limited to
increases in the amount of land rent incurred as a result of a land lease for the lease of land
occupied by the Park which was entered into prior to January 1, 1986.

B.	Operating expenses shall not include the following:

1.	All debt service expenses, except as provided above.

2.	Payments made as rent on land occupied by the Park.

3.	Depreciation.

4.	Any expense for which the park owner is reimbursed.

5.	Attorneys fees and costs incurred in proceedings before the Commission, or in
connection with legal proceedings against the Commission or challenging this

Ordinance.

6.	Any late charges incurred by the park owner for failure to pay any registration fee to-the
City authorized by this Ordinance.

C.	All operating expenses must be reasonable. Whenever a particular expense exceeds
the normal industry or other comparable standard, the park owner shall bear the burden of

PR-008.011	N	SB	066-34

-im-

proving the reasonableness of the expense. To the extent that the Commission finds any
such expense to be unreasonable, the Commission shall adjust the expense to reflect the
normal industry or other comparable standard. All expenditures for repair and replacement
and all other major expenses shall be documented by cancelled checks or invoices.

Section 15-Space Rent Ceiling Adjustment Procedures.

A.	Initiation. In order to initiate a space rent ceiling adjustment as provided for herein, a
manufactured home park owner must submit an application for such an adjustment to the
Secretary of the Commission. The application shall be submitted in such form as may be
required by the Commission.

The application shall be accompanied by an affidavit from the park owner or his designee
declaring that copies of the application have either been personally served on each
manufactured home resident (service on one adult member of a manufactured home
household shall constitute service on each adult member thereof) or mailed first class
postage prepaid to each manufactured home residence within the park.

The application shall be accompanied with four by ten envelopes with first class postage
affixed and pre-addressed to each manufactured home residence in the park.

The Secretary to the Commission shall not accept an application for filing unless it is
accompanied by both the affidavit of service or mailing and the required envelopes.

B.	The Commission shall conduct a hearing to act upon the application in accordance
with the provisions of this Ordinance.

C.	The Commission, through employees selected by the City Manager, shall review the
application to make a determination that it has been completed in conformity with this
Ordinance and the applicable rules and regulations. When such a determination has been
made, the Secretary to the Commission shall issue a Notice of Completion. No hearing shall
be scheduled to consider the application until said Notice of Completion has been issued.
Following the issuance of a Notice of Completion, the Secretary shall schedule the hearing
to commence no later than thirty days from the date of issuance of the Notice of Completion.

The Secretary shall notify the park owner or other person designated on the park’s
registration and the park residents of the time, date, and place of the hearing. Such notice
shall be mailed at least fifteen (15) calendar days prior to the scheduled hearing date.

D.	At the time of the hearing on such an application, the Commission shall hear all relevant
testimony and receive all relevant documentary evidence relevant to the application.

E.	All parties to such a hearing may have assistance in presenting evidence and testimony
and developing their position from attorneys, experts, or such other persons as may be
designated by said parties.

-F. A hearing hereunder may be continued for a reasonable period of time as determined
by the Commission upon the consent of the parties thereto or upon a finding of good cause
for such continuance made by the Commission.

G.	All hearings and deliberations of the Commission hereunder shall be open to the
public.

H.	In reviewing applications for permissive adjustments, the Commission’s review of the
application shall be limited to ensuring its completeness, accuracy, and compliance with the
provisions of this Ordinance. If the Commission determines that tine application, is complete
and accurate and the requested adjustment complies with the provisions of this Ordinance,
the Commission shall grant the adjustment as requested.

If the Commission determines that such an application is not complete and/or accurate,
it shall deny the application without prejudice based on the deficiency. The Commission shall
inform the park owner of the basis for its denial.

If the Commission determines that such an application is not in compliance with the
prOWitions of ttiis Ordinance, it shall either deny the application or grant such adjustment
wt1^ does CQf^	provisions	of	this	Ordinance.

I.	No NO! adjustment stud be granted unless supported by the preponderance of the
evidence submitted fit the hearing.

PR-008.012	N SB 06S-3S

J.	The Commission shall render its written findings and decision on the application within
fourteen (14) calendar days from the date of the close of the hearing. The Secretary shall,
within such fourteen (14) day period, send a copy of the Commission’s findings and decision
to the park owner or other person designated on the park's registration and to such residents
as may request such findings and decision.

K.	Pursuant to its findings, the Commission shall grant such space rent ceiling adjustment
as is justified thereby. The decision of the Commission shall be final.

L.	Any space rent adjustment granted by the Commission shall become effective
immediately unless otherwise specified by the Commission or provision of this Ordinance.

Section 16. Miscellaneous Provisions.

A.	Refusal of manufactured home resident to pay space rent. A manufactured home
resident may refuse to pay any space rent which is in violation of this Ordinance. Such a
violation shall be a defense in any action brought to recover possession of a manufactured
home space or to collect the illegally charged space rent.

B.	The City of Yucaipa, manufactured home residents thereof, or manufactured home
| park owners thereof, may seek relief from the appropriate court to restrain or enjoin any

violation of this Ordinance or the rules and regulations or decisions of the Commission.

C.	Suspension of provisions. The provisions of this ordinance shall remain in full force
and effect unless and until the space vacancy rate of all manufactured home parks regulated
hereunder, except as provided below, exceeds five percent (5%). The space vacancy rate
shall be calculated by dividing the total number of rental spaces in the applicable parks into

i the total number of such spaces which are not occupied by manufactured homes. Parks
which have not been in operation for more than two (2) years from the date of occupany of
! the first manufactured home, not including manufactured homes occupied by park owners
or employees thereof, shall not be included in the vacancy calculation.

Upon recognition by the City Council by resolution that the vacancy rate exceeds five
percent (5%), the provisions of this ordinance shall be suspended. The provisions shall be
| automatically reinstituted upon the adoption of a resolution by the City Council declaring the
vacancy rate to be five percent (5%) or less.

D.	Residents Permitted To Sublet. In the event a resident determines that because of
illness or infirmity it will be necessary to vacate his or her residence may sublet the residence.

E.	Park owners may not require a resident to construct, install, replace or pay for the
installation or repair of permanent improvements to the resident’s space as a condition of
residency.

F.	Severability. If any provision or clause of this Ordinance or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional or to be otherwise invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect other Ordinance provisions or
clauses or applications thereof which can be implemented without the invalid provision or
clause or application and to this end the provisions and clauses of this Ordinance are
declared to be severable.

Section 17. Space Rent Agreement Exemption.

Any rental agreement in excess of twelve months (12) duration which also meets all
criteria specified in Section 978.15 and Section 978.17 of the California Civil Code, including,
but not limited to, the tenant notification requirement within the first paragraph of such rental
agreement, shall be exempt from the space rent ceiling provisions of this Ordinance, but only
during the term of such rental agreement or one or more uninterrupted, continuous
extensions thereof. If such rental agreement is not extended and no new rental agreement
in excess of twelve months (12) duration is entered into, then the last rental agreement shall
be the base rent for purposes of this Ordinance.

A copy of this Ordinance shall be posted in the office of every mobile home park and in
the recreation building or club house of every mobile home park. A copy of this Ordinance
shall be shown to every residence and prospective residence of a mobile home park before
the resident or prospective resident agrees to any rental agreement or lease. Verification that
each resident or prospective resident has reviewed this Ordinance prior to agreeing to any
PR-008.013	N 8* 0S6-3*

rental agreement or lease shall be provided to the Rent Administrator by filing with the Rent
Administrator a certification form provided by the Rent Administrator and signed by the
resident or prospective resident.

Section 18. Lease Agreement Exemption.

The space rent ceiling provisions of this Ordinance do not apply to any manufactured
home resident for the rental of which the mobilehome park owner and the resident have
mutually agreed to enter into a lease which conforms to all the provisions of California Civil
Code sections.

Upon verified complaint to the Commission by a mobilehome resident or residents that
the park owner has failed to abide by any of the provisions of Civil Code section 798.17, the
Commission shall conduct a hearing to determine whether the park owner has complied with
Civil code section 798.17. In the event the Commission determines that the park owner has
failed to abide by any provision in said section the Commission shall invoke a space rent
ceiling effective as of the date of the lease.

It is hereby made a violation of law, punishable as a misdemeanor, for any person to
perform any act of duress, menace or undue influence with the intent of thereby obtaining
the consent of any other person to enter into any lease for the occupancy of a residential
rental unit.

Section 19. Rent Decreases for Reduction in Services.

No owner shall reduce the level or kind of services provided to tenants as of the date of
adoption of this Ordinance or take any other punitive action in retaliation for the exercise by
tenants of any of the rights granted by this Ordinance.

Upon verified complaint to the Commission there by a mobilehome resident or residents
the Commission shall conduct a hearing to determine whether a park owner has reduced
the level or kind of services in violation of this section and if the Commission concludes said
services have been reduced, shall reduce the rent in accordance with the cost of said service
reduction.

Section 20. This Ordinance shall be codified.

SECTION 16. b. DAMAGES AND COSTS. IN ADDITION, ANY PERSON WHO DEMANDS
ACCEPTS, OR RETAINS ANY PAYMENT IN VIOLATION OF ANY PROVISION OF THIS
ORDINANCE SHALL BE LIABLE IN A CIVIL ACTION TO THE PERSON FROM WHOM SUCH
PAYMENT IS DEMANDED, ACCEPTED OR RETAINED FOR DAMAGES IN THE SUM OF
THREE TIMES THE AMOUNT BY WHICH THE PAYMENT OR PAYMENTS DEMANDED,
ACCEPTED OR RETAINED EXCEED THE MAXIMUM RENT WHICH COULD LAWFULLY BE
DEMANDED, ACCEPTED OR RETAINED, TOGETHER WITH REASONABLE ATTORNEY’S
FEES AND COSTS AS DETERMINED BY THE COURT.

v

PR-008.014