VA

OFFICIAL BALLOT	SARATOGA	UNION	SCHOOL	DISTRICT

SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ELECTION_____________APRIL	14,1992

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

SARATOGA UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX MEASURE

£

CWill the citizens of Saratoga approve a special tax assessment in
support of the Saratoga Union School District for a limited period of
four years, beginning July 1, 1992 through June 30, 1996, at the
rate of $179 per assessor’s parcel ($89.50 semi-annual payment) to
continue the educational programs described below?

An independent panel of business and community leaders will audit
these funds annually. The District will publish a report of the panel's
findings for the citizens of Saratoga.

The following will be supported by the tax assessment:

1.	Program: Protect basic education programs.

2.	Exemplary Programs: Develop exemplary programs in the areas of
mathematics, science, applications of technology and writing skills in
keeping with national goals.

3.	Facilities Maintenance and Security: Repair roofs, and heating,
electrical, and plumbing systems in aging schools to create a safe
environment for students.

4.	Class Size: Maintain present district class size practices and 7-period
day at Redwood Middle School.

5.	Rebuild Programs: Rebuild programs including music, art, and
library services.

Art exemption by application shall be granted:

• On any parcel owned by one or more persons, 65 years of age or over,
who occupy said parcel as a principal residence.

• for additional parcels which are contiguous and one economic unit,
meaning they have the same primary purpose as the principal parcel.

Applications for these exemptions will be mailed to residents and must
be filed with the district by June 1, 1992, or by May 1, of any succeeding
assessment year. A single application from a qualified applicant will
provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the
assessment so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel as his
or her principal residence.

The District will establish a review process to grant

exemptions and consider appeals.	YES	23

NO 24

E-3

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

Following is Information
Concerning Measures

Arguments In Support Of Or In Opposition To ihe
Proposed Laws Are The Opinions Of The Authors.

All Authors Have Filed Signed
Statements That Their Arguments
Are True And Correct To The Best Of
Their Knowledge And Belief.

Although the materials in this pamphlet have been carefully proofread,
typographical errors occasionally remain undetected. If any substantive
errors are discovered after the pamphlet has been printed, correction notices
will be published in appropriate local newspapers on
Friday, April 10, 1992.

MEASURE C

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

The Government Code authorizes districts to impose a special tax through the imposition
of a parcel tax on real properly upon approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters in an
election held for the purpose of imposing such a tax.

The Saratoga Union School District governing board proposes to implement a parcel tax
in the amount of $179.00 par non-exempt parcel per year for a period of four years
beginning July 1, 1992. Any renewal of the tax would also require approval of two-thirds of
the votes cast in an election held for .the purpose of extending the tax. A parcel is defined as
any parcel of land shown on the then current assessment roll prepared by the County
Assessor. An exemption from the assessment will apply to an individual in the District 65
years of age or older, who uses the parcel as his or her principal place of residence, and
who applies to the District on or before June 1, 1992 or by May 1 of any succeeding
assessment year. Exemptions may also be granted for additional parcels which are
contiguous and constitute one economic unit.

A “yes" vote is a vote in favor of levying the proposed special tax. The funds derived from
the parcel tax would be expended to:

1.	Protect basic education programs.

2.	Develop exemplary programs in the areas of mathematics, science, applications of
technology and writing skiffs in keeping with national goals.

3.	Repair roofs, heating, electrical, and plumbing systems in aging schools to create a

safe environment for students.

4.	Maintain present district class size practices and 7-period day at Redwood Middle

School.

5.	Rebuild programs including music, art, and library services.

A “no" vote is a vote not to authorize the imposition of said special tax.

STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel
By: BRIAN L. CARR
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Vote YES on Measure C to protect basic education in the Saratoga Union School District

The core is in jeopardy. A school system renowned for its excellence for fifty years is
facing teacher layoffs and unmanageable class sizes resulting in shifting students to other
school sites and possible school closures. Aging plumbing, electrical, and heating systems
need to be repaired now for safety's sake. Our human resources — some of the best
teachers and students in the U.S. — need the support of the Saratoga community.

Saratoga cannot look to the state for financial help. Year after year funding for education
is uncertain, and now California ranks 47th nationally in spending for education based on per
capita income. State revenues are simply inadequate. Saratoga schools have already cut
library services, science lab, music and art programs, and foreign language instruction,
along with major reductions in administration.

Measure C is the solution. All money collected stays here in Saratoga. Measure C calls for
an annual assessment of $179 per parcel with built-in protections for taxpayers:

•	a panel of local citizens will audit the spending of Measure C funds and issue an annual
public report

•	exemptions are available for residents over 65

F-13

____________________ARGUMENT	IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C continued

• the tax terminates after 4 years

Measure C will protect our property values and preserve Saratoga’s special community
character. But more important, passage of Measure C will assure that the Saratoga Union
School District will continue to be recognized as one of California’s finest.

Invest in Saratoga's future. Vote YES on Measure C.

Jill Hunter

President, Saratoga Union
School District Board of Trustees
Cathy Crimmins

President, PTA Valley West Council

1990-91 Saratoga High School PTSA

President

Les Landin

Retired Educator

West Valley College Instructor

Robert Egan

1985 Saratoga Citizen of the Year
Saratoga Business Leader
Peggy Con-

Farmer City Council Member
1983 Saratoga Citizen of the Year

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

The proponents claim that the core is in jeopardy. An excessive administration appetite
has already starved the traditional curriculum and the educational core. Examples:

•$72,900 per year budgeted for Board benefits and perks ($1215 per member per month!).

•	It is unconscionable spending $40,000 on special elections that could have been
avoided by including measures on regular elections.

•	$30,000 per year for hired noon duty guards! What ever happened to teacher noon
duty?

•	Volunteer helpers/feachers have been ignored in favor of paid specialists.

Statements regarding cuts are misleading — those programs still exist, although now
taught by classroom teachers instead of specialists.

It is not true that “all" money collected will stay in Saratoga. Approximately $50,000 would
be retained by the County as collection fees.

The district proposes a citizen's auditing panel of community leaders to audit expenditure
of funds collected. Yet last November the Board rejected a proposal by one of its members
to form a budget advisory committee (with community participation). Some board members
apparently want community envolvement only if they “rubber-stamp" their educational
agenda.

It is misleading to state that the tax will terminate in 4 years. How often has a tax been
terminated? It would be more correct to say that after each 4 year period, the tax may be
continued and possibly increased! Examples: the on-going Developer's Fee and the recently
extended Utility Tax!

SPENDING MORE MONEY DOES NOT NECESSARILY EQUATE TO HIGHER
QUALITY EDUCATION! VOTE NO TO FORCE RESPONSIBLE REFORM!

Jerome Kocir	Jeffrey	M.	Klopotic

A Saratoga Incorporation Founder	California	Republican	Assembly

Mission City Chapter

F-14

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Attention citizens and taxpayers! This special election is being imposed to implement yet
another tax hike! Just eight months ago the voters said "NO” to this measure in a special
election costing taxpayers $20,000. This repeated expenditure of $20,000 could have been
avoided if Measure C had been inducted in the primary election, just two months from now.
Residents already have to pay a $1.56 per square foot "Developer's Fee" to improve their
property — which goes directly to the schoolsl Furthermore, just as the utility tax was
extended another five years in 1990, Measure C can be extended indefinitely by simple
majority votel This tax, if passed, will propagate top-heavy administrative overhead and
continue to fund frivolous programs such as Self-Esteem, Multicultural Awareness, Folk
Dancing, etc. These ungraded peripheral programs (outside the regular classroom),
require specialized instruction and dilute die quality of the traditional academic curriculum.

SUSD expenditures continue to exceed revenues, forcing use of the proceeds from die
Congress Springs sale for operating expenses. The deficit this year will consume $687,000
derived from that one time cash infusion. Even using this emergency fund, operating
expenses have not provided for necessary facility repairs/replacements. While deferring
maintenance, SUSD has added more questionable programs. Fiscal mismanagement of this
magnitude mandates that drastic measures be taken to cut peripherals and overhead.

A “NO" vote sends a message demancfing that SUSD balance its budget. Passage of this
measure will bypass the 2/3 requirement of the Gann initiative, when continuation of the tax
is brought to the voters in Sour years. Measure C provides money, but not spending controls
— almost guaranteeing that the budget deficit will never be fixed. SUSD can improve
academic quality and balance its budget without a tax increase, and without depleting its
emergency fund. VOTE "NO'TO FORCE FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY!

Willem A. Kohler, Mayor	James W. Day

City of Saratoga	Saratoga	Broker/Builder

Dr. John E. Cox, M.D.	Norman	Nason, President

Former Member, SUSD Board	Saratoga	Investment Company

Founding Pres., Saratoga G.G.GL

L.M. Thorpe.Treasure

Crossing Guard

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

The opponents of Measure C concede that “necessary facility repairs/replacements" have
been curtailed because of lack of funds. They concede that unless Measure C passes,
“drastic measures" — in the form of program cuts — will follow.

They say, though that the damage to the schools will be "peripheral." Wrong! The damage
will be fundamental. The traditional quality of Saratoga Schools will be lost. Funds collected
from developer fees must be spent on very specific things. Without Measure C, the choices
now include classroom teacher layoffs, reduction of the school year, larger class sizes, and
school closures.

Why? There have been bad decisions in Sacramento, where our property taxes are
collected and spent. There also has been a statewide financial squeeze that has short-
changed the schools, the children, and ultimately the future. But we can help ourselves! All
Measure C revenues stay in Saratoga. They will fund basic classroom education,
desperately needed safety repairs, and long-deferred maintenance.

The opponents want to eliminate "multicultural awareness." When we were in school, the
same curriculum was called “Social Studies." Our children are taught good citizenship and

respect for others. Cart responsible people really say we need less of this in our schools?

In the last election, 63.9% voted YES. Measure C will last four years. It can only be

F-15

renewed by a 2/3 majority of Saratoga voters. Hopefully, by then, Sacramento will have its
house in order. In the mealtime, our children will continue to attend first-rate schools.

Victor Monia, Council
Member, Saratoga City Co.

Stephen Hall, C.P.A.

Past President, Saratoga Rotary, 1986-87

Marty Clevenger
Council Member, Former
Mayor of Saratoga, 1985-86, 89-90
Adrian Stanga, Businessman
1990 Saratoga Citizen of the Year

F-16