KENSINGTON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE L ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

“Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed measure are the opinions of the authors”.

MEASURE L

“Shall Ordinance 92-02 of the Kensington Community Services District, in- creasing the maximum amounts within which the District’s Board of Directors may determine annually the amount of special tax for police protection to be imposed on property within the District, to the following maximum amounts:	YES	
Property Category Maximum Annual Tax		
Single Family Residential $350.00 Multiple Unit Residential $525.00 Commercial and Institutional. $525.00 Miscellaneous Improved Property $350.00 Unimproved Property $ 87.50	NO	
be confirmed?”		

ANALYSIS BY ATTORNEY FOB DISTRICT

BACKGROUND

■ ■ Since-1978,-the -Galifomia-Constitution-has ■ limited' the amount of ad valorem taxes on
real property to one percent, of full cash value. As a result, property tax revenues to local
governments were reduced. That reduction particularly affected agencies, such as Kensington
Community Services District, which previously depended upon the property tax for virtually
all of their revenues.

California law authorizes local governments to adopt special taxes for police protection
with the approval of two-thirds of the electorate. I.n 1980, District voters approved Ordinance
80-01, imposing a special tax for police protection.

In 1984, District voters approved Ordinance 84-01, which amended Ordinance 80-01 by
increasing the amount of tax which could be imposed and authorizing the District's Board of
Directors to determine the exact rate of tax annually, based on the District’s estimated needs
for revenue in the ensuing year.

Under Ordinance 84-01, the maximum tax amounts which, the Board is authorized to
levy in any year are:

Category of Property	Maximum	Annual	Tax

Single Family Residential	$ 90

Multiple Unit Residential	$135

Commercial and Institutional	$180

Miscellaneous Improved Property	$ 90

There is no tax on unimproved property.

Because of the fiscal difficulties of the State of California, the Board anticipates that
there will be significant reductions in State financial assistance to the District. The amount
of reduction is unknown at the time this measure was required to be placed on the ballot.

PROPOSAL

Passage of this measure would increase the maximum amount that the Board is au-
thorized to levy to the following:

Category of Property	Maximum	Annual	Tax

Single Family Residential	$350.00

Multiple Unit Residential	$525.00

Commercial and Institutional	$525.00

Miscellaneous Improved Property	$350.00

Unimproved Property	$ 87.50

il)

The Board could establish the tax rates at levels lower than those now in effect and
could increase one or more of them up to the amounts set out above. The amount of tax levied
could not, however, exceed the maximum amounts established in the Ordinance without sub-
sequent voter approval.

The new maximum rates would become effective for the tax year that began on July X,
1992. Any increase in rate over the rate already set by the Board for the 1992-1993 year would
be collected in two installments; the first installment would become delinquent at the end of
the following month; the second installment of the increase would become delinquent on April
10, 1993. In future years, both installments of the tax would be collected at the same times as
property taxes, as they have in the past.

The additional revenues derived from an increase in. the special tax could be used only

for providing police protection.

FISCAL EFFECT

The actual fiscal effect will depend upon what changes, if any, to the existing rates of

tax are made by the Board.

If the Board were to increase the tax. rates applicable to each of the five property categories
to the maximum amounts authorized by this Ordinance, the District estimates it would receive

approximately $588,755 per year in additional revenue.

ORDINANCE NO. 92-02

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO, 80-01,

' CH IK ' '; • k t ‘ i fECIAL TAX FOR POLICE PROTECTION
AND PROPOSING THE AMENDMENTS FOB ADOPTION

KENSINGTON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT

WHEREAS, on April 8,1980, the voters approved Ordinance No. 80-01 imposing a special
tax for police protection, effective commencing with the fiscal year beginning July 1,1980; and

WHEREAS, on April 10,1984, the voters approved Ordinance No. 84-01, which amended
Ordinance No. 80-01 by increasing the maximum amount of the special tax and authorizing
the Board of Directors of the District to impose a tax up to the specified maximum limits and
to modify the tax from time to time, within such limits as the District's financial condition

requires; and

WHEREAS, there exists substantial uncertainty as to the level of financial assistance,
if any, which the District may receive from the State of California. Significant reductions in
the; amount of such State subventions are likely for fiscal year 1992-93 and thereafter, but the
exact amounts of severity of such reductions are not known at this time; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that the revenues provided from ad
valorem property taxes and the special tax authorized by Ordinance No. 80-01, as amended
by Resolution No. 84-01, will be insufficient to support continuation of present levels of police
protection services by the District during fiscal year 1992-93 and thereafter; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that, without the additional revenues
which an increase in the authorized amounts of the special tax would provide, substantial
reductions m the level and quality of police protection may be necessary commencing with
fiscal year 1992-93; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors remains committed to imposing a tax rate no higher
than that necessary to provide sufficient funds for continued police protection services. If in
any year additional sources of revenue not now anticipated become available to the District,
or if revenues from existing sources exceed the amounts now anticipated, or if expenditures
are able to be reduced, consistent with adequate police protection, then it is the policy and
intention of the Board to set the amount of special fax at, rates below the authorized maximum,
including reducing it below the amounts originally approved by voters in 1980; and

WHEREAS, it is also the policy and intention of this Board to maintain the amounts of
tax applicable to various classes of property at levels which are fair and equitable, taking into
account the costs of providing police protection and the benefits of such protection to such
properties.

NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
KENSINGTON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT as follows:

Section 1. Amendment to Ordinance No. 80-01

(a)	Subsection 2.A of Ordinance No, 80-01, as amended by Ordinance No. 84-0!, is
hereby further amended to read as follows:

“Section 2. Determination of Amount of Tax

A.	A special tax for police protection only is hereby determined in the following
maximum amounts upon property within the District:

Class of Improvements or Use	Maximum	Amount	of	Tax

Single Family Residential	$350.00 per year

Multiple Unit Residential	$525.00 per year

Commercial and Institutional	$525.00	per	year

Miscellaneous Improved Property	$350.00	per	year

Unimproved Property	$	87.50	per	year”

(b)	A new Subsection D is hereby added to Section 2 of Ordinance No. 80-01, as amended
by Ordinance No. 84-01, to read as follows:

“D. In the case of the fiscal year beginning on July 1, 1992 and ending on June
30, 1993 only, the Board of Directors shall determine the amount of tax to be levied for
that fiscal year prior to January 1, 1993, rather than prior to June 30 of the preceding
fiscal year as called for in Section 2.C above.”

(c)	Section 6 of Ordinance No. 80-01, as amended by Ordinance No. 84-01, is hereby
amended by the addition of the following sentence at the end thereof:

“In the case of the tax year beginning on July 1, 1992 only, the increase, if any.
in the amount of the special tax for that tax year over the amount previously determined
by the Board to be payable for that tax year, shall be collected in the same manner as
a supplemental bill for ad valorem property taxes, except that the second installment
shall become due at 5 p.m. on March 1, 1993, and shall become delinquent at 5 p.m. on
April 10, 1993."

Section 2. Ratification of Ordinance No. 80-01

Except as provided above, all provisions of Ordinance No. 80-01, as amended by Ordinance
No. 84-01, remain unchanged. If the voters do not approve the changes to Section 2 and Section
6 made by this Ordinance, then the special tax adopted by Ordinance No. 80-01, as amended
by Ordinance No. 84-01, will remain in full force and effect without change.

Section 3, Effective Date

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its approval by the voters of the
District in the manner provided by law. If so approved, the amounts of tax may be changed
from those previously: established by the Board pursuant to Ordinance No. 80-01, as amended
by Ordinance No. 84-01, commencing with the tax year beginning on July 1, 1992.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a meeting of the Board of Directors held on the 4th day
of August 1992, by the following vote;

AYES:	3

NOES:	0

ABSENT 0

ATTEST:

Judith G. Young
Secretary

.John A. Pierce
President, Board of Directors

Lawrence S. Thai
Director

(3)

Sheila P. Brody
Director

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
KENSINGTON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT »
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE L ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

As this measure is being placed on the ballot in mid August, the State has still not approved,
its budget. However, it appears likely that the budget will eliminate our share of property
taxes and other state subventions. These two funds accounted for 83% of last, years budget
revenue. Therefore, the passage of this ballot measure is critical. With the passage of this
Measure, your police department can maintain its staff at a level of 10 officers. Without this
additional revenue our community faces the probability of seeing its police department close
its doors.

Your Board of Directors remain committed to a tax rate no higher than necessary to provide
continued quality police protection. If additional sources of revenue, not now anticipated, become
available to the district, then it is the policy and intention of the Board to reduce the special
tax rate and still maintain a constant level of police protection. Our last special police tax
measure passed in 1984. Since then the district: collected the full amount authorized on only
two occasions.

Certain points should be stressed:

1.	The tax can only be used for police protection

2.	The maximum rates cannot be raised again without your % vote.

3.	If this measure passes the board will hold public hearings and ask for public input before
actually raising the tax rate within the maximum limits.

Your vote on this Measure will determine the future of the Kensington Police Department. A
“Yes” vote will assure continuance of our locally controlled and responsive police department.
A “No" vote will result in substantial reductions in the level and quality of police protection
and could result in the elimination of the Kensington Police Department, Please vote “Yes” on
this measure.

John A Pierce, Director

Sheila P. Brody, Director

Lawrence S. Thai, Director

ARGUMENT AGAINST
KENSINGTON COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE I ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

None filed.