FULL TEXT
MEASURE L
PROPOSED ORDINANCE NO. 575B

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LINCOLN
AMENDING CHAPTER 5.04 OF THE LINCOLN MUNICIPAL CODE
RAISING THE BUSINESS LICENSE TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LINCOLN 00 ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Chapter 5.04 of the Lincoln Municipal Code imposes a business license tax
on businesses in Lincoln. Said license tax is collected by the City Clerk. This ordinance increases
the business license tax for various businesses and would constitute a general tax as the
revenue from the increased tax is designated for general fund revenue purposes. The date
of the election to determine whether this ordinance will be adopted is November 3, 1992.

Section 2. Subsections (A), (B) and (C) of Section 5.04.130 of the Lincoln Municipal
Code are hereby repealed.

Section 3. Subsection (A) of Section 5.04.130 is hereby added to the Lincoln Municipal
Code to read as follows:

"5.04.130 License Tax -- General Schedule (A) Unless otherwise specifically
provided, any person conducting a business shall pay an annual license fee according
to the following schedule:

Number of Employees	Amount

1-2	$50.00

3-6	$60.00

7-10	$80.00

10 and	up	$100.00"

Section 4. Section 5.04.140 of the Lincoln Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:

"5.04.140 Contractors. A. General contractors; For the business of contracting,
the license fee is sixty dollars per year." -

B. Subcontractors and specialty contracts: The license fee is sixty dollars."

Section 5. Sections 5.04.150 and 5.04.160 are hereby repealed.

Section 6. Section 5.04.180 of the Lincoln Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:

''5.04.180 Utilities. Every person engaged in the business of operating a bus
company, express company, telegraph, telephone, water, gas or electric company,
or other utilities within the city,* and who is not subject to payment of a franchise
fee, shall pay an annual license fee of one hundred dollars."

Section 7. Section 5.04.200 of the Lincoln Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:

"5.04,200 Motels, hotels. Every person carrying on the business of operating a
motel, hotel or trailer park of more than three units shall pay a license fee of ten
dollars yearly for each unit available for rent."

Section 8. Section 5.04.210 of the Lincoln Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:

"5.04.210 Vehicle-based businesses. Every person carrying on a business with
no fixed place of business, including but not limited to, ambulance services,
cleaning/laundry trucks, dairy products, gasotine/petroleum delivery, wholesale/retail
delivery snd/or pickup, shell pay an annual license tax per vehicle as follows:

A.	First Vehicle	$50.00

B,	Each Additional Vehicle	$30.00"

Section 9. Within fifteen (15) days of the passage of this ordinance, a copy shall be
published once in the News Messenger, a newspaper of general circulation within the City.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 21st day of July, 1992, by the following roll call vote:

AYES: COUNCILMEMBERS: Babcock, Costa, Holland, Nader, Malotte

NOES: COUNCILMEMBERS: None
ABSENT: C0UNC1LMEM8ERS None

ATTEST

Isl Linda L. Stackpoole
City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
fsf Timothy P. Hayes
City Attorney

/s| Carl Malotte
Mayor

I hereby certify that this is a true and correct
copy of Ordinance No. 575B adopted by the
Lincoln City Council on July 21, 1992.
fsf Linda L. Stackpoole
City Clerk

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
MEASURE L

If this Measure is approved by a majority of the voters voting in this election, the City's
Business License Tax for most businesses will be increased.

In order to conduct business, each business in the City is required to pay a business
license tax in an amount set out in the City's Municipal Code. Approval of this Measure (Ordinance
575 B) will increase the Business License Tax for most businesses in varying amounts, depending
on the nature of the business.

The annual business license tax for businesses operating a motel, hotel or trailer park
will increase from five dollars ($5) per unit available for rent to ten dollars ($10) per unit.
The annual business license tax for those businesses which utilize vehicles and have no fixed
place of business such as ambulance services will increase from twenty five dollars ($25)
for the first vehicle to fifty dollars ($50) for the first vehicle and from fifteen dollars ($15)
for each additional vehicle to thirty dollars ($30) for each additional vehicle.

Currently, the maximum business license tax for other businesses which would be affected
by this Measure is thirty dollars ($30) a year. Approval of this Measure would result in a
maximum business license tax of one hundred dollars ($100) a year for those businesses.

The revenue collected from this tax will be deposited into the City's general fund and
may be spent for any municipal purpose.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure "L" (Ordinance 575 8). If you
desire a copy of the Measure (Ordinance), please call the City Clerk's office at (916- 645-3314)
and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Dated: July 28, 1992

fs/Timothy P. Hayes
Lincoln City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR
MEASURE L

Measure L would enact a modest increase in the business license tax for the City of Lincoln
effective January 1, 1993. It will not result in a lax increase for the residents of the
City of Lincoln. The purpose of the business license tax is to provide additional revenue
for community services such as libraries and parks and recreation.

The business license tax for the City of Lincoln has not been increased since 1974, and is
significantly lower than neighboring communities. Currently, the average business in the City
pays $30.00 per year for a business license. Measure L would increase that annual charge
for the average' business to $50.00 per year.' . /	‘ '

You are urged to vote "YES" on Measure L to allow for this appropriate increase in the City
business license tax .to provide additional revenue for community services.

Is/ Carl Malotte, Mayor, for
Lincoln City Council

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L
WAS SUBMITTED

31-VP38

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
MEASURE N

Proposition N requests the Loomis electorate to advise the Town Council as to whether
the electorate would favorably consider financial assessments for specific services such as
police protection and road projects, in order to maintain or enhance the level of public services
currently provided by the Town.

A "yes" vote means that the electorate would favor such assessments. A "no" vote
means the electorate would not favor such assessments for such purposes. This measure
is advisory only and would not be binding on the present or future Town Councils.

/sf Bob Joehnck
Town Attorney

NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N
WAS SUBMITTED

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE N

This is a tax increase question although the word "TAX" is never mentioned, it is a poorly
concealed way of trying to bamboozle you into a tax increase called "assessments."

Only people pay taxes. Any so-called assessment will be one that you will pay on top
of the confiscative local, county, state and federal taxes you already pay.

As a matter-of-fact, you already pay for police protection and road projects in your
property taxes, and more than enough is collected for that purpose. Check it out. By phrasing
the question in terms of police and roads, they are attempting to fool you into thinking that
what they would spend more money on is equally important. Not true! Vate NO against
Measure N and Yes for Measure M.

The Town Council does not have enough money to pay for police and roads and other
"pie in the sky projects" at the same time. Last year, the town collected $2,000,000. That
is more than enough to take care of our basic needs-especially police and roads.

There are people who live in modest neighborhoods of our town that can literally be taxed
out of their homes by an increase in taxes. Voting No on Measure N and Yes for Measure
M is morally right and will help assure them that they will not have to make the hard choice
of feeding their family or paying higher taxes.

Voting NO against Measure N and Yes for Measure M will send a message to the
Loomis Town Council that new taxes of any kind are intolerable. It will tell them that if there
is to be more money coming to town government, it will have to come from people who do
not live in the town-those who travel 1-80.

17 August 1992

1st Bruce A. Daniel, DDS

"NO NEW TAXES!!" Committee
/sf Mike Boberg

"NO NEW TAXES!)" Committee
fsf Ed Nelthorpe
"NO NEW TAXES!!" Committee
1st F.M. Pierce

"NO NEW TAXES!!" Committee
fsf Frank Buck

"NO NEW TAXES!!" Committee

31-VP41