

AhojMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

IMPARTIAL ANALYSI f MEASURE T

ia;

11
let
he

he

es

ER

This measure provides for the establishment of a special tax to be levied
on each parcel of land within the city limits of the City of Coachella for a

period of not more than five (5) years. The purpose of this special tax
is to obtain, furnish, operate and maintain police protection equipment
or apparatus and for the payment of salaries and benefits of police
protection personnel and for such other necessary police protection and

prevention expenses of the city in such areas to which police protection
and prevention services are made available.

Pursuant to Government Code, Sections 50075 and 53378, the City
Council of the City of Coachella has proposed to the voters that an
ordinance he adopted authorizing the levy of a special tax so as to
remove a portion of the imbalance between revenues and expenses
involving the police department.

An approximate projection of the revenues that will be generated by the
special tax for police protection services is the sum of $450,000 per
fiscal year.

The City Council has called an election for the purpose of submitting the
ordinance to. the voters within the City of Coachella for adoption. If
two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure approve it the ordinance
will be operative for fiscal years 1934-95 through 1998-93.

A "YES" vote on Ordinance No. 698 is a vote to adopt the ordinance.

A "NO" vote on Ordinance No. 688 is a vote against adopting the
ordinance.

By; CITY ATTORNEY, CITY OF COACHELLA

lit above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure T. if you
desire i copy of the ordinance or measure, pleast call the City Clerk at
(611) 388-3403, gf. . opy will be mailed at no cost to you.

In a special election held on June 8, 1989, City residents approved a
ballot measure to assist in financing the operations of the Police
Department. This was a more affordable and equitable option than
the proposed utility tax which was being considered by the City Council,
as the tax was placed on all developed and undeveloped parcels in the
City, not just imposed on utility users. The measure assessed
households $5.00 per month and was authorized to be levied for five
years through Fiscal Year 1993-94.

The City has collected approximately $450,000 per year to subsidize
the general fund. This amount represents 20% of the current $2.3
million operating budget for the Police Department and supports
approximately nine Police Officer positions. Elimination of this
revenue source would adversely affect the City’s ability to provide an
adequate level of service.

The City had anticipated that the commercial tax base would increase
and that development would improve in five years, thus, eliminating the
need to continue the assessment of this tax. This, however, has riot

occurred because of current economic conditions.

The City is requesting that the residents authorize the continuance of
this tax for another five years to enable us to continue to maintain an
adequate level of police service. WE CANNOT JEOPARDIZE THE
WELFARE OF OUR RESIDENTS: $5.00 PER MONTH IS A SMALL
PRICE TO PAY FOR OUR SAFETY.

We ask for your "YES" vote on November 3.

By:	Gregorio	Cervantes, Jr.

Jesus R. Gonzalez

Juan M. De Lara

Frank V. Duran

Javier H. Lopez

33-74

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE I WAS FILED

