Resolution 92-06

page 2

The funds shall be used for the following purposes:

maintaining or restoring important instructional and support
programs.

minimizing increases in academic class sizes

The District will review the expenditure of these funds in an annual
public hearing before budget adoption.

2.	The qualified special tax will be imposed in the amount of seventy
five (75) dollars per year for each assessor's parcel, excluding property
exempted by law.

3.	This Board hereby requests that the Contra Costa County Clerk (the
"County Clerk") submit to the voters of this District on April 14, 1992,
the following abbreviated ballot measure:

MORAGA ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX FOR
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

"In order to avoid reduction or elimination of valuable educational
and support pregrams and to minimize increases in class sizes and
reductions in teaching positions shall the Moraga Elementary School
District provide funds for the reinstatement and continuance of
District wide educational programs by levying a parcel tax of seventy
five (75) dollars per assessor's parcel, excluding property exempted
by law, for a limited period of eight (8) years beginning July l,
1992?"

YES	NO

4.	The authority for the specifications of this election order is
contained in Section 5322 of the California Education Code.

5.	The secretary of the Governing Board is hereby authorized and directed
to certify to the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy
hereof so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Contra Costa
County ("County Superintendent") and to file a copy hereof so certified
with the County Clerk.

6.	The County Superintendent is hereby requested to call an election of
said qualified special tax to be held on and consolidated with the general
election on April 14, 1992. The County Superintendent is further
requested to deliver this resolution, which constitutes the order of
election, and a formal notice of the election to the County Clerk no later
than December 16, 1991.