SAN LORENZO VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE B
(Full Text of Resolution 1991-92-24)

RESOLUTION PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX
.	..	AND

CALLING FOR ELECTION FOR VOTER APPROVAL
WHEREAS, the San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District {'District') has re-
ceived inadequate funding from the State of California for several years; ami
WHEREAS, future funding for the District from the State of California is pro-
jected to be inadequate to provide the level of support to the District's educa-
tional programs necessary to provide a quality education to the students of the
District; and

WHEREAS, the quality of life of this community and the quality of life of its
children will be adversely affected by a decline in the quality of education pro-
vided by the District; and
WHEREAS, Article XIIIA, Section 4 of the California Constitution and Govern-
ment Code Sections 50075 and 50079 authorize a school district to propose
the adoption of a parcel tax for the purposes specified In such proposal upon
approval of two thirds of the electorate voting on the measure; and
WHEREAS, this Board has thoroughly considered the recommendations, needs
and desires of the community and Information and recommendations prepared
by its consultants, administration and staff; and
WHEREAS, this Board believes that such a special tax is necessary to restore
and maintain the excellence of the District's programs;

NOW. THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:

This Board proposes to adopt a measure to raise special taxes in the District,
said measure to be placed on the November 3, 1992, ballot

1.	The amount of the special tax shall be $39.00.

2.	The special tax authorized by this Resolution shall be collected for three
years from the date first collected by the County of Santa Cruz.

3.	A 'parcel" shall be defined as any parcel of land, developed or undeveloped,
wholly or partially located within the District, for which the County Assessor of
Santa Cruz County has assigned an assessor's identification number and is val-
ued In excess of $1,000.00.

4.	On and after July 1, 1993, the special tax shall be collected by the Santa
Cruz Tax Collector. The special tax shall become a lien upon each parcel. Failure--
to pay the special tax shall be subject to the same penalties and interest as is
imposed by said Counties for unpaid general ad valorem taxes.

5.	The purpose of this parcel tax is to provide a better education for the
students through Increased funding for the District

6.	This Board hereby requests the Santa Cruz County Registrar/Recorder to
place pn the ballot for the election to be held November 3,1992 the following
condensed ballot measure: - .

'Measure B"

"Shall the San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District be authorized to levy a
special tax of $39.00 on each parcel within the District, each year for three
years?"

The Full Ballot Measure shall read as follows:

'To restore and maintain the quality of the education provided to the students
within the San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District, shall the San Lorenzo
Valley Unified School District levy a special tax of $39.00 on each parcel of
land as defined within the District, developed and undeveloped, each year for
three full fiscal years in order to provide the following programs:

. Elementary Computer
Elementary Music
Instructional Materials
After School Sports grades 7-12
Building Repair and Maintenance
The term 'Parcel' shall mean any parcel of land, developed or undeveloped,
wholly or partially located within the District, for which the Santa Cruz County
Assessor lias assigned an assessor’s identification number and Is valued in ex-
cess of $1,000.00."

7. This measure shall be submitted to the voters of the District at a regular
election to be held on November 3, 1992, and shall take effect immediately
upon its confirmation by two-thirds (2/3) of such voters upon the measure at
such election; ...

8.	This Board requests that the District election be consolidated with any and
aB elections to be held on November 3,1992.

9.	This Board requests that ttie Santa Cruz County Registrar/Recorder carry
out aB necessary duties in connection with toe consolidated election, including
printing and mailing sample ballots; arguments and applications for absentee
ballots; providing adequate polling places; canvassing returns and certifying the
results to this Board; and all other election duties prescribed by taw.

10.	The Clerk of this Board is ordered and directed to cause notices of the
holding of such special election to be given by publishing a copy of this Res-
piutton in a local newspaper of general circulation within the District once a
week for two (2) successive weeks, toe first publication to be made not less
than fifteen (15) days before the date of such election.

11.	The Clerk of this Board is further ordered and directed to cause further
notices of the holding of such special election to be given by posting a copy
of this Resolution on or near the door of toe District's office and to three (3)
public places within the District for at least two (2) weeks before toe time fixed
for such special election.

12.	If any portion of this Resolution Is for any reason held to be invalid, such
holding shall not affect toe validity of the remaining portions of this Resolution.
This Board declares that It would have adopted this Resolution irrespective of
the fact that any portion may be held to be invalid.

s/ Ann Wise

President, Board of Trustees
San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District
s/ Vince R. Waskell
Clerk, Board of Trustees
San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District

Attest Deb DuCharme

Secretary to the Superintendent

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE B

If this Measure Is approved by two-thirds of those voting on It, the San Lorenzo
Valley Unified School District will be authorized to levy an annual special tax
assessment on real property. The tax would be Imposed for three years at the
rate of $39.00 per year on every Assessor's parcel located wholly or partially
within the School District which is valued over $1,000.00.

The revenues rased by the special tax would be designated for any or all of
the following purposes: elementary computer; elementary music; Instructional
materials; after-school sports (grades 7-12); and building repair and mainte-
nance, to the extent permitted by California Law.

The tax would be collected by the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector starting
with the fiscal year that begins July 1, 1993. If unpaid, the special tax would
become a lien upon the parcel and may subject the owner to penalties and
-.interest.

A *yes‘ vote would authorize imposition of toe parcel tax for a three-year
period.

A 'no' vote would reject imposition of the parcel tax.

DWIGHT L. HERR
County Counsel
By/ Jane M. Scott

Assistant County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The San Lorenzo Valley Unified School District depends on the State for 80%
of its budget Our District has endured three consecutive years of budget cuts
amounting to $2,132,734.00. This year our District cut an additional $893,000.
This meant no funding for instructional supplies for toe classroom, elimination
of elementary music programs, elimination of after school sports programs in
grades 7 through 12, elimination of all but critical building maintenance and
elimination of support for our elementary computer program.

This parcel tax revenue wi be totally dedicated to these programs:

•	ELEMENTARY STUDENT COMPUTER PROGRAM

•	ELEMENTARY MUSIC PROGRAM

•	AFTER SCHOOL SPORTS IN GRADES 7-12

•	CLASSROOM SUPPLY BUDGET

•	BUILDING REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE

These programs are essential to a quality education for our children. Our stu-
dents deserve these programs as they learn personal responsIbBity, how to work
cooperatively with others, skills to take their place In the work force, and to
contribute positively to the betterment of their communities.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE B

s/ Ann Wise

Board Presldent/SLVUSD
s/ Nick R. Pagnlnl
Businessman
s/ Nancy B. Macy
Valley Women's Club
s/ Bob Slawinskl
Businessman

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED