SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASUREC

SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX
ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

C Shall the Shoreline Unified School District provide funds to maintain and
expand specific educational programs by levying a qualified special tax
assessment of ninety-six dollars per year per assessor's parcel for a limited period
of four (4) years, beginning July 1, 1993?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the Shoreline Unified School
District will be authorized to levy a special tax assessment for a limited period
of four (4) years, beginning July 1, 1993, of Ninety Six Dollars ($96.00) per
year per assessor’s parcel. The proceeds of this assessment may be used only
for the purposes set forth in the District’s resolution calling the election on this
measure.

DATED: August 26, 1992

s/ Douglas J. Maloney
County Counsel
County of Marin

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

A citizens’ committee representing the entire Shoreline School District spent
months examining methods of funding vital educational programs. Measure C is
their recommendation.

Underfunding at the state level led to local approval in 1984 and again in
1988 of a special four year tax. It continues to maintain essential instructional
classes and a strong educational program. State funding is not and will not be
available to maintain the programs restored by the 1984 and 1988 special tax.
All District expenditures have already been deferred or substantially reduced.
Despite these efforts, funding shortfalls continue. This is why the passage of
Measure C is critical.

This measure permits an annual $96 (a $16 increase) per parcel assessment
for a period of four years. It will fund essential instructional programs: science,
foreign language, school libraries, computer science, music, elementary coun-
seling, drama, visual arts, industrial arts, health education and programs desig-
nated by local site councils. These vital programs will be eliminated or drastically
reduced if this measure is not approved as current funding ends in 1992.

Shoreline, while geographically large, has a small, diverse population which has
created unique funding problems for its five school K-12 program. Sacramento
can not be counted on to fund restoration and maintenance of many vital in-
structional programs. Volunteers can not be expected to raise the needed funds.

Good schools benefit our community in many ways. They prepare our children
for tomorrow, stimulate community pride and increase property values. A YES
vote is your pledge to your community that you support your schools and our
children. Measure C gives us a chance to maintain local control of our schools
and our future. A YES vote on this measure is a YES vote for the future.

s/ Donna Dilena	s/ Lois Parks

s/ Carl Munger	s/ Ned Mantua

s/ Janeann Erickson

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

This is a classic case of “tax you once, tax you always.”

And, at an ever increasing level.

The problem is not "underfunding at the state level.”

It is "overspending at the local level.”

It is time the school district followed the taxpayers' example. They should make
do with their normal income.

Taxpayers have no one to give them the extra money this tax would take from
their families. They have to “rob Peter to pay the Shoreline Unified School District.”

We agree, good schools benefit our community in many ways. We believe that
superior educations for our children and grand children will be economically

available only if we empower parents to choose from among competitive edu-
cational options.

We will all be able to vote in June 1994 for the “Parental Choice in Education
Initiative” that fraud kept off this ballot. (At this writing it has not yet been
determined who is responsible for the almost 12,000 duplicate signatures that
were found in San Diego County. We do know, however, that there was a major
effort by educators' unions to keep this measure off the ballot)

Until we get to vote on this better option, let’s tell this school district to live
within their normal means and stop trying to extract more taxes from us at
every turn.

Voters of the Shoreline Unified School District, join the members of the Marin
United Taxpayers Association in voting a resounding “NO” on Measure C.

s/ Herman A. Kramer
President

Marin United Taxpayers Assn,

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Why are we always asked to lax ourselves more to maintain things that should
already be taken care of by the large amount of taxes we already pay for those
purposes?

Why can’t the highly paid management of our school systems do what we
have to do when times are tough? When our family incomes go down, we have
to make do with what comes in or cut the frills. There’s nobody we can tax to
keep up our life styles.

While basic education of our children is important, our taxes seem to go into
a bottomless pit and the educators always scream for more taxes at the slightest
bump in the road.

Unlike most school parcel taxes, this one doesn’t exempt senior citizens, most
of whom are on fixed incomes. Some may face the hard decision to leave the
area, partially because of this tax on top of all the others on this same ballot

It is time the management of our schools earn their pay.

Let’s send them a message - let them read our lips: “NO MORE TAXES.”

Voters of the Shoreline Unified School District, join the members of the Marin
United Taxpayers Association in voting a resounding “NO” on Measure C.

s/ Herman A. Kramer
President

Marin United Taxpayers Assn.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

We all know that the State of California is not providing adequate funding for
the Shoreline schools. Measure C was first designed in 1984 to address these
inadequacies. This measure gives Shoreline residents a chance to maintain local
control over their school's programs.

The argument against Measure C makes reference to some of our programs
as “frills". The S.C.H.O.O.L.S. committee does not believe the library, computer,
and counseling programs could ever be considered “frills”. In addition, the voters
have made a conscious decision to restore and maintain other important pro-
grams such as art, music, industrial arts/home economics, and foreign language.
None of these programs could continue based on the state’s financial contribu-
tion.

Over the years, Shoreline Unified School District has maintained a real sense
of community that is not common in today’s society. We know that all of us
have worked and sacrificed for the well-being of our children and their future.

s/ Janeann Erickson
s/ Donna Dilena

49-54

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C
RESOLUTION #18
BEFORE THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
MARIN AND SONOMA COUNTIES, CALIFORNIA
In the Matter of a

Special Tax Election	RESOLUTION AND

to Maintain and Expand	ORDER OF ELECTION

School Programs

WHEREAS, A high-quality, free and community-supported elementary and
secondary public school system is essential to the preservation and growth of
a strong, stable and democratic society; and

WHEREAS, the ability of society’s political, social and economic institutions
to adapt and effectively function in a world of rapid change depends upon an
informed and well-educated citizenry; and

WHEREAS, a high-quality local public school program is vital to a
community's well-being because among other effects, it fosters growth of the
greatest natural human resource any society can have - the minds of its youth,
it strengthens the ability of its younger members to cope successfully in a
competitive society, it preserves and enhances real property values, it promotes
civic pride and participation in community affairs, it reinforces traditional moral
values, it increases individual awareness of the duties and responsibilities of
citizenship in a participatory system of government, and because it attracts to
the community new members who share these goals; and
WHEREAS, the Shoreline Unified School District is a small, rural-district which
in serving a large geographic area must maintain a number of facilities which
results in unique operational costs; and

WHEREAS, major funding cuts at the State and Federal levels, coupled with
a shift of school financing from the local to the State level, have resulted in the
elimination or substantial reduction of many classroom programs at both the
elementary and secondary levels which the District believes are essential to a
high-quality educational program and which should be maintained; and
WHEREAS, while the Shoreline District continues its efforts to avoid reducing
basic educational programs, it has determined that without a continued qualified
special tax assessment it will be unable to maintain or expand essential classroom
programs adversely affected by State and Federal funding cuts; and
WHEREAS, the California Constitution allows school districts to meet special
needs of its public school program by placing a revenue raising measure on the
ballot for voter approval pursuant to Section 4, Article XIIIA California Constitution
and Government Code Sections 50075, 50077, and 50079; and
WHEREAS, the Shoreline Unified School District Board of Trustees explicitly
recognizes that it may not impose an ad valorem real property tax to, meet its
special needs; and

WHEREAS, It is the intention of the Governing Board of the Shoreline Unified
School District to conduct an election to maintain and expand school programs
on November 3, 1992, at which time the registered voters of the Shoreline
Unified School District will be given an opportunity to vote on a qualified special
tax assessment; and
WHEREAS, the General Election will take place on November 3, 1992, and
it is the desire of the Governing Board of the Shoreline Unified School District
that this election to maintain and expand school programs be consolidated with
the General Election; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Governing Board of the
SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT as follows:

Section 1. An election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries of
the Shoreline Unified School District to maintain and expand school programs,
and is requested to be consolidated with the General Election to be held on
November 3,1992. The following measure shall be submitted to the registered
voters within the Shoreline Unified School District at this election:

MEASURE C

Shall the Shoreline Unified School District provide funds to maintain and
expand the specific educational programs described below by levying a
qualified special tax assessment of ninety-six dollars per year per assessor's
parcel for a limited period of four (4) years, beginning July 1,1993.

The parcel tax revenue shall be allocated to provide a rich, fully integrated and
comprehensive academic program for students through the hiring of qualified
personnel and the purchase of equipment and materials as recommended by
each School Site Council from the following areas:

ART

CLASSROOM AIDES

COMPUTER SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

COUNSELING

DRAMA

FIELD TRIPS

FOREIGN LANGUAGE

INDUSTRIAL ARTS/COOKING

LIBRARY PROGRAM

MUSIC

PHYSICAL EDUCATION

SUPPORT OTHER ACADEMIC/EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS (not to exceed 10%
of total parcel lax revenue)

Section 2. The revenue derived from this qualified special tax assessment to
maintain and expand school programs shall be used solely and exclusively for
the purposes set forth above.

Section 3. If any provision of this section or of any other section of this
Resolution or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this
section or of any other section of this Resolution which can be given effect
without the invalid provision or application, and to this end, the provisions of
this section and other sections of this Resolution are severable.

Section 4. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual ballot shall
be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX
ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
. "Shall the Shoreline Unified School District provide funds to
maintain and expand specific educational programs by levying a
, qualified special tax assessment of ninety-six dollars per year per
assessor’s parcel for a limited period of four (4) years, beginning
July 1,1993"

YES	NO

Section 5. Commencing on July 1, 1993, the special tax collected annually
on all assessor's parcels, at the rate specified above, shall be collected and
administered in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and
collected under provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.
Section 6. The Superintendents of Schools of Marin and Sonoma Counties are
hereby requested to call an election for said special tax to be held on November
3,1992, and to deliver to the County Clerk of each county where the election
is to be held copies of the order of election and formal notice of election and
a request to consolidate the special tax election with the statewide General
Election on November 3, 1992. Further, the Boards of Supervisors and the
County Clerks of Marin and Sonoma Counties are hereby requested to consol-
idate the special tax election with the general statewide election on November
3, 1992. The County Clerks are hereby requested and authorized to: 1) set
forth this special measure on all sample ballots relating to this consolidated
election, and to mail those ballots to the registered voters of the Shoreline
Unified School District; and 2) provide absentee voter ballots to registered voters
of the Shoreline Unified School District for the General Election and this special
tax election, which has been consolidated with the General Election.

Section 7. The Clerk of the Shoreline Unified School District Governing Board
is hereby authorized and directed to certify to the due adoption of this Resolution
and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of
Marin and Sonoma Counties and to file a copy hereof so certified with the
County Clerks of Marin and Sonoma Counties.

The foregoing Resolution was moved by Board Member Trudie Behr Scott,
seconded by Board Member Al Poncia and adopted by roll-call vote on June

8, 1992 by the following vote:

Board	Member,	Richard McCudden	Aye

Board	Member,	Al Poncia	Aye

Board	Member,	Clairette Wilson	Aye

Board	Member,	Trudie Behr Scott	Aye

Board	Member,	Carl Munger	Absent

Board	Member,	Jim Love	Absent

AYES: 4 NOES: 0 ABSENT/NOT VOTING: g

WHEREUPON, the President declared the foregoing resolution duly adopted and

SO ORDERED,
s/ Richard P. McCudden
President, Governing Board
Shoreline Unified School District

State of California ]

] ss:

County of Marin ]

49-55