TOM WINNER i DIANE RYKEN
CAMPAIGN CO-CHAIRS

FRANK J. PERACHIOTTI. JR.
TREASURER

A+

FofUiPS

STEERING C0H4ITTEE MEETING
Thursday, November 14, 1991 - 6:00 p.m. -

1.	Resolution/Plans for December 10
(please review attached draft of resolution)

2.	Fund-raising:

Current campaign
Proposed campaign

3.	Voter Registration

4.	Endorsements

5.	Speakers Bureau

6.	Office Space

PAID FOR BY A+ FOR KIDS
18 KATLAS COURT, NOVATO, CA 94945

1910521

Breon, O’Donnell, Miller, Brown 8c Dannis

ATTORNEYS AT LAW

KEITH V. BREON
MARGARET E. O'DONNELL
DAVID G. MILLER
PRISCILLA BROWN
GREGORY J. DANNIS
EMI R. UYEHARA
BRIDGET A. FLANAGAN
NANCY BOURNE

October 25, 1991

22*e FLOOR. THE SHELL BUILDING
IOO BUSH STREET
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94IO«*
FAX (415) 932-8470
(415) 788-4999

17850 MORO ROAD, SUITE HI20
SALINAS, CALIFORNIA 93907
(A09) 663-0470

KATHRYN LUHE
MARILYN J. CLEVELAND
LAURIE S. JUENGERT
JAMES M. SHORE
JOAN BIRDT

MARTHA BUELL SCOTT
SPECIAL COUNSEL

OF'C t

OCT 2 8 1991

2550 VIA TEJON. SUITE 3A
PALOS VEROES. CALIFORNIA 90274
FAX (310) 373-6808
(310) 373-6857

LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
(310) 642-1123

COSTA MESA. CALIFORNIA
(714) 662-6977

Annette Conklin
Director, Public Information
Novato Unified School District
1015 Seventh Street
Novato, California 94945

Re:	Parcel	Tax	Election;

Our file 5330.1000

SAN FRANCISCO

REPLY TO:	---------

Dear Annette:

Enclosed is a draft of the parcel tax measure which, I
hope, accurately reflects the Board's intent. Note that I have
included the Gann language.

You have also asked for a summary of the procedures,
that is, who does what to get the tax on the ballot.

This is as follows:

I-	DRAFTING	OF MEASURE:

A. Purposes for Which Special Taxes Mav Be Raised

1.	Government Code section 50075 et seq.
authorizes school districts to impose a "special tax" if two-
thirds of those voting approve it.

2.	Government Code section 50076 provides a
legislative definition of "special tax" which states in pertinent
part:

" . . . [s]pecial tax" shall not include any
fee which does not exceed the reasonable
costs providing the service or regulatory
activity for which the fee is charge.
(Emphasis added.)

Annette Conklin
Novato Unified School District
October 25, 1991
Page 2

3.	The definition of "special tax" also requires

these monies not be levied for general revenue purposes.	(San

Francisco v. Farrell (1982) 32 Cal.3d. 47.)

4.	Government Code section 50076 refers to the
"services or regulatory activity" for which the tax is levied.

It appears that special tax monies may be used for capital
expenditures such as school facilities, construction and school
leases, as well as class size reduction, special programs, etc.
(Beaumont Investors v. Beaumont-Cherrv Valiev Water Dist. (1985)
165 Cal.App.3d 227.)

B.	The Contents of the Resolution

A specific statement as to the use of the tax
money;

The type of tax (per parcel);

The method of collection;

Date of the election;

An order requesting consolidation with local,
state, or national election if applicable;

If the tax money raised would exceed the
district's constitutional appropriations
limit, a separate provision obtaining voter
approval to raise that limit for four years.

C.	Preliminary Considerations

What will the tax be used for?

How much will the tax be?

When does the District want to tax? - (exemptions

for senior citizens? contiguous parcels?)

Is the Gar ;’ limit provision necessary?

How long will the tax run?

Annette Conklin
Novato Unified School District
October 25, 1991
Page 3

II.	PROCEDURE:

1.	The governing board passes resolution
proposing adoption of a special tax (Gov. Code § 50077).

2.	123	days prior to the date of the election,

the Board files the resolution with the measure with the county
superintendent(s). (Ed. Code § 5322)

3.	120	days prior to the election, the countv

superintendent(s) delivers to the county clerk(s) or registrar(s)
of voters copies of the resolution and measure and a formal
notice of election (Elec. Code § 5361, Ed. Code §§ 5324, 5360).

4.	The county superintendent(s) "call" the
election by posting or publishing the notice of election (date
and purpose of election). (Ed. Code § 5325, Elec. Code § 5361).

There are various ways to do this (Ed. Code §
5362): it is the county superintendent's responsibility, but
there may be a local procedure.

5.	The county clerk transmits a copy of the
measure to county counsel(s) or district attorney(s).

6.	The countv counsel/district attorney prepares
an impartial summary of the measure.

7.	The governing board, members of the board, or
eligible voters may file written arguments for or against the
measure. These cannot exceed 300 words,and no more than five
signatures may be printed in the arguments.

The person conducting the election fixes a date
which is the deadline for receipt of arguments. Notice of the
date is published in the newspapers (Elec. Code § 5323).

8• The person conducting the election selects
the arguments to go into the voter pamphlet, giving preference to
board or board member arguments (Elec. Code § 5324).

9.	Copies of selected arguments for and against
are sent to the authors of the selected arguments for rebuttal.
These may not exceed 250 words, and must be submitted not more
than 10 days after the date set for filing the final set of
arguments (Elec. Code § 5325).

Annette Conklin
Novato Unified School District
October 25, 1991
Page 4

10.	The clerk must make the election materials
available to the public 10 calendar days prior to their being
sent to the printer. (Election Code § 5330).

Call if you would like to discuss.

Very truly yours,

BREON, 0'DONNELL, MILLER,

BROWN & D ANN IS

Priscilla Brown

PB:mz

Enclosure

RESOLUTION NO.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE NOVATO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

COUNTY OF MARIN

**********************************

RESOLUTION PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX

AND

CALLING FOR ELECTION FOR VOTER APPROVAL

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to
provide adequate, and necessary funding for the continued
operations of the Novato Schools Instructional programs; and

WHEREAS, as a result of this lack of funding for the
schools, Novato Unified School District has eliminated important
programs beneficial and necessary to the students who attend the
schools of the District; and

WHEREAS, continued reliance solely on State funding will
result in further loss of critical programs; and

WHEREAS, Article XIIA, section 4 of the California
Constitution and Government Code sections 50075 and 50079 authorize
a school district to propose the adoption of a special tax for the
purposes specified in such proposal upon approval of two thirds of
the electorate voting on the measure; and

WHEREAS, this Board has thoroughly considered the
recommendations, needs and desires of the community and information
and recommendations prepared by its administration and staff; and

WHEREAS, this Board believes that such a special tax is
necessary to restore and maintain the excellence of the District's
programs;

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED:

This Board proposes to adopt a measure to raise special
taxes in the District, said measure to be placed on the April 14,
1992 ballot.	*

1.	The amount of the special tax shall be $96.00 per
year against each parcel as defined in paragraph 3 below.

2.	The special tax authorized by this Resolution shall
be collected for five (5) years from the date first collected by
the County of Marin.

1

3.	A "parcel" shall be defined as any parcel of land,

developed	or undeveloped,	wholly	or partially	located within the

District,	for which the	County	Assessor of	Marin County has

assigned an assessor's identification number; provided, however,
that any such parcels which are contiguous, used solely for owner-
occupied single family residential purposes and held under
identical ownership, may, upon approval of an application of the
owners thereof to this Board, be treated as a single parcel for
purposes of this special tax.

4.	Any owners	age 65 and over of a	parcel used solely

for owner-occupied single	family	residential purposes may obtain

an exemption from the special tax upon approval of an application
of such owners submitted to this Board.

5.	On and after July 1, 1992, the special tax shall be
collected by the Marin Tax Collector. The special tax shall become
a lien upon each parcel. Failure to pay the special tax shall be
subject to the same penalties and interest as is imposed by said
Counties for unpaid general ad valorem taxes.

£. This Board hereby requests the Marin County
Registrar and/or Recorder to place on the ballot for the election
to be held April 14, 1992 the following ballot measure:

"To restore and maintain the quality of the education
provided to the students within the Novato Unified School District,
shall the Novato Unified School District levy a special tax of
$96.00 on each parcel of land as defined within the District,
developed and undeveloped, each year for five full fiscal years in
order to maintain, restore, or improve educational programs with
emphasis on math and science, elementary reading, computer
education, library services, and class size ratios.

The term 'Parcel' shall mean any parcel of land,
developed or undeveloped, wholly or partially located within the
District, for which the Marin County Assessor has assigned an
assessor's identification number; provided, however, that any such
parcels which are contiguous, used solely for owner-occupied single
family residential purposes and held under identical ownership,
may, upon approval of an application of the owners thereof
submitted toithe Board of Trustees of this District, be treated as
a single parcel for purposes of the special tax.

Pursuant to California Government Code section 50079(b),
any owners, 65 years of age or older, of a parcel used solely for
owner-occupied single family residential purposes may obtain an
exemption from the special tax upon approval of an application
submitted to the Board of Trustees of the District.

Pursuafc± to California Constitution Article XIII B, shall
the appropriationsvlimit for theSNovato Unified>s^chool District be
increased by the aggregate sum corrected by the leVy of the special
tax in the first four of the year^ for which the^ispecial tajK is
authorized.r **

*yp. This measure shall be submitted to the voters of the
District at a regular election to be held on Tuesday, April 14,
1991, and shall take effect immediately upon its confirmation by
two-thirds (2/3) of such voters upon the measure at such election.

This Board requests that the District election be
consolidated with any and all elections to be held on Tuesday,
April 14, 1991.

fire-. This Board requests that the Marin County
Registrar/Recorder carry out all necessary duties in connection
with the consolidated election, including printing and mailing
sample ballots; arguments and applications for absentee ballots;
providing adequate polling places; canvassing returns and
certifying the results to this Board; and all other election duties
prescribed by law.

/^M. The Clerk of this Board is ordered and directed to
cause notices of the holding of such election to be given by
publishing a copy of this Resolution in a local newspaper of
general circulation within the District, once a week for two (2)
successive weeks, the first publication to be made not less than
fifteen (15) days before the date of such special election.

. The Clerk of this Board is further ordered and
directed to cause further notices of the holding of such special
election to be given by posting a copy of this Resolution on or
near the door of the District's office and in three (3) public
places within the District for at least two (2) weeks before the
time fixed for such special election.

/Jp9. If any portion of this Resolution is for any reason
held to be"invalid, such holding shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this Resolution. This Board declares
that it would have adopted this Resolution irrespective of the fact
that any portion may be held to be invalid.

3

Passed and adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Novato
Unified School District, Marin County, State of California, this
_____ day of ___________,	1991,	by the following vote:

AYES:
NOES:
ABSENT:

President, Board of Trustees
Novato Unified School District

Clerk, Board of Trustees of the
Novato Unified School District

Attested

mz\5330\tax.res