FULL TEXT

PROPOSED ORDINANCE NO. 92-3 - MEASURE Q

SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FOR THE FIELDBROOK VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT

Effective November 4, 1992 a Special Assessment of $30.00 per parcel shall be levied on all parcels

within the Jurisdiction of the Fieldbrook Volunteer Fire Department District.

The ordinance shall become effective when approved by the vote of the people of the Fire District. Said
election will be held November 3,1992.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE Q

/

The County Counsel has prepared the following impartial analysis showing the effect of the measure on
existing law and the operation of the measure:

This matter is a special tax proposed to be levied for fire protection within the Fieldbrook Community
Services District. As a special assessment tax, it requires a 2/3rd's vote of the people for approval.
Under the terms of the measure, it has an automatic sunset clause of ten years. Any further extension of
the tax beyond that point, under current law, would be subject to another vote of the people.

Under the provisions of the measure, each parcel would be assessed an annual tax of thirty dollars for
fire protection purposes. This would include emergency medical services and other fire related services,
including equipment expenditures, authorized to be performed by the community services district.

The monies levied could not be used for non-fire protection purposes even though those services may be
performed by a community services' district. This measure will take effect upon passage and certification
of the election results. The tax in question will be collected in the same manner and method as other tax
assessments and taxes of the district.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

The Fieldbrook Volunteer Fire Department provides Fire Protection, Search and Rescue Services as well
as First Aid response to the Fieldbrook Area. To continue servicing this area the Fire Department needs
enough funds to maintain it's current Equipment, Facilities and Insurance. Approximately 1,200 individu-
als (372 paying parcels) reside in the service area. Without these funds, continued services is question-
able. Without Fire Protection residents of the area could expect to see home owner insurance rate
increases that would be higher than the proposed assessment.

s/James L. Crowell, Chairman,

Fieldbrook Community Services District
s/Roy Sheppard, Fire Chief,

Fieldbrook Volunteer Fire Department

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q WAS SUBMITTED.

12-VP8