MEASURE A

COUNTY COUNSEL S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A



TNs nveasunp extends the current countywide 1/2-cent retail transactions and use
tav (sales taxi tor transportation purposes approved by the voters in 1984 by
authorising the Santa Clara County Local Transportation Authority to levy an
denttcal tax rate tor not longer than 20 years after the original tax is due to expire.
The measure also permits the issuance of bonds payable from the proceeds of the
tav tv» hivance projects described in the Santa Clara County Traffic Congestion
Relief and Transit Improvement Plan.

Ihe tav revenues would be used for public transportation projects as described in
t*>e plan. These projects include building a new rail extension in Santa Clara
Countv to connect with BART in Alameda County; increasing CalTrain service
between San Jose to San Francisco and from San Jose to Morgan Hill and Gilroy;
constructing six new rail and light rail lines throughout the county; upgrading
^octe S ' the Guadalupe Parkway, through downtown San Jose to a full freeway;
competing work on various highway intersections and on/off ramps;
sv nchro'ir ng traffic signals on all of the eight major expressways in the county;
implementing Super Express" bus service to take commuters from neighborhoods
throughout the countv to major employment centers; and improving transit service
tor senior dtirens the disabled and handicapped. The measure provides that an
independent Citirens Oversight Committee will be empowered to guarantee that
ail funds generated by the measure will be used only for the specified
transportation purposes.

There presently is a countywide half-cent sales tax which was approved by the
voters m November 1984 to build Highway 85, widen Highway 101 and convert
Route -37 mto a freeway. This tax is due to expire on March 31, 1995. The
•measure would not increase the current tax rate, but would extend that tax rate
tor no longer than 20 additional years to finance the projects in the County Traffic
Congestion Relief and Transit Improvement Plan.

The plan was adopted by the Santa Clara County Local Transportation Authority.
The Authority is a public agency created under the Local Transportation Authority
and Improvement Act (Public Utilities Code section 180000 et seq.) by the Santa
Clara County Board of Supervisors with the concurrence of all of the cities in the
county.

The ballot measure provides that the Authority shall have an appropriations limit
of $350 million. This refers to the so-called "Gann limit", the limitation upon how
much local agencies can spend each year under Article XIII B of the California
Constitution. The appropriations limit must be established for each local
gov emment entity. In the Authority's case, the limit must be established in the tax
measure.

STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel
County of Santa Clara

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE
THE FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A IS AS FOLLOWS:

incf€

S3n

c°n

rail

UP

ful

Cc

S

Ir

t)

j

By:	ROBERT	A.	WEERS

Deputy County Counsel

K1



MEASURE A

THE SANTA CLARA COUNTY LOCAL TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

AND IMPROVEMENT ACT

To improve the quality of life, relieve traffic congestion, improve air quality, and
continue to advance new and existing transportation programs in Santa Clara
County by:

Building a new rail extension in Santa Clara County to connect with BART in
Alameda County;

Increasing CalTrain service from downtown San Jose to San Francisco, and from
San Jose to Morgan Hill and Gilroy;

Constructing six new rail and light rail lines to develop a comprehensive commuter
rail system throughout the County, including:

The Tasman light rail extension from Milpitas to Mountain View;

The Capitol Downtown-Evergreen extension from Milpitas, along
the Capitol Expressway, through East San Jose and Evergreen to
downtown San Jose;

Upgrading Route 87, the Guadalupe Parkway, through downtown San Jose, to a
full freeway;

Completing work on key interchanges and on/off ramps, including:

Interchange at Highways 85 and 87;

Interchange at Highways 85 and 101;

Interchange at Highways 237 and 880;

Synchronizing traffic signals on all of the eight major expressways in the county;

Implementing "Super Express" bus service to take commuters from neighborhoods
throughout the county to major employment centers;

Improving transit service for senior citizens, the disabled and handicapped;

Empowering an independent Citizen Oversight Committee to guarantee that all
funds generated by this measure shall be used only for specified transportation
purposes.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Measure A is vital to our future. It will relieve traffic congestion, improve air
quality, aid the local economy by creating and retaining jobs, and enhance our
quality of life.

And Measure A will provide these benefits WITHOUT RAISING TAXES.

In 1984, traffic became so frustrating, we passed the highly successful "Measure
A" transportation initiative, easing congestion on Highways 101, 85 and 237. In
1995, this measure ends, projects completed on time and on budget.

But the need for additional transportation improvements continues. That's why a
grassroots coalition of private citizens, business, environmental, labor and
community organizations proposed this initiative. The new measure will eliminate
roadway bottlenecks and build a comprehensive rail transit system, connecting
neighborhoods with major employment, education and entertainment centers
countywide.

MEASURE A WILL:

*	LINK RAIL TRANSIT in Santa Clara County to BART in Alameda County.

*	SYNCHRONIZE TRAFFIC SIGNALS on Almaden, Capitol, Central, Foothill,
Lawrence, Montague, Oregon, and San Tomas Expressways.

*	BUILD A COUNTYWIDE RAIL TRANSIT NETWORK, including: Tasman,
Capitol-Downtown-Evergreen, Vasona, Stevens Creek, and Sunnyvale-
Cupertino.

K	PROVIDE TRANSIT SERVICE FOR SENIORS AND THE DISABLED, as

specified in the Americans with Disabilities Act.

Measure A ensures our dollars are spent only on projects specified in the plan.
Further, an independent citizens oversight body audits the program.

Measure A will improve our air quality by reducing cars on our roads. Over
140,000 Santa Clara County residents, mainly children and seniors, are at-risk to
unhealthy levels of pollution caused primarily by automobiles.

Measure A local tax dollars will capture state and federal funds. For example, the
Tasman Light Rail extension has captured $348 million in State and Federal funds,
but lacks a $116 million local commitment. Without measure A, we lose $348
million and the Tasman extension.

Measure A is our key to unlock the gridlock. VOTE YES on MEASURE A.

DAVID PACKARD
Co-Founder & Chairman
Hewlett-Packard Company

MARGARET LEATHERS
Executive Director
American Lung Association

GARY BURKE
President

Santa Clara County
Manufacturing Group

MARY CHARLES
President, Region IV-A
Congress of California Seniors

JOHN FIORETTA
Board of Directors
Greenbelt Alliance

K3

m HUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

ii

it	should wo raise $3.5 billion in taxes and spend it for buses and trolleys?

mu buxines*, developers, and other special interests have drafted a plan that
Include* rail lines that weren't analyzed objectively but were included strictly for
politic a I reasons. No money for BART. No money to restore bus service cuts.

t*

It	Aie buses and trolleys our only pressing need? Is this our best long-term

Investment?

a	Our economy is collapsing. Family budgets are under extreme stress. Poverty,

g	crime, violence, and educational neglect are increasing. Any new tax must address

I	our greatest needs.

Measure A will raise billions in taxes, but not one penny for other priorities like
education.

Let's defeat this measure and start over. We have time to decide what to do.
After all, it's our money. VOTE NO!

DR. JOSEPH F. BROWN, DVM
Vice President, Route 85 Task Force
Director, Cupertino Sanitary District

SHELLEY S. WILLIAMS, JR.

Past President, Route 85 Task Force

HARRY C. KALLSHIAN
Former Mayor, City of Los Altos

JAMES V. DINKEY
President, Citizens Against
Diamonds Lanes

And that's the problem with Measure A.

It was devised behind closed doors by political insiders and special interests who
will benefit financially. They rejected efforts to include other community needs.

Their plan, railroaded through without public debate, wasn't approved by the
County Transportation Commission. It relies on federal funds we're not
guaranteed to receive. It spends money on projects already underway like signal
synchronization. Because the tax subsidies operating expenses, another tax
extension will be required after 2015. This "temporary" tax will become a
permanent tax.

We've had a permanent 1/2<{: sales tax since 1974 for transit. We added another
1 /2£ transportation tax in 1984. Is another $3.5 billion for buses and trolleys the
best use for our money?

argument against measure a

Measure A Solves a 2% Transportation Problem

The new Measure A "kidnaps" our 1/2 cent Measure A highway tax and convert-,
it to streetcars and buses which serve only 2% of our daily trips.

The Expenditure Plan directs 87% for transit (73% streetcars, 14% buses), and
just 13% for highways.

County Transit had only 152,000 daily "boardings" in March, 1992. County
residents make 7 million trips a day. Do you want to spend your money on just
2% of the commuters?

The money should go to highways instead!

The priorities are just the opposite of what people in this county use, need, and
want. Streetcars and buses are too slow to compete with the convenience of the
automobile. This is an expensive system which will be little used.

The Plan selects streetcars over buses, vans, cars, highways, and electric vehicles.
After fours years of service, our streetcars still average less than 50% of the Initial
projected ridership.

In the third quarter of 1992, transit projected $162 million in operating expenses
and only $21 million in fares — a ridiculous 13% return!

The proposed local transportation authority is not a directly elected board, nor is
it directly accountable to the voters.

Highway groups like the California Automobile Association, Highway User's
Federation, Route 85 Task Force, and trucker's groups are not represented.

It is hard to move goods and products on streetcars.

This Measure violates the two thirds requirement vote for new special taxes.

Twenty years is simply too long.

What should we do instead?

-convert arteries to expressways, expressways to freeways
-engineer better interchanges to solve congestion
-junk the worst polluting vehicles

-elect a board to run our highway, bus, and rail systems
-build more efficient cars

-create better fuels (natural gas, gasohol, electricity)

VOTE "NO" ON MEASURE A !

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara Director, District #4

Santa Clara Valley Water District

ROBERT F. COLEMAN

Member, United Taxpayers

Chairman, People for Efficient Transportation

DR. JOSEPH F. BROWN, DVM
Vice President, Route 85 Task Force

JON PETERSEN

SHELLEY S. WILLIAMS, Jr.

Past President, Route 85 Task Force

JOE DONOHUE

K5

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

V\vv»,<,nts of Measure A think we can ease traffic and reduce smog by jamming

Vvve cars onto more freeways.

Los A 'vfeies County bought into this 'solution.' They now have the worst traffic
v o rtest air in the nation. Urban sprawl and nightmare commutes keep them

rt thetr cars and away from families and productive jobs.

Oir average highway speed is 21 mph. By 2005, CalTrans states we'll need 14

to IS traffic lanes on Highway 101 just to drive 55 mph. Widening highways

alone won't solve the problem.

V\E CANNOT AFFORD TO BECOME THE L.A. OF THE NORTH.

Let s be dear what needs to be done, and how Measure A delivers:

> > REDUCED CONGESTION. The new Measure A will complete key highway
projects, synchronize traffic lights along major expressways, and unclog
roadway bottlenecks. Building a comprehensive rail system will remove
tens of thousands of drivers from our roads every day.

>> AN EFFICIENT TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM. This cost-effective traffic
solution combines key road improvements with a modern commuter rail
system and express buses to connect neighborhoods to jobs, schools and
recreation centers countywide.

>> A COMPETITIVE ECONOMY. Traffic congestion is a top reason
employers, and jobs, leave California. Less traffic means more jobs and
a stronger economy.

> > A HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT. Fewer cars stuck in stop-and-go traffic
means healthier air, quicker commutes, and less stress. Measure A
protects hillsides and open space from L.A.-style sprawl.

MEASURE A is OUR WINDOW OF OPPORTUNITY. It provides these benefits ...

WITHOUT RAISING TAXES.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE A.

BARRY BOULTON, Conservation Chair
Sierra Club

Northern California - Nevada

STEVE TEDESCO, President
San Jose Metropolitan
Chamber of Commerce

DAVID FADNESS, Founding Member
and Past President
Route 85 Task Force

NANCY OLSEN, President
League of Women Voters
Santa Clara County

ROBERTA GARDELLA, President
Outreach

Advocate for Seniors and the Disabled