<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE TO
MAINTAIN LAW ENFORCEMENT. CRIMINAL PROSECUTION,

LIBRARIES AND CHILDREN AND FAMILY SAFETY,

ORDINANCE NO. 92-55

The Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County has approved Ordinance No. 92-55
which will provide authorization for annual assessments to maintain, essential services for law
enforcement, criminal prosecution, library and the community safety net to protect families
and children throughout the County, if approved by 2/3 of the voting on this ordinance measure. No annual assesment could be levied for any fiscal year commencing after July 1, 1996.

The ordinance requires that the proceeds of these assessments be used solely for the
purposes set forth above. Article XIII A of the California Constitution requires that any such
new local agency charges be approved by 2/3 of those voting on the proposal.

The assessments authorized by this measure are not based upon the value of property.
The assessments, if approved by the voters, are to be on a parcel and use of property basis.
Under the ordinance the annual assessments, levied per year on parcels in the County would
be approximately $20.00 on single family residential uses (a detached single family home,
condominium, or townliou.se) with slightly higher charges for different commercial and industrial uses.

Insofar as feasible, any charges levied would be collected and administered in the same
manner as secured, roll ad valorem property taxes. <impartialend> 












<full> SYNOPSIS OF ORDINANCE NO. 92-56 TO MAINTAIN LOCAL
LAW ENFORCEMENT. CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.

LIBRARIES AND THE SAFETY OF CHILDREN AND FAMILIES

The purpose of Ordinance No. 92-55, approved August II, 1992 by the Board of Super-
visors of Contra Costa County, is to authorize the levy of annual assessment charges on parcels
of real property on the secured property tax roll for all of Contra Costa County in order to
augment and provide funding to maintain essential law enforcement and prosecution services
of crime lab, policing and prosecution of drug and gang crimes, drug crime diversion rehabilitation, protection of children and families from violence and abuse by a community safety net
and library services. The ordinance will only become effective if approved by to of those voting
in the County. No annual assessment could be levied pursuant to the ordinance for any fiscal
year commencing after July 1, 1996,

Revenues raised by this ordinance would have to be used solely for the purposes of
funding essential law enforcement and police protection services and the miscellaneous service
of public health to protect and support children, and families, and library facilities and services.
In addition, at least 20% of the total revenue raised would be spent on the community safety
net contracts with private, non-profit agencies. The Board of Supervisors proposes allocation
of the revenues raised by this assessment as follows;

1.	Law Enforcement/Public Safety/Criminal Prosecution:	44.8%:

2.	Library Services:	10.4%

3.	Drug Crime and Juvenile Justice Facilities and

Diversion Programs:	22.4%

4.	Community Safety Net to Maintain Services

to Protect Families and Children:	22.4%-.

TOTAL	100.0%

The assessments authorized by the ordinance, are special property charges within the
meaning the Article XIII A of the California Constitution (Proposition. 13). Although these
charges are not determined according to value, they are a special tax because the burden of
the charge falls upon property. Because it is such a special tax, the ordinance provides that,
insofar as possible, the charges shall be administered in the same manner as secured roll ad
valorem property taxes.

The assessments authorized by the ordinance would be levied for each fiscal year (July
1 through. June®)) on each parcel of property in the County. The assessments would be imposed
but not to exceed, the amount of $20.00 for each residential or multiple unit with slightly higher
annual charges for commercial and industrial properties depending on ordinance classification.

Ordinance 92-55 classifies each parcel of property in the County into a category according to
information contained in current County records for the involved property. For example, the
property use category designated as “single residential’’ would include any parcel shown on
the current, records as having a detached single family home, condominium or townhou.se.

Assessments on each parcel for each, year would constitute a lien on. the parcel just as
in the case of the secured roll ad valorem property taxes and would be due the County of Contra
Costa. The secured roll tax bills would be the only notices for the assessments. Insofar as
applicable, the times and procedures regulating exemptions, due dates, installment payments,
corrections, cancellations, refunds, late payments, penalties, liens and collections for secured
roll ad valorem taxes would apply to these assessments.

County officials collecting the assessment would deduct reasonable costs of administering
the assessment, from the collected assessments and remit the balance to be used only for the
purposes set forth above. If approved by a 2/3 vote at the November 3, 1992 election, taxes could
thereafter be collected pursuant to the ordinance. <fullend>










<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT MEASURE B ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

Essential Law Enforcement and Community Safety Net Services such as the Rape Crisis
Center, Battered Women’s Alternatives, Family Stress Center and Child Abuse Council have been severely hurt by the State taking away property taxes from the County. Measure “B”, will cost homeowners only to a nickel, a day ($20 per year) and will allow the County to continue providing these essential programs to the citizens of Contra Costa County. The assessment will sunset in four years, as recommended by the Taxpayers Association.

Property taxes support our highest priority local services such as Law Enforcement, Safety
Net Services, and Libraries. Now the State, to balance its budget, is taking a significant portion of the County’s property tax revenues. There is simply not enough money left to fund critical
services. Measure “B” gives voters a chance to keep these vital services.

The Board of Supervisors has already cut $50 million from the County budget. They reduced their salaries, streamlined Administration, and slashed overhead. There are no places left to cut other than to eliminate vital services.

Measure “B” requires that this Assessment be spent as follows:

*	Law Enforcement for drug and gang crimes/criminal prosecution/crime lab

(vitally needed by City Police) and assistance to victims of violence	44.8%

*	Drug crime diversion/Juvenile Justice facilities and services	22.4%;

*	Community “Safety Net” services which protect families and children	22.4%;

*	Library services, to help keep your local Library open	10.4%

“Safety Net” services provided by Community-based Organizations protect families from violence, abuse and neglect. All of the “Safety Net’ money will go to non-profit, volunteer groups that lessen the burden on the Police and keep people off welfare.

Without your help, many of these vital community organizations probably will not survive. We urge you to vote YES on MEASURE “B” <favorend>









<favorsigs> Eric Hasseltine, President, Contra Costa Council

Richard Aubry, Executive Director, Rubicon Programs, Inc. and Chairman, Public Safety Net
Coalition

Terry Goss, President, Friends of Ygnacio Valley Library
Jim Hicks, Chairman, Contra Costa Labor Coalition <favorsigsend>








ARGUMENT AGAINST
CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT MEASURE B ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

None filed.
