<full> ORDINANCE NO. ______

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF IMPERIAL
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Imperial ordains as

follows:

SECTION 1:	Chapter	1.5	of	Division	5	of	Title	2	(comprising

Sections 25151 to and including 25166) of the Codified Ordinances
of the County of Imperial is hereby enacted and added to the
Codified Ordinances to read as follows:

CHAPTER 1.5
IMPERIAL COUNTY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

§25151. Title.

This Chapter shall be known as the "Imperial County
Transactions and Use Tax Law". The County of Imperial
hereinafter shall be called "County". This Chapter shall be
applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of
the County of Imperial, which territory shall be referred to

herein as "County".

§25152. Operative Date.

"Operative date" means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after adoption
of this Chapter, the date of such adoption being as set forth

below.

§25153. Purpose.

This Chapter is intended to be in addition to, and to not
in any manner affect, the provisions of Chapter 1 of this
Division. It is adopted to achieve the following, among
other, purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
which authorizes the County to adopt this tax law which shall
be operative if a majority of the electors noting °"
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose. This tax is to be used only
for general governmental purposes.

R To adopt a retail transactions and use tax law which
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and
Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax law which
imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization
in a manner that adapts itself as fully m practicable to, an
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State
Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax law which
can be administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest
degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost
of collecting the transactions and use taxes and at the same
time minimize the burden of record Keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this Chapter.

§25154. Contract With State.

Prior to the operative date, the County shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax law.

§25155. Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property
at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County at the
rate of one-half of one percent of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold
at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this Chapter.

§25156. Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless
the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in
the State or has more than one place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed an
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

§25157. Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the County of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of
this Chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one-half of one percent of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use
tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

§25158. Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and except
insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code “e hereby adopted
and made a part of this Chapter as though fully set forth

herein.

§25159. Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection
Of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:


A. Whenever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this County

shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution

shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title
of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or
the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this County or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing
the functions incident to the administration or operation
of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including	but not

necessarily limited to, sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales,
storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax
by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by
the state under the said provisions of that code;

4.	In Sections 6701,	6702	(except in the last

sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "County" shall be substituted for the word
"State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this
State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase m
Section 6203.

§25160. Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor's permit shall not be required by this Chapter.

§25161. Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax
or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city,
city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns
Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1. Sales of tangible personal property to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the County in which the sale is made and directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County
which is shipped to a point outside the County, pursuant
to the contract of sales, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer
to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point.

For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the County shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than
commercial vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9850) of the
Vehicle Code, by registration to an out-of-County address
and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his
principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-County and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that

address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the
seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this Chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is
a continuing sale of such property, for any period of
time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the
operative date of this Chapter.

5 For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to
a contract or	lease	for any period of	time	for which any

party to the	contract or lease has	the	unconditional

right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this
Chapter, the storage, use or other consumption in this County
of tangible personal property:

1.	The	gross	receipts from the	sale	of which have

been subject	to a	transactions tax	under any state-

administered transactions and use tax ordinance.


2.	Purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in
the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the
exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any
right or power over, the tangible personal property
arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of
such property for any period of time for which the lessee
is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
a lease prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract of lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a
retailer engaged in business in the County shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the County or participates
within the County in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving
the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the County under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the County"
shall also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter l
(commencing with Section 4000) of _ Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9850) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required^to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the County.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Chapter may
credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

§25162. Amendment.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
Chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a
part of this Chapter; provided, however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this Chapter.

§25163. Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or
equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the County, or
against any officer of the State or the County, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this County, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected.

§25164. Severability.

If any provision of this Chapter or the ^ application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid^ the
remainder of the Chapter and the application of such provision
to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected

thereby.

§25165. Effective Date.

This Chapter relates to the levying and collection of a
County transactions and use tax and shall take effect
immediately upon approval by a majority of the electors voting
on the measure at the November 1992 General Election.

§25166. Review of Need; Termination Date For Tax.

It is the intent of the Imperial County Board of
Supervisors in enacting this Chapter that the need for the
Chapter be reviewed by the Board every six (6) months.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Chapter, this
Chapter shall automatically terminate January 1, 1995.

SECTION 2 :	This	ordinance	shall	take	effect	immediately upon

passage and prior to the expiration of fifteen (15) days from the

passage thereof shall be published at least once in the Holtville

Tribune, a newspaper of general circulation, printed and published
in the County of Imperial, State of California, together with the
names of the members of the Board of Supervisors voting for and

against the same.

PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED by the Board of Supervisors of

the County of Imperial this ______

1992.

ATTEST:_________________________

LINDA WEAVER, Clerk of the
Board of Supervisors of the
County of Imperial, State
California

BILL COLE,

Chairman, Board of Supervisors <resolutionend>










<full> AGREEMENT FOR STATE ADMINISTRATION
OF COUNTY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAXES

To carry out Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and the Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance of the
COUNTY OF IMPERIAL, hereinafter called "County", a copy of which
Ordinance is attached hereto, County and the STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION, hereinafter called the "Board", do agree as follows:

ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS

Unless the context requires otherwise, wherever the following
terms appear in this Agreement, they shall be interpreted to mean

the following:

1.	"County taxes" shall mean the transactions and use taxes,
penalties, and interest imposed under an ordinance which complies
with Part 1.6, Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

2.	"County Ordinance" shall mean the County's Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance attached hereto, as amended from time to
time, or as deemed to be amended from time to time pursuant to
Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7262.2.

ARTICLE II
ADMINISTRATION AND COLLECTION
OF DISTRICT TAXES

A. Administration.	The	Board	and	County agree that the

Board shall perform exclusively all functions incident to the administration and operation of the District Ordinance.

B.	Other applicable laws. County agrees that
provisions of law applicable to the administration and operation of
the State Sales and Use Tax Law which are not inconsistent with
Section 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code shall be
applicable to the administration and operation of the County
Ordinance. County agrees that money collected pursuant to the
County Ordinance may be deposited in the State Treasury to the
credit of the Retail Sales Tax Fund and may be drawn from that Fund
for any authorized purpose, including making refunds, compensating
and reimbursing the Board pursuant to Article IV of this Agreement,
and of transmitting to County the amount to which County is

entitled.

C.	Transmittal of money. Except as otherwise provided
herein all County taxes collected under the provisions of the
County Ordinance shall be transmitted to County periodically as
promptly as feasible but not less often than twice in each calendar
quarter. Transmittals may be made by mail or by deposit to the
account of County in Sacramento designated by County. A statement
shall be furnished at least quarterly indicating the amounts

withheld pursuant to Article IV of this Agreement.

D.	Rules. The Board shall prescribe and adopt such rules
and regulations as in its judgment are necessary or desirable from
the administration and operation of the County Ordinance and the
distribution of the County taxes collected thereunder.

E.	Preference. Unless the payor instruct otherwise and
except as otherwise provide in this Agreement, the Board shall give
no preference in applying money received for state sales and use taxes, state-administered local sales and use taxes, and County
transactions and use taxes owed by a taxpayer but shall apply all
monies collected to the satisfaction of the claims of the State,
cities, other counties, cities and counties, redevelopment
agencies, districts, and County as their interests appear.

F. Security.	The Board agrees that any security which

it hereafter requires to be furnished by taxpayers under the State
Sales and Use Tax Law will be upon such terms that it also will be
available for the payment of the claims of County for county taxes
owing to it as its interest appears. The Board shall not be
required to change the terms of any security now held by it and
County shall not participate in any security now held by the Board.

G. Records of the Board. When requested by resolution of
the Board of Supervisors of County under Section 7056 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, the Board agrees to permit authorized
personnel of County to examine the records and procedures of the
Board concerning taxpayers subject to the County Ordinance.

ARTICLE III
ALLOCATION OF TAX

A. Allocation. In the administration of the Board's
contracts with all districts or counties which impose transactions
and use taxes imposed under ordinances which comply with Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(1) Any payment not identified as being in payment of
liability owing to a designated district or county, or districts or
counties, may be apportioned among the districts and counties as their interest appear, or, in the discretion of the Board, to all
districts and counties with which the Board has contracted using
ratios reflected by the distribution of district and county taxes

collected from all taxpayers.

(2) All district and county taxes collected as a result of
determinations or billings made by the Board, and all amounts
refunded or credited may be distributed or charged to the
respective districts and counties in the same ratio as the
taxpayer's self-declared district and county taxes for the period
for which the determination, billing, refund, or credit applies.

B. Vehicles- Vessels, and Aircraft. For the purpose of
allocating use tax with respect to vehicles, vessels, or aircraft,
the address of the registered owner appearing on the application
for registration or on the certificate of ownership may be used by
the Board in determining the place of use.

ARTICLE IV
COMPENSATION

The County agrees to pay to the Board as the Board's cost of
administering the County Ordinance such amount as is provided for
by law. Such amounts shall be deducted from the taxes collected by
the Board for the County.

ARTICLE V
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

A. Communications. Communications and notices may be sent by first class United States mail to the addresses listed below or
to such other addresses as the parties may from time to time
designate. A notification is complete when deposited in the mail.
Communications and notices to be sent to the Board shall be
addressed to:

State Board of Equalization
P.0. Box 942879

Sacramento, California 94279-0001
Attention:	Executive Director

Communications and notices to be sent to County shall be
addressed to:

COUNTY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
County of Imperial
940 W. Main Street
El Centro, California 92243

Attention:	Richard	H. Inman, Sr., C.A.O.

B. Term. The date of this Agreement is the date on which it
is approved by the Department of General Services. The Agreement
shall take effect on passage of County Measure K by the voters of
Imperial County in the November 1992 General Election, but no
earlier than the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
after such approval. This agreement shall continue until December
31 next following the operative date of the County Ordinance, and
shall thereafter be renewed automatically from year to year until
the Board completes all work necessary to the administration of the
County Ordinance and has received and disbursed all payments due

under that Ordinance.

C. Notice of Repeal of Ordinance. County shall give Board written notice of the repeal of the County Ordinance not less than
110 days prior to the operative date of the repeal.

ARTICLE VI
REFUND OF TAXES
IF ORDINANCE IS FOUND TO BE INVALID

Should a final judgment be entered in any court of the State
of California, holding that County's Ordinance is invalid or void
and requiring a rebate or refund to taxpayers of any taxes
collected under the terms of this Agreement, the parties mutually
agree that:

1.	Board may retain all payments made by County to Board to

prepare to administer the County Ordinance.

2.	County will pay to Board and allow Board to retain
Board's cost of administering the County Ordinance in the amounts
set forth in Article IV of this Agreement.

3.	County will pay to Board or to the State of California
the amount of any taxes plus interest and penalties, if any, that
Board or the State of California may be required to rebate or

refund to taxpayers.

4.	County will pay to Board its costs for rebating or

refunding such taxes, interest, or penalties. Board's costs shall
include its additional cost of developing procedures for processing
the rebates or refunds, its costs of actually making these refunds,
designing and printing forms, and developing instructions for
Board's staff for use in making these rebates or refunds and any
other costs incurred by Board which are reasonably appropriate or

These costs shall

necessary to make those rebates or refunds,
include Board's direct and indirect costs as specified by Section

11256 of the Government Code.

5.	Costs may be accounted for in a manner which conforms to

the internal accounting and personnel records currently maintained
by the Board.	The billings for such costs may be presented in

summary form.	Detailed records will be retained for audit and

verification by County.

6.	Any dispute as to the amount of costs incurred by Board

in refunding taxes shall be referred to the State Director of
Finance for resolution and the Director's decision shall be final.

7.	Costs incurred by Board in connection with such refunds
shall be billed by Board on or before the 25th day of the second
month following the month in which the judgment of a court of the
State of California holding County's Ordinance to be invalid or
void becomes final. Thereafter Board shall bill County on or
before the 25th of each month for all costs incurred by Board for
the preceding calendar month. County shall pay to Board the amount
of such costs on or before the last day of the succeeding month and
shall pay to Board the total amount of taxes, interest, and
penalties refunded or paid to taxpayers, together with Board costs
incurred in making those refunds.

STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

By_____________________________

Executive Director
COUNTY OF IMPERIAL

By________________  —----------

Bill Cole, Chairman
Board of Supervisors
<fullend> 