<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE P

The law now says that the County of Humboldt cannot receive, from the State of California, motor vehicle fuel taxes to spend locally for railroad improvements. The technical language refers to "research,
planning, construction or improvement of exclusive mass transit guideways, or other mass transit capital
improvements", which means building or fixing train tracks, train equipment, etc.

The State of California collects motor vehicle fuel taxes, and gives parts of those taxes to the counties
for several purposes. In 1974 a state proposition was passed by the voters, adding Section 4 of Article 19
of the State Constitution, which lets the voters in a county to decide if their county should receive and
use a portion of fuel taxes for mass transit purposes.

Until recently, Humboldt County had no "mass transit facilities" which qualified for use of these funds. A
recent change in law allows Humboldt County to receive and use these funds for railroad purposes, and
this measure allows the voters in Humboldt County to now decide if they want Humboldt County to
receive and use these funds to improve rail transportation in Humboldt County. The funds can only be
used for that purpose.

This measure must be approved by a majority of votes cast on this measure. This measure does not create a new tax, or increase any existing tax. This measure will likely change the amount of fuel tax rev-
enues sent to the various counties, and increase the amount sent to Humboldt County, but the amount of
the changes cannot be exactly calculated at this time. The amount will depend on the amount of fuel tax
revenues collected by the State and the number of counties claiming funds under this program. <impartialend>











<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

The designation of Humboldt County as a “Proposition 5 County" would provide an additional source
of funding to be used for the improvement of rail transportation on the north coast. A YES vote on
Measure "P" would provide approximately $285,000 per year in additional funds. Approval of
Measure "P" would not increase taxes to Humboldt County residents, and, would insure that the
County gains a share of motor fuel collections for railroad improvements. If voters do not approve
Measure “P" the existing funds will be prorated to those counties who have already qualified as
Proposition 5 counties.

The source of the funding is the Transit Capital Improvement (TCI) and the Transportation Planning
and Development (TP&D) accounts established and approved by the voters in 1974. Proposition 5
added Article XIX to the State Constitution which lets the voters in a County decide if their County
should receive and use a portion of motor fuel taxes for mass transit systems, and sets aside funds
to help support rail and railroad systems. <favorend>










<favorsigs> s/Stan Dixon, Chairman,

Humboldt County Board of Supervisors
s/Lloyd L. Hecathorn, Co-Chair,

North Coast Railroad Authority <favorsigsend>









NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P WAS SUBMITTED.

