

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

This measure provides for the establishment of a special tax to be levied
on each parcel of property within the boundaries of the Coachella Fire
Protection District for a period of not more than five (5) years. The
purpose of this special tax is to obtain, furnish, operate and maintain fire
suppression equipment or apparatus and for the payment of salaries and
benefits of fire fighting protection personnel and for such other
necessary fire protection and prevention expenses of the Coachella Fire
Protection District in such areas to which fire protection and prevention
services are made available.

Pursuant to Government Code, Sections 50075 and 53978, and Health
& Safety Code, Section 13910, the Board of Directors of the Coachella
Fire Protection District has proposed to the voters that an ordinance be
adopted authorizing the levy of a special tax so as to remove a portion of
the imbalance between revenues and expenses involving the fire
protection district.

An approximate projection of the revenues that will be generated by the
special tax is the sum of $325,000 per fiscal year.

The Board of Directors has called an election for the purpose of
submitting the ordinance to the voters within the Coachella Fire
Protection District for adoption. If a two thirds of the voters voting on
the measure approve it, the ordinance will be operative for fiscal years
1994-95 through 1998-99.

A "YES" vote on Ordinance No. 14 is a vote to adopt the ordinance.

A "10" vote on Ordinance No. 14 is a vote against adopting the

ordinance.

By: CITY ATTORNEY, CITY OF COACHELLA

The above statment is an impartial analysis of Measure U. If you
desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the District
secretary at (818) 398-3403, and a copy will be mailed at no cost to
you.

ARGUMENT IN fAVOR OF MEASURE U

In a special election held on June 6, 1989, City residents approved a
ballot measure to assist in financing the operations of the Fire
Department. This was a more affordable and equitable option than
the proposed utility tax which was being considered by the Board, as the
tax was placed on all developed and undeveloped parcels in the City, not
just imposed on utility users. The measure assessed households
$3.33 per month and was authorized to be levied for five years through
Fiscal year 1993-94.

The City has collected approximately $325,000 per year to subsidize
the general fund. This amount represents 42% of the current
$780,000 operating budget for the Fire Department and supports
approximately five fire-related positions. Elimination of this revenue
source would adversely affect the City's ability to provide an adequate
level of service.

The City had anticipated that the commercial tax base would increase
and that development would improve in five years, thus, eliminating the
need to continue the assessment of this tax. This, however, has not
occurred because of current economic conditions.

The City is requesting that the residents authorize the continuance of
this tax for another five years to enable us to continue to maintain an
adequate level of fire service. WE CANNOT JEOPARDIZE THE
WELFARE OF OUR RESIDENTS; $3.33 PER MONTH IS A SMALL
PRICE TO PAY FOR OUR SAFETY.

We ask for your "YES" vote on November 3.

By:	Gregorio	Cervantes, Jr.

Jesus R. Gonzalez

Juan M. De Lara

Frank V. Duran

Javier H. Lopez

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U WAS FILED