IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The County Counsel has prepared the following impartial analysis of The Initiative To Repeal Formation
Of County Service Area No 7 And To Require Repayment Of Fees Imposed Therein showing its effect on
existing law and its general operation.

On September 18,1991, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Amador adopted Resolution 91-428,
forming County Service Area No. 7, which County Service Area covers the entire area of Amador County,
i e, the unincorporated area and all five cities. The city councils of all five cities gave their consent
thereto. The purpose of County Service Area No. 7 is to provide funding for the County's sanitary landfill
at Buena Vista. In Resolution 91-429, adopted the same date, the Board imposed throughout County
Service Area No. 7 a base fee of $50 for each dwelling unit on residential parcels and $50 for other
improved parcels for each commercial/industrial use plus $20 for each additional cubic yard over one
yard of solid waste generated per week. Those fees were for the 1991 -1992 fiscal year only.

If this measure receives 'YES’ votes from a majority of the electors voting thereon, County Service Area
No. 7 will be deemed abolished as of the date of its formation, September 18,1991. The fees imposed
by the Board in Resolution 91-429 for the financing of the County sanitary landfill will be deemed void
from their inception, requiring the County to repay those fees to payors. In cases where the payers can-
not be identified or found, the County would retain the money in the County's general funds.

AN INITIATIVE TO REPEAL FORMATION OF COUNTY SERVICE AREA
NO. 7 AND TO REQUIRE REPAYMENT OF FEES IMPOSED THEREIN

03-VP5

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

A ‘YES" vote on Measure A will rescind the $^rt 00 landfill tax that was imposed with total disregard for
Proposition 13 which clearly states that property taxes may only be raised with a 2/3 approval by the vot-
ers.

The politicians argue that it is not a tax because they call it an assessment, Yet it is a part of your prop-
erty tax bill; and if it isn't paid, the tax collector will in time auction off your home. They also say that the
money is needed because of the state mandates which compel the county to spend more money than it
has But Proposition 13 is a state law that protects taxpayers, and the Board of Supervisors choose to
selectively ignore that mandate Then adding insult to injury, they show their contempt for the law and
the public by giving themselves a pay raise within one week of levying this illegal tax. Now, while
rewarding themselves and their friends out of the public till, they continue to make end runs around
Proposition 13 by imposing "FEES" and "ASSESSMENTS’ on everything imaginable to pay for this waste
and mismanagement of the public trust.

We say enough is enough! The county budget increases by over 10% each year. Supervisor Davenport
said, "It's time to admit that bureaucracies will never shrink themselves. ‘ How true.

Well, this is shrinking time! Let's start by shrinking the amount of our tax money that the politician have
to spend by voting "YES" on Measure A.

s/Milan J. Matulich

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

The argument in favor of Measure A over the signature of Milan J. Matulich, Chairman of the Amador
Taxpayers' Action Coalition, is representative of the untrue and misleading statements being made con-
cerning the $50.00 Landfill parcel fee

The method by which the fee was adopted and collected is within the law Were it not legal, it would
have been attacked in the Courts by the proponents of Measure A They know that an assault on the
•ordinance would not be upheld in the Courts.

In their statement, the supporters of Measure A infer that the Board of Supervisors used parcel fee
monies for other than the Landfill, Such is not the case - the parcel fee revenue was totally used for the
Landfill budget

Note that the argument in favor of Measure A does not discuss or allude to the refund of some
$650,000 00 already collected and spent. They play this down purposely, because even they recognize
the devastating effect it will have on your County's finances Don’t sanction this irresponsible effort to
cripple your County government. Vote Hfi on Measure A!

s/E. Tom Bamert, Supervisor, District 2
s/Steve Martin, Supervisor, District 4



03