By the terms of the bond measure, the funds are restricted so that they may only be used for emergency response
facilities within the City of Oakland.

This bond measure represents an important milestone in protecting Oakland’s future. Many additional activities are
also necessary including increased citizen training, improving police and fire operations, and strengthening public
roadways, hospitals, and utilities.

FAILURE TO PLAN FOR FUTURE DISASTERS, NATURAL OR MAN-MADE, LEAVES THE CITY
VULNERABLE TO CATASTROPHE! TO BETTER PROTECT OUR LIVES AND PROPERTY, WE URGE
YOU TO VOTE YES ON MEASURE I.

s/DICK SPEES
Oakland City Councilmember
s/ELIHU M. HARRIS
Mayor of Oakland
s/MARGE GIBSON HASKELL
Oakland City Councilmember

s/FRANK H. OGAWA

Oakland City Councilmember
s/NATHAN A. MILEY
Oakland City Councilmember

No argument submitted against Measure I.

Information compiled by ARRECE JAMESON, City Clerk and Clerk of the Council.

CITY OF PIEDMONT MEASURE J		
J	■ MEASURE J: Shall Chapter 20B of the Piedmont City Code be amended to provide for a I general purpose municipal services tax commencing July 1,1993 as more specifically set forth in Ordinance 534 N.S. on file with the Piedmont City Clerk?	YES
		i  NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE J

ORDINANCE NO. 534 MS.

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 20B
OF THE PIEDMONT CITY CODE PROVIDING FOR A GENERAL
MUNICIPAL SERVICES TAX

The City Council of the City of Piedmont hereby ordains as follows:

SECTION 1

It is the intent of the City Council of the City of Piedmont in adopting this Ordinance to provide for the continuation
of the ability to raise sufficient funds for general governmental purposes through a general tax for the provision of
municipal services in Piedmont, while at the same time reducing the prior tax rate. Further, the use of City services and
the demand for City services is closely tied to the uses and occupancies of property within the City, and it is logical to
base such tax on use and occupancy of improved real property.

SECTION 2

Chapter 20B of the Piedmont City Code is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:

“CHAPTER 20B
GENERAL MUNICIPAL SERVICES TAX
SECTION 20B.1 AUTHORITY TO ADOPT MEASURE
This Ordinance and the tax authorized herein is adopted pursuant to the provisions of Article 3.7 of Chapter 4 of
Part 1 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code (Sections 53720-53730); and the California Constitution,
Article XIH B, Section 4. The tax authorized herein is based on use and occupancy of improved real property.
SECTION 20B.2 AUTHORIZATION TO LEVY GENERAL MUNICIPAL TAX
If in any fiscal year commencing on or after July 1, 1993, the City Council shall determine that general municipal
services including but not limited to police and fire protection, street maintenance, building regulations, library
services, recreation, parks maintenance, and any other expenses funded through the general fund of the City, either
directly or indirectly, including but not limited to the equipment replacement, liability insurance, and workers’
compensation funds, are necessary for the public good, welfare and safety, and that cost of providing such services and
expenses will exceed the amount of funds generated through other revenue and income of the City for such services,
then it may levy a general tax for such fiscal year on each parcel of real property within the City in a manner provided
herein. This is a tax for general governmental purposes and shall not be deemed a special tax as defined pursuant to
Section 53721 of the California Government Code.

SECTION 20B.3 DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT TO BE RAISED
Each year concurrent with the adoption of the annual budget, the City Council will determine the total amount of
expenditures necessary to provide adequate levels of municipal services as defined in Section 20B.2 and deduct
therefrom the projected revenue to be collected from sources other than this general tax. The difference, if any, shall
be the maximum amount of funds to be derived from the tax authorized by this Ordinance for such year.

SECTION 20B.4 MAXIMUM TAX RATE/METHOD OF ASSESSMENT
After determining the amount of tax to be raised under Section 20B.3, the City Council shall apportion said amount
among the parcels of real property within the City not exempted by law or exempted pursuant to Section 20B.12,
as follows:

COMBINED MUNICIPAL SERVICE AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT TAX SCHEDULE

Per Parcel  0 to 4,999 sq. ft. 5,000 to 9,999 sq.ft.  10.000	to 14,999 sq. ft.  15.000	to 20,000 sq. ft. More than 20,000 sq. ft.	Single  Family  Residences  $149  $167  $194  $221  $252	Developed  Commercial  Properties	Multi-  Family  Residences	Parcels Divided By Tax Code Area Line
0 to 10,000 sq. ft. More than 10,000 sq. ft.		$252  $378		
Per Dwelling Unit			$104	

Per Parcel	$153

The foregoing tax rate schedule shall apply to taxes raised for municipal services, but in no case shall the maximum
figures set forth in such schedule be exceeded by any general taxes set pursuant to Section 20B.3.

The records of the Alameda County Assessor as of March 1 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in
which the general taxes are payable shall determine whether or not any particular parcel is unimproved for purposes
of this Ordinance. All those parcels which are located entirely within the City of Piedmont shall be subject to the
general taxes assessed pursuant to Chapter 20B. In addition, on those parcels which are located partially within the
City of Piedmont, all such parcels whose residents are eligible to register to vote in Piedmont and/or all such parcels
which are eligible to receive services from the City of Piedmont pursuant to the 911 Emergency System as of March 1
of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the general taxes are payable shall be subject to the
general taxes assessed pursuant to Chapter 20B. Each parcel shall be taxed pursuant to this Section 20B.4 according
to its actual use as of March 1 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which any such general
tax is payable.

SECTION 20B.5 HEARING, TAX LIEN AND INCLUSION IN CITY TAXES
Prior to levying a tax under this Ordinance in any fiscal year, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the
proposed tax. Such hearing may be conducted simultaneously with a hearing relating to the annual budget for the fiscal
year in which the general tax is to apply. Notice of such hearing shall be posted on the official bulletin board at City
Hall at least 10 days prior to the hearing. All of the information and material which the City Council intends to consider
at such hearing and the proposed amount of tax to be raised shall be made available to the public by being on file in the
office of the City Clerk for at least 10 days prior to said hearing.

Following said hearing, the Council may adopt a resolution fixing the amount of tax to be raised.

SECTION 20B.6 COLLECTION
The City Council may elect to have any general tax authorized under this chapter collected either by the City or by
the Tax Collector of the County of Alameda. If the services of the Tax Collector of the County of Alameda are
selected, the general tax may only be included on the annual tax bill sent out by such Tax Collector and charges made
by such Tax Collector shall be paid out of general funds deducted from the gross proceeds of the tax.

SECTION 20B.7	INCREASE APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

Pursuant to the California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriations limit for the City of Piedmont will be
increased by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this general tax in each of the years covered by this Ordinance.
SECTION 20B.8	FUNDING AND EXPENDING PROCEEDS

Proceeds of any tax levied under this Ordinance shall be deposited into the general fund of the City.

SECTION 20B.9	UNEXPENDED	RESIDUE

To the extent it has actually determined by an audit of the City’s finances that there is an unexpended residue (as
defined in Section 20B.10) of any money raised by the City under this Ordinance for a particular fiscal year, then the
City Council shall use such residue in the next fiscal year for which the tax under this Ordinance has not been
established, and shall reduce the amount of the tax for such subsequent fiscal year by the amount of the unexpended
residue. Unexpended residue of any money raised by the City under this Ordinance may only be used in succeeding
years for the purposes stated in this Ordinance, and to the extent there is an unexpended residue for the 1996-1997
fiscal year ending June 30,1997, such unexpended residue shall be returned to the taxpayer on the same pro rata basis
as originally levied by a refund or by a reduction in subsequent taxes.

SECTION 20B.10	DEFINITIONS

The following definitions shall apply to terms used in Section 20B.9 hereof:

1.	“Unexpended residue” as used in Section 20B.9 shall mean the amount the contingency reserve of the City
exceeds the following percentages for the fiscal years indicated of the actual general operating expenses of the City in
the fiscal year in question: for the 1993-94 fiscal year, ten percent (10%); for the 1994-95 fiscal year, nine percent (9%);
and for the 1995-96 and 1996-97 fiscal years, eight percent (8%).

2.	“Contingency reserve” as used in Section 20B.9 is defined as the unencumbered balance maintained in the general

fund for the purpose of meeting unforeseen expenses, unrealized revenue estimates, or other emergencies of the City.
SECTION 20B.11	SEVERABILITY

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect any other provisions or applications, and to this end the provisions of this Ordinance are
declared to be severable.

SECTION 20B.12	DURATION, AMENDMENT	OR REPEAL

The authorization to levy a tax under this Ordinance shall expire with the fiscal year 1996-1997 ending June 30,1997.
This Ordinance, or any provision thereof, may only be amended or repealed by approval of a majority of the voters
voting on the proposition at any initiative or referendum election.

This Ordinance shall be adopted, if approved by a majority of the voters voting on the proposition at an election to
be held on Tuesday, June 2, 1992, and go into effect commencing with the fiscal year that begins on July 1, 1993,
provided that any provisions of this Ordinance which require action prior to July 1, 1993, shall become effective
January 1,1993; provided further that the provisions of Chapter 20B in effect on June 1,1992, shall remain in effect for
all purposes relating to the taxes provided thereunder through the fiscal year ending June 30,1993.

SECTION 20B.13	EXEMPTIONS

The City Council may from time to time by Council resolution adopt exemptions to the tax measures set forth
herein.”

SECTION 3

This Ordinance shall require passage by a 4/5th’s vote of the City Council in compliance with the provisions of
Section 53724(b) of the California Government Code, shall be posted at City Hall after its second reading by the City
Council for at least 30 days, and shall not become effective unless approved by a majority of the voters voting on the
proposition at an election to be held on Tuesday, June 2,1992.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE J

Piedmont Measure J is the renewal of the municipal services tax that has been in effect for a number of years, and
has been approved by the voters in past elections. It comes up for renewal every four years, and the current tax expires
on June 30,1993.

Based on the recommendation of the Tax Review Committee, consisting of citizens appointed by the City Council,
Piedmont Measure J provides for a maximum tax rate that is 10% less than the maximum rate in the current municipal
services tax, which could potentially result in a reduction in taxes for Piedmont property owners.

In most other respects, the tax measure provides for a municipal services tax similar to that now in effect in Piedmont
(Measure W), except for a revised technical definition for “unexpended residue” that provides for a decreasing
percentage factor over the four year period of the tax, while the current tax has a fixed percentage.

s/GEORGE S. PEYTON, JR.
City Attorney
City of Piedmont

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE J

This parcel tax is needed to allow the City to continue to provide the services that you enjoy and expect. This measure
asks you to renew your commitment to protect your investment in Piedmont-vote YES on Measure J.

A parcel tax has been an essential element of Piedmont’s revenues since the passage of Prop. 13. Measure W, which
provides revenues for essential city services, will expire in June 1993. A citizens Tax Review Committee appointed by
the City Council studied revenues and expenditures and recommended that our voters approve a renewal of the
municipal parcel tax with a rate set at ten percent LESS than the current Measure W tax rate.

For the last eleven years Piedmont residents have overwhelmingly supported a parcel tax required to maintain the high
quality city services that benefit all of us. In spite of galloping inflation, the rate has remained flat. Careful management
of City resources by the City Council and staff will permit the ten percent reduction in the proposed tax renewal to be
accomplished. Not many cities are able to reduce existing taxes.

We need Measure J to avoid major reductions in police and fire service, park maintenance, recreation programs,
KCOM and Library Services. Without this tax, we would be unable to attract and retain high quality personnel.
Excessive turnover means inefficiency, reduced safety and expensive training costs for our citizens to bear.

You can be proud of the way Piedmont functions and looks. We have a sensibly run, fiscally sound City. Growth in City
expenditures has been restrained. These parcel tax revenues—approximately $652,500, averaging less than $175 per
parcel, per year—are an essential part of our budget and merit your continued support.

The City Council unanimously recommends that you vote YES on Measure J.

s/Skip Rhodes, Mayor	s/Katy	Foulkes,	Vice	Mayor

s/Susan Hill, Councilmember	s/Milt	Kegley,	Councilmember

s/Walter Schey, Councilmember

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE J

City Council members (proponents) argue voters have a ‘commitment’ to protect their ‘investment’ in Piedmont and
support of the new parcel tax is necessary for services residents now ‘enjoy and expect.’

A majority of voters will contend proponents already have an inviolable ‘commitment’ to prepare an annual budget
that balances expenditures with expected revenues. Proponents instead will campaign strenuously for a new four-year
parcel tax to avoid cutting costs of city government. Time has run out for this unwarranted tax burden, which has been
too convenient a source of revenue for nearly 12 years.

Proponents’ argument Piedmont residents have in the past ‘overwhelmingly’ supported parcel tax measures is mislead-
ing. Initial measures required two-thirds majority vote and funds collected were placed into a special account and
dispensed annually as needed. The expiring Measure W required only a simple majority vote and obtained voter
approval by a mere 259 votes of the total 5861 votes cast. Voters are no longer enamored with parcel tax measures, nor
do they feel they should commit to support the proposed costly and unnecessary tax measure.

Residents of Piedmont are privileged to live in this incomparable community. They rightfully can expect members of
city government to perform their assigned duties as detailed in the city charter without expecting citizens to continually
accept new layers of taxation to balance budget deficits.

Overtaxed voters want city government to adopt a new fiscal management perspective and not rely on another new
parcel tax.

VOTE NO on Measure J.

s/Harold Trent Power, Treasurer

Committee to Defeat the New Parcel Tax Measure J

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE J

Do we really need a new parcel tax that will cost each taxpayer $500 to $1000, and commercial owners up to $1500, over
a four-year period?

Why should citizens pay additional taxes to meet projected budget deficits for fiscal years 1993 to 1996? Why not take
effective measures to reduce departmental budgets and determine whether various municipal operations are cost
effective?

The City Council’s Tax Review Committee recently completed a report comparing 1991 per capita costs for police, fire,
and public works in nine Bay Area cities similar to Piedmont. The committee found average per capita costs for our
community were substantially higher than in other cities surveyed.

With realistic reductions in the costs of city government, taxpayers would have relief from the parcel tax burden.
Substantial increases in fees for city services and fines for motor vehicle violations, the doubling of the property transfer
tax, significant raises in utility taxes, and the expansion of sales tax receipts and business license fees will provide the
City with new and enhanced sources of revenue.

A NO vote on Measure J will send a stem message to the City Council to end deficit spending. The Council must
change its practice of depending on new taxes to meet projected shortfalls in revenue. Instead, it should adopt a budget
planning process which balances expenditures with expected revenues.

Help the Committee defeat the new parcel tax measure. Send contributions to the Treasurer, 101 Wistaria Way,
Piedmont 94611. Surplus funds will be contributed to the Piedmont Educational Foundation.

REMEMBER Tuesday, June 2—Vote NO on Measure J.

s/Harold Trent Power, Treasurer

Committee to Defeat the New Parcel Tax Measure J

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE J

The argument against Measure J distorts the facts and ignores the issue of why the tax is needed. The parcel tax will
average less than S175 per year, per parcel. Fifteen dollars per month is a small price to pay for the services our
residents will continue to receive.

Some of the benefits of living in Piedmont that may be in jeopardy without this tax are:

. Canine units, neighborhood watch, home inspections

. Personnel needed to operate all fire apparatus and the ambulance simultaneously
. Park, median and storm drain maintenance
. Some city planning functions

. Supervision, supplies and equipment for recreation programs
. KCOM and library services
. Capital improvements and maintenance
Piedmont’s per capita costs for police, fire and public works are less than those of cities such as Belvedere and Atherton
which offer comparable services. We must compete in a broad job market. We have skilled employees, run an efficient
operation and are right where we should be in comparison to other cities.

Piedmont has not, does not and will not engage in deficit financing. We do not spend money that we don’t have. The
city charter specifically requires a balanced budget.

Mr. Power avoids the real issue: do you want Piedmont to continue to deliver the present services? Do you want it to
be an attractive, special city with good public services, where homes retain their value and citizens enjoy an especially
high degree of safety and security? If so, VOTE YES ON MEASURE J.

s/Katy Foulkes, Mayor
s/Susan Hill, Councilmember
s/Walter Schey, Councilmember

s/Milt Kegley, Vice Mayor
s/Skip Rhodes, Councilmember

CITY OF PLEASANTON MEASURE		
j	mjp MEASURE K: Shall the General Plan of the City of Pleasanton be amended by adopting 1^ the Pleasanton Ridgelands Plan?	YES
		NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K

PLEASANTON RIDGELANDS PLAN—A General Plan Amendment
Prepared by the Pleasanton Ridgelands Committee—January 27,1992

PLEASANTON RIDGELANDS

The 7,100-acre Pleasanton Ridgelands is comprised of the steeply sloping, heavily forested eastern face of Pleasanton
Ridge and its northerly spur ridges, upper Sinbad Canyon, Devaney Canyon, Sunol Ridge, Main Ridge, and the broken
ridge and valleys along 1-580. Extending from the 670' elevation above Foothill Road on the east to Palo Verde Road on
the west, and from 1-580 on the north to the existing EBRPD Pleasanton Ridgelands Park on the south, this
predominantly open space area is of special concern to Pleasanton residents. Its visually prominent ridges form the
primary backdrop for Pleasanton; the rugged canyon along 1-580 defines the gateway to Pleasanton, separating
Pleasanton from East Bay Plain communities; and its highly aesthetic open space, which now is of primarily passive open
space value, offers opportunities for high value active open space uses, both park and quasi-public.

In order to achieve the active and passive open space aspects of the Pleasanton Ridgelands which have primary value
while allowing all its landowners reasonable use of, or fair compensation for, their land, a specific set of General Plan
policies—the Pleasanton Ridgelands Plan—has been developed to govern land uses in this area. The Pleasanton
Ridgelands Plan policies (designated “P.R.1,” “P.R.2,” etc.) are specific to the Pleasanton Ridgelands and are to be used
in conjunction with all other General Plan policies. In the event the application of these specific policies conflicts with any
other General Plan policy, the specific policy shall control within the Pleasanton Ridgelands area.

The Pleasanton Ridgelands Plan—Specific General Plan Policies

The Pleasanton Ridgelands area shall have two General Plan land use categories: a “Development Zone” and a “Buffer
Zone” as shown on Exhibit P.R.-l. The Buffer Zone has been created in order to achieve the primary open space goals
sought to be achieved by the Plan: (i) perpetual maintenance of the visual quality and open space appearance of the 1-580
corridor and the backdrop ridges above Pleasanton; and (ii) establishment of significant, publicly-accessible, usable
regional open space parks and trails. The Development Zone has been created in order to achieve the primary
development goals of the Plan: (i) creation of a high quality, fiscally self-sufficient residential neighborhood capable of
incorporating necessary environmental protections in a sensitive setting; (ii) creation of sufficient value to allow
acquisition of the Buffer Zone as open space through density transfer and/or development fees at no cost to existing
Pleasanton residents; and (iii) creation of improved, publicly-accessible open space parkland and trails. The policies
governing uses in each of the two zones are supplemented by general policies specific to the Pleasanton Ridgelands which
have been designed to accord a high degree of sensitivity to the unique features of the Pleasanton Ridgelands.

Density Transfer Policies

A form of density transfer within the Pleasanton Ridgelands is proposed to be the primary vehicle used to achieve the
open space protection sought in the Plan. The goal of the program is to treat equally all similarly-situated properties
within the Ridgelands, whether in the Buffer Zone or Development Zone, while encouraging the voluntary achievement
of the open space goals through the market-based transfer of development potential out of the Buffer Zone.