IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE CC

This proposition provides for establishment of a Fire Suppression
Benefit District and the levying of assessments at the maximum rati of
$52.00 per benefit unit. The assessment established shall be
imposed annually beginning in July 1993 and continuing for a period of
five (5) years upon all non-exempt parcels of real property, which are
currently or in the future, located within corporate boundaries of the City
of Indio. Sample assessments for various land uses based on the rate
of $52.00 per year per benefit unit include: vacant parcel = $13.00,
single family residence = $52.00; and mobile home park unit = $39.00.

Funds collected from this benefit assessment shall be expended
only for fire suppression services including expenditures to obtain,
furnish, operate and maintain fire suppression equipment and also
including payment of salaries and benefits for firefighting personnel to
suppress fires, respond to emergencies, and prevent fires. The City
has calculated that the proposed assessment would generate
$793,544.95 per year. By City Council Resolution, the City Council
has pledged to use this additional money to restore eight (8) firefighter
positions at a cost of $487,222.12, restore four (4) police officer
positions at a cost of $236,585.91 and restore one (1) Public Safety
Dispatcher position at a cost of $44,882.60. All costs identified are
annual salary and benefit costs per fiscal year. The $24,854.32 cost
of conducting the election is included in the $793,544.95 total cost.

The City Council of the City of Indio has called for an election for
the purpose of submitting the resolution to the voters within the City of
Indio for approval of establishing a Fire Suppression Benefit District for

a period of five (5) years,

A "yes" vote on Measure CC is a vote to approve the resolution.

A "no" vote on Measure CC is a vote against approving the
resolution.

By: David J. Erwin, City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure CC. If you
desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the City Clerk at
(619) 342-6570 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE CC

For the last decade, cities throughout California have been
drastically affected by budget cuts imposed by the State and Federal
government. When combined with the current economic recession,
local government has been faced with making significant cuts in
programs that contribute to our safety and quality of life. Specifically,
the City of Indio has reduced its work force from 223 positions to 183
positions in the last eighteen months. These reductions have also
meant cuts in public safety including eleven Firefighter and five Police
Officer positions. Given that those cuts have occurred at a time when
the City is experiencing consistent population growth, the level of public
safety in this community is of grave concern.

Measure CC will significantly improve the level of public safety in
the City of Indio. At a residential rate of $52 per year for five years,
Measure CC represents a sound investment in your community. A
"yes" vote on Measure CC, will restore eight (8) Firefighter positions
the City was forced to cut in January 1992. Additionally, four (4)
Police Officer positions and one (1) Public Safety Dispatcher would be
hired to help restore Indio's public safety services to its former level.

For $1 per week, Measure CC will give citizens of Indio the means
to preserve the level of public safety at an acceptable level. While
times are hard for many of our citizens, we must not deny the need for
vital public safety services to our community. VOTE "YES" FOR
MEASURE CC!

By: John Hanron, Co-Chairperson Financial Resources Committee

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE CC WAS FILED

