POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

Note: This pamphlet contains only information on ballot
measures pertaining to the City of Los Angeles. It is not a
sample ballot. You will receive your sample ballot with
polling place location from the Los Angeles County
Registrar - Recorder.

OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK
ELECTION DIVISION
ROOM 2300, CITY HALL
200 N. SPRING STREET
LOS ANGELES, CA 90012

BULK RATE
U S. POSTAGE
PAID

City of Los Angeles
Election Division

CXTV CLE**

Action dn'S'°^

★★★★★★★★★★★★★

VOTER

INFORMATION

PAMPHLET

★★★★★★★★★★★★★

-COMPILED BY ELIAS MARTINEZ, CITY CLERK

★ SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION ★
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

Note: This pamphlet contains only information on ballot
measures pertaining to the City of Los Angeles. It is not a
sample ballot. You will receive your sample ballot with
polling place location from the Los Angeles County
Registrar - Recorder.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page

Ballot Digest ................................ 2

Ballot Measures

Charter Amendment K........................   10

Bond Proposition L .......................  26

Proposition M.............................. 36

Proposition N..............................   49

FP-001.001

1

N LC 001-01

PROPOSITION M

TITLE:

Special Tax for Improvements to Emergency, Paramedic, Police, and
Fire Communications/9-1-1 System

THE ISSUE:

Should the City be allowed to impose a special tax to repay up to $235
million in bonds to expand and improve the emergency 9-1-1 system?

THE SITUATION:

The City’s emergency 9-1-1 system is outdated. During busy times, the
emergency telephone and dispatch systems are unable to meet the
growing demand for emergency services. The system has no back-up
facility.

THE PROPOSAL:

This measure would allow the City to impose a special tax to pay for
up to $235 million in bonds to expand and improve the City’s
emergency 9-1-1 system. These bonds would be used to:

—replace and expand the radio system

—replace the existing Police Department dispatch system

—provide a new police/fire 9-1-1 communications system

—add a police communications and dispatch center in the San
Fernando Valley

This special tax would be imposed on residential and business
properties. The amount of tax would be based primarily on the size of
the buildings and improvements on the property.

The maximum annual tax is estimated to be $1.75 for each 100 square
feet of improvement. For example, the owner of a 1500 square foot
home, including the garage, would pay about $26 each year for 20
years.

This measure will become law if two-thirds of the voters approve it.

ARGUMENT FOR:

When we call 9-1 -1 for life-saving help, that call must go through without
fail. Last year, over one million calls were not answered because of
system overload. In a dtywide emergency, like an earthquake, the 9-1-1
system would break down.

A “yes” vote will expand and modernize our emergency 9-1-1 system
to meet the demands of a growing population.

It’s a good deal for taxpayers. We get immediate improvements and the
costs will be spread over 20 years. Let’s be certain that 9-1-1 will be
there when we need it.

6

N LC 001-06

ARGUMENT AGAINST:

None submitted.

A YES VOTE MEANS:

You want to allow the City to impose a special tax to repay up to $235
million in bonds to expand and improve the emergency 9-1-1 system.

A NO VOTE MEANS:

You do not want to allow the City to impose a special tax to repay up
to $235 million in bonds to expand and improve the emergency 9-1-1
system.

THE FULL TEXT OF THIS MEASURE BEGINS ON PAGE 40.

PR-005.006

7

N LC 001-07

9-1-1 EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY, PARAMEDIC, POLICE

MAND FIRE RAPID RESPONSE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION BOND TAX.

ORDINANCE PROPOSITION M.

Shall an ordinance be adopted to modernize the 9-1 -1 citizens’ emergency
communications system to assure city residents, police and emergency
services of immediate and reliable communications in the event of natural
disasters, including earthquakes and fire, or personal health or public
safety emergencies, funded by $235,000,000 in revenue bonds over 20
years?

IMPARTIAL SUMMARY
BY WILLIAM R. McCARLEY, CHIEF LEGISLATIVE ANALYST

This measure imposes a special tax on property in the City of Los Angeles
to pay for improvements in the City’s 9-1-1 police and fire emergency
communications system.

The current police radio and dispatch system, known as the Emergency
Command Control Communications System (ECCCS), was designed and
installed between 1978 and 1983. ECCCS is currently housed in one facility
and is the City’s primary system used to answer all police, fire and
paramedic 9-1-1 emergency calls.

The proposed system improvements to be financed by this tax include a
new, enhanced voice and digital radio system; a new, computer-aided
police dispatch system and dispatch center located in the metropolitan
area; hand-held radios and mobile data terminals; a back-up police/fire
9-1-1 answering facility; and a new police communications and dispatch
center located in the San Fernando Valley.

Revenues from the proposed special tax would be deposited into a Special
Police Communications/9-1 -1 System Tax Fund and would be used to pay
such costs as: payments for lease of the system or any component of the
system, various administrative expenses for the issuance of revenue bonds
to finance the system, insurance premiums for equipment, expenses of
collecting and administering the tax, and any reimbursements for funds
that may be advanced from the City’s General Fund for the program.

Lease payments would serve as collateral for, and the source of repayment
of, up to $235,000,000 in lease revenue bonds, issued by a nonprofit
corporation, joint powers authority or other financing entity; or as collateral
for, and the source of repayment of, refunding bonds issued to refund
lease revenue bonds. Net proceeds of the lease revenue bonds would be
used to acquire, construct or install components of the system. Any
amount remaining after all lease revenue bonds issued to finance the
system have been repaid in full would be used only for maintaining or
improving the police communications and dispatch equipment and
systems.

PR-003.001	36	N	LC	001-38

proposed tax would be imposed on each parcel, improvement to
property, any US? of property. For each parcel of improved property, the
annual tax would be computed by multiplying the tax rate by the gross
square footage of the improvements JoCStSd on the parcel. For each
unimproved parcel, the annual tax would be computed Oy multiplying the
tax rate by 500 square feet of improvements, regardless of the size Cf th?
unimproved parcel. The City Council is required to adopt a tax rate for each
fiscal year which could not exceed $1.75 per one hundred gross square
feet of improvement area or fraction thereof. The proposed special tax
would be imposed for a maximum of 20 years, beginning in fiscal year
1993. Parcels and improvements owned by organizations which are
exempt from federal income tax, such as nonprofit organizations, would
be exempt from the proposed special tax. This measure also establishes
a method to correct errors in the computation of the tax and establishes
a refund procedure.

This special tax must be approved by a two-thirds majority vote of all those
voting on the measure in order to become operative.

FINANCIAL IMPACT STATEMENT
BY KEITH COMRIE, CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

This measure authorizes a special tax on real property for 20 years to repay
bonds to be issued to finance improvements to the police communications
system, which includes the 9-1-1 system for fire and police emergency
calls. The tax is estimated to average $0.85 a year per 100 square feet of
improvements or $12.75 per year on a typical house of 1,500-square feet,
with the highest tax of $1.75 per 100 square feet, or $26, estimated to be
levied in 1998-99. The tax will be lower on smaller houses and higher on
other buildings such as larger houses, apartment buildings, and
commercial and industrial buildings.

Additional staff will be required to operate and maintain the expanded
police communications and 9-1 -1 system. These additional costs to the
City’s General Fund for staff and related supplies and expenses are
estimated tc be approximately $3.5 million a year at current costs.

PR-003.002

37

N LC 001-37

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE PROPOSITION M

When we call 911 for life-saving paramedics, fire	or	police —

when we really need them — that call g0 through', without fail.

In 1991, the 911 sfhergency dispatch center answered 5,300,000 calls.
But GVSr 1,000,000 calls were not answered, because of overload. Every
day, there’s an almost one-in-six chance our calls won’t be answered.

Imagine how much worse it would be in a citywide emergency like an
earthquake, or even when rumors about a disaster circulate. Our outdated,
overburdened and inadequate 911 system would simply break down.

The complex equipment that makes 911 work is inadequate. Our city
has grown and the equipment is worn out. Outmoded and obsolete
equipment can’t keep up with our calls for emergency services, or let fire
and police commanders stay in communication with their officers.

The delays and breakdowns that occurred last April will be repeated
unless we modernize and expand our 911 emergency communications
system.

By voting “Yes” on Proposition M, we can expand and modernize 911
so it will be there for us, when we need it.

Proposition M is a good deal for taxpayers. We get immediate
improvements in 911 but pay for them with bonds spread over 20 years
among commercial, industrial and residential properly.

The risks to our families, friends and neighbors of not having a
comprehensive, reliable 911 system grow greater each day, but the system
we must have won’t get cheaper in the future.

The chiefs of all Los Angeles emergency services — paramedics, fire
and police — say Proposition M is critical to protect and serve the people
of Los Angeles.

Let’s be certain 911 will be there when we need it.

Vote “Yes” on Proposition M.

MARVIN BRAUDE	WARREN	CHRISTOPHER

Chairman

Public Safety Committee
Los Angeles City Council

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not
checked for accuracy by any City agency.

PR-003.012

38

N LC 001-36

ADDITIONAL PERSONS SIGNING ARGUMENT
IN FAVOR OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE PROPOSITION M

WILLIE L. WILLIAMS	DONALD 0. MANNING

Chief of Police	Fire Chief

Los Angeles Police Department Los Angeles Fire Department

ALAN R. COWEN

Chief Paramedic

Los Angeles Fire Department

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED.

PR-003.013

39

N LC 001-39

ORDINANCE PROPOSITION M
PROPOSED ORDINANCE PROPOSITION ON 9-1-1

EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY, PARAMEDIC, POLICE AND FIRE
RAPID RESPONSE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM
MODERNIZATION AND EXPANSION BOND TAX.

An ordinance adding Article 1.16 to Chapter II of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code imposing a Special Police Communications/9-1-1 System
Tax, subject to the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting
upon the proposal within the City of Los Angeles.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES
DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS;

Section 1. Article 1.16 is hereby added to Chapter II of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code to read as follows:

ARTICLE 1.16

SPECIAL POLICE COMMUNICATIONS/9-1-1 SYSTEM TAX
SEC. 21.16.1. DEFINITIONS:

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Article shall be
construed as defined in this Section:

(a)	“building” shall mean any structure having a roof supported by
columns or walls, for the housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
chattels or property of any kind;

(b)	“improvement to property” shall mean a building or other
improvement erected on or affixed to a parcel;

(c)	“parcel” shall mean a unit of real property as shown on the last
equalized assessment roll of Los Angeles County; and

(d)	“system” shall mean a police dispatch system, known as the Police
Emergency Command Control Communications System, which includes
the following: a replacement and enhanced voice and digital radio system
component; a replacement for the Police Department’s computer-aided
dispatch system and the associated police dispatch center located in the
metropolitan area; hand-held radios and mobile data terminals; and the
addition of a new police/fire 9-1 -1 communications component, and a new
police communications and dispatch center to be located in the San
Fernando Valley.

SEC. 21.16.2. EXEMPTIONS:

(a)	Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation
of either the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the
State of California.

(b)	The tax imposed by this Article shall not be levied upon the federal
government, the state government, any state agency, or any local
governmental agency.

PR-003.003	40	N	LC	001-40

(c)	The tax imposed by this Article shall not be levied upon a parcel of
property or improvement which is owned by an organization described in
Sections 401(a), 501(c), or 501(d) of Title 26 of the United States Code.
All sections of the United States Code shall mean those sections as they
exist on the effective date of this Article and as they may be amended
thereafter.

SEC. 21.16.3. SPECIAL TAX:

(a)	There is hereby imposed a special tax on each parcel, improvement
to property, and the use of property within the City of Los Angeles
(hereafter “City”) for the purposes set forth in this Article. The special tax
shall be for a period not greater than 20 fiscal years, commencing with the
fiscal year 1993-94 as set forth in Section 21.16.6 hereof.

(b)	This tax is enacted under the authority of Subdivision (d) of
Subsection (11) of Section 2 of Article 1 of the Los Angeles City Charter,
other authority held as a charter city, and, independently thereof, under
the authority of California Government Code Sections 50075-50077.5 and
California Government Code Sections 53970-53979.

SEC. 21.16.4. PURPOSE:

(a)(i) The purpose of this special tax is to provide funds to the City to
pay or fund:

1.	lease payments to be made by the City pursuant to any lease of
the System or any component thereof, including any land or building
to be acquired or constructed;

2.	expenses incurred incident teethe authorization, issuance or sale
of the bonds referred to below (including refunding bonds);

3.	costs or expenses incurred by any lessor of any component of the
System in connection with the execution, performance or enforcement
of any such lease or any assignment thereof, the acquisition,
construction or ownership of any such component or the lease thereof
to the City, including, but not limited to, fees, costs, expenses or
administrative costs of any such lessor in connection with any such
component;

4.	costs or expenses (including attorneys’ fees and disbursements)
of any trustee under any trust agreement or indenture under which any
of the bonds referred to below are issued, including but not limited to
compensation and indemnification of any such trustee;

5.	any amounts required to be paid into any reserve fund created
under any such trust agreement or indenture, or amounts to be set aside
for deposit into reserve funds for bonds referred to below (including
refunding bonds) theretofore or thereafter issued;

6.	any insurance premiums payable on account of any component
of the System or its use or operation, as well as amounts paid to or to

PR-003.004	41	N	LC	001-41

be set aside in any self-insurance fund or risk retention account, or
amounts to be set aside to provide for payment of any deductible under
any insurance policy;

7.	any amounts payable incident to obtaining or maintaining, or
otherwise pursuant to, any credit enhancement or liquidity agreements
or arrangements with respect to any of such bonds or lease;

8.	any amounts payable (a) incident to obtaining or maintaining, or
otherwise pursuant to, any surety bond, letter of credit or other credit
arrangement obtained to fund initially or at any later date any reserve
fund or part thereof created under any such trust agreement or
otherwise in respect of such bonds, or (b) to reimburse for any payment
made under any such surety bond, letter of credit or other credit
arrangement, including interest thereon;

9.	any amounts payable pursuant to any contract entered into
pursuant to Section 21.16.4 (a)(iii);

10.	any amounts required to be paid to the United States of America
as a rebate in order for interest payments on any of such bonds to be
exempt from federal income taxes;

11.	any amounts to be set aside for payment or prepayment of future
lease payments in respect of any component of the System (whether
then leased or expected to be leased thereafter) or for the defeasance,
payment, prepayment or redemption of any of the bonds referred to
below (including refunding bonds), including the payment of any
prepayment penalty or premium;

12.	the costs of collecting and administering the tax; and

13.	any amounts required to reimburse the General Fund of the City
for amounts withdrawn from the General Fund and used for any of the
purposes set forth in this Section 21.16.4.

(ii) The lease payments referred to in Section 21.16.4(a)(i) will serve as
collateral for and the source of repayment of not to exceed $235,000,000
aggregate principal amount of lease revenue bonds to be issued as a
single issue, or in two or more issues or series of an issue, by a nonprofit
corporation, joint powers authority or other financing medium. Such lease
payments may also serve as collateral for and the source of repayment
of refunding bonds issued to refund lease revenue bonds; provided,
however, that unless approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds of the
votes cast by voters voting on a proposition to increase the bonding
authority, refunding bonds shall not be issued if the total net interest cost
to maturity on the refunding bonds plus the principal amount of the
refunding bonds exceeds the total net interest cost to maturity on the
bonds to be refunded plus the principal amount of the bonds to be
refunded.

The net proceeds of the lease revenue bonds (excluding refunding
bonds) are to be used to acquire, construct or install components of the
System. The System is required to provide more rapid, efficient delivery
of response of police, fire, paramedic and other emergency services in the
City. In the event the City shall lease any components of the System under
a lease that is payable from the General Fund as well as from the special
tax, and such lease provides for abatement of rent or other payments either
in whole or in part in the event of damage to or destruction of any such
components, then, in the event there is any such abatement, payments
from the special tax permitted by this Section 21.16.4 shall be allocated
first to, or in respect of, any component of the System for which payment
from the General Fund has abated due to such damage or destruction,
and thereafter to the balance of the components.

(iii)	In connection with or incident to the entering into or maintaining any
lease of the System or any component thereof or the issuance or
maintenance of any lease revenue bonds contemplated by this Ordinance,
the City may enter into any contracts which it determines to be necessary
or appropriate to place the obligations under any lease of the System or
any component thereof, or to place the obligations under the lease
revenue bonds, in whole or in part, on the interest rate, currency, cash flow
or other basis desired by the City, including without limitation, contracts
commonly known as interest rate swap agreements, currency swap
agreements, forward payment conversion agreements, futures, or
contracts providing for payments based upon levels of, or changes in,
interest rates, currency exchange rates, stock or other indices, or contracts
to exchange cash flows or a series of payments, or contracts, including
without limitation, interest rate floors or caps, options, puts or calls to
hedge payment, currency, rate, spread or similar exposure. These
contracts may be entered into with the parties, selected by the means,
contain the payment, security, default, remedy and other terms and
conditions, determined by the City, after giving due consideration to the
creditworthiness of the counter-parties where applicable, including any
rating by a nationally-recognized rating agency or other criteria as may be
appropriate. The City shall not enter into any of the foregoing contracts
unless the City Council first determines that the contract is designed to
result in a lower payment by the City incident to the lease of the System
or any component thereof. Contracts or arrangements authorized by the
foregoing shall comply with the provisions of Section 5922(b) of the
California Government Code (as in effect on the date this Ordinance is
approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds of the votes cast by the
voters voting on the special tax set forth herein) to the extent applicable.

(b)	The Los Angeles City Council (hereafter “City Council”) may provide
for the collection of the special tax in the same manner and subject to the
same penalties as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected
by the City, or by the County of Lcs Angeles on behalf of the City of Los
Angeles. If the special tax is collected by the County on behalf of the City,
the County may deduct its reasonable costs incurred for such service.
PR-003.006	43	N LC 001-43

(C) City Clerk of Los Angeles (hereafter “City Clerk”) costs and other
costs of enforcement and administration of the tax, including refunds, shall
be paid from the special tax revenues.

(d)	No more than $235,000,000 of lease revenue bonds shall be issued
under the authority of this Ordinance, unless a greater amount shall be
approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds of the votes cast by voters
voting on a proposition to increase the bonding authority; provided,
however, that without such voter approval, refunding bonds may be issued
as specified in Section 21.16.4(a) hereof; and provided further that
approval for additional bonding authority shall not constitute approval of
any increase in the maximum tax rate authorized by Section 21.16.6
hereof, nor shall it extend the period during which the tax may be imposed,
unless expressly approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds of the votes
cast by voters voting on a proposition to so change the tax rate or to extend
the period during which the tax may be imposed.

SEC. 21.16.5. SPECIAL FUND:

(a)	There is hereby established a special fund in the City Treasury
entitled Special Police Communications/9-1-1 System Tax Fund. Money
collected pursuant to this Article shall be deposited into said special fund
and shall be used exclusively as provided in this Article for the purpose
for which the tax is imposed, and for no other purpose. Money deposited
into this special fund shall not be subject to reversion to the Reserve Fund
of the City, established under Charter Section 380. Nothing in this Section
shall prevent disbursements from this special fund to reimburse the
General Fund when money has been advanced from the General Fund to
pay the uses provided for in this Article.

(b)	The City Treasurer and Controller shall establish within the Special
Police Communications/9-1-1 System Tax Fund separate accounts or
accounting controls so as to enable the City Treasurer and Controller to
account for the uses for which the moneys deposited into the Special
Police Communications/9-1-1 System Tax Fund are to be used.

(c)	Except as hereinafter provided in Subsection (d) of this Section,
(i) during each fiscal year, any money raised by the special tax that remains
or (by resolution of the City Council) becomes unencumbered for any of
the purposes set forth in Section 21.16.4 hereof may be reallocated to
other purposes authorized by this Article by resolution of the City Council
and (ii) at the end of any fiscal year any money raised by the special tax
that remains unencumbered for any of the purposes set forth in
Section 21.16.4 hereof may only be used in succeeding fiscal years for the
purposes stated in this Article as authorized by resolution of the City
Council; provided, however, that the City Administrative Officer may
reallocate moneys raised by the special tax to other purposes set forth in
Section 21.16.4 hereof and may authorize the use of moneys raised by the
special tax that are unencumbered or unallocated for any of the purposes

PR-003.007	44	N	LC	001-44

set forth in Section 21.16.4 hereof so long as the amount so reallocated
or authorized shall not be greater than the amount referred to in Charter
Section 355 (as amended from time to time) as the amount which the City
Administrative Officer is empowered to authorize the Controller to transfer
without the approval of the Mayor and the City Council upon the request
of the head of any department. The availability of unencumbered moneys
for any succeeding year shall be considered by the City Council when
fixing the rates of tax for that year.

(d)	Any amount remaining in the Special Police Communications/9-1-1
System Tax Fund after all lease revenue bonds issued to finance the
System have been repaid in full, shall be used solely and exclusively for
maintaining, replacing or improving police communications and dispatch
equipment and systems.

SEC. 21.16.6. TAX RATE:

(a)	The tax imposed on each parcel, improvement to property, and use
of property shall be computed for each parcel by applying a rate to the
gross square footage area of any improvements on the parcel. If there are
no improvements on a parcel, the tax shall be computed by applying the
rate established for improvements to 500 square feet regardless of the size
of the parcel. For a period of not more than 20 fiscal years, commencing
with fiscal year 1993-94 and continuing through fiscal year 2012-13, the
City Council, by ordinance, shall impose a rate applicable to unimproved
parcels and, for each parcel upon which there is an improvement to
property, shall impose a rate applicable to the gross square footage area
of such improvements, regardless of the use of the parcel or
improvements. The rate shall be established to provide revenue for each
fiscal year sufficient to make the payments estimated to be needed, or to
fund amounts to be set aside, for the purposes enumerated in
Section 21.16.4 hereof prior to receipt of tax revenues derived from the tax
to be imposed in the subsequent fiscal year, and in setting the rate, the
City Council shall take into account possible delinquencies in payments,
so that the amount expected to be collected, net of delinquencies, will be
sufficient to make the estimated needed payments.

(b)	Commencing with the 1993-94 fiscal year, and for each of the
succeeding fiscal years during which the special tax may be imposed, the
maximum tax rate for the improvements on a parcel shall be $1.75 per one
hundred gross square feet of improvement area or fraction thereof.

(c)	For any fiscal year the City may, by ordinance, adjust the tax rate
below the maximum amount. Such a reduction shall not prevent a
subsequent levy of taxes for any succeeding fiscal year up to the limits set
forth in this Section 21.16.6; however, in no case shall the amount of the
tax rate to be levied exceed the maximum amount established by this
Article without the approval of the voters by two-thirds of the votes cast
by voters voting upon such change in the tax rate maximum.

PR-003.008	45

N LC 001-45

SEC. 21.16.7. ADJUSTMENTS AND REFUNDS:

(a)	Requests for adjustments involving imposition of this tax may be filed
with the City Clerk. Upon sufficient evidence of error in the computation
of the tax the City Clerk or a designee of the City Clerk shall cause the tax
to be recalculated, and shall so advise the Los Angeles County Tax
Collector or other appropriate official.

(b)	Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any tax has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the City under this Article, the refund procedure shall be as
follows:

1.	No claim for refund of tax payment shall be allowed in whole or
in part unless filed with the City Clerk within a period of three years
from the date of the claimed overpayment. All such claims for refund
of the amount of the overpayment must be filed on forms furnished,
and in the manner prescribed, by the City Clerk. Refunds may be
made from the Special Police Communications/9-1-1 System Tax
Fund.

2.	In the event the City Clerk or the City Council denies the claim,
the City Clerk shall notify the claimant pursuant to California
Government Code Section 913.

(c)	The City Clerk shall have the same power to compromise claims
involving the special tax, and the same power to accept and record
underpayments or overpayments of such tax, as granted to the City Clerk
under subsections (f) and (g) of Section 21.15 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code with respect to Business Taxes. The City Clerk shall have
the same authority to make refunds of this tax as is provided in
Sections 22.12 and 22.13 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.

(d)	If the County of Los Angeles does not collect any tax due under this
Article, then the City Clerk shall have the power and duty to enforce all of
the provisions of this Article. In such cases the City Clerk, for taxes not paid,
may make an assessment against the owner of a parcel and
improvements, or against the owner of improvements on another’s land,
in the manner provided in Section 21.16 of the Los Angeles Municipal
Code. Any unpaid tax due under this Article shall be subject to
Sections 21.19, 21.20, and 21.21 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.

(e)	The special tax shall be due in two equal installments in accordance
with the collection procedures of the Los Angeles County Tax Collector
with the first installment due November 1, and the second installment due
the next succeeding February 1, in each fiscal year. The owner of the land,
land and improvements, or improvements, at the time set forth in California
Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 405 and 2192 for each fiscal year,
shall have a personal obligation to the City until the tax is paid for each
fiscal year.

PR-003.009	46	NLC	001-46

(f)	The City Clerk may prepare a questionnaire to be served on the
owner of a parcel or improvements subject to the tax imposed by this
Article. The failure by an owner to provide the information requested within
30 days of receipt of the request, or the act of an owner in knowingly
providing false information, shall be a misdemeanor.

(g)	In determining the gross square footage area of improvements the
City may use County Assessor’s records, City records, questionnaires and
any other records the City Clerk deems reliable.

SEC. 21.16.8. AMENDMENTS:

Procedural provisions of this Article may be amended by ordinance
passed by the City Council.

SEC. 21.16.9. SAVINGS CLAUSE:

If any Section, Subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase of this
Article or the application thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, the
validity of the remaining portions of this Article, the application thereof, and
the tax imposed shall not be affected thereby but shall remain in full force
and effect, it being the intention of the City Council and the voters to adopt
each and every Section, Subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase,
regardless of whether any other Section, Subsection, part, clause,
sentence or phrase or the application thereof is held to be invalid or
unconstitutional.

Sec. 2. This ordinance enacting Article 1.16 as a part of Chapter II of
the Los Angeles Municipal Code and levying the special tax described
therein shall be submitted to the voters of the City at a Special Election
to be consolidated with the State General Election to be held on
November 3, 1992. The taxes determined and proposed by this Article
shall be levied only if this ordinance is approved by a vote of not less than
two-thirds of the votes cast by the voters voting on the special tax proposal
set forth in the ordinance. If the ordinance is approved by the requisite
number of votes, Article 1.16 shall thereafter be considered a part of the
Los Angeles Municipal Code.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED:

1. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to publish a notice
containing said proposed Ordinance, specifying the date on which the
same is to be voted upon by said qualified electors, which date is
November 3, 1992. Such notice shall be published once in the Los
Angeles Daily Journal, and in each edition thereof during the day of
publication, which newspaper is hereby designated as the official
newspaper of the City of Los Angeles for the publication of said notice.
Said publications shall be made and completed not more than sixty and
not less than forty days prior to the date set for said election. The City

PR-003.010	47	N LC001-47