GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

MEASUREB

B Shall the Gravenstein Union School District provide funds for the
purpose of reinstating services reduced in prior years with a goal
to maintain and enhance direct services to students by levying a special
tax assessment on each assessor’s parcel of $40.00 per year ($20.00
per semi-annual payment) for a period of five years, beginning July 1,
1992 and increase its appropriations limit by the amount of revenue
generated by that special tax, with certain specific exemptions as set
forth in the Resolution and Order of Election?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

State law requires voter approval before school districts can impose special
taxes. The Gravenstein Union School District has called for such an election.

If two-thirds of the Gravenstein Union School District voters who vote on
the measure vote for approval, the District could levy a special tax of $40 per
year per parcel for each parcel of land within the District’s boundaries. The
tax would be based on the privilege of using the parcel, and will remain in
effect for five years beginning July 1,1992.

Proceeds of the tax must be used for maintenance and enhancement of
academic and educational programs, including but not limited to purchasing
1 books, supporting school libraries, and maintaining and improving instruc-
| tional programs, science programs, computer education, and athletic and
: fitness programs.

The measure exempts (1) parcels owned or partially owned by a person
who will be over the age of 65 on or before May 1 of the year for which the tax
is assessed and who uses the parcel as his or her principal place of residence
(for example, if a husband and wife own a parcel, and one of them will be
over 65, the parcel will be exempt); (2) parcels determined to be unbuildable
by the Sonoma County Assessor's Office; and (3) contiguous parcels used as
one economic unit under the same ownership: those parcels would be taxed
as one parcel. Persons claiming exemptions must apply to the District by July
15,1992, or, subsequently, the May 1 preceding the fiscal year in which the
exemption is first claimed.

The measure also provides that the spending limit of the District would be
increased by the amount of revenue generated by the tax. Voter approval of
the change in the spending limit permits the District to keep and spend money
raised by the new tax.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Gravenstein Union School District who
vote on this measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax
will be approved and the District’s spending limit will be increased. The tax
would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes starting with
the 1992-1993 fiscal year.

s/ James P. Botz
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Gravenstein School District has served the community well. We are proud
of our graduates and the California Distinguished School Recognition earned
; by our students and staff. They have all worked hard. We want very much to
continue and improve on this tradition. Unfortunately, school funding short-
falls and deficits have caused our district to reduce its budget by over
$300,000 in the last few years. We have reduced instructional supplies,
eliminated field trips, reduced athletics, eliminated a principal, and increased
our class sizes. There is not much left to reduce.

Measure B is an opportunity for our district to return to our present children
those opportunities that were available to our students three and four years
ago.

Measure B is sensitive to the seniors that have long supported our schools by
exempting those 65 and older on their principal parcel of residence.

Measure B will exempt property owners with contiguous parcels.

Measure B is a $40 parcel tax with a five year limit.

Help us to continue the excellence of education in Gravenstein School District
for your children and for our community.

Sincerely,

Measure B Chairpersons

s/ Pat Boblitt s/ Dana Blake

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

RESOLUTION NO. 92-02,1991-92
BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF
THE GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SONOMA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
In the Matter of a	)	RESOLUTION AND ORDER

Special Tax Election	)	OF ELECTION

-----:-----------_)

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide adequate
and necessary funding to the continued operations of the Gravenstein Union
School District; and as a result of this lack of funding and financial support
the Gravenstein Union School District has eliminated many programs benefi-
cial and necessary to the children who attend the Gravenstein Union School
District; and

WHEREAS, the Gravenstein Union School District wishes to improve the
quality of education for its students; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program delivers
many long lasting benefits and advantages to all of the residents of our
community; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079 and 53720 et seq.
authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the purpose of
conducting its business upon the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by
voters voting upon such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution allows
the appropriations limit of school districts to be increased by the electors.
Such approval is required for the District to use the revenues generated by the

tclX

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Governing Board of the Graven-
stein Union School District resolves to conduct a special election on June 2,
1992, at which time will be submitted to the qualified voters of the Graven-
stein Union School District a measure to authorize a special tax for the
purpose of reinstating services reduced in prior years including those for
library books and services, science and computer education, instructional
services, athletics and student fitness, to the extent allowed by the special
tax, with a goal to maintain and enhance direct services to students. Said
measure shall also authorize the increase of Gravenstein Union School
District’s appropriations limit by the amount of revenue generated by the
special tax.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries of
the Gravenstein Union School District at which election shall be submitted to
the qualified voters within the Gravenstein Union School District the following
measure, to wit:

MEASUREB

Shall the Gravenstein Union School District provide funds for the purpose
of reinstating services reduced in prior years including those for library books
and services, science and computer education, instructional services, athlet-
ics and student fitness, to the extent allowed by the special tax, with a goal to
maintain and enhance direct services to students by imposing a special tax
based upon the use or right of use on each assessor’s parcel within the
boundaries of the Gravenstein Union School District for a period of five (5)
years beginning July 1, 1992 and increasing its appropriations limit for the
maximum time allowed by law by the amount of revenue generated by that
special tax?

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of $40.00 per year for each
assessor’s parcel. The proceeds of the tax shall be deposited in a special fund
to be used for the purpose of reinstating services reduced in prior years
including those for library books and services, science and computer educa-
tion, instructional services, athletics and student fitness, to the extent al-
lowed by the special tax, with a goal to maintain and enhance direct services
to students. Exemptions from the assessment will be made available as
follows:

a.	To each individual in the District who will attain 65 years on or before
May 1 of the assessment year, and who owns a beneficial interest in
the parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of such parcel, and who
uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence.

b.	For the owner of a parcel which has been determined to be unusable
by the Sonoma County Assessor’s Office.

c.	For multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part of one econom-
ic unit under the same name and ownership. Such multiple parcels

. may be charged as one parcel.

(Continued Next Page)

il

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B, Continued

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before July
15,1992 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any one application
from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the
remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to
qualify for the exemption. The District shall establish an administrative review
process to grant such exemptions.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual ballot
shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX
ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
Shall the Gravenstein Union School District provide funds for the purpose
of reinstating services reduced in prior years with a goal to maintain and
enhance direct services to students by levying a special tax assessment on
each assessor’s parcel of $40.00 per year ($20.00 per semi-annual pay-
ment) for a period of five years, beginning July 1, 1992 and increase its
appropriations limit by the amount of revenue generated by that special
tax, with certain specific exemptions as set forth in the Resolution and
Order of Election?

_______YES	_______NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1,1992, the special tax collected annually
on all assessor’s parcels at the rate specified above, shall be collected and
administered in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and
collected under provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Sonoma County is hereby
requested to call a special election of the said special tax to be held on June 2,
1992 and to consolidate this election with any elections to be held on this
same date. The Sonoma County Board of Supervisors is hereby requested
and authorized to consolidate this election with any elections to be held on
this same date. The County Clerk is hereby requested and authorized to: 1)
set forth all sample ballots relating to said election to be mailed to the
qualified electors of the Gravenstein Union School District; and 2) to provide
absent voter ballots for said special tax election for use by qualified electors of
the Gravenstein Union School District who are entitled thereto in the manner
provided by Law.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this resolution is
for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portion of this resolution. The Governing Board declares that it
would have adopted this resolution and each section, subsection, phrase or
clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsec-
tions, sentences, phrases or clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6. The clerk of the Gravenstein Union School District Governing
Board is hereby authorized and directed to certify to the due adoption of this
resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Superintendent of
Schools of Sonoma County, the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors, and to
file a copy hereof so certified with the County Clerk of Sonoma County.

The foregoing resolution was introduced by Board Member Kay Crocker,
who moved its adoption, second by Board Member Pat Lachman, and
adopted on roll call on Wednesday, January 8,1992 by the following vote:

Member Marge Bader	Aye
Member Kay Crocker	Aye
Member Joyce Madden	Aye
Member Pat Lachman	Aye
Member George Koenig	Absent
AYES: 4 NOES: 0  CERTIFIED s/ Marge Bader Clerk, Board of Trustees	ABSENT OR NOT VOTING  SO ORDERED, s/ George J. Koenig President