OFFICE OF THE COUNTY COUNSEL

P.O. BOX 1428 Telephone (916) 623-1382
Weaverville, CA 96093
JOHN W. ANDERSON, County Counsel

Post Mountain Public Utility District
Fire Suppression Services Fee

County Counsel's Impartial Analysis
MEASURE A

This measure, concerning the adoption of an ordinance
providing for the levy and collection of fire suppression
services fees within the Post Mountain Public Utility District,
is being submitted to the voters for approval as required by
Government Code Section 50078.12. In order for the fees to be
authorized, the measure must be approved by a majority of those
voting on the measure.

The levy of a fire suppression services fee by the District
is authorized by Article 3.6 (commencing with Section 50078),
Chapter 1, Part 1, Division 1, Title 5 of the California
Government Code. The fees when collected may only be used for
the purpose of obtaining, furnishing, operating and maintaining
fire suppression equipment or apparatus, or for the purpose of
paying the salaries or benefits of fire fighting personnel, or
both. The fee may be levied upon parcels of property within the
District whether or not fire suppression services are actually
used upon the parcel.

The ordinance, if approved, will provide for the levy of a
twenty-four dollar ($24.00) annual fee on each parcel of real
property within the District. The fee will be levied and
collected commencing with the 1992-93 fiscal year and for each
subsequent fiscal year thereafter as long as the Ordinance
remains in effect. The fee is subject to an automatic increase
or decrease annually based upon the "Consumer Price Index."

A "YES" vote would be a vote to approve the Ordinance and to
permit the levy of the fire suppression services fee.

A "NO" vote would be a vote to disapprove the Ordinance and
to prohibit the levy of the fire suppression services fees.

Measure A, Continued

7.01.110. Protests. On June 27, 1992, the Board of Directors of the Post
Mountain Public Utility District conducted a public hearing upon the establishment
of the benefit assessment levied by this Ordinance. The written protests filed
with the Clerk of the 8oard prior to the public hearing on the matter by those
who will be obligated to pay the benefit assessment represent more than 5
percent, but less than 10 percent of the total amount of expected revenue from
the assessment,

7.01.120. Election. In accordance with Government Code Section 50078.12
an election is required to approve the levying of the benefit assessment for fire
suppression services pursuant to this Ordinance.

7.01.130 Adoption. Subject to a majority vote of the registered voters
within this District, this Assessment shall take effect on the First Day of July,
1992,

PASSED, ADOPTED, AND ORDERED TO THE TRINITY COUNTY BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS for their placement on the ballot of the November, 1992, Gen-
eral Election this Zlh day of JULY. 1992. by the following vote:

AYES:	Zoe Reed, Carol Norris, Thomas Onwiler,

Robert Hursh, Andrew Santa Cruz.

NOES:	NONE

ABSENT:	NONE

s/ Thomas C. OnwJer
President
s/ AG. Zacharias
Clerk

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE A

This measure, concerning the adoption of an ordinance providing for the levy
and collection of fire suppression services fees within the Post Mountain Public
Utility District, is being submitted to the voters for approval as required by
Government Code Section 50078,12. In order for the fees to be authorized,
the measure must be approved by a majority of those voting on the measure,

The levy of a fire suppression services fee by the District is authorized by
Article 3.6 (commencing with Section 50078}, Chapter I, Part I, Division 1, Title
5 of the California Government Code. The fees when collected may only be
used for the purpose of obtaining, furnishing, operating and maintaining fire
suppression equipment or apparatus, or for the purpose of paying the salaries
or benefits of fire fighting personnel, or both. The fee may be levied upon
parcels of property within the District whether or not lire suppression services
are actually used upon the parcel.

The ordinance, if approved, will provide for the levy of a twenty-four dollar
($24.00) annual fee on each parcel of real property within the District. The fee
will be levied and colected commencing with the 1992-93 fiscal year and for
each subsequent fiscal year thereafter as long as the Ordinance remains in
effect. The fee is subject to an automatic increase or decrease annually based
upon the 'Consumer Price Index.*

A ‘YES' vote would be a vote to approve the Ordinance and to permit the
levy of the fire suppression services fee.

A 'NO* vote would be a vote to disapprove the Ordinance and to prohibit the
levy of the fire suppression services fees.

$/ John Anderson

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Your Post Mountain Volunteer Fire Department provides fire protection, emer-
gency medical aid, and other services related to the protection of life and prop-
erty for the residents and property owners of the District, The Fire Department
has a Medical Van, 3 Fire Engines, and 2 Water Tenders, This equipment is
parked out in the open year-round. Our most urgent need is for a Firehouse to
protect this valuable investment and to provide for storage and a training facility.
Additionally, the Department needs a positive source of revenue to provide for
the insurances (a necessity}, the future (reserves), and the day-to-day costs.

The District purchased two lots which provide the site for the Firehouse, area
for equipment maintenance, space for picnicking and community activities. Se-
lective logging removed trees for the driveways and building site; the septic
system is in; and funds are available for the well. The Building Finance Plan
proposes a loan of up to $40,000 to be repaid at $8,000 annually for 7 years.
An annual Fire Department Budget of $14,570 and an indebtedness payment
of $8,000 a year requires an annual income of $22,570. An Assessment of
$24 per parcel annually would realize a net adjusted income of $22,628 -•
$58 over the need.

The Board determines the duration of the assessment thereby assuring a stable
source of funding until the indebtedness is retired. The Board could then be
instructed to reduce the assessment at its annual review.

Only 7.7% of the property owners protested the levying of the assessment -
meaning that a vast majority .of the owners favor .it. The Law requires that the
adoption of the Ordinance now be submitted to the Voters. Your Board of Di-
rectors endorsed this action and strongly recommends your YES vote in favor
of Ordinance 92-01.

s/ Thomas C. Onwiler
s/ Art Zacharias
s/ William A. Rivas
s/ Andrew R. Santa Cruz

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

53-52

MEASURE "A"

POST MOUNTAIN PUBLIC UTILITY DISTRICT

Shall Ordinance No, 92-01 of-.the.-Board of Directors of the

Post Mountain Public Utility District establishing an annual
$24.00 (Twenty Four Dollars)Benefit Assessment to finance
fire suppression services be adopted?

YES NO

v