ORDINANCE NO. 475

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL
OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA, CALIFORNIA,
RELATING TO SUBMITTING THE MATTER OF
IMPLEMENTING A UTILITY USERS TAX
TO A VOTE OF THE PEOPLE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF CARPINTERIA DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

1. Title 3 of the Carpinteria Municipal Code is hereby amended to add
Chapter 3.18 to read as follows:	—

"CHAPTER 3.18
UTILITY USERS TAX

Sections:

3.18.010.

3.18.020.

3.18.030.

3.18.040.

3.18.050.

3.18.060.

3.18.070.

3.18.080.

3.18.090.

3.18.100.

3.18.110.

3.18.120.

3.18.130.

3.18.140.

3.18.150.

3.18.160.

3.18.170.

3.18.180.

3.18.190.

3.18.200.

3.18.210.

3.18.220.

3.18.230.

3.18.240.

3.18.250.

3.18.260.

3.18.270.

Title

Definitions

Telephone users tax - Rate
Telephone users tax - Exceptions
Electricity users tax - Rate

Electricity users tax - Rate - Nonutility Suppliers

Electricity users tax - Exceptions

Gas users tax - Rate

Gas users tax - Exceptions

Water users tax - Rate

Water users tax - Exceptions

Cable television users tax - Rate

Exemptions

Exemptions - Procedures
Construction with other laws
Collection of tax

Reporting and remitting of taxes collected
Delinquency and fraud - Penalties and interest
Actions to collect

Failure to pay tax - Administrative remedy

Assessment

Appeal procedure

Remedies supplementary and cumulative

Records

Overpayments

Amendments

Adoption of rules and regulations

3.18.010. Title.

This chapter shall be know as the "Utility Users Tax Code of the City of

Carpinteria.'

3.18.020. Definitions,

Except where the context otherwise requires, the following definitions
govern the construction of this chapter.

A.	"Telephone corporation," "electrical corporation," "gas
corporation," "water corporation" and "cable television corporation" have the same
meanings as defined in Sections 234, 218, 222, 241 and 215.5, respectively, of the
Public Utilities Code of the State of California, except that "electrical corporation,"
"gas corporation" and "water corporation" also includes any municipality, public
agency or person engaged in the selling or supplying of electrical power, gas or water
to a Service User.

B.	"Tax Administrator" nj^ans the Administrative Services Manager

of the City.

C.	"Service Supplier" means any person required to collect or
self-impose and remit a tax as imposed by this chapter.

D.	"Service User" means a person required to pay a tax imposed by

this chapter.

E.	"City Manager" means the City Manager of the City of

Carpinteria.

F.	"Nonutility Supplier" means a service supplier, other than an
electrical corporation franchised to serve the City, which generates electrical power in
capacities of at least fifty (50) kilowatts for its own use or for sale to others.

3.18.030 Telephone users tax - Rate.

There is imposed a tax on the amounts paid for any intrastate telephone
communication services by every person in the City using such services. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of five percent (5%) of the charges made
for such services and shall be paid by the person paying for such services. The
telephone users tax is intended to, and does apply to all charges billed to a telephone
account having a situs in the City, irrespective of whether a particular
communication service originates and/or terminates within the City.

3.18.040 Telephone users tax - Exceptions.

A.	Coin and mobile telephones. As used in section 3.18.030, the
term "charges" shall not include charges for services paid for by inserting coins in
coin-operated telephones, except that where such coin-operated service is furnished
for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed
monthly or other periodic charge shall be included in the base for computing the
amount of tax due; nor shall the term "telephone communication services" include
land mobile services or maritime mobile services as defined in Section 2.1 of Title 47
of the Code of Federal Regulations, as such Section existed on January 1, 1970.

1435D:5444.561

-2-

B.	Intrastate telephones. Notwithstanding the provisions of
section 3.18.030, the tax imposed under this section shall not be imposed upon any
person for using intrastate telephone communication services to the extent that the
amounts paid for such services are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed
under Division 2, Part 20 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California, or the tax imposed under Section 4251 of Title 26 of the United States
Code.

3.18.050 Electricity users tax - Rate.

There is imposed a tax upon every person in the City using electrical
energy in the City. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of five
percent (5%) of the charges made for such energy and shall be paid by the person
using the energy. "Charges," as used in this^ction, shall include charges for metered
energy and minimum charges for service, including, but not limited to, customer
charges, service charges, demand charges, standby charges and all other annual and
monthly charges.

3.18.060 Electricity users tax - Rate - Nonutilitv Suppliers.

The tax applicable to electrical energy provided by a Nonutility Supplier
shall be determined by applying the tax rate under Section 3.18.050 to the equivalent
charges a Service User would have incurred if the energy used had been provided by
an electrical corporation franchised to serve the City. Rate schedules for this purpose
shall be available from the City. Nonutility Suppliers shall install and maintain an
appropriate utility-type metering system which will enable compliance with this
section.

3.18.070. Electricity users tax - Exceptions.

As used in section 3.18.050, the term "using electrical energy” shall not be
construed to mean the following:

A.	The storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned or
possessed by him for use in an automobile or other machinery or device apart from
the premises upon which the energy was received, provided, however, that the term
shall include the receiving of such energy for the purpose of using it in the charging
of batteries;

B.	Electricity used and consumed by an electric utility supplier in
the conduct of its business as an electric public utility;

C.	The mere receiving of such energy by an electric public utility
or governmental agency at a point within the City for resale; and

!	D. The use of such energy in the production or distribution of

water by a public utility or a governmental agency.

1435D:5444.561

-3-

3.18.080. Gas users tax - Rate.

There is imposed a tax upon, every person in the City using, in the City,
gas which is transported through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate of five percent (5%) of the charges made for such gas and shall
be paid by the person paying for such gas. "Charges" as used in this section shall
include	charges	for	gas which is delivered through mains or pipes	and minimum

charges	for	services,	including, but not limited fo, customer charges,	service charges

and annual and monthly charges.

3.18.090. Gas users tax - Exceptions.

As used in section 3.18.080, the term "charges" shall not include the

following:

A.	Charges made for gas which is to be resold	and delivered

through mains and pipes;

B.	Charges made for gas sold for use in the	generation of

electrical energy or for the production or distribution of water by a public utility or
governmental agency;

C.	Charges made by a gas public utility for gas used and consumed
in the conduct of the business of the gas public utility; and

D. Charges made for gas used by a Nonutility Supplier to generate
electrical energy for its own use or for sale to others, provided that the electricity so
generated is subject to tax in accordance with section 3.18.060.

3.18.100. Water users tax - Rate.

There is imposed a tax upon every person in the City using water which
is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate of five percent (5%) of the charges made for such water and shall be paid by
the person paying for such water.

3.18.110. Water users tax - Exceptions.

As used in section 3.18.100, the term "charges" shall not include the

following:

A.	Charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered
through mains or pipes; and

B.	Charges made by a municipal water department, public utility
or a county or municipal water district for water used and consumed by such
department, utility or district in the conduct of business of such department, utility
or district.

1435D:5444.561

-4-

There is imposed a tax upon every person in the City using cable
television service. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of five
percent (5%) of the charges made for such service and shall be paid by the person
paying for such service.

3.18.130. Exemptions.

A.	Council authority. In addition to the exemption set forth in
subsection B. below, the Council may, by order or resolution, establish one or more
classes of persons or one or more classes of utility service otherwise subject to the
payment of a tax imposed by this chapter, and provide that such classes of persons or
service shall be exempt, in whole or in partj^rom such tax.

B.	Low income consumers. As of the effective date of this
Ordinance, the tax imposed by this chapter shall not apply to any individual who uses
telephone, electric, gas, cable television or water services in or upon any premises
occupied by such individual, provided that the combined gross annual income from
all sources for all persons living in the premises ("family unit") is less than or equal
to one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the federal poverty guidelines published
by the Federal Department of Health and Human Services. For purposes of this
section, the term "family unit" as used in the poverty guidelines shall mean all
persons living in the premises occupied by the individual claiming the exception. A
person is deemed to be "living in the premises" if he has resided or will reside in the
premises for more than thirty (30) days during the calendar year in which the
application or reapplication is submitted.

C.	Public Entities. As of the effective date of this Ordinance, the
tax imposed by this chapter shall not apply to any public entity, as that term is
defined in section 811.2 of the California Government Code. A public entity
claiming an exemption under this subsection is not required to comply with the
provisions of section 3.18.140.

3.18.140. Exemptions - Procedures.

A. Application required for exemption. Any exemption granted
pursuant to section 3.18.130, shall not eliminate the duty of the Service Supplier from
collecting taxes from such exempt individuals, or the duty of such exempt individuals
from paying such taxes to the Service Supplier unless and until an exemption is
applied for by the Service User and granted in accordance with the provisions of this
section.

B. Application Procedure. Any Service User who may be exempt
from the taxes imposed by this chapter because of the provisions of section 3.18.130
may file an application with the Tax Administrator for an exemption. Such
application shall be made upon a form supplied by the Tax Administrator, and shall
state those facts, declared under oath, which qualify the applicant for an exemption.

1435D:5444.561

-5-

C.	Granting exemption - Notice to Service Suppliers. The Tax
Administrator shall review all such applications, may request that the applicant
provide such further information or documentation as deemed reasonably necessary to
evaluate the application and shall certify as exempt those applicants determined to
qualify pursuant to the terms of section 3.18.130. The Tax Administrator shall
further notify all Service Suppliers affected that such exemptions have been approved /
by providing the Service Suppliers with the name of the exempt applicant and any
other information as may be necessary for the Service Suppliers to remove the exempt
Service User from their tax billing procedure.

D.	Obligations of Service Suppliers. Upon receipt of such notice
of exemption, the Service Supplier shall cease billing the exempt Service User for the
tax imposed by this chapter until further notice is given the Service Supplier by the
Tax Administrator. The Service Supplier jhall eliminate such exempt Service User
from its tax billing procedure no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of such
notice of exemption from the Tax Administrator.

E.	Evidence of continued eligibility.

1.	Annual application. Each Service User who is granted an
exemption pursuant to this section and section 3.18.130 must submit an application
during the month of April of each year for continuation of such exemption to the
Tax Administrator upon a form supplied by the Tax Administrator, which shall state
facts, declared under oath, which evidence the Service User’s continued eligibility for
such exemption. If the exempt Service User fails to submit such application to the
Tax Administrator during the month of April of each year, the exemption previously
approved shall automatically terminate, and the Service Supplier shall be so notified
by the Tax Administrator.

2.	Termination upon change in address. Any exemption
granted pursuant to this section and section 3.18.130 shall automatically terminate
upon any change in the service address or residence address of the exempt Service
User; provided that such Service User may nevertheless apply for a new exemption
with each change of address or residence.

3.	Request bv Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator
shall have the power and right to demand evidence of continued eligibility of a
Service User for exemption under the provisions of section 3.18.130. Such evidence
may include, but need not be limited to, copies of business records, letters or
statements from the Social Security Administration, copies of income tax returns, and
such other evidence concerning the Service User or other members of his household as
may tend to prove or disprove such eligibility. Failure to provide such evidence as is
within the control of a Service User to so provide, whether directly by the Service
User or by his consent or the consent of a member of his household, within twenty
(20) days of when such evidence is demanded of the Service User in writing by the
Tax Administrator, shall be grounds for the immediate discontinuation of the Service
User’s eligibility for exemption under the provisions of section 3.18.130. Evidence
provided to the Tax Administrator upon demand, or voluntarily provided by the
Service User without request, may not be used against the Service User as evidence of
violation of the provisions of this section or section 3.18.130, and may only be used as
grounds for termination of the exemption herein provided.

1435D:5444.561

-6-

F.	Notice of loss of exemption. Any Service User determined
to be exempt from the taxes imposed by this chapter shall notify the Tax
Administrator in writing within ten (10) days of any change in fact or circumstance
which might disqualify said Service User from receiving such exemption.

G.	Duty of Service Suppliers. Notwithstanding any of the /
provisions hereof, when a Service Supplier determines that a new or nonexempt
Service User is receiving service through a meter or connection exempt from taxes
under this chapter by virtue of an exemption issued to a previous Service User, such
Service Supplier shall immediately so notify the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator shall conduct an investigation to ascertain whether or not the
provisions of this section and section 3.18.130 have been complied with, and where
appropriate, order the Service Supplier to commence collecting the tax from any
nonexempt Service User.

H. Denial of application. If the Tax Administrator denies an
application for an exemption from taxes under this chapter, including because the
application is faulty or the applicant has failed to truthfully set forth facts upon said
application, the applicant shall be advised of such denial in writing by the Tax
Administrator. Within ten (10) days after the mailing of the Tax Administrator’s
notice of denial of the application, the applicant shall have the right to file an
amended application for exemption or to appeal the Tax Administrator’s denial
pursuant to subsection I. below. In the event the applicant files an amended
application for exemption, the Tax Administrator shall review such reapplication and
advise the applicant in writing as to whether the exemption is approved or denied.

I.	Appeal.	A Service User may appeal the denial of an

application for exemption, the denial of a reapplication for exemption or the
termination of a previously approved exemption by filing a written appeal with the
Tax Administrator within ten (10) days from the date of mailing of the written
notice of the action which is the subject of the appeal. The appeal shall be deemed
to be filed as of the date of mailing, as evidenced by postmark, or on the date of
personal delivery to the office of the Tax Administrator. The written appeal shall
state the name of the Service User filing the appeal, the account number shown on
the utility bill, the address to which utility service is being supplied and all facts and
information upon which the appeal is based. The Service User filing the appeal also
should submit any documents or other evidence which support the appeal. The City
Manager or his designee shall review the written appeal and any documents or
evidence submitted therewith, shall conduct whatever investigation is deemed
appropriate, and shall render a final determination on such appeal. Written notice of
such determination shall be provided to the Service User filing the appeal within
forty-five (45) days of the filing of the appeal.

J.	Loss of exemption - Misdemeanor. It shall be a misdemeanor
for any person to knowingly receive the benefits provided by section 3.18.130 when
the basis for such exemption either does not exist or ceases to exist.

1435D:5444.561

-7-

3.18.150. Construction with other laws.

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person if imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of California.

3.20.160. Collection of tax.

A.	Duty to collect. Every Service Supplier receiving payment of
charges from a Service User shall collect the amount of tax imposed by this chapter
from the Service User.

B.	Time for collection. The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be
collected by the Service Supplier insofar aj^rpractical at the same time as, and along
with, the collection of charges made in accordance with the regular billing practice of
the Service Supplier.

C.	Allocation of payment. Where the amount paid by a Service
User to a Service Supplier is less than the full amount of the charges for utilities and
tax which has accrued for the billing period, such amount and any subsequent
payments by a Service User shall be applied to the utility charges first until such
charges have been fully satisfied. Any remaining balance shall be applied to taxes
due, subject to the provisions of section 3.18.200.

D.	Commencement of duty. The duty to collect taxes imposed by
this chapter from a Service User shall commence with the beginning of the first
regular billing period applicable to that Service User which starts on or after the
sixtieth day after the effective date of this chapter. Where a person receives more
than one (1) billing, one (1) or more being for different periods than another, the
duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

E.	Administrative Agreements. The Tax Administrator may make
administrative agreements to vary the strict requirements of this chapter so that
collection of any tax imposed may be made in conformance with the billing
procedures of individual services suppliers so long as such agreements result in
collection of the tax in conformance with the general purpose and scope of this
chapter. A copy of any such agreements shall be on file in the City Clerk’s office.

3.18.170. Reporting and remitting of taxes collected.

A.	Service Suppliers. Each Service Supplier shall, on or before the
twentieth day of each month, provide written notice to the Tax Administrator stating
the amount of taxes billed by the Service Supplier during the preceding month
pursuant to the terms of this chapter. Such written notice shall be timely under this
section if postmarked or personally delivered to the office of the Tax Administrator
by the twentieth day of each month, or if the twentieth day is a weekend or holiday,
on the next business day. At the time such written notice is provided, the full
amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator is authorized to require such further information as he deems necessary

1435D:5444.561

-8-

to properly determine if the tax imposed under this chapter is being levied and
collected in accordance with this chapter. Such written notice and remittances are
due immediately upon the cessation of business by a Service Supplier for any reason.

B.	Nonutilitv Suppliers. The taxes imposed by this section shall be
self-imposed by Nonutility Suppliers as required under the provisions of this chapter.
Each Nonutility Supplier shall, on or before the twentieth day of each month, provide
written notice to the Tax Administrator stating the amount of taxes imposed by such
Nonutility Supplier during the preceding month pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
Such written notice shall be timely under this section if postmarked or personally
delivered to the office of the Tax Administrator by the twentieth day of each month,
or if the twentieth day is a weekend or holiday, on the next business day. At the
time such written notice is provided, the full amount of the tax self-imposed by such
Nonutility Supplier shall be remitted --K5 the Tax Administrator. The Tax
Administrator is authorized to require such further information as he deems necessary
to properly determine if the tax imposed under this chapter is being properly
remitted. Such written notice and remittances are due immediately upon the cessation
of business by a Nonutility Supplier for any reason.

3.20.180 Delinquency and fraud - Penalties and interest.

A.	Original delinquency. Any Service Supplier who fails to remit
any tax imposed by this chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten
percent (10%) of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.

B.	Continued delinquency. Any Service Supplier who fails to remit
any delinquent remittance on or before a period of thirty (30) days following the
date on which the remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency
penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of
the tax and the ten percent (10%) penalty first imposed.

C.	Fraud. If the Tax Administrator determines that the
nonpayment of any remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of
twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition
to the penalties stated in subsections A. and B. above.

D.	Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed under this section,
any Service Supplier who fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay
interest at the rate of one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) per month, or a fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent until paid.

E.	Penalties merged with tax. Every penalty imposed, and such
interest as accrues under the provisions of this section, shall become a part of the tax
required to be paid by this chapter.

3.18.190 Actions to collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a Service User under the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the Service User to the City. Any such
tax collected from a Service User by a Service Supplier, which has not been remitted

1435D:5444.561

-9-

to the Tax Administrator, shall be deemed to be a debt owed to the City by the
Service Supplier. Any tax billed to a Service User, but not paid to the Service
Supplier, shall not be deemed an obligation of the Service Supplier unless such tax is
thereafter paid to the Service Supplier. A person owing money to the City under the
provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City
for the recovery of such amount.

3.18.200 Failure to nav tax - Administrative remedy.

A.	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a Service User
has deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by him from the amount
remitted to a Service Supplier, or that a Service User has failed to pay the amount of
the tax for a period of two or more billing periods, or whenever the Tax
Administrator deems it in the best interesls^of the City, he may relieve the Service
Supplier of the obligation to collect taxes due under this chapter from certain named
Service Users for specified billing periods.

B.	The Service Supplier shall provide the Tax Administrator on a
monthly basis with the names and addresses of Service Users failing to pay the tax
imposed under the provisions of this chapter, the billing periods for which said tax
has not been paid and the amount of the tax so unpaid.

C.	Whenever the Tax Administrator exercises his option under
subsection A. above, he shall notify the Service User that he has assumed
responsibility to collect the taxes for the stated periods and demand payment of such
taxes. The notice shall be served on the Service User by handing it to him
personally, or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the Service User at the address to which billing was made by the Service
Supplier, or should the Service User have changed his address, to his last known
address. The date of service of the notice shall be the date of personal delivery or
the date of mailing. If the Service User fails to remit the tax to the Tax
Administrator within fifteen (15) days from the date of the service of the notice
upon him, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax set forth
in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than $5.00. The penalty shall become part
of the tax herein required to be paid.

3.18.210 Assessment.

The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes not paid or
remitted by a person required to pay or remit such taxes pursuant to the terms of
this chapter, in which case the Tax Administrator shall give a notice of the amount
for taxes so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States
mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the person so assessed at his last known place of
address. Such person may, within ten (10) days after the personal service or mailing
of such notice, make application in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on
the amount assessed. If application for a hearing is not made within the time
prescribed, the tax as stated the aforestated notice shall become final and conclusive
and immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the Tax
Administrator shall give not less than five (5) days’ written notice to the person
filing the application to show cause at a time and place fixed in such notice why
such amount specified therein should not fixed for such tax. At such hearing, the

1435D:5444.561

-10-

person may appear and offer evidence why such specified tax should not be so
fixed. After such hearing, the Tax Administrator shall determine the proper tax to
be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the person of such
determination and the amount of such tax. The amount determined to be due shall
be payable after fifteen (15) days unless an appeal is taken as provided in section
3.18.220.

3.18.220 Appeal procedure.

A person aggrieved by a decision made pursuant to section 3.18.210 with
respect to the amount of such tax may appeal to the Council by filing a notice of
appeal with the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days of the date of personal service or
mailing of the determination of the amount due. The Council shall fix a time and
place for hearing such appeal, and the Cit^-Clerk shall give notice in writing to the
person filing the appeal at his last known place of address. The findings of the
Council shall be final and conclusive, and shall be served upon the appellant in the
manner proscribed above for service of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be
due shall be immediately due and payable upon the service of the notice.

3.18.230 Remedies supplementary and cumulative.

The remedies for failure to pay the taxes provided by this chapter are
supplementary to any other remedy provided by law for the failure to pay such tax
and are also cumulative both with regard to each remedy provided by this chapter
and each remedy provided by law.

3.18.240 Records.

It shall be the duty of every Service Supplier to keep and preserve, for a
period of three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of
any tax for which he is liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax
Administrator under this chapter, which records the Tax Administrator shall have the
right to inspect at all reasonable times.

3.18.250 Overpayments.

A.	Credit Authorized. Whenever the amount of any tax has been
overpaid or paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the Tax Administrator under this chapter, it may be credited against
future taxes as provided in this section.

B.	Procedure for claiming credit. A Service Supplier may take as
credit against taxes to be remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator, when it has
been established that the Service User from whom the tax has been collected did not
owe the tax; provided, however, a credit shall not be allowed unless the amount of
the tax so collected has either been refunded to the Service User or credited to
charges subsequently payable by the Service User to the Service Supplier. Any credit
claimed under this section must be claimed no later than one (1) year from the date
of the alleged overpayment, multiple payment or erroneous or illegal collection or
receipt by the Tax Administrator.

1435D:5444.561

-11-

C.	Evidence. No credit shall be issued under the provisions
of this section unless the claimant establishes his entitlement thereto by
competent written records.

D.	Credit for mandated refunds. Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, whenever a Service Supplier, pursuant to an order of the
California Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, makes a
refund to Service Users of charges for past utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to
this chapter on the amount of such refunded charges shall also be refunded by the
Service Suppliers to the Service Users, and the Service Suppliers shall be entitled to
claim a credit for such refunded taxes against the amount of the tax which is due
upon the next monthly returns.

3.18.260. Amendments. Subsequent to the effective date of this
Ordinance, the provisions of this Ordinance may be amended by order or resolution
of the Council, except that the utility users tax rates as set forth in this Ordinance
may only be amended by a vote of the people.

3.18.270. Adoption of rules and regulations.

The City Manager shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations
not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter for the purpose of carrying out
and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A
copy of such rules and regulations shall be on file in the City Clerk’s office."

2.	This Ordinance shall be submitted to a vote of the People of the City
pursuant to Elections Code section 4017.

3.	This Ordinance shall be considered as adopted upon the day the vote
thereon is declared by the City Council, and shall go into effect ten (10) days after
that date, pursuant to Elections Code section 4013.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 13th day of July, 1992, by the
following called vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

COUNCILMEMBER:

COUNCILMEMBER:

COUNCILMEMBER:

WULLBRANDT, JORDAN, STEIN, KING, LEDBETTER
NONE

1435D:5444.561

-12-

ATTEST:

------ ------------- - , —________

CITY CLERK, City of Carpinteria

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was duly and regularly introduced and
adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Carpinteria, held on
the 13th day of July, 1992.

SZ3



CITY 'CLERK, City of Carpinteria

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

&ITY ATTORNEY,

City of Carpinteria	(J	J

1435D:5444.561

-13-