CLOVERDALE HOSPITAL DISTRICT
MEASURE H

H Shall the Cloverdale Hospital District levy a special tax on each
assessor’s parcel of real property within the district at a rate of
eighteen dollars per parcel per year ($9 per semi-annual payment) each
year beginning July 1, 1992 for the purpose of continuing ambulance
and advanced life support service within the Cloverdale Hospital District
service area?.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

Since,its beginning the Cloverdale ambulance has relied on earned income,
interest income from deposit investments, rent from two rentals and a small
parcel tax for operating revenues. In the last several years the ambulance has
provided Advanced Life Support, a level of care consistent with virtually all
other ambulance companies in the County of Sonoma.

As a consequence of the upgrade and because wages and other costs of
doing business have increased, the total operating cost for the ambulance has
increased.

While the cost of running the ambulance has increased, revenues and
income have decreased. Call volume has been reduced in the last several
years for a variety of reasons, not the least of which, it is suspected, is the
improved highway north of Cloverdale, and the imposition of stiffer drunk
driving laws. Interest income is sharply lower and the cash reserves upon
which the ambulance has drawn interest has been reduced by the cost of
removing and cleaning up an underground gas tank placed under the ambu-
lance garage before the hospital district purchased the building.

As a result of the higher costs and lower revenues, the ambulance, after
reducing costs as low as Is consistent with a safe operation, is spending
approximately $4,000 per month more than it can earn. Without more
revenue the ambulance .will cease operations in 1993. No reasonable alterna-
tive ambulance service has been proposed. Currently, the closest alternate
ambulance is located in Healdsburg, over 20 minutes drive time one way to
Cloverdale, with an additional 20 minute return trip to the nearest hospital.

The proposed tax of $18 per parcel will generate approximately $60,000
per year and permit the ambulance to continue operating as well as replace
the existing ambulance when necessary.

s/ James F. DeMartini

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE H

A RESOLUTION OFTHE CLOVERDALE HOSPITAL DISTRICT OF
SONOMA COUNTY, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, ORDERING AN
ELECTION FOR THE PURPOSE OF AUTHORIZING THE LEVY OF
A SPECIAL TAX TO FUND AMBULANCE AND ADVANCED LIFE
SUPPORT SERVICES

WHEREAS, there has been presented to this Board of Directors a proposed
resolution that would place before the voters the question of whether the
Cloverdale Hospital District shall levy a special tax to ensure that the District
will be able to continue to provide ambulance and advanced life support
services; and

WHEREAS, existing tax revenues available to the District by action of the
Sonoma County Board of Supervisors and restricted by the provisions of
Proposition 13 amount to approximately 7.2% of the average annual reve-
nues of the District; and

WHEREAS, revenues generated by operation of the ambulance fall signifi-
cantly short of ambulance expenses and it is not feasible to increase ambu-
lance fees to make up for the shortfall; and

WHEREAS, revenues from all sources available to the District are inade-
quate to provide continued ambulance and advanced life support services;
and

WHEREAS, the provisions of Government Code section 50075 through
50075.5 and 53720 through 53720.02 permit the District to levy a special tax
for the purpose of ensuring that the District will continue to be able to provide
ambulance and advanced life support services within the District’s service
area.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Cloverdale Hospital District
proposes to levy a new special tax on each parcel of real property within the
district at a rate of Eighteen Dollars ($18.00) per parcel effective July 1,1992
for the purpose of continuing ambulance and advanced life support services
in the District’s service area.

IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED that the proposed special tax shall be collected
by the County of Sonoma in the same manner provided by statute for
collection of real property taxes.

IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED that the question of the levy of the proposed
special tax shall be placed on the ballot and consolidated with the general
election to be held on June 2,1992 and shall require approval by a two-thirds
majority vote.

The foregoing Resolution was introduced by DeMartini who moved its
adoption, seconded by Yaeger, and then adopted on roll call by the following
vote:

Reuser - Aye
Yaeger-Aye
Randolph-Aye
Sink - Aye
DeMartini - Aye

AYES: 5	NOES:	0	ABSENT	OR	NOT	VOTING: 0

s/James F. DeMartini,

Secretary