SOQUEL UNION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

SPECIAL TAX MEASURE C
(Full Text of Resolution Mo. 14/1931/92)

WHEREAS, lace of adequate (unding has necessitated cutbacks in staff,
program, supplies, materials ana services: and
WHEREAS, Home timdiiKj tor the District from the
projected to he inadequate to provide the level of setgj in s UJ W ft: Ul-yv H,l w
educational programs necessary to provide a quality education to the stu-
dents rtf tnr District ami
WHEREAS, the quality at life oi this community and the quality of hie of its
cnddreti wm oe adversely affected by a decline in the quality of education
provided by the District, and
WHEREAS, Article XliA, section 4 of tire California Consdumon and Gov-
ernment Code sections 50075 and 50079 authorize si school district to
propose She adoption or a parcel sax tor the purposes specified In such
proposal upon approval of two-thirds {-/.>} of tine electorate voting on the

WHEREAS, this Board has thoroiiohly considered tire recommendations.

ry to 1

1



n t i Lu i . l>7 wwiHwy] \ McKeimirn, Super
ami Secretary to Board o

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
SOQUEL UNION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE C

‘ i>- !.'>■,i ,ufr t, ,u,pi “ ’ ‘ * ,o-ihiros of those voting' on it, the Saqttei
or fiiw: n, ' ■ ’tool , ji	,yii	in	s,m

awssu cn oft rwi p Hie tax would Of imposed for five years, at
' ,jf ST5 OH in Oio •	_	,i	cm	every	Assessor's	parcel	located	wholly

m : \	,	t	Sr-M	.'strict	The Measure wonki pemm ammai

eo., • ■ i • * •" in >1	,e(	in	accordance	with	a	tom;	wrier	price

■•V' <	1 ■	■	,	•	/	t‘.c Sc ci Olsten.

i - r .	ti	the	■	■-	a	tax	would	be	designated	exclusively	for

f1\ W> !1 13* >il'J Hyl.i «V ”

ia, lo ptcviUc con., ana technology at ait schools in the School
District;

(b) To expand library services at all schools in the School District;
tc) To provide counseling services at ail schools in the School District;

(d) Per maintenance projects and repairs at ail school Sites in the School
District;

is) To provide classroom instructional materials
The tax ..vouid be collected by the Santa Cruz County Tax Coiienot starting
w;th ins fetrai year that begins July t 1992 If unpaid, the part el fax wouid
become ,• lie coon the parcel and nuy subject the owner to penalties and

iwwiwi

may apply for and obtwn an exemp-
tion bom me parcel tax upon approval by the School Board for any parcel
which m used solely as an owner-occupied Single Samiiy residence.

A "yes ' vote would authorize imposition of the parcel tax for a five-year

o vote would oppose imposition cl ihe parcel tax.

January ! 7, 1992

DWIGHT L HERR. COUNTY COUNSEL
tiy: Jane Mb Scut!

Assistant County Counsel

Of

vet

SUL

The Facts A

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR Of MEASURE C

ns oi oaque! union Liemcrtary School District need your YE
sure 0 to irite e trial they have inn conoultrs instruction
tines, counseling services. 3nT programs they deserve

ct is projected us grow by more than 300 students m tf

Jt too UrSIfl'CI.

-id iwmsettnq sarvices w trie Sonuei Un-cn Elenorne
eel our stum-ids’ nevus.

Massine C will go directly to if
District to benefit the children

age

* Aii of the money generated
BwmU Union flementarv S
oiii commurstv
■ '	' c i it, Residents 65 ye

o	ii<	if’	jtTi this ;>ai cel fax

The Pas'- y lea	?	I;

Fiovide computers anti ciassr ;■ urn inssiuctionai nwtwwiw ut ;
' m .	>, f or ci

'	>	i,	i	-	'	m	,Oi	ry	services	at	each	school

Support counseling services a! Si schools in the hw’rici
' M.unuin high academic standards w our community.

We omiiiod Aiorri to aenrive orr! chi Wren ct a guaitty Mlucctwr: voui YE
cliitdrcn arid our community that high academic stanime

arc

PLEASE VOTE YES ON MEASURE C

$.? I., a Of; i - c i i . a

Parent ami CwiMnwoon Conlisf-tar
s/ Kirk Gardner
Capitol! Ciismbi:! of Commerce.
President 1991
s/ Anna Swiskar
Teacher. Somml Buinentary
v John McConnell
Retired Principal
s/ Aiicu vVooisey
Retireo Educator

NO ARGUT GAINST THIS MEASURE

SUBMITTED