i

OCT 15 1992

San Francisco

Voter Information Pamphlet
and Sample Ballot

November 3, 1992
Consolidated Presidential Election

PROPOSITION A

EARTHQUAKE LOAN BOND PROGRAM, 1992. To incur a bonded

indebtedness of $350,000,000 to provide loans for the seismic	YES

strengthening of unreinforced masonry buildings devoted to afford-	NO

able housing and to market-rate residential, commercial and institu-

tional uses and to pay necessary administrative costs incidental

thereto.

Analysis

by Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: There are about 2,000 privately owned
unreinforced masonry buildings ("UMBs”) in San Fran-
cisco. These buildings, many of which are brick, were not
designed to withstand strong earthquakes. Their walls
could collapse, injuring or killing persons inside and on the
street. About 27,000 people, many of them low income,
and more than 4,500 businesses occupy such buildings. It
is part of the City’s Master Plan to preserve these buildings
while making them safer in earthquakes.

The City recently passed a law requiring owners of most
UMBs to make their buildings safer in earthquakes. This
requirement, however, will not go into effect unless voters
adopt a bond measure providing loans to UMB owners for
this earthquake work.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition A would allow the City to
borrow $350 million by issuing general obligation bonds.
$150 million of this would be used to provide loans for

strengthening affordable housing UMBs that are occupied
mostly by low income tenants. It is planned that limits would
be placed on rents in buildings receiving these loans.
Owners would be charged 1/3 the interest rate paid by the
City for the bonds. In addition, up to $60 million of this $150
million could be used for loans where repayment would not
have to begin immediately.

The remaining $200 million of the bond money would
be used to provide loans for other UMBsl Owners would
be charged 1% above the interest rate paid by the City for
the bonds. The money received by the City as the loans
are paid off would be used to help repay the bonds.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote yes, you want the City
to issue $350 million in general obligation bonds to provide
loans to strengthen unreinforced masonry buildings.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote no, you do not want the
City to issue these bonds.

Controller’s Statement on “A”

City Controller Edward Harrington has issued the following statement on
the fiscal impact of Proposition A:

In my opinion, if the proposed bond issue is approved and the bonds are
sold over a ten year period at $35 million per year as proposed, the effect
on a home with a constant assessed value of $250,000 would be approx-
imately $10 in the first year and could rise to as much as $55 per year by
the year 2003, declining thereafter. This is equivalent to a property tax rate
increase of from four-tenths of one cent ($.004) per hundred dollars
assessed value to two and two-tenths cents ($.022) in the peak year.

This calculation is basod on the following assumptions: that $150 million
is loaned at the below-market rate of 3% and $200 million is loaned at 10%,
that there will bo a loan payment deferred or default rate of 20%, that
administrative costs will bo as much as $1,250,000 per year to sell the
bonds and administer the loan program, that about two-thirds of the bonds
will bo repaid by borrowers and that each bond issue will be for a 20 year
period.

How Supervisors Voted on “A”

On July 13,1992 the Board of Supervisors voted 8-0 to
place Proposition A on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

YES: Supervisors Britt, Conroy, Gonzalez, Hallinan, Hsieh,
Kennedy, Maher, and Shelley

NO: None of the Supervisors present voted no.

ABSENT: Achtenberg, Alioto and Migden.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE.
THE FULL TEXT OF BOND MEASURES A, B & C BEGINS ON PAGE 62.

PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Proposition A will:	Experts agree San Francisco will experience a major earthquake in

•	Save Lives	the next 30 years.

• Increase San Francisco’s Brick Building Earthquake Safety	Proposition A will preserve affordable housing in San Fran-

• Protect 44,000 Jobs	cisco. It would take the City over 15 years to replace this precious

•	Preserve 22,000 Units of Affordable Housing	housing stock for seniors and low-income residents if lost in an

• Create Thousands of New Jobs	earthquake.

• Preserve City Landmarks	Proposition A will protect the 44,000 jobs (7.5% of the City's

•	Protect San Francisco’s Tax Base	workforce) housed in these brick buildings. There will be thou-

•	Prevent Additional Homelessness	sands of new jobs created for San Franciscans from this earthquake

Proposition A will establish a $350 million loan program to help	upgrade work.

save 2,000 brick buildings. This bond/loan program is unlike any Proposition A will preserve our historic buildings by making
other bond because 2/3 of the cost will be paid by the building them safer.

owners who use the money.	Yes on Proposition A. Tenants, landlords, business and labor

Brick buildings contain 22,000 homes and 44,000jobs.	agree—safety first! This bond/loan program was crafted by

Proposition A will save lives in the next earthquake. Studies engineers, tenants and owners to provide a comprehensive ap-
show that when the next earthquake strikes, these buildings are	proach for providing loans to owners for earthquake-proofing,

the most vulnerable. Falling bricks pose the greatest public	Vote Yes on A. Vote for earthquake safety for San Francisco!

safety hazard. During Loma Prieta, most deaths in the City oc-
curred from bricks falling on people walking along the sidewalk.	Submitted by the Board of Supervisors.

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Undoubtedly there is a need for seismic upgrading of buildings,
jail expansion, and fire department renovations, but the City is
already half a billion dollars in bonded indebtedness. This is not
the right time to take on additional financial burdens. In these times
of recession, with our diminished tax base, we cannot afford a
credit card mentality.

Another problem with the bonds is that they contain no legal
guarantees that minorities, women, and locally-owned businesses
will receive their fair share of the contracts that these bonds will
generate. The above groups have been woefully underrepresented
among the recipients of city contracts. San Francisco has a diverse
ethnic population and the city contracts should reflect this
diversity.

In view of these economic and social considerations, vote NO on
this form of “municipal bondage." The proponents of the bonds
probably mean well — but the road to hell is paved with good
intentions. Vote NO on Propositions A, B, and C!

COMMITTEE TO PREVENT MUNICIPAL BANKRUPTCY
Andrew de la Rosa

Alexa Smith, Democratic State and County Committeemember
Arlo H. Smith, Democratic County Committeemember
Robert Silvestri, Republican County Committeemember
John Riordan, Former College Board President

)

I • ,

Earthquake Safety
Loan Bonds

OPPONENTS ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Vote NO on Municipal Bondage. Vote NO on Propositions A,
B, and C. The city is already over a half-billion dollars in bonded
indebtedness, yet the Board of Supervisors wishes to borrow an-
other $548 million. Do we want to go the way of New York?

It would be nice to upgrade older buildings, the jail, and fire
department facilities. But we must do it within a budget. This
CREDIT CARD MENTALITY has got to stop. Who will bail us
out? The state of California???

Issuing bonds now is like borrowing money for a Ferrari and
forcing our kids to pay for it later. If we borrow the $548 million
proposed under Props. A, B, and C, in the next seven years, we will

have to pay out over $1 billion in principal and interest. Let’s not
tie ourselves up! Municipal bondage is no fun!!

LET’S NOT TAX OURSELVES TO DEATH!!!

Vote NO on bond measures A, B, and C!

COMMITTEE TO PREVENT MUNICIPAL BANKRUPTCY
Andrew de la Rosa

Alexa Smith, Democratic State and County Committeemember
Arlo H. Smith, Democratic County Committeemember
Robert Silveslri, Republican County Committeemember
John Riordan, Former College Board President

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENTS ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Proposition A is like no other bond issue, it is a loan program.

That’s right; the participants in this program will be required to
pay back the bond funds. This bond is 67% self-financing. Cur-
rently, there is no other financing mechanism available to fix
unreinforced brick buildings in San Francisco and make them
earthquake safe. Proposition A is necessary to make these buildings
safe.

This loan style of bond is a public/private partnership and is the
type of public policy with which San Francisco should be involved.

Proposition A will be good for San Francisco’s economy.
45,000 jobs and several thousand small businesses are housed in
these brick buildings. Thousands of additional jobs will be created

doing the retrofit work. If these buildings are protected then our
tax base is protected.

Whether you walk by, eat, shop, work or live in an unreinforced
brick building — most San Franciscans are affected by these build-
ings on a daily basis. We need to be prepared for the next major
earthquake. Proposition A will help make San Francisco safe.

Proposition A... protects jobs, protects our tax base, creates
jobs, increases our tax base, and makes San Francisco’s brick
buildings safe.

Vote Yes on A. Vote for earthquake safety for San Francisco!
Submitted by the Board of Supervisors.

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Proposition A will help San Francisco prepare for a major
earthquake.

During the Loma Prieta earthquake, I served as an earthquake
relief coordinator and saw first-hand the damage caused by falling
bricks. Another major earthquake will cause untold damage if our
City’s brick buildings are not seismically strengthened. Proposi-
tion A increases the City’s preparedness by establishing a loan
program so that owners of brick buildings can make them safer.

Proposition A will save lives, create jobs and help small busi-
nesses improve their properties.

Vote Yes on Proposition A.

Kevin Shelley, President of the Board of Supervisors

Thousands of San Franciscans could be killed or injured by the
collapse of unreinforced brick buildings in a major earthquake.
But we can prevent such a tragedy by responsible action today.
Proposition A will enhance public safety, while preserving
neighborhood character and affordable housing.

Please join me in voting YES on A.

Cleve Jones

Founder, AIDS Memorial Quilt
Candidate for Supervisor

Propositiqn A would save over 20,000 low income housing units
and the 44,000jobs that are located in these 2000 brick buildings.
It is an investment in the City’s future. Special efforts will be made
to ensure affirmative action in awarding jobs and contracts. Vote
yes on Proposition A.

San Francisco Democratic Party

Carole Migden, Chair

SueBierman

Natalie Berg

Peter Gabel

Claire Zvanski

Ronald Colthirst

Public safety is the most important issue facing San Francisco.
Proposition A will make our city’s 2,000 unreinforced masonry
brick buildings safe again.

Proposition A makes economic sense. Unreinforced masonry
brick buildings house over 44,000 jobs, most of which are small
businesses. The earthquake upgrade work will also provide thou-
sands of badly needed jobs in San Francisco.

Proposition A will save the 22,000 units of housing that these
buildings provide. It will preserve the architectural heritage and the
character of our neighborhoods by protecting these buildings and
minimizing demolitions.

The Proposition A bond issue is essentially self-financing be-
cause it is a loan program. It is exactly the kind of innovative
program we should support.

Vote “Yes” on Proposition A.

Frank M. Jordan, Mayor

San Francisco has 2,000 unsafe brick buildings that need seismic
strengthening. To ensure our safety in the event of a major earth-
quake, we must upgrade these buildings. Proposition A will pro-
vide loans to building owners to make their buildings safe.

Proposition A is necessary to ensure safety, and it is a small
investment in San Francisco’s future. Because it is a loan program,
property owners will pay the majority of the seismic strengthening
costs.

Proposition A will retain 47,000 jobs, create thousands of new
jobs, maintain affordable housing and preserve San Francisco’s
architectural heritage. Vote YES on Proposition A.

Donald D. Doyle, President

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce

Proposition A will improve earthquake safety, preserve historic
buildings, and protect low cost housing, all at minimal cost to San
Francisco.

Vote YES on Proposition A.

SAN FRANCISCO TOMORROW

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION A FOR EARTHQUAKE
SAFETY!

There are 2,000 brick buildings in San Francisco. In the event of
an earthquake, they pose a terrible threat to the 75,000 people living
and working in them, as well as to innocent passersby.

This bond represents a unique public-private partnership.
The bond funds are used to provide loans, not grants, to building
owners. City-backed loans are necessary since private banks refuse
to make loans on brick buildings that they view as bad risks.
Two-thirds of the bond costs will be repaid by borrowers.

Proposition A is a good deal for all San Franciscans! We
cannot afford to let an earthquake destroy 22,000 units of housing
for seniors and other low-income tenants. And we cannot afford to
lose the 45,000jobs that are located in buick buildings. Proposition
A gives us a chance to make our City safer and to create thousands
of sorely needed new construction jobs.

Your YES vote on Proposition A will make all San Francis-
cans safer!

Supervisor Tom Hsieh

Banks are not making loans for earthquake safety work on San
Francisco’s most dangerous brick buildings (UMB’s). State and
Federal funds are not available to do this work. Without the loan
pool created by Prop. A, over40,000 people living and working in
UMB’s are threatened in a large earthquake.

Because Prop. A provides loans for seismic work, the final cost
of this program for taxpayers will be very low. But the benefits for
all San Franciscans will be great. Not only the 40,000 people who
live in UMB’s arc at risk in an earthquake — anyone unfortunate
enough to pass by a UMB in an earthquake is at risk.

I particularly recommend Prop. A to the city’s tenants. As the
author of legislation that will prevent large rent increases in build-
ings undergoing seismic work, and provide relocation expenses for
those who must move, I am confident this program will be of great
benefit for tenants.

}

Supervisor Carole Migden

Proposition A will provide low cost loans for earthquake safety
improvements. It will help protect affordable housing and preserve
historic buildings.

Vote YES on A!

Andy Nash, Candidate for BART Board

As an organization ofover200 brick buildings owners we endorse
Proposition A because it makes sense for San Francisco. Our
buildings provide affordable housing, work space for thousands of
small businesses and jobs and a significant percentage of our historic
buildings in the City. Our buildings are also subject to a significant
amount of government regulation: rent control, historic designation
and endless other bureaucratic red tape. The City calls our buildings
“dangerous”, the banks have “rcdlined” our buildings and their real
estate market value of them has fallen through the floor. Financing
from traditional financial institutions to retrofit our buildings is not
available. We are caught between a rock and a hard spot. If Propo-
sition A does not pass a great number of these buildings will be
demolished causing a loss of affordable housing units, woik space
for jobs and historic buildings.

Vote Yes on Proposition A, 2,000 buildings are too important
to lose.

Kathleen Harrington, Financial District
President, Coalition for Seismic Safety
Howard Der, Chinatown
Vice President, Coalition for Seismic Safety
Louette Colombano, Downtown
Secretary, Coalition for Seismic Safety
Jack Miller, South of Market
Coalition for Seismic Safety

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

We urge all San Franciscans to vote Yes on Proposition A.
Proposition A will save affordable housing — housing which is
most likely to be lost in the next major earthquake.

•	27,000 tenants now live in hazardous buildings. Thousands
more work or shop in or around these dangerous structures.

•	$150 million of the bond will preserve and upgrade affordable
housing.

•	Proposition A will help repair decaying housing and make
housing more accessible to people with disabilities. Vote Yes
on Proposition A. Our lives, our homes, our City depends on it.

Tenants’ Coalition for Seismic Safety
Michael J. Harney
San Francisco Tenants Union
Maurice Lim Miller
Asian Neighborhood Design
Kim Ho Lo
Community Tenant Association
Melanie Young
Chinatown Resource Center
Paul Igasaki
Asian Law Caucus
Faye Lacey
The Housing Committee at Old St. Mary’s
Neli Palma
St. Peter’s Housing Committee
Richard Allman
North of Market Planning Coalition
Robert D. Wiliam
Catholic Charities of San Francisco
Mitchell Omerberg
Affordable Housing Alliance

Voting Yes on A will save lives in an earthquake. The city has
2,000 brick buildings that are vulnerable in a major earthquake.
Passing this proposition will means that the number of brick
building deaths and injuries will be cut by 1/2 in an earthquake.
Vole Yes on A for the safety of all San Franciscans.

Arlo Smith, District Attorney, San Francisco.

Vote Yes on A to keep jobs in the City. We support Yes on A
because it will save 44,000 jobs in San Francisco. Brick buildings
arc home to 7.5% of the City workforce.

Paul Dempster
San Francisco Labor Council
Walter L. Johnson
San Francisco Labor Council
Stan Smith

San Francisco Building and Construction Trades Council
Robert McDonnell
Laborers Union, Local 261
Paul Varacalli
United Public Employees, Local 790
David Navogrodsky
International Federation of Professional and
Technical Engineers, IFPTE, Local 21
Lawrence 3. Martin
Transport Workers Union or America
Joan-Marie Shelley
United Educators of San Francisco, AFT Council
Larry Mazzola
Plumbers and Stream Fitters Union, Lccai 33
Mike Hardeman
Sign Display & Allied Craft, Local 510
John J. Moylan
Plastics and Shophands, Local 66
Seymour N. Kramer
United Transportation Union, Local 1741
Henry Disley
Marine Firemen and Oilers Union
Josie Mooney
United Public Employees, Local 790
Franz E. Glen
IBEW Electr ical Workers, Local 6
Ellis Smith
Elevator Constructors, Local 8
Alex Corns
Hod Carriers, Local 36
Harry L. Jamerson
Cement Masons, Local 580
Michael Fess
Painters Union, Local 4
Jerry Melton
District Council of Painters, Local 8



PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

The COUNCIL OF COMMUNITY HOUSING ORGANI-
ZATIONS, whose membership includes: Art House, Asian Inc.,
Asian Neighborhood Design, Bernal Heights Housing Corpora-
tion, Catholic Charities, Chinese Community Housing Corpora-
lion, Coalition on Homelessness, Community Design Center,
Community Housing Partnership, Haight Ashbury Community
Development Corporation, Housing Conservation Development
Corporation, Housing Development and Neighborhood Preserva-
tion Corporation, Housing for Independent People, Independent
Housing Services, Innovative Housing, Mercy Family Housing,
Mental Health Association, Mission Housing Development Cor-
poration, North of Market Planning Coalition, San Francisco Hous-
ing Development Corporation, Tenderloin Housing Clinic,
Tenderloin Neighborhood Development Corporation, Tenants &
Owners Development Corporation, and the San Francisco Infor-
mation Clearing House urges Yes on A. Over 20,000 low income
San Franciscans live in brick buildings and another 44,000 work
in the. Proposition A will provide loans to make these brick
buildings safe and save these homes and jobs.

Calvin Welch
Rene Cazenave

COUNCIL OF COMMUNITY HOUSING ORGANIZATIONS

Proposition A is good deal and a “Green" deal This unique
bond/ban program is fiscally responsible: the loan recipients pay
off 67% of the bond. It’s good for our economy; it creates jobs in
San Francisco NOW. It preserves affordable housing and neigh-
borhood charater. And makes unsafe buildings safe.

Donna Goose

San Francisco Green Party

Please vote Yes on A to preserve San Francisco ’s axchitusmml
heritage. Forty brick buildings are designated landmarks. .Help
preserve San Francisco’s past and preserve neighborhood charac-
ter and by supporting this bond.

Jean E. Kortum
Ina F. Dear man
Vincent Marsh
Enid Ng Um

There is a shortage of affordable housing in San Francisco. Brick
buildings are home to more than 21,000units of affordable housing
and nearly 35,000 residents live in brick buildings. Many brick
building residents are seniors. Please join us in voting Yes on A to
protect affordable housing for our seniors.

Diana L. Varela
Scott Hope
Rev. Glenda Hope
David F. Kaye
Rev. Penny Sarvis
Trilla Jentzsh
TJ. Anthony

Vote Yes on A to preserve our City's small businesses. Voting
Yes cm A will help protect San Francisco’s economy from devas-
tation. There are many small business jobs in brick buildings.

James Brady

President, Concerned Businesses of the Tenderloin

We stand united in our support of Proposition A.

ProipcrsiuiQ® A is a San Francisco solution for a uniquely Suit

Francisco problem.

PnmpctsiMi A will go a long way to help San Francisco become
safe in a major earthquake. These brick buildings make up a large
portion of San Francisco’s affordable housing stock as well as
several thousand jobs. Protecting these buildings is critical to San
Francisco’s future.

Li. Governor Leo McCarthy
State Senator Milton Marks

Vote Yes on A. to keep homes, jobs, and business in the City. We
support Yes on A because it will protect 46,000 jobs in San
Francisco. Brick buildings are home to 7.5% of the City’s work-
force. Proposition A will save thousands of lives in the event of a
major earthquake. This is a fiscally responsible bond program, it’s
loan, not & grant. It is 67% self-financing. The Republican Party
if Sun Francisco endorses Proposition A.

Roberta Boomer, Issues Chair, Republican Party

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

As candidates for Supervisor, we disagree on many things, but
one thing we agree on is that Proposition A is good for San
Francisco.

Proposition A will help make our City's 2,000 brick buildings
safe. In addition, it will protect 44,000 jobs and 22,000 units of
housing (most of which are affordable units.) Proposition A will
help create badly needed jobs for our City and protect neighbor* *
hood character to keep San Francisco a great city.

We endorse Proposition A.

Barbara Kaufman
SueBierman
Cleve Jones
Adrian Bermudez

We urge all San Franciscans to vote YES on Proposition A.

A YES vote will mean in case of another major earthquake in
San Francisco, we can prevent a total loss of:

•	2,000 unreinforced masonary buildings (UMBs)

•	4,500 commercial enterprises

•	44,000 jobs

•	21,800 residential units, mostly affordable housing

•	35,000 vulnerable persons living in these UMBs

•	79,000 persons who work and live in these UMBs

We care about public safety for ail San Franciscans. Vote YES
on Proposition A — it is the RIGHT thing to do.

NICOS CHINESE HEALTH COALITION
Edward A. Chow, MD., Chairman.

Save lives, homes, and businesses with Proposition A.

The 1989 earthquake left thousands of tenants permanently
displaced after buildings they lived in were destroyed. The next
earthquake will do more damage and loss — unless we strengthen
our buildings.

Proposition A will seismically reinforce hundreds of brick build-
ings that are vulnerable to an earthquake.

Proposition A will save 20,000 of San Francisco's most af-
fordable rental housing and 46,000jobs. People with AIDS, the
elderly, and the working poor depend on these affordable units
to be securely and safely housed. All San Franciscans need the
jobs and economic benefits produced by the businesses now at risk.
Please vote YES on Proposition A.

T.J. Anthony
Robert Barnes, President
Alice B. Toklas Lesbian & Gay Democratic Club
Ron Braithwaite, Past President
Alice B. Toklas Lesbian & Gay Democratic Club
Angie Fa, President
Harvey Milk Progressive Democratic Club
Nancy Kitz, Co-Founder
Lesbian & Gay Voters Project
Pat Norman, AIDS Health Educator
Melinda Paras, AIDS Care Provider
Matthew Rothschild, Member
Democratic County Central Committee
Kay Tsenin

Richmond Young, Past President
Stonewall Gay Democratic Club

It’s time to get things done in San Francisco. Proposition A is
about saving 22,000 affordable housing units and 44,000jobs. It is
a self-financing program that will create jobs — and keep the ones
we have now.

Let’s be prepared before the next earthquake hits. Vote YES on
Proposition A.

Doris Thomas, Past President
Black Leadership Forum

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Before you vote for Props A, B, or C it’s important to understand
that the passage of these bonds will raise property taxes and rents.
Some history:

After the 1989 earthquake, voters approved $250 million dollars
in general obligation bonds to repair damaged city buildings. In
June of 1992 voters approved $78 million to repair and renovate
Golden Gate Park. Now voters are asked to approve a total of $549
million in new bonds with future bonds for Laguna Honda Hospital
and a new Juvenile Hall in place for November of 1993. These
bonds will raise property taxes by $210 per $100,000 of
valuation.

It is indeed ironic and wrong in a period of time when the City
is facing a potential $80 million dollar shortfall in tax revenue from
Sacramento that politicians would want to raise property taxes to
pay for bonded indebtedness. They know, dam well, that there is
a high likelihood that taxes may have to be raised to cover the loss
of State money. Don’t let the politicians slide one high and inside
over the plate.

Prop A is wrong because it would issue $350,000,000 in bonds
to provide loans for owners to repair their buildings. This will force
many old San Francisco businesses and churches out of business
because even with these loans they will not be able to afford to do
the work mandated by the City.

Prop A also doles loans irrespective of one’s wealth or need for
low interest financing. Property taxes should not be raised to give
low interest loans to wealthy property owners. That’s wrong.

Vote No on Props A, B, and C!

James Slaughter

Property Owners Against Excessive Taxation

These bonds represent a common fantasy, but historic evidence
shows otherwise. For instance, wood buildings were as badly
damaged as brick buildings in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake,
and concrete buildings had the worst damage in the 1985 Mexico
City earthquake.

These wasteful bonds should be defeated.

Robert Nason
Richard Hansen

California Earthquake History Project

TEXT OF ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING BOND ELECTION
PROPOSITION A, PROPOSITION B AND PROPOSITION C

(Special Election)

CALLING AND PROVIDING FOR A SPE-
CIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD IN THE CITY
AND COUNTY OF SAN FRANCISCO ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3,1992, FOR THE
PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO THE VOT-
ERS OF THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN
FRANCISCO PROPOSITIONS TO INCUR
THE FOLLOWING BONDED DEBTS OFTHE
CITY AND COUNTY FOR THE ACQUISI-
' TION, CONSTRUCTION OR COMPLETION
BY THE CITY AND COUNTY OF SAN
FRANCISCOOFTHE FOLLOWING MUNIC-
IPAL IMPROVEMENTS, TO WIT: THREE
HUNDRED-FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS
($350,000,000) TO PROVIDE LOANS FOR
THE SEISMIC STRENGTHENING OF UNRE-
INFORCED MASONRY BUILDINGS DE-
VOTED TO AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
TO MARKET-RATE RESIDENTIAL, COM-
MERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL USES,
AND TO PAY NECESSARY ADMINISTRA-
TIVE COSTS INCIDENTAL THERETO, AND
ESTABLISHING CERTAIN TERMS AND
CONDITIONS IN CONNECTION WITH SAID
LOANS; ONE HUNDRED FIFTY-EIGHT
MILLION ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS ($158,100,000) FOR CONSTRUC-
TION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF COR-
RECTIONAL FACILITIES TO REPLACE
THE EXISTING SAN BRUNO JAIL FACILI-
TIES; FORTY MILLION EIGHT HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS ($40,800,000) FOR
CONSTRUCTIONAND RECONSTRUCTION
OF FIRE DEPARTMENT FACILITIES; THAT
THE ESTIMATED COST OF SAID MUNICI-
PAL IMPROVEMENTS IS AND WILL BE
TOO GREAT TO BE PAID OUT OF THE
ORDINARY ANNUAL INCOME AND
REVENUE OF THE CITY AND COUNTY
AND WILL REQUIRE EXPENDITURES
GREATER THAN THE AMOUNT AL-
LOWED THEREK5RBY THE ANNUALTAX
LEVY; RECITING THE ESTIMATED COST
OF SUCH MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENTS;
FDONG THE DATEOFELECTION AND THE
MANNER OF HOLDING SUCH ELECTION
AND THE PROCEDURE FOR VOTING FOR
OR AGAIN ST THE PROPOSITIONS; FIXING
THE MAXIMUM RATE OF INTEREST ON
SAID BONDS AND PROVIDING FOR THE
LEVY AND COLLECTION OF TAXES TO
PAY BOTH PRINCIPAL AND INTEREST
THEREOF; PRESCRIBING NOTICE TO BE
GWEN OF SUCH ELECTION; CONSOLI-
DATING THE SPECIAL ELECTION WITH
THE GENERAL ELECTION; AND PROVID-
ING THAT THE ELECTION PRECINCTS.
VOTING PLACES AND OFFICERS FOR
ELECTION SHALL BE THE SAME AS FOR
SUCH GENERAL ELECTION.

Be it ordained by the People, of the City and
County of San Francisco:

Section 1. A special election is hereby called
and ordered to be held in the City and County of
San Francisco on Tuesday, the 3rd day of No-

vember, 1992, for the purpose of submitting to
the electors of said city and county propositions
to incur bonded indebtedness of die City and
County of San Francisco for the acquisition, con-
struction or completion by the City and County
of the hereinafter described municipal im-
provements in the amounts and for the purposes
stated;

EARTHQUAKE LOAN BOND PROGRAM,
1992, $350,000,000 to provide loans for the seis-
mic strengthening of unreinforced masonry
buildings, and to pay necessary administrative
costs incidental thereto, of which (a)
$150,000,000 shall be allocated to affordable
housing buildings at. an interest rate equal to
one-third of the City's true interest cost for the
series of bonds the proceeds of which are used to
fund the loan, of which $60,000,000 shall be
available for deferred loans, and (b)
$200,000,000 shall be allocated to market-rate
residential, commercial and institutional build-
ings with the interest rate on said loans being set
in an amount which, when coupled with the
annual administrative fees charged by the City,
yields a total annual return to the City which is
one percent (1%) above the City’s true interest
cost for the scries of bonds the proceeds of which
are used to fund the loan; providing that no more
than thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000) of
said authorization shall be sold in any one fiscal
year which amount shall be allocated on a pro-
rata basis between the affordable housing and
market rate residential, commercial and insti-
tutional buildings in accordance with the allo-
cations hereinabove set forth; authorizing
carry-over of authorized indebtedness to subse-
quent fiscal years; providing that all loan repay-
ments shall be used to pay debt service, except
for loan repayments received after the retirement
of all bonds issued under this Program which
may be used for any lawful purpose, including,
but not limited to, making additional loans for
seismic strengthening of unreinforced masonry
buildings and the payment of debt service or the
redemption of other outstanding general obliga-
tion bonds of the City.

CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES REPLACE-
MENT AND IMPROVEMENT BONDS. 1992,
$158,100,000 to pay for construction and recon-
struction of correctional facilities to replace the
existing San Bruno jail facilities, including re-
placement housing, associated health and safety
improvements and related acquisition, construc-
tion or reconstruction necessary or convenient
for the foregoing purposes.

FIRE DEPARTMENT FACILITIES IM-
PROVEMENT BONDS, 1992, S40.800.000 to
pay for the construction and recons true don of fire
department facilities, including seismic strength-
ening, asbestos abatement, disabled access, sep-
arate bathroom and changing areas for male and
female firefighters and related acquisition, con-
struction or reconstruction necessary or conve-
nient for the. foregoing purposes.

Section 2. The estimated costs of each of the
municipal improvements described in Section 1

hereof were fixed by the Board of Supervisors by
the following resolutions and in the amount spec-
ified:

Earthquake Loan Bond Program, 1992, Reso-
lution No. 514-92, $350,000,000. Correction Fa-
cilities Replacement and Improvement Bonds,
1992, Resolution No. 515-92, $158,100,000.
Fire Department Facilities Improvement Bonds,
1992, Resolution No. 516-92, $40,800,000.

That said resolutions were passed by two-
thirds or more of the Board of Supervisors and
approved by the Mayor, and in each said resolu-
tion it was recited and found that the sums of
money specified were too great to be paid out of
the ordinary annual income and revenue of the
City and County in addition to the other annual
expenses thereof or other funds derived from
taxes levied for those purposes and will require
expenditures greater than the amounts allowed
therefor by the annual tax levy.

The method and manner of payment of the
estimated costs of the municipal improvements
described herein are by the issuance of bonds of
the City and County of San Francisco in the
principal amounts not to exceed the principal
amounts specified.

Said estimates of cost as set forth in said reso-
lutions are hereby adopted and determined to be
the estimated costs of said improvements.

Section 3. The special election hereby called
and ordered to be held shall be held and con-
ducted and the votes thereat received and can-
vassed, and the returns thereof made and the
results thereof ascertained, determined and de-
clared as herein provided and in all particulars
not herein recited said election shall be held
according to the laws of the State of California
and the Charter of the City and County of San
Francisco providing for and governing elections
in the City and County of San Francisco, and the
polls for such election shall be and remain open
during the time required by said laws.

Section 4. The said special election hereby
called shall be and hereby is consolidated with
the General Election of the City and County of
San Francisco to be held Tuesday, November 3,
1992, and the voting precincts, polling places and
officers of election for said General Election be
and the same hereby are adopted, established,
designated and named, respectively, as the vot-
ing precincts, polling places and officers of elec-
tions for such special election hereby called, and
reference is hereby made to the notice of election
setting forth the voting precincts, polling places
and officers of election for the General Election
to be published by the Registrar of Voters in the
official publication of the City and County of S an
Francisco on or about October 13, 1992. The
ballots to be used at said special election shall be
the ballots to be used at said General Election.

Section 5. On the ballots to be used at such
special election and on the punch card ballots to
be used at said special election, in addition to any
other matter required by law to be printed
thereon, shall appear thereon the following, to be
separately stated, and appear upon the ballot as

(Continued an page SO)

62

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION A, B and C (Continued)

three separate propositions:

“EARTHQUAKE LOAN BOND PRO-
GRAM, 1992.

To incur a bonded indebtedness of
$350,000,000 to provide loans for the
seismic strengthening of unreinforced
masonry buildings devoted to affordable
housing and to market-rate residential,
commercial and institutional uses and to
pay necessary administrative costs inci-
dental thereto."

“CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES RE-
PLACEMENT ANDIMPROVEMENT
BONDS, 1992.

To incur a bonded indebtedness of
$158,100,000 to pay the cost of con-
struction or reconstruction of correc-
tional facilities to replace the existing
San Bruno jail facilities, including re-
placement hpusing, associated health
and safely improvements and related ac-
quisition, construction or reconstruction
necessary or convenient for the forego-
ing purposes.”

“FIRE DEPARTMENT FACILITIES
IMPROVEMENT BONDS, 1992.

To incur a bonded indebtedness of
$40,800,000 to pay the cost of construc-
tion and reconstruction of Fire Depart-
ment facilities, including seismic
strengthening, asbestos abatement, dis-
abled access, separate bathroom and .
changing areas for male and female fire-
fighters and related acquisition, con-
struction or reconstruction necessary or
convenient for the foregoing puiposes.”
Each voter to vote for any proposition hereby
submitted and in favor of the issuance of the
Bonds shall punch the ballot card in the hole after

the word “YES” to the right of said proposition,
and to vote against said proposition and against
the issuance of the Bonds shall punch the ballot
card in the hole after the word “NO” to die right
of said proposition. If and to the extent that a
numerical system is used at said special election,
each voter to vote for any said proposition shall
punch the ballot card in the hole after the number
that corresponds to a “YES" vote for said propo-
sition and to vote against said proposition shall
punch the ballot card in the hole after the number
that corresponds to a “NO" vote for said propo-
sition.

On absentee voter ballots, the voter to vote for
any said proposition shall punch the ballot card
in the hole after the word “YES” to the right of
said proposition, and to vote against said propo-
sition and against the issuance of the Bonds shall
punch the ballot card in the hole after the word
“NO” to the right of said proposition. If and to
die extent that a numerical system is used at said
special election, each voter to vote for any said
proposition shall punch the absentee ballot card
in die hole after the number that corresponds to
a “YES" vote for said proposition and to vote
against said proposition shall punch the absentee
ballot card in the hole after the number that
corresponds to a “NO” vote for said proposition.

Section 6. If at such special elecdon it shall
appear that two-thirds of all the voters voting on
any proposition voted in favor of and authorized
the incurring of a bonded indebtedness for the
purposes set forth in said proposition, then such
proposition shall have been accepted by the elec-
tors, and bonds shall be issued to defray the cost
of the municipal improvements described
therein. Such bonds shall bear interest at a rate
not to exceed 12 percent per annum, payable
semiannually, provided, that interest for the Erst

year, after the date of any of said bonds may be
payable at or before the end of that year.

The votes cast for and against said respective
propositions shall be counted separately and
when two-thirds of die qualified electors voting
on such propositions vote in favor thereof, such
proposition shall be deemed adopted.

Section 7. For the purpose of paying the prin-
cipal and interest on said bonds, the Board of
Supervisors shall, at the time of fixing the general
tax levy and in the manner for such general tax
levy provided, levy and collect annually each
year until such bonds are paid, or until there is a
sum in the Treasury of said City and County set
apart for that purpose to meet all sums coming
due for the principal and interest on said bonds,
a tax sufficient to pay the annual interest on such
bonds as the same becomes due and also such
part of the principal thereof as shall become due
before the proceeds of a tax levied at the time for
making the next general tax levy can be made
available for the payment of such principal.

Section 8. This ordinance shall be published
once a day for at least seven (7) days in the
official publication of the City and County of San
Francisco, which is published at least six days a
week in the City and County of San Francisco,
and such publication shall constitute notice of
said election and no other notice of the election
hereby called need be given.

Section 9. The appropriate officers, employ-
ees, representatives and agents of the City and
County of San Francisco are hereby authorized
and directed to do everything necessary or desir-
able to the calling and holding of said special
election, and to otherwise cany out the provis-
ions of this ordinance.	□

PROPOSITION B

CORRECTIONAL FACILITIES REPLACEMENT AND IMPROVEMENT

BONDS, 1992. To Incur a bonded indebtedness of $158,100,000 to pay	YES

the cost of construction or reconstruction of correctional facilities to	NO	Hfc

replace the existing San Bruno jail facilities, including replacement

housing, associated health and safety improvements and related

acquisition, construction or reconstruction necessary or convenient

for the foregoing purposes.

Analysis

by Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: The City operates jails at the Hall
of Justice and San Bruno for persons waiting for trial
or serving sentences of less than one year. Built in
1933, the men’s jail at San Bruno is the oldest jail in
California. It does not meet current health and safety
codes or minimum California jail standards. The ca-
pacity of the San Bruno men’s jail is 554 inmates. The
current number of prisoners is about 750.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition B would allow the City to
borrow $158.1 million by issuing general obligation
bonds to replace the existing jail facilities at San
Bruno. The Sheriff’s plan calls for replacing the cur-

rent men’s jail with a new facility with 768 jail cells.
The old jail would be demolished. Some of the money
would be used to complete the women's jail and build
a Services Building with a new heating plant, electri-
cal services, laundry and Kitchen.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote yes, you want the
City to issue general obligation bonds in the amount
of $158.1 million to pay for replacing the San Bruno
men's jail and other improvements to facilities at this
jail site.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote no, you do not want
the City to issue these bonds.

Controller’s Statement on “B”

City Controller Edward Harrington has issued the following state-
ment on the fiscal impact of Proposition B:

In my opinion, should the proposed bond issue be authorized and
bonds issued at current interest rates I estimate the approximate
costs to be:

Bond redemption	$158,100,000

Bond Interest	107.923.100

Debt service requirement	$266.023.100

Based on a single bond sale and level redemption schedules, the
average annual debt requirement for twenty (20) years would be
approximately $13,051,155 which amount is equivalent to two and
fifty-two hundredths cents ($0.0252) in the current tax rate. The
increase in annual tax for the owner of a home with a net assessed
value of $250,000 would amount to approximately $63.00. it should
be noted, however, that the City typically does not issue all author-
ized bonds at one time; if these bonds are issued over several
years, the actual effect on the tax rate may be somewhat less than
the maximum amount shown herein.

How Supervisors Voted on “B”

On July 13,1992the Board of Supervisors voted 8-0 to
place Proposition B on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

YES: Supervisors Britt, Conroy, Gonzalez, Hallinan, Hsieh,
Kennedy, Maher, and Shelley

NO: None of the Supervisors present voted no.

ABSENT: Achtenberg, Alioto and Migden.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE.
THE FULL TEXT OF BOND MEASURES A, B & C BEGINS ON PAGE 62.

PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

Chronic overcrowding and substandard conditions have plagued
the San Francisco County Jail in San Bruno for years.

Build in 1934, the dilapidated, decaying San Bruno facility is the
oldest operating jail in California. Rated by the State Board of
Corrections to house 554 prisoners, it has held 750 since 1987.
Electrical and plumbing systems are beyond repair and pose con-
stant threats to safety and sanitation. A rented heating plant, in-
stalled when the jail’s boilers could no longer be repaired, is the
only source of hot water for kitchen, laundry and personal hygiene
needs fortheentire population. The antiquated sewage plant is only
partially operational. The jail routinely fails annual fire inspections.

Designed for sentenced misdemeanants and now housing pre-
trial felons, San Bruno’s obsolete layout makes proper prisoner
supervision virtually impossible and contributes to the rising inci-
dence of inmate-to-inmate and inmate-to-deputy violence. The
City faces a lawsuit over conditions at the jail.

Your YES vote on Proposition B will allow the City to use

general obligation bonds to replace this dangerously inefficient
facility with two low-rise buildings that will safely house the
current population and provide room for expansion if necessary.
Bond funds will also provide for centralized kitchen and laundry
facilities serving the entire jail system and classroom space suffi-
cient to expand education, substance-abuse counseling and job-
readiness programs.

Your YES vote will help reduce the persistent overcrowding that
currently requires the City to spend $5 million per year to house
prisoners in Alameda County, and forces the release of sentenced
prisoners at 70% of their court-ordered time.

Sheriff Michael Hennessey, Mayor Frank Jordan, City Attorney
Louise Renne, District Attorney Arlo Smith and Police Chief Tom
Murphy join the Board of Supervisors in urging you to vote YES
on Proposition B.

Submitted by the Board of Supervisors.

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

VOTE NO ON PROPOSITION Bl

Proposition B represents the largest jail expansion in San
Francisco’s history. We already have an incarceration rate higher
than the state’s average!

When the jail we’re now building opens in 1993, it will prevent
many of crises Proposition B ’sproponents fear. We will most likely
be able to stop early releases, avoid fines for overcrowding, and we
won’t have to rent beds from Alameda County any longer.

PROPOSITION B MUST BE DEFEATED so we can return
some balance to our justice system. Along with the 50% jail
expansion we’ve just undergone, we must now fund drug treat-
ment, mother-infant care, and intensive supervision programs for
many non-violent offenders on whom we now spend $60 per day
in jail. If Proposition B passes, the cost to voters and cuts to city
programs could exceed San Francisco’s share of this year's state
budget cuts!

All agree that some must be incarcerated, and incarcerated de-

cently. But Proposition B breaks the bank to imprison primarily
young, non-violent persons of color while ignoring alternatives to
incarceration proven effective in other counties. Send City Hall
back to the drawing board and demand a plan for a replacement
jail — not massive expansion — as well as a sensible continuum
of treatment programs for those not requiring costly and debilitat-
ing incarceration.

VOTE NO ON PROPOSITION B!

Vincent Schiraldi
Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice
Laura Magnani
American Friends Service Committee—Pacific Mountain
Region
Shirley Melnicoe
Northern California Service League
Members, Committee Against the Jail Bond.

OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION B

WE DONOTNEED ANOTHER JAIL!

A new jail is already under construction downtown. Why are we
being asked to pay for another? When it opens, San Francisco will
have increased its jail capacity by 50% since 1989. Our county
exceeds the state's average incarceration rate, surpassing even Los
Angeles and Alameda Counties. Our taxes must be spent on ser-
vices that will make us safer, not poorer.

PROPOSITION B TAKES MONEY FROM VITAL NEEDS!

Like any loan, bonds totalling $158 million really cost us about
$276.5 million — $13.8 million annually over 20 years! On top of
bond payments, this jail would cost us at least $ 16 million annually
torun!!

San Francisco’s jail budget has increased by 40% for the past
four years while the General Fund has only increased by 20%. That
money comes from police, fire, drug treatment, health, housing,
after school activities, libraries, and other services which make our
city safer.

THERE ARE ALTERNATIVES!

Over 85% of those booked into jail are non-violent; 25% are
homeless; 57% have serious drug problems. African-Americans

and Latinos are jailed at 12 and 5 times the rate of Whites,
respectively. 77% of prisoners are not even convicted of a crime,
but are waiting for the slow wheels of justice to turn. While they
wait, we spend $60 per day on them! Jail overcrowding experts
concluded that the jail population will continue to rise unless
changes are made in the policies which unnecessarily increase the
jail population. If leaders in San Francisco can make choices which
increase the jail population, they can make choices to reduce it.

BUILD PEOPLE, NOT JAILS! VOTE NO ON PROPOSI-
TION B!

Vincent Schiraldi
Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice
Laura Magnani
American Friends Service Committee — Pacific Mountain
Region
Shirley Melnicoe
Northern California Service League
Members, Committee Against the Jail Bond

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION B

Proposition B is the only feasible way to address the deplorable
conditions at the San Bruno jail.

This inhumane and dangerously overcrowded facility is too
dilapidated to repair and too outmoded to ever make safe and
secure. Each year, we are forced to spend hundreds of thousands
of General Fund dollars trying to keep this obsolete jail in barely
operable condition. We must replace it, and we must replace it now.

Without Proposition B, San Francisco may be forced to use
General Fund monies to replace San Bruno, causing catastrophic
cuts in vital City services.

DON’T BE MISLED by the opponents of Proposition B. San
Francisco’s jail capacity has not increased by 50% since 1989. The
building presently under construction is a work furlough facility,
which is a jail alternative.

DON’T BE MISLED by those who say alternatives are the

answer. No matter how many alternatives we create, there will
always be those who must be incarcerated for the safety of the
public. We have a responsibility to them and to the community to
which they will return to house them in safe, sanitary and humane
conditions.

We can’t fulfill this responsibility when two men share a 42-
square-foot cell; when the plumbing is patched together with duct
tape; when fresh air is minimal and lights are too dim for reading
or proper supervision.

Many who have seen the San Bruno jail call it a dungeon. This
civic disgrace must be replaced.

Vote YES on Proposition B.

Submitted by the Board of Supervisors.

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

Proposition B will provide a replacement jail facility for the
decaying 58-year-old San Bruno jail, the oldest working county jail
in California. Conditions inside this dilapidated structure are truly
appalling. Jail lawsuits have already cost City taxpayers millions
of dollars.

At the San Bruno Jail:

•	Over 750 inmates jammed into housing areas designed for
550.

•	Ancient plumbing, heating and electrical systems con-
stantly need expensive repairs.

•	Flooding and structural damage compromises jail safety
and security.

•	Official fire inspectiors refuse to grant fire clearance.

And the list goes on.

The citizens of San Francisco should not waste millions more in
General Fund tax dollars keeping the costly San Bruno jail afloat.
I support Proposition B and I urge your yes vote for the future of
our City.

For a safer City...

For a fiscally sound solution...

For humane treatment of those in jail...

YES ON PROP B

Michael Hennessey
San Francisco Sheriff

Proposition B is a responsible, cost-effective solution to San
Francisco’s county jail crisis. Constant repairing of the decaying
i San Bruno jail is City government at its most inefficient. Renting
jail space from other counties costs SF taxpayers nearly $5 million
a year.

We endorse Prop B, the better government bond measure.

RudyNothenberg
San Francisco Chief Administrative Officer
John Cribbs
Director, S.F. Department of Public Works

Proposition B is imperative to assure there is adequate jail space
to house major offenders, and to prevent early release of those
convicted of crimes in the City and County of San Francisco.
Please join me in support of Prop B.

Vote “Yes” on Proposition B.

Frank M. Jordan
Mayor

San Francisco’s criminal justice system is in crisis. Paralyzed by
jail overcrowding and the crumbling jail facility at San Bruno, the
City’s police and courts must struggle to provide even a minimal
level of desperately needed service to the community.

Proposition B is a smart, long-term solution to this City’s most
critical problem.

Judge Joseph Desmond
Presiding Judge, Municipal Court

Two thirds of those in the City's jails are minority men and
women. The conditions they are forced to endure in the decrepit
58-year-old San Bruno jail are a disgrace.

Together let us create positive change for those in jail—vote
yes on Proposition B.

Reverend Arelious Walker
True Hope Church

Jail overcrowding has led to early release of criminals and to the
rental of jail space in Alameda at the cost of more than $12,000 a
day. Keep our streets safe and save taxpayer money. Vote yes on
PropB.

Arlo Smith

San Francisco District Attorney

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

I urge you to vote YES on Proposition B.

As an African American working inside the San Francisco jail
system, I am horrified by the inhumane conditions at the San Bruno
jail, and at the same time appalled by the overrepresentation of
African Americans in jail.

While working to change disparities and create even more alter-
natives, San Franciscans should also treat those who must tempo-
rarily be removed from society to humane and safe incarceration.
Please vole yes on Prop B!

Ida Strickland

San Francisco Sheriffs Department

I urge a strong YES vote on Prop B.
v San Francisco is the acknowledged national leader in creating
innovative alternatives to county jail. Work Furlough, Sheriffs
Work Alternative, Home Detention, and County Parole keep the
vast majority of convicted misdemeanants in our City out of jail.

While jail alternatives are critical, it is just as critical to maintain
the most humane county jails possible. The San Bruno facility is a
costly disgrace and must be replaced. Proposition B is the right
way to provide humane treatment of those who must be in jail.

Wayne Friday

The Bay Area Reporter (BAR)

PROP B IS ABOUT PROPER USE OF PUBLIC FUNDS,
NOT ABOUT POLITICS!

As the person charged with keeping the San Bruno jail facility
in working order, I urge the citizens of San Francisco to vote for
Proposition B on election day. The facility is 58-years-old and
literally falling apart. The ancient power and sewage treatment
plants alone are costing taxpayers hundreds of thousands of dollars
to maintain.

Instead of throwing good money after bad, vote yes on a fiscally
smart, long-term solution. Vote YES on Prop B.

Larry Jessup

San Francisco Building and Grounds Superintendent

As a Prisoner Services Counselor in the jails for 17 years, I have
watched the San Bruno jail crumble before my eyes. The facility
has inadequate medical and visiting room areas, and a prisoner
recreation yard that looks like a vacant city lot.

Prisoner cell areas are smaller than the cages we provide for the
animals in the City's zoo. San Bruno is not only dangerous for
prisoners, it is an extemely dangerous working environment for
sheriffs deputies and civilian staff.

I urge a yes vote on Prop B!

Ron Perez

San Francisco Prisoner Services Counselor

I wish I could take every San Francisco citizen to see our men’s
jail at San Bruno. If I could, I know that every San Franciscan
would support Proposition B.

Our jail at San Bruno must be replaced. It's the oldest jail in
California. Heaters don’t work. Pipes leak into cells. Toilets can’t
be cleaned or fixed. We wish we lived in a world where jails were
unnecessary, but until that time arrives, our jails should be decent
and safe.

This Spring, Sheriff Hennessey and I visited the new model jail
in Contra Costa County. In Contra Costa, they don’t coddle crim-
inals, but they do treat jail inmates the way you would want to have
treated a son or a daughter who was in trouble. If Contra Costa can
do it, so can we.

Please support Proposition B.

Louise Renne

San Francisco City Attorney

"County Jail #3, in San Bruno, is the oldest jail in use in
California. Jail facilities are inadequate due to deterioration caused
by age, neglected maintenance, and an outmoded design.

"Major renovations would be difficult and extremely costly. The
continual repairs, which are also expensive, do not provide long-
term solutions to the problems.”

1991-2 San Francisco Civil Grand Jury Report

Brent Andrew, Foreman
1991-92 Grand Jury

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

“The San Bruno men's facility is a crumbling, cruel, and inhu-
mane jail on which time ran out a decade ago.

“It is now a forgone decision that the physical plant of the main
jail at San Bruno has entered into a state of 'meltdown'. Only
millions of dollars and lots of crisis management can keep up the
pretense.

'To condone this is the perpetuation of a fraud on the people of
San Francisco...”

1991-2 Advisory Committee on Adult Detention
City and County of San Francisco
Roger Sobel, Chairman

“Fire/life safety deficiencies were noted and the facility has been
notified, to correct them. TAere deficiencies present significant
hazards to the occupants of the facility."

Fire clearance not granted.

State Fire Marshal’s Official

Inspection of San Francisco County Jail #3 - San Bruno

Captain Carl Koehler, County Jail #3
San Francisco Sheriffs Department

Conditions at the San Bruno jail facility are dangerously unsafe
for staff and inmates. Jail overcrowding lawsuits and fines have
cost City taxpayers millions of dollars.

Proposition B will solve jail overcrowding and replace a crum-
bling, hopelessly out of date. Depression-era jail with a modem
facility which will serve San Francisco for mainy decades to come.
We urge your strong support for Propostion B!

San Francisco Deputy Sheriff s Association
Deputy Henry Scott, President

The San Francisco African American Deputy Sheriffs Asso-
ciation urges a “yes" vote on Proposition B. Unsafe and dangerous
working conditions have made a tough job intolerable!

Vote YES on Prop B!

San Francisco African American Deputy Sheriffs Association
Deputy Anjie Versher, President

The San Francisco Sheriffs Asian Organization is supporting
a strong “yes” vote on Proposition B. Our City needs safe and
secure jails for staff and for inmates.

Yes on Prop B

The San Francisco Sheriffs Asian Organization
Deputy Teri Tussey, Board Member

The San Francisco Distict Attorney Investigators Association
urges your strong support of Proposition B. Prop B is a fiscally
sound solution to jail overcrowding that will serve our community
for decades to come.

Help us keep San Francisco safe... vote yes on Proposition B.

The San Francisco District Attorneys Investigators Association
Bruce Austin, President

I am a member of the medical staff at the San Bruno jail facility.
The decaying conditions and poor medical resources at San Bruno
are a tragedy. Proposition B is a responsible solution to an ex-
tremely serious problem.

Yes on Prop B.

Dr. Jan Darling

Assistant Medical Director, Jail Medical Services
Department of Public Health

Property and assault crimes are on the rise. Those convicted of
these crimes in San Francisco are released or have their sentences
cut because of jail overcrowding. But something is being done! It’s
called Proposition B.

Please join me in support of Prop B — a long-term, fiscally
sound solution for the citizens of San Francisco. The City needs
Proposition B!

Edgar Flowers, Jr.

Assistant San Francisco Sheriff

Past President, African American Historical Association

San Bruno Jail Bonds

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

San Bruno Jail is severely overcrowded and inadequate. It is
filled way beyond its capacity, housing more than 750 prisoners in
a building that can adequately accommodate only 554. The build-
ing also fails to meet safety and other codes and should not be
occupied at all.

Proposition B will allow the city to build a replacement for San
Bruno Jail, including new housing, a new administration building,
a remodeled women’s building and improved medical clinic areas.

Proposition B will reduce maintenance costs and relieve jail
overcrowding. Vote YES on Proposition B.

Donald. D. Doyle, President

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce

No city in America can match San Francisco in the development
and use of alternatives to jail. Our City is second to none in
providing viable alternatives to warehousing men and women in
jail cells.

But with 60% of jail sentences now being served in jail alterna-
tive programs, we have gone as far as we can without a modem
new jail facility.

Proposition B is a fiscally sound measure which will take us into
the next century still leading the nation.

Rotea Gilford
Parole Commissioner

Retired Inspector, San Francisco Police Department

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION B

Proposition B won’t make the City safer. It will make us poorer
and less able to fund services that stop crime in the first place.
Fewer than 15% of the people brought into the jail are violent
offenders. The restare primarily minority, young, minor offenders
who will learn more about crime during their jail term than they
could have in years on the streets. What we need from City Hall is
a continuum of rehabilitive programs to divert these minor offend-
ers from expensive incarceration, not$158 Million more to simply
lock them up. The $14 Million the City will spend every year to
run the new jail will come from services to our children, from fire
and police, from homeless services, and from drug treatment.

Help San Francisco get smart on crime.

VOTE NO ON PROPOSITION B.

Coleman Advocates
Greg Day, President
Jean Jacobs, Board Member
Peter Bull, Board Member
Margaret Brodkin, Executive Director

Vote no on Proposition B. The racial and ethnic composition of
our jails is outrageous, so bad that Sheriff Hennessey has called
them "a purgatory for minorities.” Over the past two years, the
number of Latinos in the jail has more than doubled. The City
cannot continue to ignore programs for our young people, housing
for our homeless, and treatment for our intoxicated, while expand-
ing our jails. Make San Francisco a safer and more equitable city.
Vote no on Proposition B.

Art Tapia
Jim Morales

Beatrice Cardenas-Duncan
Roberto Y. Hernandez

The $158 million spent on Proposition B could build a lot of
homes. Vote No on Proposition B.

Paul Boden

Coalition on Homelessness

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION B

Don’t let San Francisco become a police state at the expense of
minorities. San Francisco needs to educate, not incarcerate, build
people, not prisons, and fund jobs, not jails. Over half of our
inmates are African-American, while only 10% of San Franciscans
are African-American. As we pour more money into jails, we rob
from programs which prevent crime in the first place, and make
our neighborhoods safer for us all. Meanwhile, with one out of
three young African-American males in the grip of the criminal
justice system, we threaten to write off a whole generation of our
young men. A no vote on Proposition B is a vote for a safe and
just city.

Enola Maxwell
Eva Paterson
LulannMcGriff
James Queen

Sharen Hewitt, Coalition for an African-American Community
Agenda
Abu QadirAl-Amin
James Bell

Dr. Julianne Malveaux
George Mix
Geraldine Johnson
Sharron Treskunojf

Ronald ColtMrst, Member, Democratic Central Committee*

*For identification only

Before you vote for Props A, B, or C it’s important to understand
that the passage of these bonds will raise property taxes and rents.
Some history:

After the 1989 earthquake, voters approved $250 million dollars
in general obligation bonds to repair damaged city buildings. In June
of 1992 voters approved $78 million to repair and renovate Golden
Gate Park. Now voters are asked to approve a total of $549 million
in new bonds with future bonds for Laguna Honda Hospital and a
new Juvenile Hall in place for November of 1993. These bonds will
raise property taxes by $210 per $100,000 of valuation.

It is indeed ironic and wrong in a period of time when the City
is facing a potential $80 million dollar shortfall in tax revenue from
Sacramento that politicians would want to raise property taxes to
pay for bonded indebtedness. They know, dam well, that there is
a high likelihood that taxes may have, to be raised to cover the loss
of State money. Don’t let the politicians slide one high and inside
over the plate.

Prop B calls for a $158,000,000 bond for a new jail. The big
spenders fail to tell you about the $108,000,000 in interest that
you’ll pay on this bond. They forget to mention that the real cost
of this measure is a whopping $266,000,000!

Do you really want to spend $266,000,000 in increased property
taxes to build a bigger, more comfortable jail? You gotta be
kidding. The big spending politicians who want to increase prop-
erty taxes and rents are the ones who ought to be put in jail.

Vote No Proposition B.

John R. Davis

PROPOSITION C

FIRE DEPARTMENT IMPROVEMENT BONDS, 1992. To incur a bonded
indebtedness of $40,800,000 to pay the cost of construction and
reconstruction of Fire Department facilities, including seismic
strengthening, asbestos abatement, disabled access, separate bath-
room and changing areas for male and female firefighters and related
acquisition, construction or reconstruction necessary or convenient
for the foregoing purposes.

YES W+
NO W+

Analysis

by Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: The Fire Department has 41 Fire
Stations and 15 other buildings in the City. Almost half of
these are over 50 years old and some might not survive a
strong earthquake without structural improvements. Some
Fire Department buildings need other major improve-
ments, such as foundation, plumbing and electrical repairs,
and asbestos removal. A federal court order requires that
the City provide privacy for both male and female fire-
fighters. However, most of the Fire Stations do not have
separate rest rooms and changing areas. Under state law,
when the City renovates buildings, it must also make those
buildings accessible to disabled persons.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition C would allow the City to
borrow $40.8 million by issuing general obligation bonds.
This money would be used to make some Fire Department

buildings better able to survive earthquakes, or to replace
these buildings if it is feasible and more economical. The
money would also be used to make foundation, plumbing
and other major improvements, and for asbestos removal.
Some of the money would be used to provide separate rest
rooms and changing areas for male and female firefighters
and to make buildings more accessible to disabled per-
sons.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote yes, you want the City
to issue general obligation bonds in the amount of $40.8
million to pay for improvements to Fire Department build-
ings.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote no, you do not want the
City to issue these bonds.

Controller’s Statement on “C”

City Controller Edward Harrington has issued the following statement on
the fiscal impact of Proposition C:

In my opinion, should the proposed bond issue be authorized and bonds
issued at current interest rates I estimate the approximate costs to be:
Bond redemption	$40,800,000

Bond interest	26.560.B00

Debt service requirement	$67.360.800

Based on a single bond sale and level redemption schedules, the
average annual debt requirement for twenty (20) years would be approxi-
mately $3,310,255 which amount is equivalent to sixty-five hundredths
cents ($0.0065) in the current tax rate. The increase in annual tax for the
owner of a home with a net assessed value of $250,000 would amount to
approximately $16.30. It 6hould be noted, however, that the City typically
does not issue all authorized bonds at one time; if these bonds are issued
over several years, the actual effect on the tax rate may be somewhat less
than the maximum amount shown herein.

How Supervisors Voted on “C”

On July 13,1992 the Board of Supervisors voted 8-0 to
place Proposition C on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

YES: Supervisors Britt, Conroy, Gonzalez, Hallinan, Hsieh,
Kennedy, Maher, and Shelley

NO: None of the Supervisors present voted no.

ABSENT: Achtenberg, Alioto and Migden.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE.
THE FULL TEXT OF BOND MEASURES A, B & C BEGINS ON PAGE 62.

TT



PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

Protecting the lives and property of San Franciscans is the Fire
Department's charge. To fulfill its mission, the Fire Department
must make critical improvements.

Fire Department facilities requite extensive work, including
Seismic Strengthening, Health and Safety improvements, Court-
Mandated privacy modifications, and building repairs. These pro-
jects are paramount in maintaining the integrity of facilities,
integrating women into the Department, and preventing costly
damage to building structures.

SEISMIC: Increased earthquake activity proves that fire stations
must be seismically sound. They must survive earthquakes to
insure immediate emergency response thereafter.

HEALTH AND SAFETY: Most Fire Department facilities are
asbestos contaminated, creating a poor working environment and
health hazard. Further, fumes from diesel engines permeate
firefighters’ living quarters, creating serious health concerns. Mon-
ies made available through this Bond measure will alleviate these
problems.

PRIVACY MODIFICATION: After 120 years, the Depart-
ment is changing from “all male” to include both male and female

firefighters. To provide proper work environments for all fire-
fighters and comply with a Federal Court mandate to fully integrate
women into the Department, stations must be renovated to make
privacy modifications, including separate bathrooms.

FACILITY MAINTENANCE: Many of the Department's
older facili ties require new doors, roof repair, interior and exterior
painting, plumbing repair, new heating and electrical systems, dry
rot and termite damage repair, and foundation improvements. The
highest priority is to replace apparatus doors with earthquake
resistant doors, insuring the Department’s response capability.

DISABILITY ACCESS: State law requires access and rest-
room facilities for the physically disabled.

The Fire Department can function only with safe, functional
stations. Proposition C will provide these safe, functional, and
accessible facilities.

We urge all citizens to vote yes on Proposition C. This will
maintain vital protection for your family, your home, and your City.

Submitted by the Board of Supervisors.

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

Undoubtedly there is a need for seismic upgrading of buildings,
jail expansion, and fire department renovations, but the City is
already half a billion dollars in bonded indebtedness. This is not
the right time to take on additional financial burdens. In these times
of recession, with our diminished tax base, we cannot afford a
credit card mentality.

Another problem with the bonds is that they contain no legal
guarantees that minorities, women, and locally-owned businesses
will receive their fair share of the contracts that these bonds will
generate. The above groups have been woefully underrepresented
among the recipients of city contracts. San Francisco has a diverse
ethnic population and the city contracts should reflect this diversity.

In view of these economic and social considerations, vote NO on
this form of “municipal bondage.” The proponents of the bonds
probably mean well — but the road to hell is paved with good
intentions. Vote NO on Propositions A, B, and C!

COMMITTEE TO PREVENT MUNICIPAL BANKRUPTCY
Andrew de la Rosa

Alexa Smith, Democratic State and County Committeemember
Arlo H. Smith, Democratic County Committeemember
Robert Silvestri, Republican County Committeemember
John Riordan, Former College Board President

OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION C

Vote NO on Municipal Bondage. Vote NO on Propositions A,
B, and C. The city is already over a half-billion dollars in bonded
indebtedness, yet the Board of Supervisors wishes to borrow an-
other $548 million. Do we want to go the way of New York?

It would be nice to upgrade older buildings, the jail, and fire
department facilities. But we must do it within a budget. This
CREDIT CARD MENTALITY has got to stop. Who will bail us
out? The state of California???

Issuing bonds now is like borrowing money for a Ferrari and
forcing our kids to pay for it later. If we borrow the $548 million
proposed under Props. A, B, and C, in the next seven years, we will

have to pay out over $1 billion in principal and interest. Let’s not
tie ourselves up! Municipal bondage is no fun!!

LET’S NOT TAX OURSELVES TO DEATH!!!

Vote NO on bond measures A, B, and C!

COMMITTEE TO PREVENT MUNICIPAL BANKRUPTCY
Andrew de la Rosa

Alexa Smith, Democratic State and County Committeemember
Arlo H. Smith, Democratic County Committeemember
Robert Silvestri, Republican County Committeemember
John Riordan, Former College Board President

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION C

This bond measure is designed to avert preventable calamity and
chaos following an earthquake — it is not a “civic frill". Our Fire
Department will be incapable of delivering emergency services
when they are needed most — following an earthquake — unless
stations requiring seismic strengthening are upgraded to withstand
the very earthquake damage they will need to respond to. In such
a catastrophe, firefighting equipment may be destroyed or trapped
in damaged stations, and the lives of our firefighters will be
imperiled.

Besides seismically strengthening our stations, Proposition C
would provide for fire station adaptions required by recent federal
mandates requiring accessibility to the physically disabled. THIS
IS NOT AN OPTION— IT IS REQUIRED BY LAW AND
MUST BE PAID FOR.

Proposition C would also provide privacy modifications, includ-
ing separate bathrooms for our women firefighters. Currently,
working quarters and bathrooms are shared. This is unacceptable.

Finally, this bond measure’s passage will insure that our stations
— many in terrible condition — will get the repairs they need: Our
firefighters cannot continue to work in stations that are asbestos-
contaminated, where diesel fumes permeate living quarters, and
where roofs leak.

WE CANNOT EXPECT OUR FIREFIGHTERS TO PRO-
TECT OUR LIVES AND PROPERTY UNLESS THEY, TOO,
ARE PROTECTED. IF THEY ARE NOT SAFE, NEITHER
ARE WE. VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION C.

Submitted by the Board of Supervisors.

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

The Asian Firefighters Association and its Executive Board
unanimously endorse the 40.8 million dollar Bond issue that will
provide adequate privacy for all firefighters. This Bond issue will
also address the seismic retro-fit of all Fire Department buildings
that require earthquake resistant construction.

The San Francisco Fire Department is undergoing evolutionary
change. Female firefighters have established themselves as a vital
entity within the department and privacy accommodations are long
over-due.

In the event of a major earthquake, the City’s emergency services
will be taxed beyond maximum abilities to perform. It is vitally
important that all fire companies are able to respond by first being
able to exit the station house.

The Asian Firefighters Association ask that all San Franciscans
vote “YES” on Proposition “C”. As members of the San Francisco
Fire Department, we are here to serve all our communities.

Ernest F. Li

President, Asian Firefighters Association

The San Francisco Black Firefighters’ Executive Board strongly
supports a “YES” vote on Proposition “C”. Proposition “C” is a
bond issue that will dramatically improve the working conditions
of the San Francisco Fire Department It will also increase the
Department’s ability to provide adequate protection for the citizens
ofourcity.

We are committed to a high standard of efficiency within our
field. To achieve this goal, we must be provided with the proper
tools, Proposition “C” will give us these tools.

We urge all citizens of San Francisco to vote “YES” on Propo-
sition “C” for the safety of all who choose to dwell in our fair city.

Kevin Smith
Vice President

Black Firefighters’Association

The Chief Officers of the San Francisco Fire. Department urge a
“YES” vote on Proposition “C”. San Francisco’s fire stations are
in dire need of renovation and repair. Many stations are not sound
enough to resist a major earthquake. Firefighters and equipment
would not be able to respond to the emergency of a major earth-
quake.

Many of the stations are old and have not been modernized to
meet the needs of women firefighters, provide access to disabled
citizens, nor provide a safe and healthful woik place for San
Francisco’s firefighters.

Years of deferred maintenance have left many stations damaged
to the point that further deterioration will make economical repair
impossible. The fire stations will need replacement, a far more
costly alternative to repairing them now.

The Chief Officers of the San Francisco Fire Department
strongly support Proposition “C”. A “yes” vote means safety for
San Francisco, its citizens, and its firefighters.

Howard L. Slater

President, San Francisco Fire Chiefs’ Association

The San Francisco Fire Department has the awesome responsi-
bility of protecting the lives and property of the citizens of San
Francisco. These duties are sometimes performed under the most
adverse conditions, such as an earthquake.

As citizens of San Francisco we all realize that the threat of an
earthquake is real, but most voters are not aware of the fact that
many fire stations will sustain major damage in the event of an
earthquake if seismic upgrading is not performed. The potential for
firefighters and equipment being trapped in fire stations is real, and
must be removed.

This bond will also provide appropriate privacy accommodations
for female and male firefighters, thus enabling the Fire Department
to comply with State and Federal law.

Los Bomberos de San Francisco, an organization of Hispanic
firefighters dedicated to serving the citizens of this great City
strongly requests the support of the voters in passing this absolutely
necessary proposition “C” bond proposal.

RudyLabrado

President, Los Bomberos de San Francisco

.	i	.	.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

Fire Department Bonds

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

Your “Yes” vote on Proposition C is essential if the San
Francisco Fire Department is to continue to provide a high level of
public safety in our City.

Proposition C will provide money for the seismic upgrading of
Fire Department buildings; the construction of much-need separate
facilities for our female firefighters; improving access for the
disabled; and the removal of asbestos. All of these improvements
are long overdue.

Vote “Yes” on Proposition C.

Frank M. Jordan
Mayor

The Fire Commission and Chief of Department urge a “yes” vote
on Proposition “C”. Proposition “C” is a 40.8 million dollar Bond
Issue to repair and seismically upgrade Fire Department buildings,
and to provide privacy for male and female firefighters.

A number of Fire Stations were built more than one-half a
century ago and do not have earthquake resistant construction.
These buildings are likely to suffer major damage in the next
earthquake and could collapse — trapping the firefighters and
apparatus, thus preventing citizens from getting the needed help.

Also, because of budget constraints, deferred maintenance over
the years has caused the buildings to be in very bad repair, with
water seepage through the walls and roofs causing unhealthy
conditions for the firefighters.

We urge all citizens to vote “Yes” on Proposition “C” — it
means protection for your firefighters, your city, your home and
your family.

John A. Ertola
President, Fire Commission
Laurence D. Griffin
Vice President, Fire Commission
Charles D. Morrow
Fire Commissioner
Thomas T.Ng
Fire Commissioner
Norma M. Molinar
Fire Commissioner
Joseph A. Medina
Chief of Department

Some of San Francisco's 41 fire stations have the look of horse
and wagon days. They were built that way. Our Fire Department
retired its last horse-drawn engines in 1921, but reminders remain:
station doors like castle gates — and not much easier to open —
and cavernous engine bays, full of diesel fumes, right where
firefighters work.

Nor is technology all that has changed. Twenty-six stations offer
no privacy for women firefighters now joining the ranks.

Our Fire Department has spared no effort to have the tools and
skills needed in a city where wind, hills and buildings make fire
fighting tough. But basic renovation of fire stations and support
facilities is long overdue, a Department study has found. In the case
of old-fashioned doors, the worry is they wouldn’t open in an
earthquake, stranding a fire engine inside — fire stations need
seismically safe, telescoping doors.

Proposition C is for a $40.8 million bond issue to bring the Fire
Department structurally up to grade, to make sure it has a safe and
secure roof over its own head.

Bond procedes will allow seismic strengthening of stations and
support facilities for which earlier funding ran out. Among them is
the Central Fire Alarm Station, a key player in disaster response.
Facility repairs, like leaky roofs and pipes, let go for years, account
for much of Proposition C’s bottom line. Other costs are mandated
by law and/or a federal court: Asbestos removal; separate locker
rooms for male and female firefighters. And now all fire stations
must have ground-floor access and restrooms for disabled visitors.

Firefighters protect our lives and property—yours and mine.
Let’s do the same for them where their mission begins. Vote YES
on Proposition C.

San Francisco Fire Fighters Local 798
James Ferguson, President * •

This Proposition provides benefits for everyone.

Fire Department Stations must remain functional after an earth-
quake.

•	Our homes and families depend upon the ability of the Fire
Department to respond.

•	Upgrading fire stations makes practical sense.

•	Vote yes on “C”.

Frank T. Blackburn,

President, PWSS Co., Ltd.

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

When firefighters answer a,call for help, usually it's a mission of
mercy. Somebody’s life or property is at risk, most often both.
Medical emergencies account for almost half of all calls.

For firefighters, the risks on the line are worry enough. But their
concerns too often begin before they roll on a run. Their work
station may be hazardous to their health, or privacy.

Unlike the equipment they house, many of the City’s fire stations
are relics'of another era. Some have an outward grace of form.
Under the skin, all the older survivors suffer infirmaties of age,
compounded by deferred maintenance—a Fire Department study
reveals problems with [dumbing, electricity, ventilation, leaky
roofs and structural soundness that could bring wrath upon a
homeowner’s head. The same goes for support facilities—Central
Fire Alarm in Jefferson Park, for one—built when seismic safety
might mean an extra nail here and there.

Proposition C would authorize $40.8 million in revenue bonds
to repair and renovate Fire Department structures for service into
the nextcentuiy, from neighborhood fire stations with balky engine
doors to boiler rooms with asbestos insulation breaking loose. As
a supervisor, I know how bad the conditions are, how great the
need.

I urge a resounding YES ON C. Not just to stiffen the
Department’s structural spine. By state law and federal court
mandate, our 41 fire stations must accomodate women now enter-
ing the profession in large numbers — 26 stations can’t yet offer
the privacy they should. Also by law, as public buildings, all fire
stations will soon need access and restrooms for disabled visitors.
Funds to match our fire stations with our enlightened day and age
are reserved in this bond issue—another reason Proposition C
merits full support.

AngelaAlioto

Supervisor, City and County of San Francisco

Proposition C would make San Francisco’s neighborhood fire
stations safer, more efficient and more accessible for both fire-
fighters and the public.

To maintain the high professional standards of our Fire Depart-
ment, join me in voting YES on C.

Cleve Jones

Founder, AIDS Memorial Quilt
Candidate for Supervisor

San Franciscans rely on the Fire Department to quickly and
efficiently respond to fires in order to protect life and property. To
do that, the Fire Department’s facilities must be in good condition.
Proposition C will ensure that they are by making them more
structurally sound.

Proposition C will also allow women to become fully integrated
into the Fire Department by making modifications to allow for
privacy.

Vote Yes on Proposition C.

Kevin Shelley, President of the Board of Supervisors

When an earthquake strikes, our Fire Department must be able
to respond—fully and quickly. If Fire Stations themselves are
quake damaged, our City is in peril.

Passage of Prop. C is critical to earthquake safety in our City
because it will make seismic strengthening of our Fire Stations
possible.

Prop. C will also encourage hiring of more women as firefighters,
as it will make accomodations in Fire Stations suitable for both
sexes.

I strongly recommend a YES vote on Proposition C.

Supervisor Carole Migden

San Francisco needs fire stations that are safe, accessible and
ready to respond to emergencies. We cannot afford to neglect our
Fire Department facilities.

Proposition C will allow for seismic strengthening, asbestos
abatement and the installation of needed equipment in our fire
stations. It will also provide access for the disabled and fund the
construction of separate changing and rest room facilities for
female fire fighters. .

We deserve safe, modem and well-maintained fire stations.

Vote YES on Proposition C.

Donald D. Doyle, President

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce

t.

f

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION ©

We, as members of the labor movement, strongly urge a “YES”
vote on Proposition "C”.

We must have fire stations that will survive an earthquake.
Vote “YES” on Proposition “C”.

Walter L. Johnson
Secretary-Treasurer, San Francisco Labor Council
Tom Cordoni
Doug Cuthbertson
Keith Eickman
Donald Johanson
LeRoyKing
Larry Martin
Larry Mazzola
John Moran
Joan-Marie Shelley
Paul Varacalli

Chinatown is one of our greatest tourist attractions and cultural
centers. It is also one of the areas most vulnerable to earthquake
damage.

As members of the Asian community, we not only recognize the
need, but overwhelmingly support passage of Proposition “C”.
Vote Yes on “C”.

AgripinoR.Cerbatos
Claudine Cheng
Angie Fa
Florence Fang
Melvin Lee
Thomas Ng
Hon. Mabel Teng
Community College Commissioner
Yori Wada
George Wong
Hon. Leland Yee
School Board Member

Earthquakes are a concern to all to us who live in San Francisco’s
neighborhoods.

Eighty percent of San Francisco’s fire stations are over 30 years
old and 26 fire stations are over SO years old.

Following a major earthquake, it is likely that multiple fires and
trapped victims will be discovered throughout the City. San Fran-
cisco, with its highly congested blocks of wooden and brick build-
ings, could face a firestorm without this necessary earthquake
preparedness.

Let’s earthquake-proof our fire stations!

Vote YES on Proposition “C”.

Bob Demmons
Welton Flynn
Aileen Hernandez
Victoria Jee
James Jefferson
Supervisor Willie Kennedy
LeRoyKing
Larry Martin
Assesor Doris Ward
Rev. Cecil Williams

Our Fire Department must have seismically sound fire stations.
Our fire stations must be free of all health hazards.

Women firefighters must have adequate quarters, including pri-
vate bathrooms.

We must meet State law requirements for disability access.

And we must, in case of natural disaster, have doors that allow
fire engines to get out!

We urge you to please vote YES on Proposition “C”.

Angie Alarcon
Hon. Chuck Ayala
Edward Campana
Supervisor Jim Gonzalez
Ricardo Hernandez
Roberto Hernandez
Maria Martinez
Jose Medina
Jim Morales

Robert Morales
Alfredo Rodriguez
Gloria Rodriguez
Manuel Rosales
GeneRoyale
Mitchell Salazar
Antonio Salazar-Hobson
Dr. Richard Sanchez
Leandro Soto

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

;;n

ii

i' •

San Franciscans will not forget the tragic Loma Prieta earthquake
of 1989. We should also be aware that earthquake activity has
increased recently.

As citizens, we must ensure that firefighters and their vital rescue
equipment are available in our hour of need. Fire stations must be
seismically upgraded to prevent the potential disastrous conse-
quences of firefighters being trapped in our firehouses.

Vote YES on Proposition “C”.

Robert Barnes
Henry Berman
Sylvia Courtney
Vincent Courtney
LeeDolson
Florence Fang
Peter Gabel
Louis Giraudo
Supervisor Tom Hsieh
Beverly Jmmendorf
Jacklmmendorf
AgarJaicks
Cleve Jones
Victor Kamandrosky
Barbara Kaufman
Josey Lacey
Cristina Mack
Frank Quinn
Anthony Rodriguez
Hadley Roff
Matthew Rothschild
Assessor Doris Ward

We Republicans, generally fiscally conservative and dubious
about local bond measures, believe strongly that support of Prop-
osition C is necessary for the lives of our citizens and firefighters.

Fire facilities sorely need seismic strengthening, health and
safety improvements, court-mandated privacy modifications, and
asbestos-related repairs — all essential to maintain facilities, inte-
grate women into the department and prevent costly damage to
department structures.

Proposition C carries a lot of bang for the buck. Vote Yes.

San Francisco Republican County Central Committee

Yes, we need to ensure that fire stations survive an earthquake or
other natural disaster. And yes, we must not subject our firefighters
to toxic diesel fumes and asbestos contamination.

And yes again, fire stations must be renovated so all firefighters,
women and men, have appropriate sleeping quarters, facilities, and
changing areas.

Vote YES on Proposition “C”.

Supervisor Roberta Achtenberg

Angie Alarcon

Natalie Berg

Susan Bierman

Gloria Bonilla

Sharon Bretz

Lulu Carter

Sylvia Courtney

Angie Fa

Beverly Immendorf
Andrea Jepson
Aileen Hernandez
Barbara Kaufman
Cristina Mack
Maria Martinez
Supervisor Carole Migden
Eugenia Moscone
Marie Plazewski
City Attorney Louise Renne
Gloria Rodriguez
Hon. Mabel Teng
Community College Commissioner
Assesor Doris Ward
Claire Zvanski
Member, San Francisco Democratic County Central
Committee*

♦For identification purposes only

PAID ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION C

Before you vote for Props A, B, or C it’s important to understand
that the passage of these bonds will raise property taxes and rents.
Some history:

After the 1989 earthquake, voters approved $250 million dollars
in general obligation bonds to repair damaged city buildings. In June
of 1992 voters approved $78 million to repair and renovate Golden
Gate Park. Now voters are asked to approve a total of $549 million
in new bonds with future bonds for Laguna Honda Hospital and a
new Juvenile Hall in place for November of 1993. These bonds will
raise property taxes by $210 per $100,000 of valuation.

It is indeed ironic and wrong in a period of time when the City
is facing apotential $80 million dollar shortfall in tax revenue from
Sacramento that politicians would want to raise property taxes to

pay for bonded indebtedness. They know, dam well, that there is
a high likelihood that taxes may have to be raised to cover the loss
of State money. Don’t let the politicians slide one high and inside
over the plate.

Everybody loves and respects San Francisco’s Fire Department,
but $40,000,000 for additional rest rooms and locker facilities in
these tough financial times seems more like blowing smoke.
Plumbing and electrical upgrades, roof replacements, painting and
other deferred maintenance can wait.

Vote No on Prop C.

James Slaughter

Property Owners Against Excessive Taxation