

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS FOR MEASURE J
(ORDINANCE 10, 11181

Pursuant to California Government Cotie Section 53978, the City of
Banning proposes the adoption of Ordinance No, 1056. if approved,
this Ordinance will establish a special tax for Police Protection
Services, The revenues collected will be used exclusively for the
employment and deployment of five (5) additional police officers within
the City of Banning, The tax will be levied on each assessor's parcel
within the City, The specific amount of the tax will be set annually.
The tax will not exceed 933.00 per assessor’s parcel. The Ordinance
will expire at the end of five (5) years. The City estimates that the
revenues generated by the proposed tax will be $327,261 in the first
year.

By: John Wilson
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE J	ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE J
Banning needs more police officers! The Banning Police Department has 30 sworn police officer positions, A recent analysis of the 20 California cities with population between 20,000 and 25,000 (Banning is approximately 22,000) showed that the Banning Police Department was below the California cities average (33 police officers! by 3 officers. The analysis further revealed that of these comparable 20 cities, Banning’s reported crime rate was the fourth highest according to the FBI Uniform Crime Reports for 1990. The FBI Uniform Crime	This measure DOES NOT guarantee additional police protection. It DOES GUARANTEE that the City Council will be able to reduce general fund expenditures to the Police Department by $363,519 per year It DOES GUARANTEE that only property owners will be taxed to provide the additional $363,519! The same property owners that already pay more than an equal share for the services, including police protection, our City provides to ALL its citizens.
Reports data for 1991 will not be available until August of 1992.  Passing this Special Police Protective Services Tax would cost a mere 75 cents per week per property parcel at a maximum! This would allow us to put an additional 5 police officers on the streets of Banning! The special tax has a 5 year "sunset clause" and a total cap of only $39.00 per year. We expect the first years’ cost to be $35.11 (66 cents per week, per parcel) and it should go down each year thereafter due to new subdivisions being constructed.	READ THE MEASURE! DO THE MATH! ASK YOURSELF!  1.	Will the money pay for "additional” officers? You can’t tel! because the Council has cleverly decided not to establish the basic force strength until after you vote.  2.	Will there be additional "Cops on the beat”? Maybe, maybe not! Measure J could make one additional officer "available” for patrol duty per shift. If the extra manpower is used to eliminate overtime or staff even more administrative positions within the department there would be no more "cops on the beat" than we have
The Banning Police Department is a full-service agency and attempts to provide a high level of service, given the resources provided. Arrests have been made in all 15 homicides that occurred in 1990 and 1991 due to the dedicated efforts of the entire department, however, additional officers are needed "on the streets” to try and curb the fatal violence that we are experiencing. There is a direct relationship between the resources a community provides its police department and the level of crime the community is willing to tolerate. Let’s not tolerate Banning's criminal activity! Provide us the resources to get the job done and to get violent criminals off the street. Support your police department.	3.	$363,519 divided by 5 equals $72,704! Better management and  elimination of waste would allow our department to provide "cops on the beat" for less than $72,704 each.  4.	Is the cost fairly divided? ABSOLUTELY NOT! Renters, business  and mobile home owners pay nothing at all. Apartment house and mobile home park owners pay the same or less than individual home owners. This form of taxation is based more on which categories of the populace has the most votes than who creates the need for more police. Once again the over taxed middle class will pick up the tab for those at both ends of the economic scale.
By: Robert Hanson, Mayor	Tell the politicians they can’t use smoke and mirrors to raise middle class taxes, VOTE NO ON "J”.
Richard Garcia, Mayor Pro-Tern	By: David Lewis,  Committee to Defeat The Parcel Tax
Roosevelt Williams, City Councilman	Louise Shirley,  Realtor
Gary Reynolds,  City Councilman  Terry Holbert,  City Councilman	Joseph J. Lucsko.  Deputy Probation Officer

33 74