*

NfcNblNUIUN MKt PKOlkUIION DISTRICT

SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE M ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

“Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed measure are the opinions of the authors”.

MEASURE M

“Shall Kensington Fire Protection District Ordinance 92-01, authorizing the
Board of Directors to establish annually the amount of special tax for fire
protection and prevention, based on the District’s anticipated need for revenue,
and within the following limits, be confirmed:

YES

Class of Property

Maximum Annual Tax

Single Family Residential	$400.00

Duplex Residential	$600.00

Triplex Residential	$850.00

Fourplex Residential, Commercial and Institutional	$800,00

Multiple Unit (S+ ) Residential	$800.00

Unimproved Property	$100.00”

NO

ANALYSIS BY ATTORNEY FOR DISTRICT

BACKGROUND

Proposition 1.8 limited the amount: of ad valorem taxes on real property to one percent
of full cash value. As a result, property tax revenues to local governments were reduced. That
reduction particularly affected agencies, such as Kensington Fire Protection District, which
previously depended upon the property tax for virtually all of their revenues.

California law authorizes local governments to adopt special taxes for fire protection
with the approval of two-thirds of the electorate. In 1980, District voters approved Ordinance
80-02, imposing a special tax for fire protection in specific amounts, ranging from $83 per year
for a single family residence to $415 per year for multiple dwellings with five or more units.

Thereafter, the Legislature amended the law to make clear that ordinances: which set
maximum amounts of tax and allow the governing boards of local fire districts to vary the
amount levied, up to the voter-approved maximum, are legally permissible,

Because of the fiscal difficulties of the State of California, the Board anticipates that
there will be significant reductions in State financial assistance to the District. The amount
of reduction is unknown at the time this measure was required to be placed on the ballot.

PROPOSAL

Passage of this measure would amend Ordinance No, 80-02 by increasing the amount
of tax which could be imposed and authorizing the Board to determine the exact rate of tax
annually, based on the District's estimated need for revenue in the following year.

The maximum amounts of tax which the Board could be authorized to level would vary
by type of property, ranging from $400,00 for a single family residence to $800.00 for multiple
dwellings with five or more units.

The Board could establish the tax rates at levels lower than those now in effect and
could increase one or more of them up to the amounts fixed by the ordinance. The amount of
tax levied could not, however, exceed the maximum amounts established in the Ordinance
without subsequent voter approval.

The new maximum rates would become effective for the tax year that began on July 1.

1992.	Any increase in rate for that year over the rate set by Ordinance No. 8(5-02 would be
collected in two installments: the first installment would become delinquent at the end of the
following month; the second installment of the increase would become delinquent on April 10,

1993.	In future years, both installments of the tax would be collected at the same times as
property taxes, as they have in the past.

The additional revenues derived from an increase in the special tax could be used only
for providing fire protection and prevention

(5)

The actual fiscal effect will depend upon what changes, if any, to the existing rates of
tax are made by the Board.

If the Board were to increase the tax rates applicable to each of the property categories
to the maximum amounts authorized by Ordinance No. 92-02, the District estimates it would
receive approximately $916,150.00 per year in additional revenue.

ORDINANCE NO. 92-01

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 80-02,

WHICH IMPOSES A SPECIAL TAX FOR FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
AND PROPOSING THE AMENDMENTS FOR ADOPTION

KENSINGTON FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

WHEREAS, on.Apr.il 8,1980, the voters approved Ordinance No, 80-02 imposing a special,
tax for fire protection anti prevention, effective commencing with the fiscal year beginning July
1, 1980; anti

WHEREAS, there exists substantial uncertainty as to the level of financial assistance,
if any, which the District may receive from the State of California. Significant reductions in
the amount of such State subventions are likely for fiscal year 1992-93 and thereafter, but the
exact amounts and severity of such reductions are not known at this time; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that the revenues provided from ad
valorem property taxes and the special tax authorised by Ordinance No. 80-02 will be insufficient
to su.pjjo.rt continuation of present levels of fire protection services by the District during fiscal
year 1992-93 and thereafter; and

WHEREAS, Section 53978 of the Government Code authorizes local agencies which
provide fire protection to propose a special tax measure under which the amount of tax actually
levied annually may be varied from time to time by the Board, of Directors, within the maximum
amounts approved by the voters, to meet changing financial conditions; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has determined that, without the additional revenues
which an increase in the authorized amounts of the special tax would provide, substantial
reductions in. the level and. quality of fire protection may be necessary commencing with fiscal
year 1992-93. In order to avoid reductions in the level and quality of fire protection which will
be necessary if State financial support is reduced, the Board of Directors has determined that
it should seek authority from the voters to adjust from time to time the level of special tax
applied to various categories of property in accordance with the District’s estimated need for
revenue, up to the maximum amounts approved by the voters, which maximum limits should
be higher than the amounts of tax established by Ordinance No. 80-02; and

■WHEREAS, the Board of Directors remains committed to imposing a tax rate no higher
than that necessary to provide sufficient funds for continued fire protection services. If in any
year additional sources of revenue not now anticipated become available to the District, or if
revenues from existing sources exceed the amounts now anticipated, or if expenditures are
able to be reduced, consistent with adequate fire protection and prevention, then it is the policy
and intention of the Board to set the amount of special tax at rates below the authorized
maximum, including reducing it below' the amounts originally approved by voters in 1980; and

WHEREAS, it is also the policy and intention of this Board to maintain the amounts of
tax applicable to various classes of property at levels which are fair and equitable, taking into
account the costs of providing fire protection and the benefits of such protection to such prop-
erties.

NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
KENSINGTON FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT as follows:

Section 1. Amendment to Ordinance No. 80-02

(a) Subsection 1 of Ordinance No. 80-02 is hereby amended to read as follows;

“Section 1. Determination of Amount of Tax

A. A special tax for fire protection, and prevention is hereby determined in the
following maximum amounts upon property within the District:

Class of Improvements or Use	Maximum Amount of Tax

Single Family Residential	$400.00	per year

Duplex Residential	$600.00	per year

Triplex & Combination Residential	$650.00	per year

Fourplex Residential, Commercial and Institutional
Property	$800.00	per year

Multiple Unit Residential (Five or More Units)	$800.00	per year

Unimproved Property	$100.00	per year

B.	The Board of Directors is hereby authorized to determine annually the amount
of tax to be levied for each Class of Improvement or Use, based on the District’s anticipated
need for revenue. Until the Board of Directors adopts an ordinance changing the amounts
of tax, the amounts to be levied shall be those established by Ordinance No. 80-02,

The Board of Directors shall determine, annually and prior to June 30 of each
year, the amount of tax to be levied for the ensuing fiscal year. If the Board does not
adopt an ordinance changing the amount of tax to be levied, that shall be deemed to
constitute a determination that the amount of tax to be levied during the ensuing fiscal
year shall be the amount in effect during the year in which such determination is deemed
to be made.

The Board of Directors may decrease the amount of tax to be levied for any Class
of Improvement or Use or may increase it within the limits set forth in Section A. In no
case shall the amount of tax to be levied exceed the maximum limits set forth in Section
A without the required approval of the voters.

C.	In the case of the fiscal year beginning on July X, 1992 and ending on June
30, 1993 only, the Board of Directors shall determine the amount of tax to be lev ied for
that fiscal year prior to January 1, 1993, rather than prior to June 30 of the preceding
fiscal year as called for in Section l.B, above.”

(b) Section 5 of Ordinance No. 80-02 is hereby amended by the addition of the following
sentence at the end thereof:

“In the case of the tax year beginning on July 1, 1992 only, the increase, if any,
in the amount of the special tax for that tax year over the amount established by
Ordinance No. 80-02 as payable for that tax year, shall be collected in the same manner
as a supplemental bill for ad valorem property taxes, except that the second installment
shall become due at 5 p.m. on March 1, 1993, and shall become delinquent at 5 p.m. on
April 10, 1993.”

Section 2. Ratification of Ordinance No, 80-02

Except as provided above, all provisions of Ordinance No. 80-02 remain unchanged. If
the voters do not approve the changes to Section 2 and Section 5 made by this Ordinance, then
the special tax adopted by Ordinance No. 80-02 will remain in full force and effect without
change.

Section 3. Effective Date

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its approval by the voters of the
District in the manner provided by law. If so approved, the amounts of tax may be changed
from those established bv Ordinance No. 80-02 commencing with the tax year beginning on
July 1, 1992.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a meeting of the Board of Directors held on the 5th day
of August 1992, by the following vote:

AYES:	3
NOES;	0
ABSENT:	0

ATTEST:
Samuel Treese
Secretary

Paul H. Wilson.

President, Board < 1 • • ctors

Kensington Fire P !	■	on	District

Martin Knight
Director

Ben Young
Director

*

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
KENSINGTON FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE M ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

We urge the voters of Kensington to vote “YES" on the Kensington Fire District Special Tax,
and amendment to the 1980 voter approved Special Tax. This amendment is important because
more than 57% of our funding is at serious risk due to the California State Government’s lack
of leadership, resulting in a probable major shift in. funds away from Special Districts. This
additional revenue will be used only for essential Fire Protection and Prevention Services.

We seek permission to set a special tax rate in the range of $83 (present tax) to a maximum
$400 per single family parcel, and up to $800 for multiple dwellings (5 or more) and commer-
cial properties. Precise rates will be determined later this year after we know our shortfall
from State and County sources. Rates can be adjusted each year as long as we stay within the
limit, and the limit can only be adjusted by voter approval.

Without this tax measure our community faces many unknowns, including no local fire protec-
tion service or reduced, service from another community, higher household fire insurance cost,
and slower response time. Will the lessons of the Oakland Hills fire be for naught? Neighboring
fire fighting agencies will also be adversely impacted and may be unable to support, the highly
successful Mutual Aid Program.

A % Majority Vote is required to pass this measure. Your “YES” vote is essential to prevent
a disaster from becoming reality. We know this is a considerable burden for some families, but
please ask yourself what the consequences might be if adequate funding is not available for
continued excellent FIRE PROTECTION.

PLEASE MAINTAIN THE QUALITY OF OUR FIRE PROTECTION IN KENSINGTON.

Paul Wilson
Ben Young
Martin Knight

ARGUMENT AGAINST
KENSINGTON FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX MEASURE M ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

None Piled.