Ordinance No. 803
Page 1 of 9

ORDINANCE NO. 803

AN ORDINANCE OP THE CITY OF HOLLISTER
IMPOSING A UTILITY TAX FOR THE CONTINUED
AVAILABILITY OF AND ACCESS TO MUNICIPAL SERVICES
AND FACILITIES SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY
THE ELECTORATE OF THE CITY

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLISTER DOES ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

ARTICLE 1

DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION

Section l.l Definitions. Unless the context otherwise
requires, the terms defined in this Section for all purposes of the
Ordinance and of any amendment thereto shall have the meanings
herein specified.

(a)	"City" means the City of Hollister.

(b)	"Month" means a calendar month.

(c)	"Person" shall mean all domestic and foreign
corporations, firms, associations, syndicates, joint stock
companies, partnerships of every kind, joint ventures, clubs,
Massachusetts business or common law trusts, societies or
individuals.

(d)	"Service Supplier" shall mean an "Electrical Corporation"
(as such phrase is defined in Section 218 of the Public Utilities
Code of the State of California) supplying electrical current to
Service Users.

(e)	"Service User" shall mean a resident of the City of
Hollister to which a Service Supplier supplies electrical current.

(f)	"Single-family resident unit" includes condominium unit.

(g)	"Tax Administrator" means the Director of Finance of the

City.

Section 1.2 Rules of Construction. All references in this
Ordinance to "Articles", "Sections" and other subdivisions are to
the corresponding Articles, Sections or subdivisions of this
Ordinance; and the words "herein", "hereof", "hereunder", and other
words of similar import refer to this Ordinance as a whole and not
to any particular Article, Section or subdivision hereof.

Ordinance No. 803
Page 2 of 9

Words of the masculine gender shall be deemed and construed to
include correlative words of the feminine and neuter genders.
Unless the context shall otherwise indicates, words importing the
singular number shall include the plural number and vice versa.

Section 1.3 Benefit to all Persons. The City Council has
found and determined and hereby declares that all persons residing
in the City enjoy the privilege of using and benefit from the
providing, by the City, of municipal services and facilities and
that the City is unable to continue providing such services and
facilities at or near the current level without the funding to be
provided by this Ordinance.

Section 1.4 Intent of City Council. The intent of this
Ordinance is to impose a tax on certain utility services used by
Service Users residing in the City of Hollister. This tax is not

(a)	a property tax, ad valorem or otherwise, (b) a transaction tax,
(c) a sales tax on real property or (d) a special tax.

Section 1.5 Exemptions and Exclusions.

(a)	Nothing contained in this Ordinance shall be construed as
imposing a tax upon any person when imposition of such tax upon
that person would be in violation of the Constitution or the laws
of the United States of America or of the State of California.

(b)	Service Suppliers shall not collect any tax pursuant to
this Ordinance from any person who qualifies for any low income
rate assistance, universal life line or any similar program
provided by the Service Supplier to low-income Service Users.

(c)	The City Council may, by Resolution, establish a cap or
limit on the charges for certain services or utilities otherwise
subject to this Ordinance, where the City Council finds that
imposition of the charge without such limitation would impose a
disproportionate burden upon the person taxed.

Section 1.6. Conflicts. Nothing contained in this Ordinance
is intended to conflict with applicable rules, regulations and
tariffs of any Service Supplier subject to the jurisdiction of the
California Public Utilities Commission, in the event of any such
conflict, the provisions of said rules, regulations or tariffs
shall control.

ARTICLE 2

IMPOSITION OF TAX

Section 2.1 Purpose of Tax. The tax imposed hereby on
certain utilities used by residents of the City of Hollister is for
the continued availability of and access to municipal services and

2

Ordinance No. 803
Page 3 of 9

facilities. Said tax is for general governmental purposes, and is
referred to herein as the "Tax".

Section 2.2. Tax Imposed. The city Council of the city of
Hollister hereby imposes a Tax upon every Service User in the City,
which Tax shall be billed to and paid by the Service User together
with the utility charges billed to the Service User by the Service
Supplier, and shall be a fixed amount as set, from time to time, by
Resolution of the City Council. "Charges" as used in this Section,
shall include charges made for (1) metered energy, and (2) minimum
charges for service, including customer charges, service charges,
demand charges, standby charges and annual and monthly charges, but
shall not include the following:

(a)	The storage of such electrical energy by a person in a
battery owned or possessed by him or her for use in an automobile,
machinery or device apart from the premises where the energy was
received, provided, however, that charges shall be included for the
receiving of such energy for the purpose of using it in the
charging of batteries; or

(b)	The mere receiving of such energy by a Service Supplier
or a governmental agency at a point within the City for resale; or

(c)	The use of such energy in the production or distribution
of water by a public utility or a governmental agency.

Section 2.3 Maximum Rates. The maximum rates to be paid by
all persons residing in the City shall not exceed the following:

(a)	As to persons occupying
single-family residential units on
other than a transient basis.

$	5.00	per

residential unit per
month

(b)	As to persons residing as
tenants in apartment units or mobile
home parks for a period of longer
than 30 days

Section 2.4 Method of collection.

$	5.00	per rental

unit or mobile home
per month

(a)	The Tax constitutes a debt owed to the City by the
persons identified in Section 2.3 above, which debt is extinguished
only by payment of the amount of the Tax in the manner specified
herein.

(b)	The Tax shall be collected from the Service User by the
Service Supplier. The amount of the Tax collected in each month
shall be remitted by U.S. mail to the Tax Administrator postmarked
on or before the last day of the following month.

(c)	The City may modify or amend the methods of collection

Ordinance No. 803
Page 4 of 9

herein set forth to clarify any ambiguity or uncertainty therein or
to render the collection of the Tax more effective or to minimize
or ameliorate inequities or to provide a more efficient method of
collection now or hereafter provided by law.

(d)	If the Tax has been collected by a Service Supplier but
has not been remitted to the Tax Administrator, the amount of such
Tax shall be deemed debt owed to the City by such Service Supplier.

(g) Any person owing money to the City under the provisions
of the Ordinance shall be liable in an action brought in the name
of the City for the recovery of such amount.

Section 2.5 Duration. The Tax shall not take effect unless
first approved by a majority of the voters voting in the general
election of November 3, 1992, and shall be levied for a maximum of
four (4) years from the date of its first imposition.

ARTICLE 3
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

Section 3.1 Duty to Collect. The duty to collect and remit
the taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall be performed as follows:

(a)	The Tax shall be collected insofar as practical at the
same time as and along with the charges made in accordance with
regular billing practice of the Service Supplier. Where the amount
paid by a Service User to a Service Supplier is less than the full
amount of the service charge and Tax which has accrued for the
billing period, such amount and any subsequent payments by a
Service User shall be applied to the utility charge first until
such charge has been fully satisfied. Any remaining balance shall
be applied to Taxes due.

(b)	The duty to collect Tax from a Service User shall
commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period
applicable to that person which starts on or after the effective
and operative date of this Ordinance, and such duty to collect
arises separately for each billing period.

Section 3.2. Administrative Agreements. The Director may
make administrative agreements to vary the strict requirements of
this Ordinance so that the collection of any Tax imposed herein may
be made in conformance with the billing procedures of a particular
Service Supplier, so long as the overall effect of said agreements
results in the collection of Tax in conformance with the general
purpose and scope of this Ordinance. A copy of each such agreement
shall be on file and available for public examination in the Tax
Administrator's office.

4

Ordinance No. 803
Page 5 of 9

Section 3.3. Delinquent Taxes - Service User,

(a) In the event that any Service User fails to pay any Tax
imposed by this Ordinance within sixty (60) days of the date of
notice from the Service Supplier of the amount of Tax due, such
Service User shall pay a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the
delinquency which shall be added to the unpaid Tax on the last day
of the month following the date on which payment was dueand both
shall bear interest as specified in sub-section (c) below.

(b)	If the Tax Administrator determines that the non-payment
by any Service User of any Tax imposed by this Ordinance is due to
fraud, a penalty of twenty five (25) percent of the amount of the
Tax shall be added to the penalty imposed by sub-section (a) above.
In the event that the Tax, 10% penalty and 25% fraud penalty are
not paid in full to the City by the end of the next succeeding
month, the 10% penalty and the 25% fraud penalty shall be added to
the unremitted Tax and the sum shall bear interest as specified in
sub-section (c) below,

(c)	In addition to the penalties imposed by sub-sections (a)
and (b) above, any Service User who fails to pay any Tax imposed by
this Ordinance shall pay interest at the rate of one and one-half
(1-1/2) percent per month, or fraction thereof, on the amount of
the Tax exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the payment
first became delinquent until paid and interest at the rate of one
and one-half (1-1/2) percent per month, or fraction thereon, on the
amount of the penalty from the date on which such penalty is added
to the unremitted Tax pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) above.
Furthermore, in addition to the abovementioned penalties and
interest, such delinquent Service User shall also pay a collection
charge of Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) for each delinquent account.
In the event that the interest rates stated above shall exceed the
amount allowed by Federal or State law, the rate of interest shall
be lowered to the maximum allowed under such applicable law.

(d)	Every penalty imposed upon a Service User and such
interest as accrues, under the provisions of this section, shall
become part of the Tax required to be paid. The penalties,
interest and collection charges imposed by this section shall not
be collected by the Service Supplier but by the City.

Section 3.4. Collection of Tax from Service User. Whenever
the Tax Administrator determines that a Service User has
deliberately withheld the amount of any Tax imposed on him or her
by the provisions of this Ordinance from the amounts remitted to a
Service Supplier required to collect the Tax, or that a Service
User has failed to pay the amount of the Tax to such Service
Supplier for a period of four (4) or more billing periods, or
whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the
City, he or she may relieve such Service Supplier of the obligation
to collect Taxes due under this Ordinance from specifically named

Ordinance No. 803
Page 6 of 9

Service Users for specified billing periods. The Tax Administrator
shall notify the Service User that the Tax Administrator has
assumed responsibility to collect the Tax due for the stated
periods and demand payment of such Tax, plus any penalty imposed
and such interest as may be due pursuant to other provisions of
this Ordinance. The notice shall be served on the Service User
personally or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the Service User at the address to
which billings were made by the Service Supplier required to
collect the Tax, or, should the Service User have changed his or
her address, then to his or her last known address.

Section 3.5. Appeals.

(a) Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Tax
Administrator pursuant to this Ordinance may appeal such decision
to the city council by filing a notice of appeal with the Director
within fifteen (15) days of the date of service or mailing of the
decision.

(b)	The City Council shall fix the time and place for hearing
such appeal. The Director shall give notice thereof in writing to
such person by serving it personally or by depositing it in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such person at
his or her last known address.

(c)	The City Council shall have authority to determine all
questions raised on appeal at the time of the hearing. No
determination made by the City Council shall conflict with any
substantive provision of this Ordinance.

(d)	During the pendency of an appeal, no additional penalties
or interest, as provided for in this Ordinance, shall be imposed.

Section 3.6. Records. Every Service Supplier required to
collect and remit to the City any Tax imposed by this Ordinance,
shall keep and preserve, for a period of three (3) years, all
records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such Tax
that such Service Supplier is required to collect and remit to the
City, which records shall be open to inspection by the Tax
Administrator at all reasonable times.

Section 3.7. Refunds.

(a) Whenever the amount of any Tax, penalty or interest, has
been overpaid or paid more than once, or has been erroneously or
illegally collected or received by the City under this Ordinance,
it may be refunded as set forth in this Section provided a claim in
writing therefor, stating under penalty of perjury the specific
grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the Tax
Administrator within one (1) year of the date of payment. The
claim shall be on a form provided by the Tax Administrator.

6

Ordinance No. 803
Page 7 of 9

(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-section (a) of this
section, a Service Supplier may claim a refund or take as credit
against Tax collected and remitted any amount overpaid, paid more
than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received,
provided such Service Supplier has established in a manner
prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the person from whom the
Tax has been collected was not a Service User. However, neither a
refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the Tax
erroneously or illegally collected has either been refunded to the
Service user or credited to charges subsequently payable by the
Service User to the Service Supplier. A Service Supplier that has
collected any amount of Tax in excess of the amount of Tax imposed
by this Ordinance and actually due from a Service User, may refund
such amount to the Service User and claim credit for such
overpayment against the amount of Tax which is due upon any other
monthly returns, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated
no later than three (3) years from the date of overpayment.

(c)	Any Service User may obtain a refund of Taxes overpaid or
paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the City by filing a claim in the manner provided in
sub-section (a) above, but only when the Service User having paid
the Tax to the Service Supplier establishes to the satisfaction of
the Tax Administrator that the Service User has been unable to
obtain a refund from the Service Supplier who collected the Tax.

(d)	Notwithstanding other provisions of this section,
whenever a Service Supplier, pursuant to an order of the California
Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction,
makes a refund to Service Users of charges for past utility
services, the Taxes paid pursuant to the Ordinance on the amount of
such refunded charges shall also be refunded to Service users, and
the Service Supplier shall be entitled to claim a credit for such
refunded Taxes against the amount of Tax which is due upon the next
monthly returns. In the event this Ordinance is repealed, the
amounts of any refundable Taxes will be borne by the City,

(e)	A Service Supplier may refund the Taxes Collected to a
Service User in accordance with this section or by the Service
Supplier's customary practice.

ARTICLE 4. MISCELLANEOUS

Section 4.1, Powers in Addition, The powers conferred by,
and the limitations imposed in, this Ordinance do not affect any
powers conferred by any other Ordinance or law.

Section 4.2. Article Controlling. If this Ordinance is
inconsistent with any other Ordinance, this Ordinance shall be

7

Ordinance No. 803
Page 8 of 9

controlling.

Section 4.3. Liberal Construction. This Ordinance shall be
liberally construed to promote its objectives.

Section 4.4. Defect or Omission - Validity of Proceedings or

Taxes•

Provided the jurisdiction of the City Council to order the
proposed act is not affected, the failure of any officer of the
City to proceed as set forth in prior sections of this Ordinance
does not invalidate the proceedings involved or the Tax levied
under this Ordinance.

Section 4.5. Limitation of Actions. The validity of this
Ordinance or of any Tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance shall not
be contested in any action or proceeding or raised in any defense
unless such action, proceeding or defense shall have been brought
or raised within sixty (60) days from the date of the adoption of
this Ordinance. Unless an action or proceeding is commenced or
such defense raised within said period, this Ordinance and any Tax
levied pursuant to this Ordinance shall be valid and in every
respect incontestable and legal. This section is not intended to
validate or otherwise authorize any such action, proceeding or
defense which might be commenced or raised within the
abovementioned period.

Section 4.6. Severability. If any section, sub-section,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Ordinance, or any
part of this Ordinance is, for any reason, held to be invalid or
unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity or
constitutionality of the remaining portions of this Ordinance, or
any other part of this Ordinance. The City Council hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, sub-section, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase of this Ordinance irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, sub-section, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases of this Ordinance might be invalid or
unconstitutional.

Section 4.7 Termination or Suspension of Tax. The Service
Supplier shall, upon notification, terminate or suspend any Tax
commencing with the first full billing period which occurs after
the effective date of such action by the city Council.

Section 4.8 Disposition of Proceeds. This Ordinance is
hereby declared to be a revenue measure for general government
purposes; the proceeds of the Tax shall be paid into the general
fund.

ARTICLE 5
PUBLICATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE

8

Ordinance No. 803
Page 9 of 9

Section 5.1 Publication. This Ordinance shall be published
once in the Free Lance, a newspaper of general circulation for
Hollister, California, within fifteen (15) days after the adoption
of this Ordinance by the City Council. The city Clerk is hereby
authorized and directed to make said publication and to transmit a
certified copy of this Ordinance to the appropriate officials of
the County of San Benito responsible for preparing the ballots for
said election.

Section 5.2 Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become
effective after approval of the Ordinance by a majority of the
voters of the City voting in the general election to be held on
November 3, 1992, and upon forwarding by the Service Supplier of
its first billing of the Tax to a Service User.

This Ordinance was read and introduced on the 17th day of
August	,	1992,	and	passed	and adopted by the City Council

of the City of Hollister on the 8th day of September________1992, by

the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmen	Irish,	Johnson,	Escover, Camacho-Light, and Mayor Hallberg

NOES: None.

9

Page 1 of 3

RESOLUTION NO. 92- 119

RESOLUTION OP THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF HOLLISTER REQUESTING THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
OF THE COUNTY OF SAN BENITO TO INCLUDE BALLOT MEASURE AND TO
RENDER SPECIFIED SERVICES TO THE CITY OF HOLLISTER
RELATING TO THE CONDUCT OF A REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTION
TO BE HELD NOVEMBER 3, 1992

WHEREAS, a Regular Municipal Election is to be held in the
City of Hollister on Tuesday, November 3, 1992; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito
has agreed to consolidate such Regular Municipal Election with the
November 3, 1992 Regular Election; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to place before the voters
of the City of Hollister a proposition approving the imposition of
a tax upon the residents of the City for the continued availability
of and access to municipal services and facilities; and

WHEREAS, in the course of conduct of the Regular Municipal
Election and in relation thereto, it will be necessary provide
various services to candidates and to proponents and opponents of
the abovementioned ballot measure, including to receive their
nomination papers and campaign disclosure forms as required by the
Faie Political Practices Commission; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable and efficient to consolidate in the
office of the City Clerk for the City of Hollister the provision of
the abovementioned services to candidates and to proponents and
opponents of City ballot measures and to consolidate in the office
of the County Clerk for the County of San Benito the provision of
other services in connection with the election; and

WHEREAS, the City of Hollister desires the County of San
Benito to furnish such election assistance as may be authorized by
state law, other than services directly related to the activities
and filings of City candidates and proponents and opponents of City
ballot measures; and

WHEREAS, all necessary expense incurred by the County of San
Benito in performing these services shall be paid by the City of
Hollister,

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HOLLISTER DOES
RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:

Resolution No. 92-119
Page 2 of 3

Section 1.	Pursuant	to	Elections	Code	Section	22003, the

City Council requests that the Board of Supervisors of the County
of Los Angeles permit the County clerk to provide services to the
City in connection with the November 3, 1992 election, to the
extent determined necessary by the City Clerk and such other
services as may be deemed necessary and appropriate to reduce the
expense and administrative burden of the election.

Section 2.	The City Council hereby requests the Board of

Supervisors for the County of San Benito to include the following
measure on the ballot to be submitted to the voters of the City of
Hollister for a vote of YES or NO:

"MEASURE p : Shall Ordinance No. 803 of the City of
Hollister Be approved in order to authorize the
imposition of a utility tax on residents of the City for
the continued availability of and access to municipal
services and facilities, at rates of not to exceed $ 5.00
per month per residential unit, apartment unit and mobile
home, and for a period of not to exceed four (4) years?"

Section 3.	The City of Hollister shall reimburse the

County of San Benito for services performed when the work is
completed and upon presentation to the City of Hollister of a
properly approved bill.

Section 4. The City Clerk is directed to forward without
delay to the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Benito and
to the County clerk and/or Registrar of voters a certified copy of
this Resolution.

The foregoing Resolution was adopted at a regular meeting of
the City Council of the City of Hollister held on the 3rd day of
August_____, 1992, by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmen	Johnson, Camacho-Light, Escover, Mayor Hallberg.

NOES:	Councilman	Irish.

ABSENT:	None.

ABSTAINING:	None.

ATTEST:

Resolution No. 92-119
Page 3 of 3

CERTIFICATION

The undersigned hereby certifies that the foregoing is a full,
true and correct copy of the original now on file and a matter of
public record in the Office of the Clerk of the City of Hollister.

Dated:	August	  1992

Margaret L. Pidd

Clerk of the City of Hollister