County of

Sample Ballot

& Voter’s Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3,1992

Compiled by Fresno County Clerk

Last day to register to vote in this election:
OCTOBER 5, 1992
If you moved on or before that day, and you did not reregister
you are not eligible to vote in this election. If you moved after
that day, you are entitled to vote in this election, but you must
reregister to vote in future elections.

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE
IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

10FC

OFFICIAL BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED GENERAL ELECTION

November 3, 1992	Fresno	County

1 R 7 STATE TAXES. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Increases taxes ID# on top personal income taxpayers, corporations, banks, insurance companies, and oil producers. Repeals 1991 sales tax increases. Provides for renters' tax credits. Changes business-owned	YES	kl84*
	NO	1185*
real property reappraisal rule. Fiscal Impact: Net state gains of $560 million to $910 million annually from 1993-94 through 1995-96; thereafter, approximately an additional $1 billion annually. Net increase in revenues to local governments of $550 million to $1.2 billion beginning 1993-94.		
COUiUTY		
COUNTY OF FRESNO CHARTER AMENDMENT MEASURE A		
A Shall sections 4 and 8 of the Charter of the County of Fresno be amended such that a candidate for appointment or election to the Fresno County Board of Supervisors must have been a resident of the applicable supervisorial district for at least thirty (30) days immediately preceding the appointment, or immediately preceding the date of filing of nominating papers or equivalent declarations of candidacy for the election?	YES	!192S>
	NO	1193*
		
DISTRICT		
WASHINGTON COLONY CEMETERY DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX MEASURE J		
1 Shall a special tax be levied, on the real property located within U Washington Colony Cemetery District, at the rate of $0,015 per every $100.00 of assessed value per year for the next fifteen years for the purpose of constructing, repairing, and maintaining capital facilities	YES	1199*
	NO	1200*
and improvements of Washington Colony Cemetery District?		

10-805

WASHINGTON COLONY CEMETERY DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX,

MEASURE J
(Full Text of Measure)

Shall a special tax be levied, on the real property located within Washington Colony Cemetery District, at the rate of
$0,015 per every $100.00 of assessed value per year for the next fifteen years for the purpose of constructing, repairing,
and maintaining capital facilities and improvements of Washington Colony Cemetery District?

WASHINGTON COLONY CEMETERY DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX,

MEASURE J
(Impartial Analysis by County Counsel)

This analysis of the special tax to raise revenue for constructing, repairing and maintaining capital facilities and improvements
of the Washington Colony Cemetery District is prepared and submitted to the voters in accordance with section 3781
of the Elections Code.

In 1979, the Legislature added sections 50075 through 50077 to the Government Code to implement the provisions of
Article Xlll-A of the California Constitution. These statutes authorized cities, counties and districts to submit to the voters
for approval or rejection a measure authorizing the levying of a special tax.

If two-thirds of the qualifying electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the Board of Trustees of the Washington
Colony Cemetery District will be authorized to levy a special tax on the real property located within Washington Colony
Cemetery District, at the rate of $0,015 cents per every one hundred dollars ($100) of assessed value per year for the
next fifteen (15) years. The proceeds of this special tax shall he used for the purpose of constructing, repairing and maintaining
capital facilities and improvements of the Washington Colony Cemetery District, and for the necessary administrative costs
for the collection of the tax.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure do not vote for approval, the measure will fail and the proposed
special tax will not be levied.

The electors who will be entitled to vote on this measure will he those qualified electors who reside within the boundaries
of the Washington Colony Cemetery District.

Is/ Phillip S. Cronin
County Counsel

10-VP23

10-VP23

WASHINGTON COLONY CEMETERY DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX,

MEASURE J
(Argument in Favor)

The Washington Colony Cemetery District, created by a vote of the people in 1938, provides the maintenance and operation
of burial facilities in both Washington Colony and Raisin City Cemeteries.

District Trustees have attempted through the years to keep grounds maintenance costs and burial service charges at low
levels and still provide facilities which families will feel comfortable in using.

During the past few years, however, it has become increasingly difficult to maintain these standards because District
tax funds are frozen at a low rate while property values and population have failed to grow in this District as they have
elsewhere in Fresno County.

Trustees have found it necessary to meeting rising costs of operation by increasing burial service fees so greatly that
Washington Colony charges more than any other district in Fresno County. Even with these measures, the District has
been forced to cut one of its four employee positions.

The Board of Supervisors has attempted in the past to relieve the District's financial problem with county augmentation
funds but the District now faces discontinuance of those funds as well as state mandates further reducing available local
tax revenue.

Ever-increasing costs coupled with these fund losses have forced the District to ask for a special tax assessment in the
amount of $.015 cents per $100,00 of assessed valuation for 15 years for the purpose of constructing, repairing and
maintaining capital facilities and improvements. This special tax should alleviate, to a great extent, increasing burial service
fees, and allow Washington Colony Cemetery District to continue to provide the quality of facilities now present.

Board of Trustees of Washington Colony Cemetary District

Is/ Delbert Cederquist	Isl	Walter	Hammond

10-VP24

10-VP24