SEP-11-1992	08:45	FROM	CITY	OF	MILLBRAE

TO

93125348

P.03

(August 26, 11:00 A.M)

Argument In Favor of Measure H

The City of Miilbrae has struggled for years to secure adequate funding sources to
support and maintain the Fire, Police, Street Maintenance, Park and Recreation services
desired by our community.

Like most residential communities, Miilbrae lacks a strong commercial and industrial
tax base. The changing economy has decreased City revenues, while the demand for city
services has increased. Thus, current revenues no longer keep pace with the cost of
providing public services. To balance its budget, the State has taken traditional revenue
sources from the City and will do so again this year. In addition, the State has mandated
programs imposing additional costs on Miilbrae.

Service levels in Fire, Police, Parks and Public Works have been reduced because of
the hiring freeze in effect during the past year. MiilbraeJs Fire and Police departments are
among the smallest forces per resident in San Mateo County.

In an attempt to maintain current service levels, the City must find new revenue
sources. Measure H asks you to support an assessment of up to $72 per year for the next
five years to finance Fire, Police, Parks and municipal services. This assessment will
generate approximately $630,000 annually, making available that amount of General Funds
to be allocated as follows:

♦	60%	for	Fire	and	Police	services

♦	25%	for	Street Maintenance and Park/Recreation services

♦	15%	for	support services such as Finance and Community Development

All for a cost of $6.00 per month.

If we do not pass Measure H, the citizens of Miilbrae will experience an erosion of
the above services. Miilbrae has been blessed with a good quality of life. In an effort to
preserve it, we urge you to vote "YES" on Adv

Councilmembcr Robert H. Treseler

Councilmember Frank T. Cannizzaro

Mayor Doris Morse

Vice Mayor Paul Van Iderstine

IMPARTIAL AHALYSIS FOR MEASURE S
TIT TITF ITO^MFER 3,
uriwiAL MiLLmonnnn^eCTAL-BLEeTioM

The City Council of the City of Millbrae has placed this advisory
measure on the ballot to determine whether the voters support the
establishment of a citywide assessment district. This district,
which would be in effect for no more than five years, would
generate additional revenues in an effort to maintain existing
service levels in Millbrae. When the City Council placed this
advisory measure on the ballot, it also enacted a companion
resolution stipulating the intent of and the general parameters
for the adoption of this citywide assessment district
("Resolution of Intent").

In accordance with the Resolution of Intent and applicable legal
requirements, the annual assessment would affect all residential,
commercial and industrial property owners in a fair and equitable
manner. The assessment would be paid with the annual property
tax bill of each property owner. As indicated in the advisory
measure and as further clarified in the Resolution of Intent,
property owners of single family residential property would be
assessed no more than $72 per year upon establishment of the
assessment district. It is estimated that this assessment
proposal would generate approximately $630,000 per year.

The proposed assessment would be established under the
Landscaping and Lighting Act of 1972 ("Act"). This Act permits a
city to raise funds through assessments for installation, main-
tenance and servicing of public parks, recreational and other
landscaping facilities, as well as street lighting systems. In
Millbrae, these activities currently are financed with General
Fund revenues. To the extent that the citywide assessment
district generates a new revenue source for public landscaping
and lighting facilities, the General Fund revenues presently used
for these purposes would be available for reallocation to support
the City's fire, police, parks, recreation and other municipal
services.

The Act also specifies implementation procedures for the
assessment district. It requires that the City Council conduct a
noticed public hearing each year to determine the amount of the
assessments based on projected costs and benefits of the services
to be financed under the assessment district in the upcoming
fiscal year. Future annual adjustments in the assessments shall
not exceed the increase in the cost of living as determined by
the Consumer Price index, factored from the maximum base of $72
per year for owners of single family residences.

66672.1

SEP-11-1992	00:53	FROM	CITY	OF	MILLBRAE

TO

93125340

P.03

The city Council has included in this advisory measure a five
year sunset clause. The Resolution of Intent indicates that this
restriction is designed to assure that the Council would
reevaluate the need for the assessment district within that
period of time.

68672.1