
<full> PROPOSED ORDINANCE
The People of the County of San Diego ordain as follows:

ORDINANCE NO. 8127 (NEW SERIES)

AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 1.5 (COMMENCING WITH SECTION 22.150) TO DIVISION 2 OF THE SAN DIEGO CODE OF REGULATORY ORDINANCES RELATING TO THE FINANCING OF SAN DIEGO COUNTY JUSTICE-RELATED FACILITIES, LAW ENFORCEMENT AND CRIME PREVENTION, IMPOSING A COUNTYWIDE RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX, AND INCREASING THE COUNTY CONSTITUTIONAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Diego ordains as follows: 

SECTION 1. Chapter 1.5 )commencing with section 22.150) is hereby added to the County Code of Regulatory Ordinances to read as follows:


CHAPTER 1.5
SAN DIEGO COUNTY JUSTICE-RELATED FACILITIES, LAW ENFORCEMENT AND CRIME PREVENTION FINANCING ORDINANCE


Sec. 22.150. PURPOSE AND INTENT

The county of San Diego as a regional government is required to provide justice-related facilities such as courts and jails for the people of the County of San Diego in order to promote their health, safety, and welfare. The overcrowding of existing regional justice-related facilities impedes the administration of justice and endangers society by the release of persons sue to a lack of facilities to confine them. Law enforcement and crime prevention are so inadequately funded so as to endanger the safety of persons and property in San Diego County. The County of San Diego is also authorized to fund law enforcement and crime prevention projects. The purpose of this Ordinance is to imply,eat State law allowing the voters to decide upon a one-half of one percent (1/2%) countywide retail transactions and use tax. The proceeds of the tax will be used to finance justice-relate facilities such as courts and jails and related matters, and law enforcement and crime prevention activities and projects. Hereinafter, “retail transactions and use tax” shall be referred to as “sales tax.” 

Sec. 22.151. COUNTYWIDE SALES TAX

In addition to any other taxes authorized by law, on the operative date of this Ordinance there is hereby imposed in the incorporated territory of the County of San Diego, in accordance with chapter 2.7 (commencing with 7286.30) of part 1.7 of division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, a sales tax at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2%) in addition to any existing or future authorized state or local sales tax or transactions and use tax. 


Sec. 22.152. EXPENDITURE PLAN

(a) Activities and subjects financed with revenues generated by the sales	authorized by this Ordinance shall be limited to the provision, construction, and operating expends of justice-related
facilities, the funding of law enforcement and crime prevention activities and projects, the costs
incurred by the county to conduct the election authorized by Section 7286.32, and the costs of any
legal actions related to the sales tax as authorized by Chapter 259 of the statutes of 1992 and as
amended.

(b)	The County of San Diego shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this Ordinance, including the collection
of the additional sales tax imposed by this Ordinance.

(c)	After deduction of costs referred to in subsections (a) and (b) above, the revenues of the
sales tax shall be allocated as follows:

1.	50% of available revenues for the provision and construction of the following County
justice-related facilities:

East Mesa Detention Facility,

Central Booking,

Downtown Court,

North County Court,

Juvenile Dependency,

Small Claims & Traffic,

East County Regional Center Expansion,

South Bay Regional Center Expansion,

Regional Crime Lab,

Regional Emergency Communications Complex;

2.	25% of available revenues for operating expenses of new and existing County justice-
related facilities;

3.	25% of available revenues for local law enforcement and crime prevention activities and
projects. These revenues shall be allocated to the County for the unincorporated area of
the County and to the cities within the County on a per capita basis. The allocation
proportions shall be determined annually by the Auditor and Controller of the County of
San Diego. Distributions of revenue shall be made quarterly.

Sec. 22.153. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES

(a)	This Ordinance shall take effect 48 hours subsequent to the closing time of the polls on the
day of the election at which the proposition is approved by the voters.

(b)	The provisions of this Ordinance shall become operative on the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the Ordinance takes effect.

(c)	Any reduction in the sales tax rate authorized by the Board of Supervisors pursuant to this
Ordinance shall become operative on the first day of the first calendar quarter beginning 110 days
or more after the Board's action authorizing the reduction.

Sec. 22.154. REDUCTION OF THE SALES TAX AND SPECIAL FUND

(a)	The Board of Supervisors shall reduce the sales tax rate to one-quarter of one percent
(1/4%), upon determination by the Board of Supervisors that sufficient revenue has been collected
from the sales tax, together with any revenue from the case of Rider v. County of San Diego
referred to below, to pay for the obligations incurred under this Ordinance for the provision and
construction of justice-related facilities. The available revenues from the reduced sales tax rate
shall be allocated as follows:

(1)	50% of available revenues for operating expenses of new and existing County justice-
related facilities; 2

(2)	50% of available revenues for local law enforcement and crime prevention activities and
projects. These revenues shall be allocated to the County for the unincorporated area of the
County and to the cities within the County on a per capita basis. The allocation proportions
shall be determined annually by the Auditor and Controller of the County of San Diego.
Distributions of revenue shall be made quarterly.


(b)	Any revenue made available to the County of San Diego as pursuit of a final judicial decision in the Rider v. County of San Diego for the provision and construction of the

specific facilities authorized under this Ordinance shall be used to fund those specific facilities.

(c)	The sales tax revenues shall be deposited in a special fund and used solely for the
purposes authorized by this Ordinance.

Sec. 22.155. VOTER APPROVAL REQUIREMENT

(a)	Except as provided in subdivision (b) of this section, the voter approval requirement for this
Ordinance is two-thirds vote of the qualified voters of the county voting on the measure at the
election held on November 3,1992.

(b)	In the event a constitutional amendment is submitted to the people of the State of
California at the election held on November 3, 1992 to permit the imposition of a special tax with
the approval of a majority of the qualified voters of the Cou.nty voting on the measure, and such
amendment is approved, then the voter approval requirement for this Ordinance shall be a majority
of the qualified voters of the county voting on the measure at the election held on November 3,
1992.

Sec. 22.156. USE OF NEW FUNDS

The additional funds provided by this Ordinance are to supplement existing local revenues
being used for the purposes funded by this Ordinance.

Sec. 22.157. INCREASE IN APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

The appropriations limit imposed on the County of San Diego by Article XIII B of the California
Constitution is hereby Increased by the amount of taxes generated by the sales tax imposed by
this Ordinance for the next four fiscal years following the operative date of this Ordinance.

Sec. 22.158. IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCES

Upon approval of this Ordinance by the voters, the Board of Supervisors shall enact such other
ordinances and take such other actions as may be necessary for the implementation of this
Ordinance and the collection of the sales tax authorized by this Ordinance.

Sec. 22.159. AMENDMENTS

This Ordinance may be amended or repealed by an ordinance that becomes effective only
when approved by the legally required vote of the qualified electors voting at a special election
called by the Board of Supervisors for such purpose.

Sec. 22.160. SEVERABILITY

If any section, part, clause or phrase of this Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or
unconstitutional, the remaining portion shall not be affected but shall remain in full force and effect. <fullend> 












<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

You are asked to vote on the San Diego County Justice-Related Facilities, Law Enforcement and
Crime Prevention Financing Ordinance (Ordinance) which imposes a one-half of one percent
(1/2%) countywide transactions and use tax (sales tax) and increases the constitutional
appropriations limit of the County of San Diego.

The major elements of the Ordinance, which have been authorized by state legislation, are as
follows:

1.	Imposes a sales lax of one-half of one percent (1/2%) in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County of San Diego to be used for purposes designated In the
Ordinance. Available revenue from the sales tax will be allocated fifty percent for the provision and
construction of specified justice-related facilities, twenty-five percent for operating expenses of
new and existing County justice-related facilities, and twenty-five percent for local law enforcement
and crime prevention activities and projects. Before tile foregoing allocations are made, sales tax
revenue will be allocated to fund costs of the election on the Ordinance, State Board of
Equalization charges related to the sales tax, and any costs of the County for legal actions related
to the sales tax.

2.	Provides that the County Board of Supervisors shall reduce the sales tax to one-quarter of
one percent (1/4%) upon determination that sufficient revenue has been collected from the sales
tax, together with any revenue from specified litigation, to pay for the provision and construction
of the specified justice-related facilities authorized by the Ordinance.

3.	Provides that after the sales tax is reduced, the available revenue from the sales tax will be
allocated fifty percent for operating expenses of new and existing County justice-related facilities,
and fifty percent for local law enforcement and crime prevention activities and projects.

4.	Provides that sales tax revenue for local law enforcement and crime prevention activities
and projects will be allocated to the County, for the unincorporated area of the county, and to the
cities within the county on a per capita basis.

5.	Provides that the revenue from the sales tax will be used to supplement existing revenue
being used for the purposes funded by the Ordinance.

6.	Provides that the Ordinance may be amended or repealed only by an ordinance approved
by the legally required vote of the qualified voters voting on the amendment or repeal at an election
called for such a purpose.

The Ordinance will become effective only if approved by two-thirds of the qualified voters voting
on the measure unless, on election day, the state Constitution has been amended to authorize
approval by a majority of the qualified voters voting on the measure. If approved, the Ordinance
will become effective on Novembers, 1992. Collection of the sales tax authorized by the Ordinance
will commence April 1, 1993.

A "Yes" vote on the proposition is a vote to adopt the Ordinance.

A "No" vote on the proposition is a vote against approving the Ordinance. <impartialend>













<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Why must you always lock the doors to your home and car? Are you afraid to use
neighborhood parks at night? Why must you worry when your kids leave home? Why are you
afraid to walk the streets?

In 1991, a serious crime like murder, rape or robbery was committed in San Diego County every
three minutes. One household in six was burglarized or had a vehicle stolen. More than $300
million in property was stolen from San Diego residents last year.

Why? Because thousands of criminal, thieves and muggers, know they won't go to jail if they are
caught. Our jails have no more room!

PROPOSITION A will hire more police throughout the county and will build new jails for more than
4,000 criminals. Money will also be available for community crime prevention to help combat drugs
and other local problems.

PROPOSITION A will build courts to eliminate delays. Funds will also be used to help operate new
jail and court facilities.

A 1/2 cent increase in the sales tax is a small price to pay for a safe community. A sales tax is fair
because everyone pays, Including tourists. Those with limited incomes pay less. And when the
facilities are completed, the tax MUST BE CUT IN HALF - down to only 1/4 cent. Those funds will

be used to continue maintenance and operations.

For pennies a day per citizen, criminals will be taken off the streets and out of our neighborhoods.

Your vote will make the difference. PROPOSITION A requires a 2/3 vote to win approval so it

requires a "YES” vote (rom nearly everyone.

Because you know that crime pays In San Diego. 

Protect yourself, your loved ones, friends and neighbors.
STOP CRIME TODAY - VOTE "YES” ON PROPOSITION A! <favorend>









<favorsigs> JIM ROACHE, Sheriff
San Diego County

GEORGE F. BAILEY, Chairman
County Board of Supervisors

BOB BURGREEN, Chief of Police
City of San Diego

MEL KATZ, Chairman

Greater San Diego Chamber of Commerce

EDWARD B. MEYER, Co-Exec. Director
San Diego Crime Commission <favorsigsend>









<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

You always lock the doors to your home and car because elected officials In San Diego
County spend your tax dollars on bureaucratic growth, not law enforcement.

ITEM:	County	supervisors	increased	bureaucratic	salaries	and	benefit expense from $659 million to $732 million in the last fiscal year. That $73 million increase included only
5 new sworn deputies for the unincorporated areas of the county.

ITEM:	“Estimated”	costs	for the proposed courthouse run as high as $600 million. The

One America Plaza Tower (deluxe office tower), the Koll Center (deluxe office tower)
and the Emerald Shapery Center (deluxe office tower & hotel) together cost about
$325 million. That is $275 million less than the estimated courthouse cost. Does this
seem reasonable?

ITEM:	Many	cities,	despite	having larger municipal budgets have not increased the

number of sworn law enforcement officers. Some cities have actually cut police
staffing. Shouldn’t budget priorities be changed before increasing taxes?

ITEM:	There	is funding in the current county budget for a communications facility.

Shouldn't this facility be put on-line before a new "communications complex”
(estimated cost $50 million) is built?

ITEM:	The	estimated	cost	for the East Mesa Phase II jail is $50 million. This could be

funded from current revenues, if the Supervisors set appropriate priorities.

VOTE "NO” ON PROPOSITION A
Tell elected officials you want more cops, courts and jails, not more taxes. <rebutfavorend>








<rebutfavorsigs> IRBY R. McMICHAEL
President, San Diego County
Taxpayers Association

DICK RIDER

Chairman Emeritus

San Diego Libertarian Party

DIANNE JACOB

Board Member, San Diego County
Taxpayers Association

MARVIN SIMKIN
Chair

San Diego Libertarian Party <rebutfavorsigsend>









<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

VOTE ”NO” ON THIS PROPOSED SALES TAX INCREASE

This proposition is badly flawed for a number of reasons.

First, there is no specific price tag on the cost of the proposed courts, jails and other facilities. This
measure would give the County Board of Supervisors a virtual ‘‘blank check” to spend huge
amounts of your tax dollars. Because there Is no sunset provision, the Board of Supervisors could
spend practically any amount for the proposed facilities.

Second, 25% of the proposed tax would go to operating the new and existing county criminal
justice facilities. This would allow the Board of Supervisors to freeze current spending for existing
criminal justice facilities, and allocate future increases in current revenues to other bureaucratic
purposes. In essence, this amounts to a huge permanent tax increase for non criminal justice
related activities. The county needs to address its budget priorities in a forthright manner, not
engage in political slight of hand.

Third, 25% of the proposed tax increase would go to "local law enforcement and crime prevention
activities and projects". This vague wording means that this permanent tax increase could go to
virtually any bureaucratic purpose, not specifically to Improved police protection. And again,
existing police and criminal justice expenditures in the county and In the eighteen cities could
actually be frozen. The new tax could merely be substituted for future police expenditures.

There is a legitimate need for more courts, jails and police in San Diego County, but this
proposition is not the way to address that need. It will raise taxes unnecessarily, and inevitably lead
to unwarranted bureaucratic growth.

VOTE "NO" ON PROPOSITION "A” <againstend>











<againstsigs> IRBY R. McMICHAEL, President	DIANNE	JACOB,	Board	Member

San Diego County Taxpayers Association San Diego County Taxpayers Association

DICK RIDER

Chairman Emeritus
San Diego Libertarian Party <againstsigsend>









<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Building new jails, wiring peace officers.

VOTING "YES" ON PROPOSITION A GUARANTEES BETTER PROTECTION
AND A TAX REDUCTION ONCE THE JOB IS DONE!

Public safety costs have outstripped County resources. The County cannot keep cutting services
for seniors or children, or closing more parks to operate jails.

PROPOSITION A lets you say which projects to build. Your vote guarantees 4,000 new jail beds,
more peace officers, and better courts.

PROPOSITION A is for criminal justice purposes and cannot be diverted to anything else.

PROPOSITION A will automatically be reduced once the needed projects are built. Your vote
guarantees a tax break while criminals get a tough break.

PROPOSITION A insures correct spending priorities: YOUR SAFETY FIRST. Your vote guarantees
every dollar must be spent on protecting you, your family and neighborhood. At last, you can tell

government what to do, not the other way around.

PROPOSITION A will help operate the facilities it builds. Any other course is irresponsible.

PROPOSITION A is the only way a struggling County can protect you. With the County cutting
needed services in a fiscal crisis, PROPOSITION A guarantees enough funds will be available to
meet the criminal crisis.

Freedom isn't free; neither is improved public safety. If ever there was a "good” tax, PROPOSITION
A is it. And a 1/2 cent sales tax is a small price to accomplish so much.

VOTE "YES" FOR YOUR OWN SAFETY
VOTE "YES” TO PUT CRIMINALS BEHIND BARS
VOTE “YES” ON PROPOSITION A - STOP CRIME TODAY <rebutagainstend> 







<rebutagainstsigs> ROBERT JEAN LICHTER
Past President

San Diego County Taxpayers Association
Chairman, San Diegans, Inc.

BARRY I. NEWMAN
Past President

San Diego County Taxpayers Association
Chairman, County Finance Review Panel

DAVID NUFFER

Chair Elect, Greater San Diego

Chamber of Commerce

ARTHUR M. ARONSON, M.D.
Director and Chairman
Victims Action League <rebutagainstsigsend>





