-4	1	OFFICIAL	BALLOT	ALUM ROCK UNION SCHOOL	DISTRICT

I B g SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ELECTION____________APRIL 14.1992

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS
ALUM ROCK UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX MEASURE

D Shall the Alum Rock Union Elementary School District be
authorized to collect a special tax of $60 per year for 5 years and
to increase its Gann Appropriations Limit by Ihe amount of revenue
generated by that special tax to improve quality of service to the
students of the District by (i) improving teaching of basic skills, such as
reading, writing and arithmetic, (ii) hiring and maintaining the best
qualified teachers, (iii) increasing programs to help parents become
more involved in their children's education, (iv) maintaining special
education programs for handicapped children, (v) increasing anti-gang
and anti-drug education, (vi) providing after-school academic programs
to help prevent dropouts, (vii) providing needed instructional materials
and supplies, including computers and English language labs.

YES 9
NO 10





E—3

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

Following is Information
Concerning Measures

Arguments In Support Of Or In Opposition To The
Proposed Laws Are The Opinions Of The Authors.

All Authors Have Filed Signed
Statements That Their Arguments
Are True And Correct To The Best Of
Their Knowledge And Belief.

Although the materials in this pamphlet have been carefully proofread
typographical errors occasionally remain undetected. If any substantive
errors are discovered after the pamphlet has been printed, correction notices
will be published in appropriate local newspapers on
Friday, April 10, 1992.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

The Government Code authorizes cfistricts to impose a special tax through the imposition
of a parcel tax on real property upon approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters in an
election held for the purpose of imposing such a tax.

The Alum Rock Union Elementary School District governing board proposes to implement
a parcel tax in the amount of $60;00 per parcel per year for a period of five years beginning
July t, 1992. Any renewal of the tax would also require approval of two-thirds of the votes
cast in an election held for the purpose of extending the tax. A parcel is defined as any
parcel of land shown on the then current assessment roll prepared by the County Assessor.

A “yes" vote is a vote in favor of levying the proposed special tax. The funds derived from
the parcel tax would be expended to:

1.	Improve teaching of basic skills, such as reading, writing and arithmetic.

2.	Hire and maintain the best qualified teachers.

3.	Increase programs to help parents become more involved in their children's education.

4.	Maintain special education programs for handicapped children.

5.	Increase anti-gang and anti-drug education.

6.	Provide after-school academic programs to help prevent dropouts.

7.	Provide needed instructional materials and supplies, including computers and English
language labs.

A “no" vote is a vote not to authorize the imposition of said special tax.

STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: BRIAN L CARR
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D_________________________________

The children of the Alum Rock Elementary School District need your YES vote on
Measure D to ensure they will team the basic skills of reading, writing, and arithmetic in a
crime-free, drug-free environment. Alum Rock Elementary School District continues to have
its budget slashed due to state budget cuts. This year alone the district lost $5 million.

DISTRICT BUDGET SLASHED $5 MILLION.

•	District is now spending from reserves to replace state budget cuts.

•	Administrative positions and duties have been consolidated.

•	Next year’s budget cuts will hurt teachers and classroom learning.

MEASURE D WILL HELP EVERY SCHOOL IN EVERY NEIGHBORHOOD

•	Teaching of basic skills such as reading, writing and arithmetic will be improved.

•	The best qualified teachers will be hired and kept

•	Programs to help parents become more involved in their children's education will

increase.

•	Special education services for handicapped children will be maintained.

•	Needed instructional materials and supplies, including computers and English language

labs will be provided.

MEASURE D WILL HELP MAKE EVERY NEIGHBORHOOD SAFER

•	Anti-gang and anti-drug education programs will be increased.

•	After-school academic programs will reduce dropouts, keep children off the streets, and
make neighborhoods safer.

F-5

ARGUMENT »N FAVOR OF MEASURE D continued

INDEPENDENT PANEL TO AUDIT MEASURE D FUNDS

*	An independent panel of business and community leaders and accounting experts will
audit district expenses to make sure Measure D funds are used for classroom
educational programs only.

•	Measure D will automatically expire after 5 years. It cannot be renewed without a two-
thirds vote of the people.

On behalf of the parents and children of our community, we ask for your YES vote. Our
students won't be able to compete in high school, college, or for better jobs unless we
provide basic education skills and keep quality classroom teachers.

Yes on Measure D.

Thank you.

Elisa C. Martinez
Alum Rock School District
Teacher of the Year
Patricia Martinez Roach
President, Board of Trustees
Jody Grizzle, PTA President
Ryan Elementary School

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Measure D is claimed to be necessary to ensure the teaching of basic skills in a crime-
free, drug-free environment That's the least we should expect from our schools) Why do
schools need more money to maintain what should be minimum requirements? Throughout
the 1980's, more and more money was spent on schools to raise the quality of education.
But the promised results haven't happened. When will our tax dollars begin to buy
Improvements in the educational system?

The district admits it has reserves to replace the state budget cut Why should you pay
more property tax to replenish this reserve?

More money is not the answer. That has been triad over and over again, and has
consistently failed. Not much of the money gets to the classrooms; and when it does, it
doesn’t do much good.

Most programs that succeed are those involving concerned parents. Almost everyone can
donate some time to a school of their choice. That doesn't cost much money, but the results
can be impressive.

Schools must actively seek parental support and new paths to progress. More choices
should be allowed parents, such as open enrollment and tax credits for alternative
education. Measure D does nothing for that.

in short, giving the district more money will do little good until they are willing to adopt
proven paths to better education, if no real changes are made, money will not be much help.

Demand more for your dollars! Vote NO on Measure D.

Jon Petersen

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County
Mark W.A. Hinkle

Libertarian Party of California Northern Vice Chair
James H. Switz

Vice Chair,“Libertarian Party of Santa Ciara County
Vicki Hargrove

Secretary, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

F-6

Tim Conniff, Chief Steward
Teamsters Local 911

James Lovelace, President
Alum Rock Educators' Association

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

Measure D requests money for what may be legitimate needs. But at what point do we
stop increasing our taxes to fund the status quo? What will this parcel tax do to improve the
quality of our children's education? Probably not much.

Half of all state taxes go to the public education system, yet we keep hearing that the
quality of public education is going down while the costs keep going up. Most private
schools, spending considerably less per student with far fewer administrators, provide what
'many feel is a better education. Yet the public schools say they need more money!

What can be done to reduce the cost and increase the quality of public education? A large
part of the high cost is due to administrative bloat, which siphons off money needed for
teachers and classrooms. Bureaucracy must be cut for the benefit of both students and

taxpayers.

Low quality comes from lack of choice and lack of competition in the public school system.
Parents should be able to choose the schools their children attend. Just as competition
forces private industry to better serve its customers, the quality of public education will
improve once schools must compete far students instead of having guaranteed enrollments.
Less bureaucracy along with more choice and competition are essential to cut costs and
ensure quality in our schools.

Don’t write the district another blank check. If we keep feeding the schools money with no
guarantee of quality performance, nothing will change. Demand real improvements to the
educational system before buying into another tax. You are the customer. Tell the
bureaucrats enough is enough! Vote NO on Measure D.

Jon Petersen

County Chair, Libertarian Party
James Switz

County Vice-Chair, Libertarian Party
Mark W. A. Hinkle

Libertarian Party of California Northern Vice Chair
Vicki Hargrove

County Secretary, Libertarian Party

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

Dear Voter,

As teachers of students in Alum Rock Elementary schools, we ask you to vote Yes on

Measure D.

We will lose $5 million from our school district's budget this year. The state budget crisis is

real and will only get worse.

Our district has cut costs in a responsible manner — such as administrators, which have
been cut by 23%.

Teachers fear next year's cuts will hit our classrooms and hurt teaching of basic skills
such as reading, writing, and arithmetic.

We need to make sure our students get the education they need to compete in high
school, college and for better jobs. That's why we're asking you to vote Yes on Measure D.

F-7

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D continued

Measure D will:

•	Improve teaching of basic learning skills such as reading, writing, and arithmetic.

•	Hire and keep qualified teachers.

•	Increase anti-gang, anti-drug, and dropout prevention programs.

•	Maintain special education services for handicapped children.

Your classroom teachers strongly urge you to Vote Yes on Measure D.

Sincerely,

James Lovelace	Elisa	Martinez

President, Alum Rock Educators Association Alum Rock Teacher of the Year

F-8