CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
ORINDA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT	8

SPECIAL TAX MEASURE D ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

“Arguments in support or opposition of the proposed measure are the opinions of the authors".

MEASURE D

“Shall Ordinance 92-50 of the Board of Directors of the Orinda Fire Protection District be approved so as to authorize a special tax on property on the secured	YES	
tax roll, reflecting the risk of fire to each parcel, in order to provide additional funds for fire protection and prevention services?”	NO	

COUNTY COUNSEL S ANALYSIS OF MEASURE PROPOSING
A SPECIAL TAX FOR THE ORINDA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

MEASURE D

Article X11IA of the California Constitution (Proposition 13) requires that any new local
agency special tax he approved by two-thirds of those voting on the proposed tax. Government
Code section 53978 authorizes a fire district to impose a special tax to fund fire prevention
and protection services if approved by two-thirds of those voting on the proposal. The Board
of Supervisors of Contra Costa County, as the ex officio Board of Directors of the Orinda Fire
Protection District, at the request of the Orinda Fire District Board of Commissioners, adopted
Ordinance 92-50, authorizing a special tax for fire protection and prevention services throughout
the District, That Ordinance must be approved by a two-thirds vote of those voting in the
District in order to allow the tax. If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the maximum
rate that can be set by the District’s Governing Board will be 30 cents.

The authorizing legislation requires that the proceeds of this tax be used solely for the
purposes of obtaining, furnishing, operating and maintaining fire suppression equipment or
apparatus, for paying the salaries and benefits of firefighting personnel, and for such other
fire protection or prevention expenses as are deemed necessary by the District.

This tax is not based upon the value of property. The tax is based principally on the
risk of fire for each parcel of real property in the District. Under the Ordinance, the amount
of taxes for an improved parcel (e.g.. a parcel with a home) is determined by multiplying the
rate set annually by the District’s Governing Board bv the “improved parcel combined fire risk
factor" for the parcel. This factor is calculated by a formula reflecting the risk of fire to each
structure, based upon the type of construction, the square footage, and the presence or absence
of an approved sprinkler system. For an unimproved parcel (e.g., a vacant lot), the amount of
taxes is determined by multiplying the rate set annually by the District’s Governing Board by
the “unimproved parcel fire risk factor." This factor is calculated by a formula reflecting the
risk of fire for a parcel, based upon the acreage of the parcel. The precise formulae are set
forth in the text of the ordinance in the Voter’s Pamphlet.

Insofar as feasible, the taxes will be collected and administered in the same manner as
secured roll ad valorem property taxes. A special appeals procedure is provided so that taxpayers
can have a hearing to contest any part of the computation of their taxes.

ORINDA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE
ORDINANCE NO. 92-50

(An Ordinance of the Orinda Fire Protection District
Authorizing a Special Tax for
Fire Protection and Prevention Services)

The Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors as the Board of Directors of the Orinda Fire
Protection District of Contra Costa County does ORDAIN as follows:

ARTICLE I. PURPOSE AND INTENT. It is the purpose and intent of this Ordinance to
authorize the levy of a tax on parcels of real property on the secured property tax roll of Contra
Costa County that are within the Orinda Fire Protection District in order to augment funding
for fire protection and prevention sendees.

(1)

This tax is a special tax within the meaning of Section 4 of Article XHiA of the California
Constitution, and this Ordinance is enacted pursuant to Government Code Section 63978,
Because the burden of this few. fails upon property, this tax also is a property tax, but this tax
is not determined according to nor in any manner based upon the value of property; this fax
is based, to the extent practical, upon the improvements to each, parcel and, specifically, the
risk of fire attendant to such, improvements, insofar as not inconsistent with this Ordinance
or Government Code Section 53978 and insofar as applicable to a property tax that is not based
on value, such provisions of'the California Revenue and Taxation Code and of Article XIII of
the California Constitution, as relate to ad valorem property taxes are intended to apply1 to the
collection and administration of this tax (Article IV of this Ordinance), as authorized by Gov-
ernment Code Section 53978 (d).

The revenues raised by this tax are to be used solely for the purposes of obtaining,
furnishing, operating, and. maintaining fire suppression equipment or apparatus, for paying
the salaries and benefits of firefighting personnel, and for such other fire protection, or prevention
expenses as are deemed necessary by the Orinda Fire Protection District,

ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS, The following definitions shall apply throughout this
Ordinance:

1.	“Parcel” means the land and any improvements thereon., designated by an assessor’s
parcel, map and parcel number and carried on the secured property tax roll of Contra Costa
County. Far purposes of this Ordinance, parcel does not include any land or improvement
outside the boundaries of the Orinda Fire Protection District nor any land or improvements
owned by any governmental entity.

2.	“Improved parcel" means any parcel, upon, which any combustible improvement exists.

3.	“Unimproved parcel” means any parcel except an improved parcel.

4.	"Combustible improvement” means any building or other improvement, including
all. attached parts of such building or other improvement, if any contents or part of the building
or other improvement is capable of burning.

5.	“Improvement” means those items included within, the Revenue and Taxation Code
Section 105 definition of improvements, except for 1) fences, poles and walls that are not a
part, or connected to a structure and 2) trees and vines.

6.	“Fiscal year” means the period of July 1 through the following June 30.

7.	“Improved parcel fire risk factor” means the figure calculated for each combustible
improvement on an. improved parcel, according to the following formula:

Improved parcel fire .risk factor = 18 x C x v* A x .58
Where:

C - the coefficient for the type of construction of the improvement, as specified on page
4 of the Insurance Services Office Fire Suppression Rating Schedule dated 1980. A copy of the
guide shall be available for public inspection, at the Administrative Headquarters of the District,
Orinda, CA

i	he	approximate	total	square footage of the improvement, including all floors

f.basem	ided)	and	all	attached	parts of the improvement.

I	for	a	combustible	improvement	that	does	not contain an approved sprinkler

system.

S - 1 /ft for a combustible improvement that does contain an approved sprinkler system.

8.	“Improved parcel combined fire risk factor” means the total of the improved parcel
fire risk factors for all combustible improvements on a parcel.

9.	“Unimproved parcel fire risk factor” means the figure calculated for an unimproved
parcel according to the following formula:

Unimproved parcel fire risk factor = 400 + (EA x 5/acrei
Where:

EA the amount of acreage of the parcel that is in excess of 1 acre.

10.	“Rate” or "tax rate” means the amount, expressed in cents, which is to be multiplied
by either the unimproved parcel fire risk factor or the improved parcel combined fire risk factor
to compute the amount of tax on a parcel.

11.	“District” means Orinda Fire Protection District.

12.	“Component” means any part of the formula for the improved parcel fire risk factor
or the unimproved parcel fire risk factor.

13.	“Approved sprinkler system” means a sprinkler system conforming with the require-
ments of the Districts Fire Code and any applicable building codes.

(2)

1.4. “Ad valorem property taxes' or “ad valorem real property taxes” means taxes on
that, secured roll real property which is subject to being sold for delinquency of such taxes. “Ad.

valorem property taxes” or “ad valorem .real property taxes”, therefore, includes taxes based
on the March I, 1975 value of real property and taxes based on the value of real property at
date of change of ownership, completion, of new construction, or purchase where such as occurred
after March 1, 1975.

15. “Taxpayer” means the assessee of the property as shown on the secured tax roll and,
if different than the assessee, the person or legal entity actually paying the taxes.

ARTICLE ID. SETTING OF TAX RATE: COMPUTATION AND LEW OF TAXES.

1.	Setting of the Tax Rate.

The District’s Board of Fire Commissioners, prior to each July 1st, shall recommend to
the District’s Board of Directors the tax rate to be set for the next fiscal year. Thereafter, at

a regularly scheduled meeting held prior to the end of July, the Board of Directors of the Orinda
Fire Protection District shall set the rate which, shall be applied to determine the taxes for the
next fiscal year. The rate shall be in. cents and shall be determined to the closest one-tenth, of
a cent (e.g. a rate of 4.5 cents) that the Board of Directors of the District deems appropriate
to achieve the purposes of this Ordinance: provided, however, that said rate shall not exceed
.30 cents unless an. increase in. such, maximum rate is approved by two-thirds of the voters
voting on such an increase in a district-wide election.

2.	Computation of Taxes.

a.	Improved, parcels: the tax on each improved parcel shall be the amount, in dollars
and cents, determined by multiplying the rate times the improved parcel combined fire risk
factor for the parcel.

b.	Unimproved parcels: the tax on each unimproved parcel shall be the amount, in
dollars and cents, determined by multiplying the rate times the unimproved parcel fire risk
factor for the parcel.

3.	Levy of Taxes.

Prior to the end of each July, the District’s Board of Directors shall levy taxes upon the
parcels in the Orinda Fire Protection District for the then current fiscal year by setting the
rate and computing the taxes in acccordance with Article 111,1 and 2, above. Taxes levied on
each parcel pursuant to this Section shall be a charge upon the parcel and shall be due and
collectible as set forth in Article IV, below. A complete listing of the amount of taxes on each
parcel shall be maintained and he available for public inspection at the District’s administrative
headquarters during the remainder of the fiscal year for which such taxes are levied.
ARTICLE IV. COLLECTION AND ADMINISTRATION.

1.	Taxes as Liens Against the Property.

The amount of taxes for each parcel each year shall constitute a lien on such property,
in accordance with Revenue and Taxation Code Section 2187, and shall have the same effect
as an ad valorem real property tax lien until fully paid.

2.	Collection.

The taxes on each parcel shall be billed on the secured roll tax bills for ad valorem
property taxes and shall be due the Orinda Fire Protection District. Insofar as feasible and
insofar as not inconsistent with this Ordinance, the taxes are to be collected hv Contra Costa
County on behalf of the District in the same manner in which the County collects secured roll
ad valorem property taxes. Insofar as feasible and insofar as not inconsistent with this Ordi-
nance, the times and procedures regarding exemptions, due dates, installment payments, cor-
rections, cancellation,-'refunds, penalties, liens, and collections for secured roll ad valorem
property taxes shall be applicable to the collection of this tax. Notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in the foregoing, as to this tax: 1) the secured roil tax bills shall be the only notices
required for this tax, 2) the appeal procedures set forth hereinbelow shall apply in lieu of
appeals to the Assessment Appeals Board, and 3) the homeowners and veterans exemptions
are not applicable, because such exemptions are a function of dollar amount of value and this
tax is a function of square footage or acreage.

3.	Publication of Notice of Time Limit for Filing Appeals.

Within 20 days after the bills for the first installment of secured roll taxes have been
mailed, the Board of Fire Commissioners of the Orinda Fire Protection District shall cause a
notice of right to appeal to be published once a week for two weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation throughout the District. Such notice shall be headed “Notice of Appeals Period for
Orinda Fire Protection District Special Tax for Fire Protection and Prevention Services” and
shall contain the precise wording of all of Article V herein-below.

«*

4.	Cost of Administration by County,

The reasonable costs incurred by the County officers collecting and administering this
tax shall be deducted from the collected taxes before remittal, of the balance to the* District.
ARTICLE V. APPEALS.

1.	Applications for Reduction of Taxes: Time Limit for Filing: Notice of Hearing; pay-
ment of Taxes Pending Decision; Refunds,

Appeals of the amount of the special tax for fire protection and prevention services for
a parcel, or of any component of the tax, must be made by written application of the taxpayer
to the District’s Board of Fire Commissioners and must be received at the District’s adminis-
trative headquarters, Orinda, California, no later than the 31st of December following receipt
of the tax bill for the first installment of secured roll taxes. Any such appeal must set forth
all facts upon which the taxpayer contends that the taxes should be reduced. Any such appeal
also must give the mailing address of the taxpayer, must specify by precise address or assessor’s
parcel number the location of the parcel for which the taxes are being appealed, and must
contain a statement made under penalty of perjury that the facte set forth, in the application
are true. If the District’s staff and the appealing taxpayer do not agree on. a resolution, of the
issue (s) presented by the appeal, an application which complies with the requirements stated
above shall be set for hearing before the Board, of Fire Commissioners of the District as soon,
as reasonably possible, and notice of such hearing shall be mailed to the appealing taxpayer
at least two weeks in advance of the hearing. Filing of an appeal is not grounds for failing to
timely pay the entire amount of taxes specified as due on the tax bill. If taxes are reduced or
increased as a result of the decision, of the Commissioners, the taxes shall be refunded or
collected, insofar as feasible, in the same manner as secured roll ad. valorem property taxes
are refunded or collected after Assessment Appeals Board hearings.

2.	Hearing.

The taxpayer or his designated representative may, but need not, be present at the
hearing. If present, the taxpayer or his designated representative may present any relevant
evidence anti tnay be examined under oath by the District’s representative and the Commission-
ers. The District’s representative may also present any relevant evidence and be examined
under oath by the taxpayer, or his designated representative, and the Commissioners. The
burden of proof of any factual question shall be on the taxpayer. Within 40 days after the
hearing, the Commissioners, by majority vote, shall determine what (if any) component of the
tax bill shall be reduced or increased and by how much. If taxes are to be reduced or increased
as a result of the decision of the Commissioners, the taxes shall be refunded or collected, insofar
as feasible, in the same manner as secured roll and valorem property taxes are refunded or
collected after Assessment Appeals Board hearings.

ARTICLE VI. SEVERABILITY CLAUSE. If any article, section subsection, sentence, phrase
or clause of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portion of this Ordinance. The voters of the Orinda Fire Protection
District hereby dedar< i hat they would have adopted the remainder of this Ordinance, including
each article, sec<:>>n ..(‘section, sentence, phrase or clause, irrespective of the invalidity of
any other article, -t e> .m, subsection, sentence, phrase or clause.

ARTICLE VII. E’-'FI CTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its
confirmation by tut. ; urds of the voters voting within the District in an election, to be held
November 3, 1992 \< tw ithstanding the foregoing, upon passage this Board may take such
retroactive actions as may be appropriate to fully implement this ordinance for the 1992/3
fiscal, year.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors, County of Contra
Costa, State of California, on this 4th day of August, 1992 by the following vote.

AYES:	Supervisors Fahden, Schroder, Torlakson, McPea.li

NOES:	None

ABSENT: Supervisor Powers

ATTEST: Phil Batchelor, County Administrator	/8/	Sunne Wright Me Peak

and Clerk of the Board of Supervisors	Board	Chair

By: C Matthew
Deputy

(4)

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
ORINDA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE D ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

YOUR YES VOTE FOR MEASURE D WILL ENSURE CONTINUING HIGH-LEVEL
FIRE PROTECTION AND RESCUE SERVICE IN THE ORINDA FIRE PROTECTION
DISTRICT

*	The intent of this measure is to levy this special tax yearly only when other funds
are not available and only to the extent of maintaining current service levels.

*	The tax rate from .00 to .30 cents will be determined yearly through public hearings
conducted by Orinda’s Board of Fire Commissioners, approved by the Board of Super-
visors, and applied to each parcel's fire risk factor. Vacant land and sprinklered
structures will be taxed at a lower rate.

*	Without this measure, any reduction in the State of California's 1992/93 funding to
fire districts will force immediate service cutbacks.

*	At the time of preparing this statement (August 12, 1992) the amount of funding loss
is unknown. Assuming a 50% loss in 1992/93 State funding, the tax rate would be
set at 12.4 cents to replace the loss. The total tax for the average size house at average
risk in Orinda of 2,058 square feet would then amount to $12,66 per month for the
fiscal year.

*	Prior to next July 1st, a new rate will be determined if necessary to maintain the
fire protection and rescue service for Orinda.

PLEASE VOTE YES ON MEASURE D TO HELP US PRESERVE YOUR LIFE, YOUR
PROPERTY, AND OUR FIRE DISTRICT.

Charles L. Blue
William J. Dabel
Malcolm W. Kirby
Janet H. Boreta
Walter L.Lyall

None filed

Chair, Board of Fire Commissioners, Orinda Fire Protection District

Mayor, City of Ormda

Vice Chair, Planning Commission, City of Orinda
Owner, Orinda Books
President, A.H.M. Security, Inc

ARGUMENT AGAINST
ORINDA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE D ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

(5)