* *

1



/^S

ORDINANCE NO. 1236 N.C.(2d)

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF VALLEJO ADDING CHAPTER 3.14
TO TITLE 3 OF THE VALLEJO MUNICIPAL CODE PERTAINING TO
THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX FOR POLICE PROTECTION SERVICES,

TO BE EFFECTIVE UPON APPROVAL BY TWO-THIRDS OF THE VOTERS
VOTING UPON SUCH PROPOSITION, AND INCREASING THE SPENDING
LIMIT ESTABLISHED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE XIIIB OF THE
CALIFORNIA CONSTITUTION BY THE AMOUNT OF THE PROCEEDS OF
THE SPECIAL TAX.

THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VALLEJO DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The Vallejo Municipal Code is hereby amended by
enacting, adopting and adding thereto a new chapter to be numbered
and to read as follows:

"CHAPTER 3.14
SPECIAL TAX FOR POLICE PROTECTION SERVICES

Section 3.14.010. Authority.

Pursuant to the authority of California Government Code,
§§53970, et seq.. there is hereby levied and assessed a
special tax by the City of Vallejo on each parcel of
property, for each residential unit or mobile home unit
or business establishment as hereinafter set forth
located within the City of Vallejo for each fiscal year,
commencing with Fiscal Year 1993-94 for police protection
services.

Section 3.14.020. Tax Rate.

The initial rates of the special tax for police
protection services shall not exceed the following:

A.	For each parcel containing a single-
family residential unit, including each
condominium unit -- $50 per year;

B.	For each multiple dwelling unit -- $50
per year;

C.	For each mobile home unit --
year;

- 1 -

$50 per

*



D.	For each parcel of unimproved land (of
2,000 sq. ft. or more) -- 50% of the rate set
forth in subsection A above; and

E.	For each parcel upon which there is
located commercial and/or industrial
improvements, the following special tax shall
apply for each business operating upon the
parcel:

1.	Flat	tax chargeable for

business license -- $50 per year.

2.	Gross	receipts under $500,000

-- $50 per year.

3.	Gross	receipts of $500,000 and

under $1,000,000 -- $75 per year.

4.	Gross	receipts of $1,000,000

and	under	$5,000,000 -- $100 per

year.

5.	Gross	receipts of $5,000,000

and under $10,000,000 -- $150 per
year.

6.	Gross receipts over $10,000,000
-- $175 per year.

7.	Home occupations are exempt.

Section 3.14.030. Annual Review and Adjustment of

Special Tax Rates.

By July 15 each year, the City Council shall review and
adopt the rates applicable for each parcel to provide for
the generation of the maximum estimated sum of $2,500,000
annually, adjusted the second and each subsequent year by
the respective Consumer Price Index (CPI) inflation
factors. This will be based upon the estimated number of
parcels, residential, commercial and industrial
properties in the City.

Section 3.14.040. Purpose and Use of Special Tax Funds.

The revenue raised from the levy of the special tax shall
be placed in a special, restricted fund to be used only
for the purposes of obtaining, furnishing and supporting
Police Department personnel and equipment above forty-six
percent (46%) of the General Fund of the City (based on
the types of services rendered as described in the budget

2

4’





for Fiscal Year 1992-93) allocated to the Police
Department for police protection services each fiscal
year. The funds shall be used to maintain and expand
police protection services as determined by the City's
assessment of law enforcement priorities. Special tax
revenues that exceed $2,500,000 (adjusted by the CPI
factors) in any fiscal year may only be used in the
succeeding year for the purposes stated herein by
reducing the next year's tax by such amount. If the City
Council does not allocate funds for Police Department
personnel and equipment equal to forty-six percent (46%)
of the General Fund for each fiscal year, then the
special tax imposed under the terms of this chapter shall
not be levied or collected, and the special tax shall be
automatically suspended for that particular fiscal year.

Section 3.14.050. Determination of Property

Improvement Status.

The records of the Solano County Assessor as of March 1
of each year preceding the applicable fiscal year shall
determine whether or not any particular parcel or lot is
unimproved for purposes of this chapter. "Parcel of
property" as used in this chapter shall mean any
contiguous unit of improved or unimproved real property
held in separate ownership, including, but not limited
to, any single-family residence, any condominium unit, as
defined in California Civil Code, §783, or any other unit
of real property subject to the California Subdivided
Lands Act (California Business and Professions Code,
Sections 11000, et seq.).

Section 3.14.060. Collection of Tax for Residential

Parcel.

A.	The special tax for residential parcels

imposed under the terms of this chapter shall be
due in two equal installments in accordance with
the collection procedures of the Solano County Tax
Collector with the first installment for the first
fiscal year, to wit:	1993-94, being due November

1, 1993, and the second installment for said fiscal
year being due on February 1, 1994.

B.	The special tax for subsequent fiscal years
shall be due and collected in the same manner, on
the same dates, and subject to the same penalties
and interest in accordance with the established
dates as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed
and collected by the County of Solano in behalf of
the City of Vallejo, and the said County may deduct

3

. *

its reasonable cost incurred for such services
before remittal of the balance to the City.

C.	Such special tax, together with all penalties
and interest thereon, shall constitute a lien upon
the parcel upon which it is levied until it has
been paid, and said special tax, together with all
penalties and interest thereon, shall, until paid,
constitute a personal obligation owing to the City
of Vallejo by the person(s) who own the parcel on
the date the tax is due.

Section 3.14.070. Collection of Tax for Commercial and

Industrial Parcels.

The special tax for commercial and industrial parcels
imposed under the terms of this chapter shall be
collected in conjunction with, on the same schedule, and
subject to the same penalties and enforcement provisions
as established for the City's business license tax under
Chapter 5.04.

Section 3.14.080. Exemption for Governmental Agencies.

The special tax imposed under the terms of this chapter
shall not be levied or assessed against federal or state
governmental agencies, or another local governmental
agency, or upon any parcel of property that is exempt
from the special tax pursuant to any provision of the
United States or California Constitutions or any
paramount law.

Section 3.14.090. Suspension of Tax by City Council.

The City Council, by ordinance adopted by four (4)
affirmative votes of the members thereof, is empowered to
suspend all or any part of the tax imposed under the
terms of this chapter, and shall suspend such part of
said tax as the City Council finds in the exercise of its
reasonable discretion and fiscal prudence is not required
to provide an adequate level of police protection
services in the City of Vallejo in accordance with the
purposes set forth in this chapter.

Section 3.14.100. Amendment of Chapter by City

Council.

The City Council, by ordinance adopted by four (4)
affirmative votes of the members thereof, is empowered to
amend this chapter in order to carry out the general
purposes of this chapter, in order to conform to
applicable provisions of state law that permit the County

4



t



\

Tax Collector, or other proper official, to collect a
special tax such as the tax levied under the terms of
this chapter in conjunction with County taxes, or in
order to assign duties and functions pursuant to the
terns of this chapter to other officers.

Section 3.14.110. Citizens' Task Force.

In order to effectuate the purposes of this chapter, and
to ensure citizen participation in the decision-making
process concerning this special tax for police protection
services, the City Council shall appoint a standing
committee designated as the "Law Enforcement Task Force"

(or similar designation) which shall consist of those
residents and business persons who have expressed
interest in this matter. The task force shall be
convened each April for the purposes of reviewing the
special tax and its use to expand/supplement police
protection services in the City of Vallejo, and make such
recommendations to the City Council as deemed appropriate
concerning the continuation of the special tax, and the
use of funds derived from the tax in the forthcoming
budget year.

Section 3.14.120. Increase in Debt Limit.

Pursuant to California Constitution, Article XIIIB, the
appropriations limit for the City of Vallejo shall be
increased by the aggregate sum collected by levy of the
special tax in each of the years subject to the terms of
this chapter, plus the amount, if any, by which the
appropriations limit is decreased by law as a result of
the assessment of the special tax set forth in this
chapter.

Section 3.14.130. Rules and Regulations.

The City Manager is authorized and empowered to
promulgate rules and regulations for the purpose of
implementing and enforcing the payment, collection and
remittance of the special tax imposed under the terms of
this chapter and to effectuate the purposes and intent of
this chapter. A copy of such rules and regulations, if
promulgated, shall be lodged with and available for
public inspection in the Office of the City Clerk."

SECTION 2.	SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to

any person or circumstance is held invalid or unconstitutional by

any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or

unconstitutionality shall not affect any other provision or

5





application and to this end the provisions of this ordinance are
declared to be severable. The City Council hereby declares that it
would have adopted this ordinance and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, part or portion thereof, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, phrases, parts or portions thereof, be declared invalid or
unconstitutional.

SECTION 3.	VOTER	APPROVAL	AND	EFFECTIVE	DATE.

This ordinance shall be enacted if approved as a Council-sponsored
proposition by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting thereon at an
election to be held on Noveniber 3, 1992, and shall go into effect
thirty (30) days after the City Council has by resolution declared
that such proposition was approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the
voters voting thereon.

FIRST READ at a regular meeting of the Council of the City of
Vallejo held the 4th day of August, 1992, and finally passed and
adopted at a regular meeting of the Council held the 11th day of
August, 1992, by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Boschee, Exline, Higgins, Hicks,

Intintoli, Kay and Villanueva
NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

6