CONTRA COSTA COUNTY
MORAGA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE C ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

“Arguments in. support or opposition of the proposed measure are the opinions of the authors'-.

MEASURE C

“Shall Ordinance 92-49 of the Board of Directors of the Moraga Fire Protection
District be approved so as to authorize an increase in the special tax on property
on the secured tax roll, reflecting the risk of fire to each parcel, in order to
provide additional funds for fire protection and prevention services?”

COUNTY COUNSEL’S ANALYSIS OB’ MEASURE PROPOSING INCREASE IN
A SPECIAL TAX FOR THE MORAGA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

MEASURE C

Article XIIIA of the California Constitution (Proposition 13) requires that any new local
agency special tax be approved by two-thirds of those voting on the proposed tax. Government
Code section 53978 authorizes a fire district to impose a special tax to fund fire prevention
and protection sendees if approved by two-thirds of those voting on the proposal. In 1980 the
Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County, as the ex officio Board of Directors of the Moraga
Fire Protection District, at the request of the Moraga Fire District Board of Commissioners,
adopted an Ordinance which established a special tax for fire protection and prevention services
throughout the District. That Ordinance was approved by a two-thirds vote. The Board recently
adopted Ordinance 92-49. authorizing an increase in the tax rate from 6 cents to 30 cents. If
this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the maximum rate that can be set by the
District's Governing Board will be increased from 8 cents to 30 cents.

The authorizing legislation requires that the proceeds of this tax be used solely for the
purposes of obtaining, furnishing, operating and maintaining fire suppression equipment or
apparatus, for paying the salaries and benefits of firefighting personnel, and for such other
fire protection or prevention expenses as are deemed necessary by the District.

This tax is not based upon the value of property. The tax is based principally on the
risk of fire for each parcel of real property in the District. Under the Ordinance, the amount
of taxes for an improved parcel (e.g., a parcel with a home! is determined by multiplying the
rate set annually by the District’s Governing Board by the “improved parcel combined fire risk
factor” for the parcel. This factor is calculated by a formula reflecting the risk of fire to each
structure, based upon the type of construction, the square footage, and the presence or absence
of an approved, sprinkler system. For an unimproved parcel (e.g., a vacant lot), the amount of
taxes is determined by multiplying the rate set annually by the District’s Governing Board by
the “unimproved parcel lire risk factor.” This factor is calculated, by a formula reflecting the
risk of fire for a parcel, based upon the acreage of the parcel. The precise formulae are set
forth in the text of the ordinance in the Voter's Pamphlet.

Insofar as feasible, the taxes will be collected and administered in the saute manner as
secured roll ad valorem property taxes. A special appeals procedure is provided so that: taxpayers
can have a hearing to contest any part of the computation: of their taxes.

ORDINANCE NO. 92-49

(An Ordinance of the Moraga Fire Protection District Amending Ordinance No. 80-19 to Au-
thorize and Increase in the Special Tax for Fire Protection and Prevention Services)

The Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors as the Board of Directors of the Moraga
Fire Protection District of Contra Costa County ORDAINS as follows:

SECTION ONE Amendment of Tax Rate, Paragraph 1 of ARTICLE III of Ordinance No.
80-19 of the Moraga Fire Protection District is amended to read as follows:

1. Setting of the Tax Rate.

The District’s Board of Fire Commissioners, prior to each July 1st, shall recommend to
the District’s Board of Directors the tax rate to be set for the next fiscal year. Thereafter, at
a regularly scheduled meeting held prior to the end of July, the Board of Directors of the
Moraga Fire Protection District shall set the rate which shall be applied to determine the taxes
for the next, fiscal year. The rate shall he in cents and shall be determined to the closest
one-tenth of a cent (e.g., a rate of 4.5 cents) that the Board of Directors of the District deems
appropriate to achieve the purposes of this Ordinance; provided, however, that said rate shall
not exceed 30.0 cents unless an increase in such maximum rate is approved by two-thirds of
the voters voting on such an increase in a district-wide election.

SECTION II. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its
confirmation by two-thirds of the voters voting within the District in an election to be held
November 3, 1992 and shall be effective for the 1992-93 fiscal year. Notwithstanding Section
One, upon passage this Board may take such retroactive actions as may be appropriate to fully
implement this Ordinance for the 1992-3 fiscal year.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors, County of Contra
Costa, State of California, on this 4 clay of August, 1992 by the following vote.

AYES:	Supervisors Fahden, Schroder, Toiiakson, McPcak

NOES:	None

ABSENT: Supervisor Powers

ATTEST: Phil Batchelor, County Administrator	/S/	Sunne	Wright	McPeak

and Clerk of the Board of Supervisors	Board	Chair

By: /8/ C. Matthews
Deputy Clerk

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MORAGA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE C ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

Funding For Emergency Services Will Be Cut.

The 1992-93 proposed state budget will transfer over $1.6 million in property taxes from the
Moraga Fire .District to other public agencies.

This new round of budget cuts will eliminate over 50% of Moraga’s firefighting and
paramedic staff and drastically' reduce emergency services in our community. Unless
funding is restored by voter approval to Increase our maximum fire flow taxing authority, the
fire district will have no choice but to permanently close one of its two fire stations and eliminate
paramedic/ambulance services to our residents.

Moraga Is An Isolated Community. Safety Is Always A Concern.

Moraga Fire Paramedic/Ambulance’s average; response time is less than 5 minutes !
Loss of this service means seriously ill or injured residents will wait long periods of time for
private ambulance services to arrive from Lafayette, Walnut Creek or Concord. Delays in
transporting patients will undoubtedly cost lives.

When fires break out, only one Moraga Fire Station will be available to respond until help
arrives from outside the community. (Fire Stations in Orinda and Lafayette may also close).
With reduced fire protection, the risk of major destructive fires, like the 199© Oakland
Hills Firestorm, will become greater. In the event of earthquakes or other disasters, local
emergency services will be totally inadequate.

Keep Moraga Safe — Save Ambulance, Fire, Emergency Services.

The projected first year tax rate is between 10 and 20 cents, (about $10.00 to $20.00 per month
for an average 2,000 square foot home, comparable to the cost of basic cable television service).

The actual tax rate will he determined yearly at public hearings by the Moraga Fire Commission.
This tax will only be used if other funding for emergency services is unavailable.

Insure the Safety of Your Community.

Please Vote Yes on Measure C !

Gordon Nathan, Chair,
Moraga Fire Commission

Carol Porterfield,

Keep Moraga Safe
Committee

Sue Noe, Moraga Fire
Commissioner

Dr. Ben Ho, M.D.
Medical Advisor,
National Urban Search
and Rescue Team

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MORAGA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE C ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

None filed.

(3)