<full> ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING A SPECIAL TAX TO MAINTAIN

THE 1992 LEVEL OF STAFFING IN THE SHERIFF’S DEPARTMENT
PLUMAS COUNTY MEASURE C

The People of the County of Plumas ORDAIN as follows:

Section 1. TITLE

This ordinance shall be known as the "Sheriff’s Department Staffing
Ordinance of 1992”. The provisions of this ordinance shall be applicable
throughout the unincorporated territory of the County of Plumas.

Section 2. PURPOSE

This ordinance is adopted pursuant to, and by authority of Government
Code §53978, to achieve the following purposes, and directs that its provi-
sions be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose democratically a special tax levy on parcels of land in the
unincorporated area of Plumas County in order to raise revenue earmarked
for maintenance of the 1992 level of staffing in the Sheriff’s Department.

B.	To establish democratically a local mandate from the people of Plumas
County on law enforcement staffing.

C.	To preserve the safety and welfare of the people of Plumas County by
means of special tax that is equitably levied and administered to pay for law
enforcement staffing that benefits all unincorporated areas of the county to
the same extent.

Section 3. LEVY OF SPECIAL TAX

The special tax authorized by this ordinance is levied against parcels of real
property in the unincorporated area of Plumas County. “Parcels” is defined
for purposes of this ordinance as those parcels identified on the rolls of the
County Assessor. The tax rate levied is $15.00 per year per improved parcel
(“improved” means at least one residence or at least $10,000 in property
improvements), with an additional $15.00 per year per each additional
residence on the parcel. "Residence” is defined as a habitable building or
mobile home capable of serving as a dwelling unit.

Section 4. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS

Exempted from the special tax are: non-residential lands used for agri-
cultural or timber production; cemeteries; and land owned by religious
organizations.

Excluded from the special tax, pursuant to Government Code section
53978, are federal, state, and local governmental agencies.

Section 5. TERM OF SPECIAL TAX

The tax shall remain in force and effect for four years, commencing July 1,
1992, and ending June 30,1996.

Section 6. LOCAL MANDATE

Revenue from this special tax is reserved for, and dedicated to, mainte-
nance of the 1992 level of staffing in the Plumas County Sheriffs Department,
except for payment of administrative costs pursuant to Section 7. The "1992
level” means the level as of March 3,1992.

By adoption of this ordinance, the people of Plumas County intend to
establish a local mandate that the 1992 level of staffing in the Sheriff’s
Department not be reduced during the four years that this tax is in effect.

This local mandate is founded on the idea that a democratic majority of
voters may safeguard the people’s right to safety and security by approving
local taxation necessary to maintain crime prevention and patrol, crime
detection, and the stopping of criminal activity as it occurs.

This local mandate is directed to the governments of Plumas County and
the State of California.

Section 7. IMPLEMENTING POLICIES

The special tax is to be collected along with the county property taxes. The
administrative costs of implementation and collection may be paid for by the
special tax revenue, not to exceed 10% of the revenue.

Plumas County is authorized to adopt policies and take such other action
by resolution of the board of supervisors as is needed to implement this
ordinance and ensure that the tax levy is equitable and that the tax is
administered equitably. An appeal procedure shall be adopted which allows
taxpayers to claim refunds or exemptions to which they may legally be
entitled, and any such procedure shall have as a final step a hearing before
the board of supervisors.

Validating proceedings may be undertaken as regards this ordinance pur-
suant to Government Code §53979.

Section 8. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES

This ordinance shall become effective according to the law of the State of
California when two-thirds of the electors' voting on the measure at the
election on June 2,1992, vote to approve the ordinance; provided, however,
that the ordinance shall become effective upon a majority vote in said election
approving the measure if the two-thirds or supermajority requirement under
state law is declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be in violation of I
the Constitution of the United States as a result of validating proceedings
initiated by Plumas County.

The operative date of this ordinance is July 1,1992.

Section 9. SEVERABILITY

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the applica-
tion of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby, and shall remain in full force and effect legally.

Section 10. CODIFICATION AND PUBLICATION

This ordinance shall not be codified in the Plumas County Code. It shall be
published in all newspapers of general circulation serving Plumas County as
required by law. <fullend>










<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
PLUMAS COUNTY MEASURE C

This measure seeks to maintain staffing in the Sheriff’s Department at the
1992 level for the next four years (1992-1996). It would prevent a reduction
of four positions by providing revenue to the county to save the four
positions. The tax rate is $15.00 per parcel (as defined in the measure) per
year. Land for agricultural, timber, and religious purposes is exempt. This
measure applies only to the unincorporated area of the county, thereby
excluding the City of Portola. A “Yes" vote approves of this measure; a “No"
vote disapproves of this measure. A two-thirds vote “Yes” is necessary
under existing law, although a majority vote “Yes” will be enough in the
event the two-thirds rule is unconstitutional. <impartialend>











<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

“On Measure C, you can vote FOR public safety.

Is maintaining law enforcement at the current level for another four years a
benefit you want? If Measure C passes, the Sheriff’s Department will not be
scut four positions by June 30,1992. If Measure C does not pass, the level of
'service familiar to you will be seriously eroded.

The Law Enforcement Funding Committee recommends that you vote YES
on Measure C. The Committee is a countywide volunteer citizens’ advisory
body that has been studying the Sheriffs Department. It is in your interest to
know:

** The Sheriff’s Department is currently 11 positions below what is
needed for 24 hour coverage, while crime is increasing in each area of
the county.

** Crime prevention has suffered due to insufficient staff.

** Lack of emergency back-up for deputies is a very serious morale issue
and safety issue.

No one wants more taxes, but no one wants more crime either. Measure C
makes sense. It is a special tax, meaning: (1) it is for a limited amount
($15.00 per year per home or other improved parcel over $10,000 in value);
(2) it is for a limited time (only four years 1992-96); it is for a limited purpose
(maintain the 1992 level of Sheriff’s staffing).

This tax is a last resort. Rather than see law enforcement deteriorate, the
voters should have an opportunity to establish a “Local Mandate” (a com-
mand from county voters) to MAINTAIN LAW ENFORCEMENT, with funds to
back it up.” <favorend>









<favorsigs> s/ Randy Lombardi
Chair, Law Enforcement Funding
Committee
s/ Bill Kearns
Vice-Chair, L.E.F.C.
s/ Susan Jones
Member, L.E.F.C.
s/ Denny Swanson
Member, L.E.F.C. <favorsigsend>








<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Property taxes should provide priority services. Taxpayers elect public
officials, charging them with fiscal responsibilities. If law enforcement is a
taxpayer priority, it is up to those responsible to provide that service. If
money is short, those things of lesser value to the taxpayer should be
reduced or discontinued, according to importance.

Scare tactics, such as threat of reduced or nonexistent service should not
be rewarded by a special tax. Which department will be next to try the same?
“Low morale and safety issues" are not credible reasons to further tax
already overburdened property owners when failure to maintain good rela-
tions within the department and poor physical standards of deputies contrib-
ute as much to these problems as any other factors.

Credentialed financial advisors and/or efficiency specialists might offer
valuable advice as to management of a nearly four million dollar budget,
possibly reinstitution of our “dollar a year” deputy program which would
release regular deputies for more pressing duties.

Taxpayers, this is your opportunity to issue a mandate to our elected
officials to live within our county budget, just as you and I must in our private
lives.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE C <rebutfavorend>








<rebutfavorsigs> s/ Jean E. Walters, chm. Citizens for Better Government <rebutfavorsigsend>












<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Special taxes should never be imposed to provide ongoing services to a
community. Law enforcement is a priority service which must be provided.
Plumas County Sheriff's Department is given a budget in excess of 3 million
dollars. Recent acquisition and remodeling of a new facility and purchases of
new equipment should not be accomplished at the cost of threatened dimin-
ished law enforcement. The Sheriff's Department should explore available
grants and ways to live within the budget allotted. Mismanagement of funds
should not result in new taxes.

Ten years ago the County population was 17,367. last count was 19,673.
The Sheriff’s Department employed 49 people ten years ago, latest count was
63. The growth ratio is disproportionate.

It is unfair and discriminatory to demand from certain taxpayers that from
which others are exempt or not required to pay a fair share. A shopping
center...one parcel...one building...one $15.00 fee, a trailer park with 20
RVs...one parcel...one fee. Are we to believe that no crimes are committed
on vacant parcels, ranches or timberland?

Many services are already supported by special taxes, fire protection,
ambulances, recreation districts, and, in spite of our resounding NO vote, a
$38.00 garbage fee on our tax bills. In some instances special taxes may
exceed the property tax.

At the end of four years will the County be willing to relinquish the
$150,000.00+ generated by passage of Measure C or will it be extended?

MEASURE C IS UNFAIR, DISCRIMINATORY, AND VAGUE
VOTE NO <againstend>









<againstsigs> s/ Jean E. Walters
Citizens for Better Government <againstsigsend>








<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Measure C will not provide pay raises for the Sheriff's Department. It will
secure the current level of law enforcement for the next four years. In hard
times we need top priority on emergency services.

The Sheriff’s Department provides us with patrol, criminal investigations
and special investigations including child abuse, narcotics, marijuana cultiva-
tion, bad checks, family disturbances as well as many other violations that
interrupt the daily lives of Plumas County citizens. They provide our needs for
coroner investigations, search and rescue, civil processing, disasters, and
the jail.

They respond to over 15,000 calls for services each year. These services
and many others are provided by the Sheriff’s Department and no one else.

The Department generates over $734,000 of its own budget each year
through grants, contracts, fees and inmate labor.

Thirty-three sworn deputies handle the bulk of these calls. At any one time
there is only 10 or 11 deputies on duty in the county under ideal conditions.
Even with the best of management they are not able to cover the county 24
hours a day. We simply can not afford to lose anyone.

If measure C fails, we will lose an additional 160 man-hours of service each
week. Critical programs like DARE and other crime prevention projects will
suffer. Money generating contracts will be lost or reduced. Officer and citizen
safety will be sacrificed. Most importantly, service to us, the citizens, will
decrease.

Fifteen dollars a year will secure our future. Vote yes on Measure C. <rebutagainstend>








<rebutagainstsigsend> s/ Randy Lombardi
Chair, Law Enforcement Funding Committee
s/ Bill Kearns
Vice-Chair, L.E.F.C.
s/.Susan Jones
Member, L.E.F.C.
s/ Denny Swanson
Member, L.E.F.C. <rebutagainstsigsend>