CITY OF SAN DIEGO
Proposition G

G

ADVISORY VOTE ONLY

Shall a portion of the proceeds of the one-half cent sales tax which
has been collected from San Diego citizens since 1988 for the San Diego
County Regional Justice Agency be refunded to San Diego's citizens by
an equitable distribution of $170 million dollars to the City to be held in pub-
lic trust and duly invested, with the proceeds of investment to be appropri-
ated annually for increases in the number of sworn police officers for The
City of San Diego?

Proposition G, the measure to Take Back Our City!, would enable the City of San Diego to put
more cops on the streets without raising taxes.

It would do so by untangling one of the most ridiculous episodes ever created by County
government.

In June of 1988, voters countywide agreed to increase the sales tax by half a cent for public safety.
But the Courts ruled that the way the County crafted the measure was unconstitutional. The
Justices threw the tax out and suspended it, leaving in limbo more than $330 million already
collected.

Under Proposition G the City would spend its fair share of the revenues, an estimated $170 million.
That’s enough for the City to meet its long-held goal of expanding the police force to levels
comparable in other large cities.

Critics will say that just putting more police officers on the streets won't solve the crime problem.
Just tell that to the individual dialing 911 for a cop!

Proposition G also would allow the City to take action on jail overcrowding, by providing resources
for expanding its new jail. Established as the City's response to County jail overcrowding, the City
Jail is California’s first-ever privately operated municipal jail. Because it is privately operated, it is
cheaper to run.

Let's spend the money for what the people want. Let's get a jump on the criminals for a change.
Let's Take Back Our City! To vote against crime and government ineptitude, Vote Yes on G!

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION G

TAKE BACK OUR CITYI

MAUREEN O’CONNOR
Mayor

TOM BEHR

Councilmember, District 5

RON ROBERTS
Deputy Mayor

VALERIE STALLINGS
Councilmember, District 6

PR-1690-21

D SD 126-42

— ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION

You have a $340 . ,.0,000 tax refund coming. Don't let the politicians ^rab itl Vote NO on
Proposition G!

This proposition Is misleading. First it says your tax money will be “refunded to San Diego’s
citizens." That's a cleverly worded lie. Look closely - your money would really go to the politicians
in city government.

In 1988 the politicians asked the voters for permission to raise your taxes. The voters refused to
pass Proposition A by the majority required by law. Did the politicians care? No[They simply went
ahead and collected the tax anyway.

Dick Rider took the politicians to court demanding that they obey the law. The California Supreme
court ruled that Dick Rider was right, that the tax was illegal.

Assuming the court now accepts Dick Rider's remedy, the sales tax will drop to 6-1/4% until county
taxpayers have saved $340,000,000 In lower taxes. Our depressed economy desperately needs
this financial shot in the arm!

This rebate averages $135.00 for each man, woman, and child in the county. Could this tax savings
help you through this recession?

When someone takes your money unlawfully, we call that stealing. When those who steal are
caught red-handed, we do not let them keep the money. They have to give it back.

But politicians think they're above the law. They want to keep and spend the money they unlawfully
took from you.

Politicians are supposed to be lawmakers, not lawbreakers! If we reward their illegal action, they'll
just rob us again next year.

The politicians say they have good intentions for your money. But this is not about good intentions.
This is about breaking the law. No one may break the law, not even politicians.

Vote NO on Proposition Q. Tell the politicians they can’t keep your unlawfully taken tax money.

DICK RIDER	FRED	SCHNAUBELT

Candidate, County Supervisor	Former	San	Diego City Councilman

MARVIN SIMK1N	JACK R. SANDERS

Chair, Libertarian Party of San Diego	President,	United Taxpayers of San Diego

JOHN WALLNER
Libertarian Candidate
49th Congressional District

PR-1690-22

D SD 126-43