POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

Note: This pamphlet contains only information on ballot
measures pertaining to the City of Los Angeles. It is not a
sample ballot. You will receive your sample ballot with
polling place location from the Los Angeles County
Registrar - Recorder.

OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK
ELECTION DIVISION
ROOM 2300, CITY HALL
200 N. SPRING STREET
LOS ANGELES, CA 90012

BULK RATE
U S. POSTAGE
PAID

City of Los Angeles
Election Division

CXTV CLE**

Action dn'S'°^

★★★★★★★★★★★★★

VOTER

INFORMATION

PAMPHLET

★★★★★★★★★★★★★

-COMPILED BY ELIAS MARTINEZ, CITY CLERK

★ SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION ★
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1992

Note: This pamphlet contains only information on ballot
measures pertaining to the City of Los Angeles. It is not a
sample ballot. You will receive your sample ballot with
polling place location from the Los Angeles County
Registrar - Recorder.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Page

Ballot Digest ................................ 2

Ballot Measures

Charter Amendment K........................   10

Bond Proposition L .......................  26

Proposition M.............................. 36

Proposition N..............................   49

FP-001.001

1

N LC 001-01

PROPOSITION N

TITLE:

Special Police Tax
THE ISSUE:

Should the City be allowed to charge property owners a special tax to
pay for hiring up to 1,000 additional police officers?

THE SITUATION:

Currently, the City provides funding for 7900 police officers. The
Christopher Commission recommended that the Los Angeles Police
Department be increased in order to place more officers in the
community.

THE PROPOSAL

This measure would allow the City to charge a special tax to hire up to

1,000	additional police officers over a 5-year period.

Money from this tax could be used only for additional officers and
related costs, including civilian employees necessary to support new
officers. The tax could not be imposed any year in which the City does
not provide funds for 7900 police officers.

Police officers paid for by this tax would be assigned to uniformed,
detective, narcotics, or anti-gang duties.

This special tax would be imposed on residential and business
properties. The amount of tax would be based primarily on the size of
the buildings and improvements on the property.

The maximum annual tax is estimated to be $4.89 for each 100 square
feet of improvement. For example, the owner of a 1500 square foot
home, including the garage, would pay about $73 each year.

This measure will become law if 2/3 of the voters approve it.

ARGUMENT FOR:

The Christopher Commission recommended the people and the police
work together to prevent crime and increase personal safety. Of
America's six largest cities, Los Angeles has the lowest number of police
officers. A “yes” vote will:

—mean 1,000 additional uniformed officers in our neighborhoods
—guarantee funds for these officers
—strengthen anti-gang and anti-drug forces
—increase the police force by 18%

Business and residential property owners will contribute to this fund.

A “yes” vote is the next step in making reform and better police
protection a reality.

PR-005.007	8	N	LC	001-06

ARGUMENT AGAINST:

We need more police officers, but not higher property taxes and rents.
Local government's prime responsibility is to provide for public safety.
The Mayor and City Council should make police, fire, and paramedic
services a top priority in the budget.

This tax is not equitable. It is based on taxing homes and businesses,
not on need or ability to pay. Citizens in many areas may pay more
taxes, but not get additional police officers.

This property tax increase is an attempt to get around Proposition 13.
Vote “no”.

A YES VOTE MEANS:

You want to allow the City to charge property owners a special tax to
pay for hiring up to 1,000 additional police officers.

A NO VOTE MEANS:

You do not want to allow the City to charge property owners a special
tax to pay for hiring up to 1,000 additional police officers.

THE FULL TEXT OF THIS MEASURE BEGINS ON PAGE 57.

PR-005.008

9

N LC 001-09

Clerk is authorized and directed to prepare and keep in his office a
sufficient supply of copies of said proposed Ordinance, printed in
convenient pamphlet form, and in type of not less than 10-point, and
to distribute the same to any and all persons applying therefor; and to
mail copies thereof to each of the qualified electors of the City of Los
Angeles.

2. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause a notice
to be published in the Los Angeles Daily Journal, beginning with the
date of publication and ending on November 3,1992, that copies of said
pamphlets containing said proposed Ordinance may be had at his office
in the City Hall in the City of Los Angeles upon application therefor.

PR-003.011

48

N LC 001-48

HIRING 1,000 ADDITIONAL POUCE OFFICERS TO
HELP IMPLEMENT THE CHRISTOPHER COMMISSION

N RECOMMENDATIONS FOR COMMUNITY-BASED
POLICING CREATION OF DEDICATED FUND FOR
ASSOCIATED COSTS THROUGH A SPECIAL TAX.

ORDINANCE PROPOSITION N.

Shall the people adopt an ordinance to add 1,000 uniformed officers
throughout the entire city, to expand community-based policing,
strengthen anti-gang violence measures, create dedicated trust fund for
costs with a levy upon parcels and improvements commencing with fiscal
year 1993-94?

IMPARTIAL SUMMARY
BY WILLIAM R. McCARLEY, CHIEF LEGISLATIVE ANALYST

This measure imposes a special tax on real property in the City of Los
Angeles to hire 1,000 new police officers plus supporting civilian
personnel, equipment and related expenses.

Currently, the Los Angeles Police Department is authorized to employ
7,900 police officers. This tax, if approved, would allow 8,900 police officers
to be employed. The' 1,000 new officers would be assigned to uniformed,
detective, narcotics and anti-gang activities in order to implement the
community-based policing recommendations in the report of the
Christopher Commission. Approximately 200 officers would be hired each
year over a five year period and these officers could only be employed as
police officers, sergeants, or detectives.

The measure requires the City Council to adopt a tax rate for each fiscal
year beginning in 1993 sufficient to pay the costs of the additional police
protection authorized by this measure. This measure specifies a maximum
tax rate of $4.89 per 100 square feet of improvement and allows the rate
to be increased by ordinance as the Consumer Price Index for the Los
Angeles area increases. This tax could not be imposed in any year that
the City does not fund and employ at least 7,900 regular police officer
positions.

For each parcel of improved property, the annual tax would be computed
by multiplying the tax rate by the gross square footage of the
improvements located on the parcel. For each unimproved parcel, the
annual tax would be computed by multiplying the tax rate by 500 square
feet of improvements, regardless of the size of the unimproved parcel.
Parcels and improvements owned by organizations which are exempt from
federal income tax, such as nonprofit organizations, would be exempt from
the proposed special tax. This measure also establishes a method to
correct errors in the computation of the tax and establishes a refund
procedure.

PR-004.001	49	N	LC	001-49

The special taxes collected would be placed in the Special Police Tax Fund
and would be used exclusively to pay for increased police services.

This special tax must be approved by a two-thirds majority vote of all those
voting on the measure.

FINANCIAL IMPACT STATEMENT
BY KEITH COMRIE, CITY ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER

This measure provides for the funding of 1,000 additional police officers
and related support staffing and equipment. Funding will be through a
special tax on real property at a rate not to exceed $4.89 per 100 square
feet of improvements. This maximum rate may be adjusted annually to
reflect any changes in the cost of living. The projected maximum annual
cost, before inflationary adjustments, on a typical house of 1,500 square
feet will be $73. The tax will be lower on smaller houses and higher on other
buildings such as larger houses, apartment buildings, and commercial and
industrial buildings. The estimated annual cost of this measure after all
positions have been filled, exclusive of inflationary adjustments, is
$101,488,000. This special tax cannot be levied in any year the City does
not fund and employ at least the currently authorized 7,900 regular police
officer positions.

PR-004.002

50

N LC OOI-SO

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE PROPOSITION N

The Christopher Commission on police reform recommended
expanding community-based policing — people and their police working
together to prevent crime and increase personal safety.

AYES on PROPOSITION N means more uniformed officers in all our

city’s neighborhoods.

Los Angeles has the lowest number of police officers of the six largest
cities in America. To get the job done right, Los Angeles’ new police chief
says more uniformed police working the streets are essential.

A YES on PROPOSITION N will:

—put 1,000 ADDITIONAL UNIFORMED POUCE OFFICERS on our

streets:

—expand community-based policing citywide;

—guarantee that all funds raised will be earmarked for more
uniformed officers on patrol by creating a dedicated trust fund for
this purpose;

—strengthen the city’s anti-gang, anti-drug forces;

—combined with officers transferred from downtown desk jobs,
PROPOSITION N will increase the Los Angeles police force by
18%.

PROPOSITION N is a good deal and it is fair.

PROPOSITION N guarantees more uniformed officers and pays for
them with a levy on commercial and industrial property, not just residential
property. The average homeowner can get full community-based policing,
quicker police response time and stronger anti-gang violence measures
for about 75 dollars a year.

The reforms called for by the Christopher Commission told us how to
improve police performance.

A YES on PROPOSITION N is the next step in making real reform
and better police protection a reality.

PLEASE JOIN LAW ENFORCEMENT AND CIVIC LEADERS AND
VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION N.

WILLIE L. WILLIAMS	CHARLES A. LABROW

Chief of Police	President

Los Angeles Police Department Los Angeles Police Command

Officers Association

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not
checked for accuracy by any City agency.

PR-004.008

51

N LC 001-51

ADDITIONAL PERSONS SIGNING ARGUMENT
IN FAVOR OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE PROPOSITION N

RICHARD CLOSE	SHARYN	ROMANO

President  Sherman Oaks Homeowners  Association	President Hollydrive Owners Association
HOWARD BERMAN Congressman 26th District	MIKE HERNANDEZ Chair  Administrative Services Committee Los Angeles City Council
MICHAEL WOO Chair	RICK BARERRA President

Governmental Efficiency Committee Latin American Law Enforcement
Los Angeles City Council	Association

REVA BERGER TOOLEY
Former Police Commissioner

PR-004.009

52

N LC 001 -52

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR
OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE PROPOSITION N

Here they go again.

More scare tactics to slap you with another tax and short-circuit our only
protection against spiraling taxes — Proposition 13.

We need more police officers. But Proposition N is not the way to get
them.

Contrary to proponents' claims, Proposition N does not guarantee
community-based policing, anti-gang or anti-drug enforcement. Why?
Because we already have them. What about transferring officers from desk
jobs to field duty? Our new chief is already doing that.

This “creative financing” for more police officers is an outright ripoff.
Property owners shouldn’t shoulder the burden. That’s why voters
approved Proposition 13.

The cost for more officers should be incurred by everyone who benefits
from police services — not just city property owners.

We think revenues from the departments of Airport, Harbor and CRA
must be used for police protection.

The electorate voted down similar measures twice in recent years.

VOTE NO ON PROPOSITION N.

HAL BERNSON	ERNANI BERNARDI

Councilman	Councilman

12th District	7th District

JOAN MILKE FLORES
Councilwoman
15th District

ROB GLUSHON
President

Encino Property Owners
Association

GERALD A. SILVER
President

Homeowners of Encino

HARRY WM. GODLEY
Chairman

Chatsworth Homeowners
Committee

LINDA CHAMBERS
President

Sylmer Landowners Association

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not
checked for accuracy by any City agency.

PR-004.010

53

N LC 001-53

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSED ORDINANCE PROPOSITION N
DO WE NEED MORE POLICE OFFICERS?

Yes, no question.

DO WE NEED HIGHER PROPERTY TAXES AND HIGHER RENTS TO
PAY FOR THEM?

Absolutely Not.

THE PRIME RESPONSIBILITY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT IS TO PROVIDE
FOR PUBLIC SAFETY. If the Mayor and City Council are serious about
funding adequate police protection they should make it the top priority in
the city’s $3.8 billion budget. When the Mayor and Council prepare the
budget, Police, Fire and Paramedics should be funded first. Instead
hundreds of millions of dollars go for non-essential and less important
programs and services.

This proposed PROPERTY TAX INCREASE is not equitable. It is based on
the square footage of homes and businesses, not on ability to pay or on
need. In fact, many areas of the City may pay more in taxes and get NO
NEW POUCE OFFICERS IN THEIR NEIGHBORHOOD.

Example: A senior citizen on a fixed income and a long-time resident of
a established neighborhood could face increased taxes by as much as
20% but get no additional police in return.

THIS TAX INCREASE IS A DELIBERATE ATTEMPT TO GET AROUND
PROPOSITION 13.

Before voting ask yourself these questions...

Can you afford to have your properly tax or rent increased ANNUALLY?

Are you willing to gamble that any of these police officers will be assigned
to your neighborhood?

Is this higher property tax the fairest and best way to fund additional police
officers?

IF YOU ANSWER NO TO ANY OF THESE QUESTIONS...THEN YOU
MUST VOTE NO ON THIS PROPERTY TAX INCREASE.

HAL BERNSON	ERNANI BERNARDI

Councilman	Councilman

12th District	7th District

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not
checked for accuracy by any City agency.

PR-004.011

54

N LC 001-54

ADDITIONAL PERSONS SIGNING ARGUMENT
AGAINST PROPOSED ORDINANCE PROPOSITION N

JOAN MILKE FLORES Councilwoman 15th District	JOEL FOX President  Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association
ROB GLUSHON President Encino Property Owners Association	

PR-004.012	55 N LC 001-55

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST
PROPOSED ORDINANCE PROPOSITION N

Proposition N provides UNIFORMED police for EVERY city neighborhood.
With other reforms, Proposition N increases LA’s uniformed police for
patrol by 18%.

The Christopher Commission recommended full scale community-based
policing. More uniformed police are needed for this and for anti-gang
measures and quicker police response.

Proposition N is fully consistent with Proposition 13; it is fair, and it is a
good deal. Commercial and industrial property owners pay the most, while
the average homeowner’s costs are about $75 a year and will not
increase.

Opponents say we can wait until we find money for more police
somewhere else. NONSENSE!! We can’t afford to wait. Without
Proposition N, the politicians will not hire 1,000 police officers.
Proposition N will guarantee it.

To get Christopher Commission recommended community based
policing, anti-gang violence measures and faster police response, more
uniformed police are needed NOW.

VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION N. MORE POUCE FOR A SAFER LOS
ANGELES.

WILLIE L. WILLIAMS
Chief of Police

Los Angeles Police Department

RICHARD CLOSE
President

Sherman Oaks Homeowners
Association

MIKE HERNANDEZ
Chair

Administrative Services Committee,
Los Angeles City Council

CARDINAL ROGER MAHONY
Archbishop of Los Angeles

HOWARD BERMAN
Congressman
26th District

MARK RIDLEY-THOMAS
Chair

Community and Economic
Development Committee,
Los Angeles City Council

MICHAEL WOO

Chair

Governmental Efficiency Committee,

Los Angeles City Council______________________________________

Arguments printed on this page are the opinions of the authors and are not
checked for accuracy by any City agency.

56

N LC 001-56

ORDINANCE PROPOSITION N
PROPOSED ORDINANCE PROPOSITION ON HIRING

1,000 ADDITIONAL POUCE OFFICERS TO HELP IMPLEMENT

THE CHRISTOPHER COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS FOR
COMMUNITY-BASED POUCING CREATION OF DEDICATED FUND
FOR ASSOCIATED COSTS THROUGH A SPECIAL TAX.

An ordinance adding Article 1.17 to Chapter II of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code imposing a Special Police Tax, subject to the approval of
two-thirds of the voters voting upon the proposal within the City of Los
Angeles.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES
DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Article 1.17 is hereby added to Chapter II of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code to read as follows:

ARTICLE 1.17
SPECIAL POUCE TAX

SEC. 21.17.1. DEFINITIONS:

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Article shall be
construed as defined in this Section:

(a)	“Parcel” shall mean a unit of real property as shown on the last
equalized assessment roll of Los Angeles County.

(b)	“Improvements to property” shall mean buildings or other
improvements erected on or affixed to a parcel.

(c)	“Buildings” shall mean any structures having a roof supported by
columns or walls, for the housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
chattels or property of any kind.

SEC. 21.17.2. EXEMPTIONS:

(a)	Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation
of either the Constitutions of the United States or the State of California.

(b)	The tax imposed by this Article shall not be levied upon the federal
government, the state government, any state agency, or any local
governmental agency.

(c)	The tax imposed by this Article shall not be levied upon a parcel of
property or improvement which is owned and used by an organization
described in Sections 501(c), 501(d) or 401(a) of Title 26 of the United
States Code. All sections of the United States Code shall mean those
sections as they exist on the effective date of this Article and as they may
be amended thereafter.

PR-004.003

57

N LC 001-57

(a)	There is hereby imposed a special tax on each parcel, improvement
to property, and the use of property within the City of Los Angeles to
finance additional police protection. The special tax shall be for each fiscal
year, commencing with the fiscal year 1993-94.

(b)	This tax is enacted under the authority of Subdivision (d) of
Subsection (11) of Section 2 of Article I of the Los Angeles City Charter,
other authority held as a Charter City, and, independently thereof, under
the authority of California Government Code Sections 53970-53979 and
California Government Code Sections 50075-50077.5.

SEC. 21.17.4. PURPOSE:

(a)	The purpose of this Special Police Tax is to finance the employment
of up to 1,000 additional police officers and the civilian personnel,
equipment and expenses required to support them. To this end, the
revenues from the tax must be used to finance the costs of an increase
of up to 1,000 authorized regular police officer positions no higher in pay
than the highest pay grade of the civil service classification of Police
Detective or Sergeant, from the current authorization of 7,900, up to 8,900,
to increase the number of personnel in support thereof accordingly, and
for related equipment and expenses.

(b)	The additional police officers shall be assigned to uniformed,
detective, narcotics, anti-gang enforcement duties and in accordance with
the recommendations of the Christopher Commission to implement
community based policing. The employment of the up to 1,000 additional
police officers shall be accomplished over a five year period at the rate of
approximately 200 positions per year and shall be maintained thereafter
to the extent that the tax proceeds authorized by this Article are sufficient
to finance them.

(c)	The tax imposed by this Article shall not be levied for any fiscal year
of the City of Los Angeles in which year the City does not fund and employ
at least 7,900 regular police officer positions.

(d)	The Los Angeles City Council may provide for the collection of the
special tax in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as, or
with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the City, or by the
County of Los Angeles on behalf of the City of Los Angeles. If the special
tax is collected by the County on behalf of the City, the County may deduct
its reasonable costs incurred for such service.

SEC. 21.17.5. SPECIAL POLICE TAX FUND:

(a) There is hereby established a special fund in the City Treasury
entitled Special Police Tax Fund. The funds collected pursuant to this
Article shall be placed in the Special Police Tax Fund to be used
exclusively for the purpose for which the tax is imposed, and for no other

PR-004.004	58	N	LC	001-58

purpose. Funds deposited in this special fund shall not be subject to
reversion to the Reserve Fund, established under Charter Section 380.
Nothing in this Section shall prevent the use of these funds to reimburse
the General Fund when money is advanced from the General Fund to pay
for the uses provided for in this Article. Except as otherwise provided in
this Article, the Police Department shall administer the appropriated funds.

(b) If at the end of any fiscal year any unencumbered money raised by
the Special Police Tax remains, it may be used in a succeeding fiscal year
for the purposes stated in this Article. The existence of a surplus in any
succeeding year shall be considered by the City Council when fixing the
rates of tax for that succeeding year.

SEC. 21.17.6. TAX RATE:

(a)	The tax imposed on each parcel, improvement to property, and use
of property shall be computed for each parcel by applying a rate to the
gross square footage area of any improvements on the parcel. If there are
no improvements on a parcel, the tax shall be computed by applying the
rate established for improvements to 500 square feet regardless of the size
of the parcel. Commencing with fiscal year 1993-94, and for each
succeeding fiscal year, the City Council, by ordinance, shall impose a rate
applicable to unimproved parcels and, for each parcel upon which there
is an improvement to property, shall impose a rate applicable to the gross
square footage area of such improvements, regardless of the use of the
parcel or improvements. The rate shall be established to provide revenue
for each fiscal year sufficient to pay the estimated costs to be incurred by
the City during that fiscal year for the additional police protection
authorized by this Article. The City Council, in setting the rate, shall
consider possible delinquencies in payments, so that the amount
expected to be collected net of delinquencies will be sufficient to meet the
estimated costs.

(b)	Commencing with the 1993-94 fiscal year, and for each succeeding
fiscal year, the maximum tax rate for the area of improvements on the
parcel shall be $4.89 per one hundred gross square feet of improvement
area or fraction thereof.

(c)	The maximum tax rate established in subsection (b) shall be
adjusted annually, commencing with the 1993-94 fiscal year, for changes
in the cost of living under the same procedures required for Los Angeles
City Charter Section 355(3).

(d)	For any fiscal year the City Council may, by ordinance, adjust the
tax rate below the maximum amount: however, in no case shall the amount
of the tax rate to be levied exceed the maximum amount established by
this Article without the approval of the voters by a two-thirds majority. Such
a reduction shall not prevent a subsequent levy of taxes for any succeeding
fiscal year up to the limits set forth in this Section.

PR-004.005	59

N LC 001-59

(a)	Requests for adjustments involving imposition of this tax may be filed
with the City Clerk. Upon sufficient evidence of error in the computation
of the tax the City Clerk or a designee of the City Clerk shall cause the tax
to be recalculated, and shall so advise the Los Angeles County Tax
Assessor or other appropriate official.

(b)	Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any tax has been overpaid
or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the City under this Article, the refund procedure shall be as
follows:

1.	No claim for refund shall be allowed in whole or in part unless filed
with the City Clerk within a period of three years from the date of
the claimed overpayment, and all such claims for refund of the
amount of the overpayment must be filed on forms furnished, and
in the manner prescribed, by the City Clerk. Refunds may be made
from the Special Police Tax Fund.

2.	In the event the City Clerk or the City Council denies the claim, the
City Clerk shall notify the claimant pursuant to California
Government Code Section 913.

(c)	The City Clerk shall have the same power to compromise claims
involving the Special Police Tax, and the same power to accept and record
underpayments or overpayments of such tax, as is granted to the City
Clerk under subsections (f) and (g) of Section 21.15 of the Los Angeles
Municipal Code with respect to Business Taxes. The City Clerk shall have
the same authority to make refunds of this tax as is provided in
Section 22.13 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.

(d)	If the County of Los Angeles does not attempt to collect any tax due
under this Article, then the City Clerk shall have the power and duty to
enforce all of the provisions of this Article. In such cases the City Clerk may
make an assessment for taxes not paid against the owner of a parcel and
improvements, or the owner of improvements on another’s land, in the
manner provided in Section 21.16 of the Los Angeles Municipal Code.

(e)	The Special Police Tax shall be due in two equal installments in
accordance with the collection procedures of the Los Angeles County Tax
Collector with the first installment due November 1st and the second
installment due February 1st in each fiscal year. The owner of the land,
land and improvements, or improvements, at the time set forth in California
Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 405 and 2192 for each fiscal year,
shall have a personal obligation to the City of Los Angeles until the tax is
paid for each fiscal year.

SEC. 21.17.8. SUBMISSION TO VOTERS:

The ordinance enacting this Article shall be submitted to the voters of
the City of Los Angeles. The taxes determined and proposed by this Article

PR-004.006	60	N	LC	001-60

shall be levied only if the ordinance is approved by a vote of not less than
two-thirds of the voters voting. If the ordinance is approved by the requisite
number of voters the Article shall thereafter be considered a part of the Los
Angeles Municipal Code. Amendments to procedural provisions of this
Article may be made by ordinance adopted by the City Council.

SEC. 21.17.9. SAVINGS CLAUSE:

If any section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase of this Article
or the application thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or
unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, the
validity of the remaining portions of the Article, the application thereof, and
the tax imposed shall not be affected thereby but shall remain in full force
and effect, it being the intention of the City Council and the voters to adopt
each and every section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase
regardless of whether any other section, subsection, part, clause,
sentence or phrase or the application thereof is held to be invalid or
unconstitutional.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED:

Section 1. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to publish
a notice containing said proposed ordinance, specifying the date on which
the same is to be voted upon by said qualified electors, which date is
November 3, 1992. Such notice shall be published once in the Los
Angeles Daily Journal, and in each edition thereof during the day of
publication, which newspaper is hereby designated as the official
newspaper of the City of Los Angeles for the publication of said notice.
Said publication shall be made and completed not more than sixty and not
less than forty days prior to the date set for said election. The City Clerk
is authorized and directed to prepare and keep in his office a sufficient
supply of copies of said proposed ordinance, printed in convenient
pamphlet form, and in type of not less than 10-point, and to distribute the
same to any and all persons applying therefor, and to mail copies thereof
to each of the qualified electors of the City of Los Angeles.

Sec. 2. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cause a
notice to be published in the Los Angeles Daily Journal, beginning with
the date of publication of said proposed ordinance and ending on
November 3, 1992, that copies of said pamphlets containing said
proposed ordinance may be had at his office in the City Hall in the City
of Los Angeles upon application therefor.

Sec. 3. The City Clerk shall file a duly certified copy of this resolution
forthwith with the Board of Supervisors of the County of Los Angeles and
also a copy with the Registrar-Recorder of said County.

PR-004.007

61

N LC 001-61