MONTEREY

SAVE TIME AT THE POLLS

Mark your choices in this Sample Ballot

and take it to your polling place for reference.

Your polling place location is shown
on the back cover.

if possible, vote in the mid-morning or
mid-afternoon hours. This will help
shorten lines during the evening rush.

Polls are open from 7 am to 8 pm

OR VOTE BY MAIL,
APPLICATION ON BACK.



Printed on Recycled Paper

Una traduccion al Espanol: de esta Muestra de Baiota y Panfieto. Informativo al; Votante puede
obtenerse completando y regresando la tarjeta de soSicitud (porte postal pagado) que se le
proporciona ,en ia cubierta de atras de este panfieto. Escriba su nombre y direccion con letra
de molde y enviela por correo lo mas tarde una semana antes del Dia de Eleccion.





zmv.



M1'"'':':: ;V.'}	-■	£

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF PACIFIC GROVE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY
TAX INCREASE MEASURE D

Measure D, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure,
would permit the City of Pacific Grove to increase its transient occupancy
tax from the present rate of 10% to a new rate of 11%. The transient
occupancy tax is a tax on the rent paid for the privilege of occupying a
room or rooms in a hotel, motel or other similar type lodging for a period
of 30 days or less. If the measure is approved, the increase in the transient
occupancy tax would be authorized for a period not to exceed ten yearn,
beginning the first calendar year after approval by the voters. The measure
requires that the money collected as a result of the additional tax of 1 %
of the rent charged be used solely to assist in financing the acquisition and
restoration of all or any part of the shoreline area known as Rocky Shores,
for the purpose of preserving the Rocky Shores area as public open space,
The measure provides that the City Council may utilize any appropriate fi-
nancing method to fund the acquisition of Rocky Shores, provided that the
amount financed shall not exceed the capability of the additional one percent
of transient occupancy tax to fund the payment of principal, interest and
administrative costs of the amount financed, if the Rocky Shores property
becomes owned entirely by a public entity, if the City of Pacific Grove owes
no debt in connection with the acquisition and if in the judgment of the
City Council of the City of Pacific Grove the restoration of the Rocky Shores
area ts sufficient for use as a public open space, then the City Council is
required to rescind the additional 1 % transient occupancy tax even if the
ten year period authorized by the measure has not ended.

s/ George C. Thacher
City Attorney

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF AN
ORDINANCE AND MEASURE D. IF YOU DESIRE A COPY OF
THE ORDINANCE OR MEASURE, PLEASE CALL THE CITY
CLERK’S OFFICE AT (408) 648-3100 AND A COPY WILL BE
MAILED AT NO COST TO YOU.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Rocky Shores is the ONLY piece of Pacific Grove’s magnificent sf
endangered by development. The habitat for several rare and enda
species, it is part of one of the most breathtaking scenic views in Cal
A "YES" vote on Measure D will help raise funds to acquire and pt
it as open space, in accord with our city’s Local Coastal Program,
Measure D IS NOT A TAX ON PACIFIC GROVE RESIDENTS OR
NESSES, The Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) is paid ENTIRELY by
iSTS who come to enjoy our shoreline and stay in local motels anc
It will allow the city to increase the TOT by no more than 1 % -- fr(
present 10% to 11% - for no more than ten years. An average
family would pay only about $1,00 more per night - about the pric
cup of coffee.

Funds raised would be used EXCLUSIVELY to acquire and preserve
Shores property, if and when it becomes available for purchase.
Pacific Grove residents traditionally carry the burden of preserving ou
open spaces. With Measure D, tourists would also make a small contri
to saving our shoreline.

Measure D !S FISCALLY SOUND. The increase in the TOT woui
principal, interest and cost of any obligation assumed by the city tt
acquire Rocky Shores. City services WOULD NOT BE AFFECTED.
Measure D has been placed on the baliot by an initiative that was!
by more than 1500 Pacific Grove voters. The initiative was endors
local chapters of environmental organizations,

s/ Mary Dainton
s/ James Willoughby
$/ Thomas J, Fitzgerald
s/ Gwen Christensen
s/ Nada Kovalik

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Measure D proponents want you to believe that a vote for their me
is a vote FOR the environment and that a vote against is a vote AG/
the environment. IT’S NOT THAT SIMPLE, AND PACIFIC GROVE VO
KNOW IT! They wisely defeated this measure last year.

Rocky Shores is magnificent - MEASURE D ISN’T! Take the time to

it.

Measure D doesn't say what happens to our tax dollars if the city
buy the lots. Since the lots are NOT FOR SALE, shouldn’t that have
considered? Millions of dollars will just sit in a fund. IS THAT FiSC,
RESPONSIBLE?

if other open space opportunities become available, Measure D funds <
NOT be used, iS THAT ENVIRONMENTALLY SOUND?

Proponents tell us that tourists will pay this tax. They say there is no
to Pacific Grove residents. DON’T BE FOOLED! At this writing, a MAS
BUDGET DEFICIT is projected! WHO’S GOING TO PAY FOR THAT?
Measure D gives the city council a BLANK CHECK! It places NO L
on what the city could pay for Rocky Shores!

Pacific Grove must learn to live within its means. How can we be CUT
LIBRARY HOURS and facing a BUDGET DEFICIT and still afford multi-m
dollar real estate?

Other public agencies just bought the four Rocky Shores lots that ■
for sale. THEY DID IT WITHOUT MEASURE D. if more lots become avail,
let them do it again - THEY ALREADY HAVE OUR TAX DOLLARS!
VOTE NO ON MEASURE D!

s/ Bob Dease
s/ Floras Williams
s/ Susan Whitman
s/ Steve Gorman
s/ Don Gasperson

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT N0.1
(PACIFIC GROVE PUBLIC LIBRARY EXPANSION)
MEASURESEANDF

On July 15,1992, the City Council of the City of Pacific Grove (the "City
Council" and "City" respectively) established Community Facilities District No.
1 (Pacific Grove Public Library Expansion) (the "District") pursuant to the
provisions of the Mello-Robs Community Facilities Act of 1982, commencing
with Government Code Section 53311 (the "Act"). The boundaries of the
District are the same as the boundaries of the City.

The District was formed to finance the expansion of the Pacific Grove
Public Library (the "Library Expansion") and to pay additional maintenance
required for the Library Expansion (the “Additional Maintenance"). The Li-
brary Expansion is proposed to be financed by the proceeds of bonds or
other indebtedness of the District in a principal amount not to exceed
$2,900,000 (the "Bonds") secured by the levy of the Special Taxes de-
scribed below,

The proceeds of the Special Taxes may be used to pay (a) the principal
and interest and other periodic costs on the Bonds, including the replen-
ishment of any required reserve fund, (b) the costs of administering the
Bonds and the ievy and collection of the Special Taxes and (c) the costs
of the additional maintenance required for the Library Expansion,

The Special Taxes may not be levied at rates in excess of the applicable
rates set forth in the Special Tax Rate Statement included within the ballot
material although the Special Taxes may be levied at lower rates. The Spe-
cial Taxes shall be collected in the same manner and at the same time as
ad valorem property taxes and shali be subject to the same penalties and
the same procedures, sale and iien priority in the case of delinquency thereof
as is provided for ad valorem property taxes; provided, however, the City
Council may order that any delinquent Special Taxes be collected by superior
court foreclosure action. The Special Taxes may be levied for a period not
to exceed 25 fiscal years foliowing the issuance of the Bonds so long as

TAX RATE STATEMENT
MEASUREE

An election is being held in Community Facilities District No,1 (Pacific
Grove Public Library Expansion) (the "District") of the City of Pacific Grove
(the "City") on November 3, 1992, for the purpose of submitting to the
qualified electors of the District the question of whether or not the District
shall be authorized to levy a special tax (the "Special Tax" or "Special
Taxes") on ail taxable property within the boundaries of the District which
are the same as the boundaries of the City in accordance with the rate and
method of apportionment of such Special Tax (the "Special Tax Formula").
The Special Tax Formula is set forth in Exhibit A to this Statement.

The Special Tax is proposed to be levied to pay debt service on bonds
or other indebtedness of the District in a maximum principal amount of
$2,900,000 (the "Bonds") to finance the expansion of the Pacific Grove
Public Library (the "Library Expansion"), to pay the costs of administering
the Bonds and the levy and collection of the Special Tax and to pay for
the expenses of additional maintenance required for the Library Expansion.
The District currently has no bonds or other indebtedness outstanding. The
Bonds wiii bear interest at a rate or rates established at the time the Bonds
are sold. The Bonds shall be soid in one series at a fixed or variable interest
rate, provided that such interest rate shall not exceed the maximum rate
permitted by any then applicable provision of law limiting the maximum
interest rate on the Bonds.

The principal of and interest on the Bonds will be payable from the pro-
ceeds of the Special Tax levied upon the taxable property in the District,
Based upon the best estimates and projections presently available from
official sources, the maximum Special Tax which will need to be levied such
taxable properly at any time during the term of the Bonds which is limited
to 25 years shall not exceed the maximum applicable Special Tax rate as
set forth in the Special Tax Formula,

s/ William S, Pitt
Administrative Services Director
City of Pacific Grove

the proceeds of such Special Taxes are required for the purposes described
in the preceding paragraph.

The Special Taxes are secured by a continuing lien on the properties
against which such Special Taxes are levied. Such lien shall continue in
force and effect so long as the Special Taxes may be levied.

The Bonds, if authorized to be issued, shall be issued in one series and
may bear either a fixed or a variable interest rate provided that such rate
or rates shall not exceed the maximum rate of interest permitted by law at
the time of the issuance of such Bonds. The maximum term of the Bonds
shall not exceed 25 years.

The levy of the Special Taxes and the issuance of the Bonds must be
authorized by the qualified electors of the District prior to such levy or
issuance. The City Council has, therefore, submitted to the qualified electors
of the District, being the registered voters thereof, the levy of the Special
Taxes, the issuance of the Bonds and the establishment of an appropriations
limit for the District pursuant to Article XIIIB of the Constitution of the State
of California. The Special Taxes may be levied and the Bonds issued if
two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast on Measure E are "YES" votes. The ap-
propriations limit for the District shall be established if two-thirds (2/3) of
the votes cast on Measure F are "YES" votes.

s/ George C. Thacher
City Attorney

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURES E AND F. IF YOU DESIRE A COPY OF THE MEAS-
URE, PLEASE CALL THE CITY CLERK’S OFFICE AT 648-3100
AND A COPY WILL BE MAILED AT NO COST TO YOU.

Exhibit A

RATE AND METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT OF SPECIAL TAX
FOR COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 1
(PACIFIC GROVE PUBLIC LIBRARY EXPANSION)

Every parcel (defined below) located in Community Facilities District No,
1 (Pacific Grove Public Library Expansion) ("CFD No. 1") of the City of
Pacific Grove ("City"), unless exempt by iaw or pursuant to the provisions
of this rate and method of apportionment, shall be subject to the levy of a
Special Tax (defined below). The amount of the Special Tax to be annually
levied shali be determined in accordance with this rate and method of ap-
portionment of the Special Tax.

A.	DEFINITIONS

“Assessor's Parcel Map* means the official map or maps of the County
Assessor of the County of Monterey designating Parcels by Assessor's Parcel
Numbers.

"Exempt Parcel" means any Parcel or other property located within CFO No.1
defined in Section E, which is exempt from the ievy of the Special Tax,

"Fiscal. Year" means the period starting on July 1 of any year and ending
the following June 30,

"Non-Residential Parcel" means any Parce! which is not classified as a
Residential Parcel or an Exempt Parcel,

"Parcel" means a lot or parcel of real property located within CFD No.1
and designated on an Assessor’s Parce! Map with an assigned Assessor's
Parcel Number.

"Residential Dwelling Unit" means any attached or detached single family
home, condominium unit, apartment unit, cooperative unit, mobile home,
manufactured home or other building, structure or portion thereof used as
a residential dwelling or classified as a residential dwelling by the building
or zoning regulations of the City.

"Residential Parcel" means any Parcel upon which a residential dwelling
unit is located.

"Special Tax Requirement" means that amount of Special Tax revenue
required to be collected in any Fiscal Year to pay; (1) debt service on any
bonds or other indebtedness of CFD No. 1 incurred for the purposes for
which CFD No, 1 was established, (2) costs incurred by the City on behalf
of CFD No.1 to administer bonds of CFO No.1 and (3) increased costs of
maintenance resulting from the expansion of the Pacific Grove Public Library,
Continued on Next Page

B.	CLASSIFICATION OF PARCELS

Each Fiscal Year, aii Parcels within CFO No.1 shall be classified as Residential
Parcels, Non-Residential Parcels or Exempt Parcels.

C.	MAXIMUM SPECIAL TAX RATES

For each Fiscal Year commencing July 1st of the Fiscal Year following the
issuance of the bonds for CFO No.1 and continuing for a term not to exceed
25 Fiscal Years, each Residential Parcel and Non-Residential Parcel shall be
subject to the levy of the Special Tax in an amount not to exceed the following
applicable maximum Special Tax rate:

Parcel Classification Maximum Special Tax Rate (Annual)

Residential Parcel $43.50 per Residential Dwelling Unit within such Parcel
Non-Residential Parcel $0.00854 per square foot of land within such Parcel
The maximum Special Tax rates set forth above shall be escalated annually
commencing on July 1, 1994 as follows:

The maximum Special Tax rate applicable to Residential Parcels shall escalate
$1.00 per Residential Dwelling Unit per Fiscal Year.

The maximum Special Tax rate applicable to Non-Residential Parcels shall
escalate $0.00020 per square foot of land per Fiscal Year.

D.	METHOD APPORTIONMENT OF THE SPECIAL TAX
The Special Tax shall be apportioned annually as follows:

STEP 1: The Special Tax Requirement shall be determined for the applicable
Fiscal Year,

STEP 2. The Special Tax shall be apportioned and levied on all Residential
and Non-Residential Parcels at that equal percentage of the maximum Special
Tax rates set forth in Section C, so that the Special Tax revenues equals the
Special Tax Requirements for the applicable Fiscal Year.

E.	EXEMPT PARCELS

The following property shall be exempt from the levy of the Special Tax:

1.	Property which is publicly owned or dedicated to a public entity at the
time of formation of CFD No.1,

2.	Property which is designated as open space by the General Plan or
the zoning regulations of the City,

* * *

For further particulars as to the levy and collection of the Special Tax,
reference is made to the Report of the Special Tax Consultant on file in
the office of the City Clerk of the City and subject to approval by the City
Council of the City prior to establishment of CFD No.1,





ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

The General Plan for the City of Pacific Grove identifies library space needs
as a priority issue facing the City of Pacific Grove. Needs assessment plan-
ning has been going on by city and library staff for the past 5 years. A
plan for building expansion was approved by the City Council, establishment
of a Melio-Roos bond district was approved by the City Council, now it Is
up to the voters to decide,

The Pacific Grove Library needs expanded and modernized space in which to
build a better collection and services for the citizens of Pacific Grove for now
and the next 25 years. Space for children’s and adult programming and com-
munity uses, shelving for books, a computerized system for finding and checking
out books, more seating for reading and studying, better lighting and ventilation,
and better accessibility for people with disabilities are some of the needs that
would be addressed by the expansion and remodeling of the present 12,000
square foot facility. The city and the library’s greatest asset, its staff, would have
a more efficient, larger and safer work space.

Vote Yes on Measure E - Vote for E for Expansion!

Library Expansion Committee

s/ James R, Kistier $/ Linda Pagneila s/ Jim Rotter
Co-Chair	Secretary	Treasurer

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

The argument against the expansion of the Pacific Grove library is obvious,
we don’t need any new taxes, This library expansion will cost about three
million dollars, which the residents of Pacific Grove will have to pay for, for
a very long time.

The expansion of this library will result in the development of Jewell Park,
across from the Pacific Grove Museum, Our community needs Jewell Park
as open space,

Please vote against the measure and save Jewell Park as it is for open space.

s/ Michael Misha Bogatirev

27-60

I

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

Preliminary costs for the Library Expansion project, including construction |
and remodeling, furnishings, shelving, equipment and computerization are j
$2.9 million. The Community Facilities District Is the approved method of	i

financing the project, which includes money for increased operating ex-	j

penses. The annual cost to the taxpayer would be $43.50 per parcel, res- j
identiaf or $0,00854 per dwelling unit equivalent [5,000 sq, ft, of land] for 1
non-residentiai with a time limit not to exceed 25 fiscal years,	J

Vote Yes on Measure F - Vote F for the Future,

Library Expansion Committee;

s/ James R. Kistier
Co-Chair
8/ Linda Pagneila
Secretary
s/ Jim Rotter
Treasurer

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
OR REBUTTAL TO THIS ARGUMENT
WAS SUBMITTED