OFFICIAL BALLOT
COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA

SPECIAL ELECTION
June 8,1993

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

SCHOOL/ESCUELA

BERRYESSA UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
DISTRITO ESCOLAR UNIDO DE BERRYESSA

To improve the quality of education provided to students, Yes/Sf

B shall the Berryessa Union School District be authorized to --

implement a special tax and increase its Gann Appropri- No

ations Limit by the amount of revenue generated by that _

special tax?

The rate for the three (3) years of the special tax shall be $80 per parcel per
year beginning July 1, 1993, and such tax shall again be placed before the

voters in its third year and renewed upon a majority vote.

iPara mejorar la calidad de la educacidn proveida a estudiantes, deberd el
Distrito Escolar Berryessa Union ser autorizado para implementar un impuesto
especial y aumentar su Llmite de Apropiaciones Gann por la oantidad del
ingreso generado por ese Impuesto especial?

El tipo de interns por los tres (3) aftos del impuesto especial serd $80 por parcela
por afio comenzando el 1 de Julio, 1993, y tal impuesto sere.otra vez puesto
ante los votantes on su tercer afio y renovado sobre un voto de mayorfa.

i‘Ml

6-»





43 1.003

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

Following is information concerning measures.

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the
proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Although the materials In this pamphlet have been carefully proofread,
typographical errors occasionally remain undetected.

If any substantive errors are discovered after the pamphlet has
been printed, correction notices will be printed In appropriate
local newspapers on Friday, June 4, 1993.

corte por la linea de puntos - cut along dotted line

SOLICITUD PARA LOS MATERIALES ELECTORIALES

EN ESPANOL.

REQUEST FOR ELECTION MATERIALS IN SPANISH.

Nombre - Name

Residencia (Num„ CaHeJ - Residence (No., Street!

Direccibn postal (si es diferente) - Mailing address (If different!

Ciudad - City	Zip

Adjunte en un sobre y envie por correo a: Enclose in envelope and mail to:

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

P.O.BOX 1147

SAN JOSE, CA 95108

Envie por correo no m^s tarder que el 1 de junio de 1993.

Mail no later than June 1, 1993.

D2

MEASURE B

__________COUNTY	COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The Government Code authorizes districts to impose a special tax through thejimposition of a
parcel tax on real property upon approval of two-thirds of the votes oast by voters in an election
held for the purpose of imposing such a tax.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B, CONTINUED

A 'YES' vote on Measure B will help, our community towards restoring the quality schools'which
have been traditional for Berryessa and that our children deserve. Good schools strengthen a
community, protect property values, and enhance the future of our families. Your support is vital
to the school district's continued success.

The Berryessa Union School District governing board proposes to implement a parcel tax in the
amount of $80.00 per parcel per year for a period of three years beginning July 1, 1993. Although,
the measure states it may be renewed in its third year by a majority vote, there is no authority in

existing law for renewal by other than a two-thirds vote. A parcel is defined as any parcel of land
shown on the then current assessment roll prepared by the County Assessor. An owner of a parcel
who has attained the age of 85 or above on or before July 1, of any applicable year and who uses
the parcel as his or her principal residence shall be exempt from said tax. Owners of multiple
parcels, which are contiguous and are part of one economic unit will be considered owners of one
parcel under this measure. This measure would also increase the District's appropriations limit to
permit expenditure of the special taxes collected in each year.

1/

A "yes” vote is a vote in favor of levying the proposed special tax. The funds derived from the
parcel tax would be expended to:

Educate for Tomorrow...TODAY! Vote YES on

Linda Locke

1985 Berryessa Teacher of the Year
Chuck Reed, Chairman,

Berryessa Education Foundation
Joy Patzner

North Valley PTA Council President

B for Berryessa.

Lawrence Tom, President,

Board of Trustees

Bob Gross, Founding Member,

Santa Clara County Taxpayer's Association

NO ACCEPTABLE REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE B WAS SUBMITTED

1.	Maintain current class size averages.

2.	Maintain school buildings and facilities to assure the safety of students and staff.

3.	Purchase supplies and equipment for instructional use, including library books and related
learning materials.

4.	Install modern science and computer labs and equipment.

A "no” vote is a vote not to authorize the imposition of said special tax.

STEVEN M. WOODSIDE

County Counsel

By:	BRIAN I. CARR

Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

Measure B asks every homeowner to pay $80 per year to "improve the quality of education." But
will this measure really improve the quality of education or simply continue funding the status quo?

Half of all state taxes and half of your property taxes go to the public education system, yet we
keep hearing that the quality of public education is going down while the costs keep going up.
Most private schools, spending considerably less per student with far fewer administrators, provide
what many feel is a better education. Yet the public schools say they need more moneyl
What can be done to reduce the cost and increase the quality of public education? Much of the
high cost is due to excessive administration, which siphons off money needed for teachers and
classrooms. Bureaucracy must be cut for the benefit of both students and taxpayers.

Today's youth will be tomorrow's engineers, scientists, doctors and judges. Our children will be
expected to make the world a better place to live...our community safer...the economy stronger.
It is, therefore, essential for us to provide quality education for our youth here in Berryessa.

For the past five consecutive years, however, inadequate state funding has forced the Berryessa
Union School District to slash its budget by over $5 million thereby reducing or eliminating vital
student programs and essential services. Concerted efforts by the district to generate badly
needed funds to.replace lost revenues have not been successful. Berryessa's. children can no
longer afford to wait for Sacramento or Washington to find solutions to our problems. We must
act now to provide our Berryessa youth with the best education possible.

Measure B can make the difference.

Measure B will provide locally controlled funds to:

1,	Provide our students with access to modem science and computer labs and other

instructional technologies;

-2.	Update instructional materials and equipment including library books and state-of-the-art

learning aids;

3.	Avoid increasing class sizes to 35 or 40 students;

4.	Ensure the safety of students, faculty, and staff by maintaining school buildings,
facilities, and grounds

Low quality comes from lack of choice and lack of competition in the public school system.
Parents should be able to choose the schools their children attend. Just as competition forces
private industry to better serve its customers, the quality of public education will improve once
schools must compete for students instead of having guaranteed enrollments. Less bureaucracy
along with more choice and competition are essential to cut costs and ensure quality in our
schools.

In these days of talk about taxes, taxes, and more taxes, we owe it to ourselves and our families
to closely scrutinize every funding request to see if we are really getting value for our money. If
we vote in more funding with no guarantee of quality performance, nothing will change.

Don't write the district a blank check. Demand real improvements to the educational system before
buying into another tax. You are the customer. Vote NO on Measure B.

Jon Petersen, Chair
Libertarian Party of
Santa Clara County

Vicki M. Hargrove
berryessa Resident
& Concerned Parent

Ed Wimmers, Treasurer	David L. Thomas

Libertarian Party of	Berryessa Homeowner

Santa Clara County

Mark W. A. Hinkle, Fi nance

Director.Libertarian Party

of Santa Clara County

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

The crisis facing the Berryessa schools is very real and known to parents and non-parents alike.
Over the past five years, costs have steadily increased, yet the district lost $5 million in state
funding.

G1

G2

Today, Eerryessa has the lowest administrative cost per student; yet the highest class size of any
school district in the County. Teacher salaries have been virtually frozen for thfee years. The
district receives lower than average funding from the State.

School officials have done all they can. They have been forced to use funds that were slated for
emergency situations; still, they have managed to maintain reserves to ensure that the district
won't go bankrupt. There's nothing else to cut without doing major damage to the quality of
education that Berryessa's children receive.

if citizens don't take matters into their own hands:

©	Anticipated state budget cuts will drastically impair Berryessa's ability to provide basic '

education (reading, writing, arithmetic).

©	Students will be deprived of adequate training in science, computers, and other

technologies essential to the jobs of the future
©	Learning will suffer as class size increases, this time to 35-40 students per class.

Measure B will cost property owners $80 per year for three years (only $6.67 a month)...a small
price for the continued well-being of our community and youth.

Most are concerned about crime and the economy. Good schools provide a solid educational
foundation...a proven way of confronting these problems here in Berryessa.

Educate for Tomorrow! YES on'B'

Linda Locke

1985 Berryessa Teacher of the Year

Chuck Reed, Chairman,

Berryessa Education Foundation

Joy Patzner, President,

North Valley PTA Council

Lawrence Tom, President,

Board of Trustees
Murphy Sabatino, President,

Santa Clara County Taxpayer's Association

ACCESS TO POLLING PLACE BY THE
PHYSICALLY DISABLED

Refer to the symbol on the back cover of this
pamphlet.

If the word "NO" is printed under the symbol, your
polling place does not meet State Guidelines for
accessibility to disabled voters.

For more information about an inaccessible polling
place and alternative methods of voting, call:

Accessibility Coordinator
1408} 299-2694

CALL NOW - PHONE LINES ARE BUSY AT ELECTION TIME

REGISTRATION AND VOTING INFORMATION IS
AVAILABLE TO THE DEAF BY TDD COMMUNICATION
1408) 288-9820

ACCESQ A LOS LUGARES DE VOTACION POR LAS
PERSONAS FISICAMENTE INCAPACITADAS

Refiere a el sfmbolo en la cubierta posterior de
este panfleto.

Si aparece la palabra "NO" bajo el sfmbolo, su
lugar de votacidn no cumple con los requistos del
estado en cuanto a accesibilidad para personas
fisicamente incapacitadas.

Para mSs informacidn a cerca'de lugares de votac
accesibles para las personas fisicamente incapacitados llame a:

Coordinador de Accesibilidad
(408) 299-2694

LLAME EN SEQUIDA - LOS TELEFONOS SE OCUPAN MAS
EN TIEMPA DE ELECClON

INFORMAClON DE REGISTRO Y DE VOTAR PARA LAS
PERSONAS QUE TIENEN IMPARAMIENTO DE OIR - SERVICIOS
DE TELECOMUNICAClON
(408) 288-9820

HI