SUMMARY	ALBANY SCHOOL AND PIEDMONT					SCHOOL ELECTIONS			MARCh		. 				OFFICIAL STATEMENT				
’age Humber 2.901.001	R  E  G  I  S  T  E  R  E  D  V  0  T  E  R  S	T  U  R  N  0  U  T	T  U  R  N  0  U  T  P  E  R  C  E  N  T  A  G  E			A I L S B S A U N E Y  S  C  H  - O O L  M  E B A O S N  U D R S E	A I L S B S A U N E Y  S  C  H  - O 0 L  M  E B A O S N U D R S E				P L I E E V D Y M  O S N P T E C - I A L  M  E T A A  S X U R E	P L I E E V D Y M  O S N P T E C - I A L  M  E T A A  S X U R E						
						A  Y  E	A  N  O.				B  Y  E  	S_	B  N  O						
ALBANY	9M9	2795	28.9*			2165	582					"1				i		
																! ;		
PIEDMONT	7563	2894	38.2%			0	0			24171		435						
																		
PRECINCT TOTALS	17217	4125	23.93			1392	43S			1960		296						
ABSENTEE TOTALS	0	156C	0.03			773	144			457		139						
GRAND TOTALS	17217	5685	33.03			2165	582			2417		435						
																,		
																		
																		
																		
														~1				
																		
																		
																		
																i		
																		
																		
																		
																		
															1			
															■ i			
															i			
																		
																		
																		
																		
															1			
																		
																		
															i			
																		
															i			
																		
																		
																		
				l														
															,			
															i			
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
																		
								—										
																					
								—								!		
																	i	  .		
								1								i		  1		
																—  i		

PIEOMONT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT PROPOSED SPECIAL TAX	
MEASURE R; Shall the hrdmoin City Unified School District he authorized tn lew a special tax of up u> die amounts specified in tim voter information pamphlet for a period of foui years toward providing special program*. and set v ices commensurate with a superior educational program’’	YES
	NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

Ttic tun tot o£ me ballot roe-mu shall read as follows,

lo ensure Hie uuality of Piedmont's public education that has benefited all siuoeiii/and citizens, shall the Piedmont
City Unified School District be authorized to implement a special ux toward providing tbc foliating special programs
tiEkcl services commensurate with a superior educational program'’
a. An average class size of 28 siudcnts or fewer
b Elementary classroom instructional aides
t /V vzten penod day a; the middle school and high school
d A diverse curriculum at the middle school and high school
e A specialized demen tary instrument al and vocal music program
f A specialized elementary reading resource program.
g. Specialized element-ary middle school and high school library services
h A specialized elementary physical educational program
i Middle school and high school counseling services
i A specialized motor skills program fur elcmenlwy students
k Mamtanariee anti repair of district facilities.

1 Coaches for hi gh schuol athletic teams

m. Advisorsand directors tor extra Auricular activities at the middle school'and high school.

Said special tax shall not exceed j maximum rate peryeiu for a maximum of four M) years asaessetl against each parcel
of land as lollows:

0 -4 ,W sq fL	S32I/parcel
$,000-9,999 iq. it	S365/parccl
Ui.KlO-RWsq ft	S415,'parcel
L\t)(l0-I9,9994q ft	S478/pareel
more than 20,0Ul)sq fl	SS47/psrccl
mmmera’alOlO.OOO.sq. fl.	$547/parcel
commercial mure than lQ.QtXisq ft.	Wiftparcel
multi-family dwellings	ff2l4/umt
undeveloped	tJMi'purcel
multiple parcel dwellings	$3S2/dw tiling

hor parcels Jivuded by Tax Code Area I ant. the payment for the portion of the parcel within the Piedmont Unified
Sdin.-il Duiriet sfialJ be the same as die above square footage tates
Pursuant tu California Constitution Article Mil B the appropriations hmu for the Piedmont Cuy Unified School
Disirid will be increased by llu aggregate sum collected by levy of tins speoal Lax in each cl the years covered by this
Resolution It any section, sub-section, phrase or clause of dm measure or its application ts for any reason held to he
invalid, such decision shall noL affect the validity of the remaining portion of this measure

PM-1

COUNTY COUNSELS IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

MeasuteB seeks voter approval of a special it* for Piedmont educational programs A school distort, following notice
and public hearings, is allowed to submit to ihe voters tui approval or rejection a measure authorizing tht levying of a
special tax pursuant to Section 4ol Article XlllA ol the California Gniwtinuion and Guverwnent Code Sec turns 50(}7:. ct
seq and Education Code Section 501X1 A similar special ux was passed by Piedmont voters in 19«9 which wiilcxpuctn
1993 The tax proposed in Measure II is again lor a maximum of four years.

Upon the approval of two thirds cif the electorate voting, the Hoard of Education of the Piedmont Unified School
District will he authorised to impose a Special tax on each residential unit and on each non-rcsidential parcel of real cslaid
located within the boundaries nf the- school district 'Ihe proceeds raised hy this special lav would be used to provide
education funds in addition to those provided try the state; fot partrculai educational progrfuWEor example, this tax is
proposed to provide funds In the element ary schools tor instructional Hides, instrumental and vocal music programs, a
specialized leading resource program, speasirred physical educabun programs and a specialized motor skills programs.
In the middle school and high school, The r« would provide additional funding lot n more ilixeise curriculum, a seven
penod day. specialized library services, counseling services, advisots and directors lor extra curricular activities and
coaches for high sehoul athletic reams. It would provide funds tor maintenance and repair ol district facilities, and provide
for an avet age class sere of 28 students bit fewer throughout the school district.

Poor to tb; levying of the spczul tax in any given yeai. the Board ot Education will conduct a puhhc heating on the
mallei Aftct the hearing, the Board will adupt a resolution establishing the amount of tax to be raised for lhai yeai
and the rate per parcel The amcruat of funds required (join the tax will be determined as pari of the annual budget
process after assessing projected revenue irom sources other than this special tax The maximum rate.-, range from
Slbd per year for each undeveloped parcel to S32i pet year for parcels (M.999 sq it to S547 per year for parcels :l
mutt than 20,00(1 sq. ft. and up to S8I8 for commercial parcels of more than 10.000 square feet

The lax will be collected on July 1, 1903 and thereafter by the Alameda County Tax Collector at the same time and
along with the genet id ad valorem taxes and shall be subject tu the same penalty as geueial and ad valorem taxes

VKELVIN H. BOOTY, JR.
CouDty Counsel

1

PM-?

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

On Match 2,1993, Piedmont voters will have the opportunity to ensure that our top quality educational services will be
maintained Measure B will

►	Preserve Piedmont's excellent school system
*■ Protect Piedmont's high property values

►	Maintain a measure ol local control

►	Ensure one source o( predictable income for the schools

This local tax, deductible from state ami federal income taxes, has a tour-year limitation and expires in June of 1997. Each
year the Board of Education, in a public hearing, will set the tax revenue as needed,, up to the maximum rate
Although many citizens do not have children in the Piedmont public schools, all of us benefij from our excellent
educational system through increased property values and sense of community. Our expectations arc high. Please read
the lull text of Measure B for a bst of programs to be guaranteed by the lax; no programs are new. all are essential.
Historically Piedmont citizens have supported a lugh level of education through local taxation. Piedmont docs not re-
ceive adequate funds from the state to maintain vital programs California's state budget crisis highlights the need for
local income

Piedmoutcrs demand an outstanding school system, and wc can be proud of what we and our students have achieved
Increased local control and a predictable income for schools are essential elements in effective planning for the future
Let's continue to excel Vote YES on Measure B

VJamcs Haydet, President
Piedmont Board of Education
s.'Stcphanie Mooers. Member
Piedmont Board of Education
VJnmes NybaJckcn Member
Piedmont Board of Education

s/Gail Dtydcn, Vice President
Piedmont Board of Education
Si'Susan Kawaichi, Member
Piedmont Board of Education

No argument submitted against Measure B.

nM-3