BERRYESSA UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA
RESOLUTION NO. 93-8

RESOLUTION ORDERING SPECIAL TAX ELECTION
AND SETTING FORTH THE SPECIFICATIONS THEREOF

WHEREAS, as the result of inadequate state funding,

Berryessa Union School District has been forced to reduce or
eliminate programs beneficial to the students who attend the
schools of the District; and

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to
generate funds for educational programs, including assisting
school groups in fund raising activities, actively
soliciting grant monies from the public and private sectors,
and lobbying the legislative and executive branches of the
state government for equalization of base revenue limit
funds, but these efforts have not been sufficient to raise
funds to improve the quality of education in the District;
and,

WHEREAS, a well-balanced public education program delivers
many long-lasting benefits and advantages to all of the
residents of our community; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and Government Code Sections 50075, et. seq.,
authorize school districts, following notice and public
hearing, to levy a "special tax" to raise funds for the
purpose of operating the schools of the District upon
approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by the voters
voting upon such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California
Constitution provides that the appropriations limit of any
entity of government may be changed by the electors of such
entity, for a period of up to four (4) years from the date
of the vote making such change; and

WHEREAS, it is, in the judgment of this Board, following
notice and public hearing, advisable to order a special
election and submit to the voters of this District the
questions whether the District shall levy a special tax
within the District for the purpose of raising additional
revenue for the District and whether the District's
appropriations limit shall be increased in the amount of
revenue for the District and whether the District's
appropriations limit shall be increased in the amount of
revenue so raised for a period of three (3) years beginning
July 1, 1993;

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:

A.	That pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA and
Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution
and Education Code Section 5305, a special election shall be
held within the boundaries of the Berryessa Union School
District on Tuesday, June 8, 1993. It is further requested
pursuant to Election Code Section 23302 that the election be
partially or completely consolidated with such other
elections held within the District on said day and this
Governing Board consents to such consolidation,

B.	That the purpose of the election shall be to
submit to the voters the questions of whether to approve the
levy of a special tax within the Berryessa Union School
District and increase the appropriations limit of the
District by the amount of revenue generated by the special
tax.

C.	The special tax shall be in the amount of $80 per
year for each Assessor's Parcel within the District as shown
on the then-current secured Assessment Roll prepared by the
Santa Clara County Assessor, beginning July 1, 1993, with an
exemption for any beneficial owner of a parcel who has
attained the age of 65 or above on or before July 1 of any
applicable year and who uses that parcel as his or her
principal residence, and for owners of multiple parcels
which are contiguous and are part of one economic unit.

D.	Subject to voter approval, the special tax shall
be levied commencing July 1, 1993, and shall be collected
and administered in the same manner as ad valorem property
taxes are fixed and collected under the provisions of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code.

E.	The collection of the special tax is not intended
to decrease or offset any increase in local, state, or
federal government funding sources that would otherwise be
available to the district during the period of the special
tax. In the event that it does, the district shall either
cease to levy or shall reduce the special tax by the amount
of the decrease or offset.

F.	Pursuant to Article XIIIB of the California State
Constitution, the Board of Trustees hereby requests the
voters to authorize that the appropriations limit be raised
for the longest period of time permitted by law in order to
permit expenditure of the special taxes collected in each
year.

G.	The revenue derived from the special tax shall be
expended for the following purposes:

1.	Maintain current class size averages.

2.	Maintain school buildings and facilities to
assure the safety of students and staff.

3.	Purchase supplies and equipment for
instructional use, including library books
and related learning materials.

4.	Install modern science and computer labs and
equipment.

H.	Said election is hereby called to be held within
the boundaries of the Berryessa Union School District on
Tuesday, June 8, 1993, at which election shall be submitted
to the qualified voters the following measure:

"MEASURE_____________"

"To improve the quality of education provided to
students, shall the Berryessa Union School District be
authorized to implement a special tax and increase its
Gann Appropriations Limit by the amount of revenue
generated by that special tax?"

-3-

The rate for the three (3) years of the special tax
shall be $80 per parcel per year beginning July 1,
1993, and such tax shall again be placed before the
voters in its third year and renewed upon a majority
vote.

I.	The Superintendent of Schools in Santa Clara
County and the Registrar of Voters of Santa Clara County are
hereby requested to take all necessary steps to call and
hold the election in accordance with law.

J.	The Clerk of the Board of Trustees is hereby
ordered and directed to deliver a copy of this resolution to
the Superintendent of Schools of Santa Clara County, and to
the Registrar of Voters of Santa Clara County no later than
February 5, 1993. The Clerk of the Board of Trustees is
further ordered and directed to post a copy of this
resolution on or near the doors of the District Office and
in three (3) public places within the District for at least
two (2) weeks before the time set for the election.

K.	If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of
this resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion of this resolution. This Governing Board declares
that it would have adopted this resolution and each section,
subsection, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
phrases or clauses be declared invalid.

L.	The costs of the election shall be paid by this
District, or shared proportionately with other jurisdictions
in the event of consolidation of elections, as provided by
Article 8, Chapter 3, Part 4 of Division I (commencing at
Section 5420) of the Education Code.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Trustees of the Berryessa

Union School District this 2nd day of February______________,

1993 by the following vote:

AYES:	4

NOES:	0

ABSENT:	1

ABSTAINING:	0

I hereby certify that the foregoing resolution is duly
introduced, passed, and adopted at the time and place and by
the vote as noted above.

Clea ,	ses

Berryessa Union School District

PA: h j s
SPECTAX

1/26/93

-5-