1113

The Full Ballot Measure shall read as follows:

"To restore and maintain the quality of the education
provided to the students within the Las Virgenes Unified School
District, shall the Las Virgenes Unified School District levy a
special tax of $150,00 on each parcel of land as defined within
the District, developed and undeveloped, each year for four full
fiscal years in order to provide any or all of the following:

1)	Restoration of 1991-92 and 1992-93 priority budget
cuts or reductions that directly affected the
classroom.

2)	Reduction of primary, upper elementary, middle
school and high school grade class sizes (student-
teacher ratios) as follows:

a.	Reduced primary grade (kindergarten through
third grade) class sizes or pupil: teacher ratio
by four students per class.

b.	Reduce upper elementary grade forth and fifth
grade) class sizes or pupil:teacher ratio by
two students.

c.	Reduce academic class loads at the middle
school by three students per class.

d.	Reduce high school academic classes by four
students with a goal of not more than 35 per
class.

3)	Addition of a seventh period at the middle school.

4)	Add an additional elective seventh period of not
less than 40 classes at the high school level.

5)	Addition of elementary specialists (e.g. music, art,
physical education, computer).

6)	Funds collected but not needed for above shall be
used for additional class size reductions.

The above programs will be funded in the priority listed,
unless the Board determines in any given year that student
population or fiscal constraints or changes in state funding
require a different order of priority. Should the Board determine
that any funds collected will not be needed for these programs for
the duration of this measure, then such funds will be returned to

3

the taxpayers. No program or reduction other than the above shall
be funded by the proceeds of the special tax.	UNDER NO

CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL ANY OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE TAX BE USED FOR
GENERAL SALARY INCREASES OR ADMINISTRATIVE SALARIES.

The Board of Education shall require and make public an
independent audit each year of the funds collected and the manner
in which they were expended under this measure. The cost of said
audit shall be funded with taxes collected under this measure.

In addition, any fees lawfully imposed by one or both
Counties to collect the tax shall be funded with taxes collected
under this measure.

The term "Parcel” shall mean any parcel of land,
developed or undeveloped, wholly or partially located within the
District, for which the Los Angeles and Ventura County Assessors
have assigned an assessor's identification number; provided,
however, that any such parcels which are contiguous, used solely
for owner-occupied single family residential purposes and held
under identical ownership, may, upon approval of an application of
the owners. thereof submitted to the Governing Board of this
District, be treated as a single parcel for purposes of the special
tax.

Pursuant to California Government Code section 50079(b),
any owners, 65 years of age or older, of a parcel used solely for
owner-occupied single family residential purposes shall be granted
an exemption from the special tax upon submission of an application
submitted to this Board by said owners.