

VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLET

Containing
MEASURE D

SAN RAMON VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2003

Arguments in favor of or against the proposed measure are the opinions of the authors.

14

PARCEL TAX MEASURE D
SAN RAMON VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

To retain high quality teachers, provide for necessary educational

programs and materials, keep school libraries open, avoid increased
class sizes, and maintain counseling and music programs, shall the San
Ramon Valley Unified School District be authorized to levy an annual tax
of $90 per taxable parcel for five years only, beginning July 1, 2004, with
independent annual audits and a complete exemption for parcels owned
and occupied by persons 85 years of age or over?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE D

The governing board of the San Ramon Valley Unified School
District has adopted a resolution proposing a qualified special tax.

The ballot measure asks voters to decide whether a qualified
special fax should be imposed on parcels of taxable real property within
the District for no more than five years, beginning July 1,2004.

The qualified special tax would be $90 per year on each taxable
parcel in the District. A parcel would be exempt from the qualified
special tax in any year if the parcel is otherwise exempt from property
taxes or if no property taxes are levied on the parcel in that same year.
Any parcel owned and occupied by a person sixty-five years old or older
would also be exempt from the qualified special tax upon proper
application to the District.

The ballot measure states that the proceeds of the qualified
special tax will be used for the following purposes: “To retain high quality
teachers, provide for necessary educational programs and materials,
keep school libraries open, avoid increased class sizes, and maintain

counseling and music programs,” Proceeds from the qualified special
tax may be used only for the specific purposes set forth in the ballot

measure and according to other constitutional and statutory provisions.

For so long as any proceeds of the qualified special tax remain
unexpended, an independent financial auditor will prepare an annual
report stating the amount of the qualified special tax received and
expended in the year and the status of any projects or descriptions of
any programs funded from the tax proceeds.

Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve
the measure for it to pass.

1



tax.

A "yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the qualified special

A “no" vote is a vote against authorizing the qualified special tax.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE D

The quality of public education in the San Ramon Valley Unified School

District is seriously in jeopardy.

Over the past 10 years, our district has worked diligently with parents
and the entire community to build an exemplary educational system.

The results are clear. All our schools earned the top score of 10 on the
State’s Academic Performance Index. Our schools are recognized as

California Distinguished Schools and National Blue Ribbon Schools,

The current State budget crisis threatens our progress. This year the
school board, with guidance from parents, teachers, business and
community leaders, painstakingly balanced the budget by cutting $4.0
million in administration, programs, and services. This is in addition to
$6.9 million in cuts the previous four years. Worse yet, California's fiscal
outlook in future years remains uncertain.

Without additional revenue, our district will be forced to make devastating
cuts that will negatively impact student (earning.

Measure D provides local funds for our schools. Every dollar stays in our
community.

Measure D will;

B Keep highly qualified teachers in our classrooms.

•	Keep school libraries open.

•	Keep counselors in middle schools and high schools.

•	Keep smaller class sizes in grades K-3 and 9!n grade English and
algebra classes.

Measure D:

■	Requires an independent financial audit and public reporting

annually.

•	Includes an exemption for senior citizens.

•	Is authorized for 5 years only.

■	Is deductible on State and Federal income taxes.

2

Measure D is a prudent, responsible investment in our children, schools,
ana community. It protects home values by maintaining key programs
that keep student performance at high levels, making our community a
very desirable place to live.

Please join parents, teachers, business leaders, and citizens throughout
our community in supporting Measure D.

Vote YES on Measure D.

Margaret May

Senior Citizen and 50 Year Resident
of the San Ramon Valley

Carolyn Miller

Teacher of the Year for the San

Ramon Valley Unified School District
artel Contra Costa County, 2003

Caroline Cutin

Parent and Member of the District

Budget Advisory Committee

...............rebuttalTo^	 of..'........~

PARCEL TAX MEASURE D

LIKE MANY ,)TH1	- UBLIC AGENCIES, SRVUSD VASTLY

OVERSPENDS.

•	SRVUSD last pushed parcel taxes, unsuccessfully, in 1991-92,

•	Then, District general-fund expenditures were $60,851,058. By 2002-2003,
they were $141,318,808 — an enormous 133% increase, mostly in
salaries and benefits.

Will Sanford

Citizen of the Year for the City
of San Ramon, 2003

Rachel Hurd

President, Del Valle Council of
PTAs. 2003

•	Meanwhile, Bay Area inflation and SRVUSD’s student population combined
grew only 73%,

•	Measure D would perpetuate SRVUSD's salary / benefit spiral and
implement permanent spending increases with an allegedly temporary fax.
assuring future parcel-tax reauthorization campaigns.

MEASURE P's TAX PROMOTERS MAY ALLEGE. FALSELY ONCE
AGAIN. 71 ;>% • 1PPUNENTS "MISLEAD VOTERS.” INSTEAD. THEY
HAVE AN ACCOUNTABILITY PROBLEM:

3

. AMONG SIMILAR SCHOOLS, SRVUSD's Academic Performance
Index rankings are mediocre at best, averaging only 5.8 out of

10 (http://api.cde.ca.qov).Taxpavers deserve better performance
with existing revenues — not new taxes.

•	Measure D's supporters claim "S6.9 million'' in 1999-2003 ''cuts/' In
fact, spending ROCKETED $32 Million above 1998-99's level.

•	SRVUSD suppressed Measure B project costs, including re-roofing
money for phantom buildings (1995).

•	SRVUSD attempted to legitimize illegal Measure C votes (1996-
97).

•	SRVUSD's previous Measure D drew Grand Jury findings: "The
District electorate appears to have been, and continues to be,
misinformed on [Measure D's] scope and intent..." (2000).

® In 2002, with liberalized vote requirements, SRVUSD passed a
$260,000,000 monster bond, atop Measure D's $70,000,000 - plus
$48,000,000 in state grants. That's $378 MILLION (so far) for

"upgrades." enough to REBUILD EVERY DISTRICT SCHOOL

GROUND UP!

"INDEPENDENT AUDITS" WOULD ONLY CONFIRM EXPENDITURES
THAT WERE UNREASONABLE FROM THE OUTSET. FIGHT
EXORBITANT TAXES AND IRRESPONSIBLE OVERSPENDING....
VOy *,	0”	ON	MEASURE D!

www.NOonD.info

(824-2500)

Michael Arata - Industrial Water-Treatment	Dawn	L.	Perry	- Parent

Consultant; Former Teacher and Coach, Danville of 3 SRVUSD Graduates;

Former Teacher, Alamo

Vomny innes - Retired Financial Analyst,	Robert	E. Rose - Realtor;

Telecommunications; Senior Citizen, San Ramon Senior Citizen, San

Ramon

Gregory K. Lyon - Parent of 2 SRVUSD

students; Retired CPA and Construction
Accountant, Alamo

4

ARGUMI	AINST

FARCE MEASURED

We’re IMiREimumiMgiADY»

•	Income and F1CA taxes alone already consume half the next
dollar earned by many SRVUSD families. That's before sales
taxes, property taxes, tripled car taxes (2003), doubted SD1
taxes (2000), utility taxes.,, and with Prop. 13 under renewed
attack.

•	Federal, state, and local governments together now spend

!0O annually per person!

PARCEL-TAX SCHEMES RELIEVE PRESSURE FOR RESPONSIBLE
BUDGETING, WITH CARE, GENERO 5 MISTING RESOURCES
COULDFUj^^

•	During 1998-2003, California’s inflation and population
combined grew 21%, State revenues, meanwhile, climbed
2B%\

•	But state spending soared 36%. ensuring insolvency.

•	Nevertheless, California’s 2003-2004 budget provides a $2.1
Billion (5,4%) K-12 spending increase over revised 2002-
2003 levels - and new flexibility in utilizing reserves.

State taxes supply most operational dollars spent by schools. So
Sacramento’s spendthrift politicians support new local taxes, enabling
even more irresponsible state-level overspending. It’s a costly,
manipulative shell game, victimizing California families facing
tough economic times!

SRVUSD ALWAYS PLEAD - iVERTY - UNTIL THE NEXT
RETROACTh J_A RAISE.

Parcel-tax dollars would free other general funds for new salary / benefit
hikes - atop annual step increases, without regard to merit, and probably
soon after Election Day.

Measure D’s “Excellence in Education Tax” doesn’t guarantee
improved academic performance, just $450 more in cumulative new
taxes per parcel. Additionally:

5

•	Measure D’s senior exemption requires annual, documented

claim forms, Meanwhile, fair-minded seniors recognize the
inequity in backing taxes they needn’t pay themselves.

•	Many consider parcel taxes regressive, extracting equal

amounts from every non-exempt property owner, commercial or
residential, regardless of parcel size or owner’s income.

Measure D’s tax promoters, bankrolled by SRVUSD’s spending
beneficiaries, will orchestrate professional absentee-ballot and
phone-bank campaigns, deluges of slick mailbox material, arid
slanted newspaper coverage. In contrast, our opposition is
grassroots.

Please vote NO on Measure Di

Dr. Vladislav A. Bevc - Parent
of 2 SRVHS Graduates; Plasma
Physicist: Citizens' Advisory
Committee Applicant: Senior
Citizen, Danville

Jeff Black - Financial Analyst:
Former Vice Chairman,

Facilities Advisory Committee;
SRVUSD Parent, Danville

Jack S. Katz - Consultant and
Instructor in Business
Development, Strategic
Marketing and Information
Systems, San Ramon

Suzanne C. Thompson -

Homemaker and Retired
Medical Technician: Senior
Citizen, Alamo

Alliance of Contra Costa Taxpayers
Kenneth E. Hambrick, Chairman

(Management Consultant, Former Grand Jury Member) •

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
PARCEL TAX MEASURE D

Passage of Measure D is critical to retaining quality teachers and quality
educational programs in our local schools at a time when the State has
cut funding for education.

Here are the facts:

• Measure D keeps essentia! programs and services in our schools.

• Measure D will:

« Keep highly qualified teachers in our classrooms.
■ Keep school libraries open.

6

* Keep counselors in middle schools and high schools.

*	Keep smaller class sizes in grades K-3 and 9lh grade English
and algebra Glasses.

« Measure D enables our district to receive $6.2 million annually in
State matching funds for class size reduction programs.

*	Our district has balanced budgets and maintains all required financial
reserves. Last March, Moody’s Investors Service upgraded the
district's credit rating citing its conservative fiscal practices arid the
strength of its management team. This was at the same time the
State's credit rating was downgraded.

*	Measure D costs property owners $90 a year, less than $2 a week.

Every dollar stays in our community.

*	Measure D will last 5 years only.

*	Senior citizens are exempt.

*	Measure D guarantees an annual independent audit and annual
report to the community.

Families move into the San Ramon Valley because of the quality of life
and the quality of our schools. Our students perform well on state and
national tests. Ninety-six percent of our students go to college.

Quality schools protect everyone’s property values.

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure D.

Patricia Boom

Former Mayor, City of San Ramon

Carolyn Degnan

Business Person of the Year for the
City of San Ramon, 2003

Richard L. Waldo

Mayor Emeritus, Town of

Danville

Dee Charbonnet

Parent and Member of the
District Budget Advisory
Committee

John F. Carpenter

Principal, Carpenter/Robbins

Commercial Real Estate, Inc.

FULL TEXT OF

PARCEL TAX MEASURE D

SAN RAMON VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION ACT OF 2003

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the
“San Ramon Valley Unified School District Excellence in Education Act
of 2003” or as “Measure D".

TERMS OF EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of
those voting on this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a
qualified special tax of $90 per year on each parcel of taxable real
property in the District for no more than five years, commencing July 1,
2004. The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to as the
“Excellence in Education Tax”. Proceeds of the Excellence in Education
Tax shall be authorized to be used to retain high quality teachers,
provide for necessary educational programs and materials, keep school
libraries open, avoid increases in class sizes, and maintain counseling
and music programs.

Senior Citizen Exemption, in order to provide tax relief
to senior citizens in the San Ramon Valley community, any parcel owned
and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be exempt from
the Excellence in Education Tax upon proper application to the District.
The exemption shall be available pursuant to procedures to be
prescribed by the Board of Education or otherwise as required by (aw or
by the Contra Costa County Tax Collector.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection
of the Excellence in Education Tax, the Board of Education shall cause
an account to be established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as
any proceeds of the Excellence in Education Tax remain unexpended,
the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District shall cause an
independent financial auditor to prepare a report, to be filed with the
Board of Education no later than December 31 of each year,
commencing December 31,2004, stating (1) the amount of Excellence in
Education Tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the status of
any projects or description of any programs funded from proceeds of the
tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other
appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and
may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other
appropriate routine report to the Board of Education.

8

Specific, Purposes. All of the purposes named in the
measure shall constitute the specific purposes of the Excellence in
Education Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such
purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Excellence in Education Tax shall be collected by
the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and
manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem
property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes
shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem
property taxes until paid. The collection of the Excellence in Education
Tax shall not decrease the funds available from other sources of the
District in any period from the effective date hereof,

"Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any
unit of real property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for
ad valorem property taxes from the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax
Collector’s Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on
which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be
exempt from the Excellence in Education Tax in such year. Parcels
owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older are exempt
from the Excellence in Education Tax as described above.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which
the District has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the
Excellence in Education Act as described above to the Contra Costa
County tax collection officials. The Contra Costa County Assessor's
determination of exemption or relief for any reason other than the Senior
Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be final and binding for the purposes
of the Excellence in Education Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County
Assessor's determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a
misclassification of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking
a refund of Excellence in Education Taxes paid shall follow the procedures
applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and
Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters
by approving this measure concur, that every section and part of this
measure has independent value, and the Board of Education and the
voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every
other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters,
should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid
for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and
effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

9