LARKSPUR SCHOOL DISTRICT

RESOLUTION NO. 490

In the Matter of a )	RESOLUTION	AND	ORDER

Special Tax Election )	’	OF	ELECTION

___________________)

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide adequate and
necessary funding to the continued operations of the schools (Neil Cummins Elementary School
and Henry C. Hall Middle School) of the Larkspur School District; and as a result of this lack of
funding and financial support for the schools, the Larkspur School District is in danger of
eliminating many study programs beneficial and necessary to the children who attend the
schools of the District; and once eliminated these programs of study will be extremely difficult
to reinstitute; and

WHEREAS, the voters of the District previously authorized a parcel tax
assessment of $96.00 per parcel which assessment expires on June 30, 1993; and

WHEREAS, without a renewed authorization by the voters for a parcel tax
assessment, immediate and substantial reduction and elimination of educational programs and
services will be necessary and will have a severe impact on the children of the District; and

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to generate funds for
the educational program, including lobbying in the State Legislature and many local fundraising
efforts, and has undertaken cost-cutting measures, including employee layoffs and reduction of
programs and services beneficial and necessary to the students of the Larkspur School District;
and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program delivers many
long-lasting benefits and advantages to all of the residents of our community; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079, and 53720, et seq., authorize
school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the purpose of conducting their business
upon the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon such a special tax
proposal;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the governing board of the Larkspur School
District resolves to conduct a special election on March 2, 1993, at which will be submitted to
the qualified voters of the Larkspur School District a measure to authorize a special tax for the
purpose of continuing vital educational programs critical to the educational process in the
schools of the Larkspur School District; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows.:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries of the
Larkspur School District at which election shall be submitted to the qualified voters within the
Larkspur School District the following measure, to wit:

MEASURE__________

Shall the Larkspur School District, serving the children of Corte Madera,

Larkspur, and Greenbrae, provide funds for the maintenance of specific
educational programs and services by levying a special assessment for a period of
6 years, beginning July 1, 1993, at the rate of $126.00 per assessor's parcel,
which in tax year 1993-94 would supplement the presently authorized
assessment of $96.00 per assessor's parcel by $30.00, and each year increase
the prior year's rate by during the assessment period; with an exemption for
any beneficial owner of a parcel who has attained the age of 65 on or before May
1 of any assessment year and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of
residence, and continue senior exemptions granted during the term of the current
special assessment?

Th8 following educational programs and services shall be maintained and shall be
supported by the special tax:

Language Arts: English, grammar and writing skills integrated with a literature-
based program in grades K-8.

Mathematics: Curriculum offerings.™ pre-algebra and algebra for grades 7 and
8 and small group instruction in grades K through 6.

Science: Hands-on instructional programs for all grade levels.

Foreign Language: Basic instruction in Spanish at Hall Middle School.

Library Sciences: Library staff to support the development of library skills and
the study of literature at all grade levels.

Class Size: Maintain present class-size ratios.

Increased Classroom Time: Continuation of additional academic time and study
time above state minimum requirements.

Special Student Needs: Resources and staffing for students with special
requirements.

2.

Textbooks/Librarv Books; Adequate quantity and quality of textbooks, library
books and instructional materials for all students.

Computer Education: A computer education program to provide instruction in the
use of computers.

Citizenship: Program of instruction for all grades.

The special tax will be imposed for a period of 6 years, beginning July 1, 1993,
at the rate of $ 126.00 per assessor's parcel, which in tax year 1993-94 would supplement the
presently authorized assessment of $96.00 per assessor's parcel by $30.00, and each year
increase the prior year's rate by 4% during the assessment period; with an exemption for any
beneficial owner of a parcel who has attained the age of 65 on or before May 1 of any assessment
year and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence, and continue senior
exemptions granted during the term of the current special assessment. Any one application
from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of
the assessment so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her principal
residence.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual ballot shall be
abbreviated and shall real as follows:

LARKSPUR SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX

ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

Shall the Larkspur School District, serving the children of Corte
Madera, Larkspur, and Greenbrae, provide funds for the
maintenance of specific educational programs and services by
levying a special assessment for a period of 6 years, beginning
July 1, 1993, at the rate of $ 126.00 per assessor's parcel,
which in tax year 1993-94 would supplement the presently
authorized assessment of $96.00 per assessor's parcel by
$30.00, and each year increase the prior year's rate by 4%
during the assessment period; with an exemption for any
beneficial owner of a parcel who has attained the age of 65 on or
before May 1 of any assessment year and who uses that parcel as
his or her principal place of residence, and continue senior
exemptions granted during the term of the current special
assessment?

_____________YES	 NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1, 1993, the special tax collected annually on all
assessor's parcels at the rate specified above, shall be collected and administered in the same
manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Marin County is hereby requested to
call a special election of the said special tax to be held on March 2, 1993. The County Clerk is .
hereby requested and authorized to: 1) set forth on all sample ballots relating to said election to
be mailed to the qualified electors of the Larkspur School District said measure; and 2) to
provide absent voter ballots for said special tax election for use by qualified electors of the
Larkspur School District who are entitled thereto in the manner provided by law.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this resolution is for
any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion
of this resolution. This governing board declares that it would have adopted this resolution and
each section, subsection, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, phrases or clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6. The clerk of the Larkspur School District governing board is hereby
authorized and directed to certify to the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy
hereof so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Marin County and to file a copy hereof so
certified with the County Clerk of Marin County.

The foregoing resolution was moved by board member	and	2(j0pted

on roll call on	a1*___f py the following vote:

Board Member:	Elliot Bien	
Board Member:	Tracy Brown	
Board Member:	Arthur Douglas	
Board Member:	Ruth Jaeger	
Board Member:	Marilyn River	
AYES ^	NOES °	ABSENT/NOT VOTING

WHEREUPON, the President declared the foregoing resolution duly adopted and

SO ORDERED,

_________

Tracy Brown, President
Governing Board of
Larkspur School District

1,	RICHARD A. DERBY, Secretary to the Board of Trustees, do hereby certify that the forecoing is
a true and correct copy of a Resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees of the LARKSPUR*
SCHOOL DISTRICT at their regular meeting of	/Wz^hirh	resolution	is	on	file	in

the office of said Board.	/

Richard A. Derby, Secretary
Board of Trustees