MEASURE A

BURLINGAME SCHOOL DISTRICT “Because the quality of education in our local public schools is threatened by
recent budget cuts, shall the Burlingame School District, for the benefit of its students, be authorized to impose a
qualified special tax? The funding generated by this tax will lessen the impact of statewide educational budget cuts,
decrease class size and support educational programs at the rate of $64 per year per parcel of land for a limited
period of six (6) years, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending June 30, 1999, and, in connection therewith, raise the
appropriations limit of the District each year in an amount equal to the levy of the said tax for said years.
Exemptions may be made for parcels owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older, upon application,
as well as certain other property currently exempted by law. By the end of the first four (4) years after enactment of
the special tax, the School Board will appoint a Citizens’ Financial Review Committee to examine the financial
records and operations of the District and report its findings to the Board with a recommendation as to whether this
special tax is needed beyond its expiration.’’

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A
Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government Code section
50079, et seq., authorize a school district, upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to
levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the School Board of the Burlingame School District proposes to levy a
qualified special tax for a period of six years, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending June 30, 1999.
This tax shall be at a rate of sixty-four dollars ($64.00) per year assessed against each parcel of
taxable land in the District. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District which
now receives a separate tax bill from the San Mateo County Assessor’s Office. By the end of the
first four years after enactment of the special tax, the School Board will appoint a Citizens’
Financial Review Committee to examine the financial records and operations of the District and
report its findings to the Board with a recommendation as to whether this special tax is needed
beyond its expiration. Any person 65 years of age or older who owns and occupies a parcel may
qualify for an exemption from the special tax. All property which would otherwise be exempt
from property taxes will also be exempt from imposition of this special tax.

The proceeds of this special tax shall be used to restrain the impact of statewide education
budget cuts, maintain class size and support educational programs.

The California Constitution restricts the annual appropriations of a local government
agency, such as the District, to the appropriations limit for the agency’s prior year adjusted for
changes in cost of living and population. This limitation is also referred to as the agency’s Gann
Limit. The District may not spend any revenues it receives in excess of its Gann Limit. If the
District receives revenues above the limit in any future year, the excess revenues must be
returned by a revision of tax rates or fee schedules within the next two subsequent fiscal years.

This measure would also increase the District’s appropriations limit per fiscal year, in an
amount equal to the levy of the special tax for that year. Any increase of the appropriations limit
after four years will require another election and approval by the voters.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be levied on property within the
boundaries of the Burlingame School District for six years at a rate of sixty-four dollars
($64.00) per parcel. It would also allow the appropriations (spending) limit of the District
to be raised each year in an amount equal to the levy of the tax for that year.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be levied and would not
allow the appropriations limit to be raised.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote “yes.”

BURLINGAME ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

During the last two years, class size has increased, library services have been reduced and
important classroom programs have been cut in Burlingame elementary and intermediate
schools. In order to continue quality classroom and support programs, avoid further cuts and
reduce class size schools need additional funds. Measure A is a direct investment in the local
schools and community.

The facts are clear:

•	Cuts in the State Education Budget have had a direct negative impact on the quality of
education in Burlingame.

•	District enrollment is projected to continue to increase while revenues continue to
decline.

•	Due to state budget cuts, and declining lottery revenue, Burlingame School District’s
budget has been reduced by nearly $700,000 during the last two years.

@ The result has been a dramatic increase in class size, cuts in basic classroom programs
and loss of necessary library services.

•	In order to prevent further cuts, help reduce class size and restore programs, additional
funds must be raised locally.

•	Measure A is the only means by which the Burlingame Elementary School District can
generate local funds to reverse the negative direction imposed by declining state
revenues for education.

Passage of Measure A will raise approximately $500,000 per year for the next six years. These
funds will be used to:

•	prevent further program reductions;

® reduce class size; and

•	restore and maintain basic classroom programs.

Measure A will generate these local funds reasonably at a cost to each parcel owner of only $64
per year. Most homeowners own one parcel. Senior citizens 65 and over can apply for a complete
exemption from this cost. The cost of Measure A will not change and will provide our schools
with a dependable source of locally controlled revenue for the next six years.

/s/ James W. Cannon, Jr.	Dec.	10, 1992

President, Burlingame School Board

/s/ A.C. “Bud” Harrison	Dec.	10, 1992

Mayor, City of Burlingame

/s/ Ron Burks	Dec.	10, 1992

Business Person/Community Leader

/s/ Clara Brossell Crook	Dec.	10, 1992

Chair, Burlingame Senior Commission

/s/ Jean Fiske	Dec.	10, 1992

Co-Chair, Citizens to Save Burlingame Schools

NO ARGUMENT SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE A

MEASURE C

WOODSIDE SCHOOL DISTRICT "Shall the Woodside (Elementary) School District, for the benefit of students in
Woodside, be authorized to impose a qualified special tax to maintain the excellence of its educational programs at
a rate not to exceed $196 per year per parcel of land, for a period not to exceed eight years, with exemptions for
certain property exempted by law and exemption for any beneficial owner of a parcel who will attain the age of 65
years on or before July 1 of any applicable year and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence,
and shall the appropriations limit of the District be raised each year in an amount equal to the levy of said tax for
said year?”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government Code section
50079, et seq., authorize a school district, upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to
levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the Woodside Elementary School District proposes
to levy a qualified special tax for a period of eight years, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending June
30, 2001. This tax shall be at a rate of one hundred ninety-six dollars ($196.00) per year assessed
against each parcel of taxable land in the District. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in
the District which now receives a separate tax bill from the San Mateo County Assessor’s Office.
Any person 65 years of age or older who owns and occupies a parcel may qualify for an exemp-
tion from the special tax. All property which would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will
also be exempt from imposition of this special tax.

The proceeds of this special tax shall be used to maintain academic standards and class size
and support educational programs for maintenance, service and safety of facilities, and to pro-
vide library and instructional supplies.

The California Constitution restricts the annual appropriations of a local government
agency, such as the District, to the appropriations limit for the agency’s prior year adjusted for
changes in cost of living and population: This limitation is also referred to as the agency’s Gann
Limit. The District may not spend any revenues it receives in excess of its Gann Limit. If the
District receives revenues above the limit in any future year, the excess revenues must be
returned by a revision of tax: rates or fee schedules within the next two subsequent fiscal years.

This measure would also increase the District’s appropriations limit per fiscal year, in an
amount equal to the levy of the special tax for that year. Any increase of the appropriations limit
after four years will require another election and approval by the voters.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be levied on property within the
boundaries of the Woodside Elementary School District for eight years at a rate of one
hundred ninety-six dollars ($196.00) per parcel. It would also allow the appropriations
(spending) limit of the District to be raised each year in an amount equal to the levy of the
tax for that year.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be levied and would not
allow the appropriations limit to be raised.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote “yes.”

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

WOODSIDE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Our school needs additional local funds to prepare our students for the future by providing them
with a superior and comprehensive education today. Because our school has been inadequately
funded by the State Legislature for a period of years, the District is in danger of eliminating many
programs of study necessary and beneficial to our students. Without this measure, the District
projects deficits starting in 1993-94.

Approval of Measure “C” will give the Woodside School Board the power to levy an annual tax
of $196, for a period of eight years, on parcels of land situated within the boundaries of the
District. Property owners whose property includes one or more contiguous parcels will be
assessed only one tax. Property owners age 65 and over, upon application, will be exempt from
the tax for their primary residence.

Passage of Measure “C” will lessen the impact of state budget cuts by raising the local funds we

need to:

•	Maintain the excellence, range, and high academic standards of our educational pro-
grams;

@ Provide appropriate student/teacher ratios;

•	Maintain the service and safety of our facilities;

•	Continue programs in such areas as computers, algebra, science, music, art, foreign
language, physical education, and writing;

•	Continue to provide library and instructional supplies;

•	Adopt academic reforms and standards to meet the well-publicized challenges facing
education.

Measure “C” is critical to establishing a reliable source of funding in order to continue to meet
the educational needs of Woodside students. It allows for a greater degree of local control and
helps ensure superior programs. The excellence of our school adds to the quality of our commu-
nity and enhances our property values. These funds are an investment in educational excellence
for our students, our gift to the future.

/s/ Ann Nolan	Dec. 11, 1992

President, Woodside School Board of Trustees
/s/ Richard Draeger	Dec. 11,1992

Parent, Co-Chair Special Tax Election Committee
/s/ George W. Sellman	Dec. 11, 1992

Former Superintendent, Woodside School District
/s/ Larry Anderson	Dec. 11,1992

Woodside Town Council Member
/s/ Sue Boynton	Dec. 11, 1992

Community Member

NO ARGUMENTS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE C

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

REDWOOD CITY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

MEASURE A

“In order to provide a strong basic educational program, which will improve the quality of life for the entire
Redwood City School District community, and improve the future work opportunities for students, shall the Red-
wood City (Elementary) School District be authorized to levy a special tax in an amount not to exceed $.015 per
square footage on all taxable parcels in the district, not to exceed 25,000 square feet for residential property and
75,000 square feet for commercial property? To enable expenditures of these tax monies, shall the Appropriations
Limit for the District be increased by the amount collected under this special tax levy in each of the first four years
covered by this Measure. (An increase of the Appropriations Limit after the first four years will require reapproval
by the voters)?”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS MEASURE A

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code section 50079, et seq., authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the Redwood City Ele-
mentary School District proposes to levy a qualified special tax begin-
ning July 1, 1993. This tax shall be in an amount not to exceed S.015
per square footage on all taxable parcels in the district, not to exceed
25,000 square feet for residential property and 75,000 square feet for
commercial property, adjusted annually by the Consumer Price Index.
A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District which now
receives a separate tax bill from the San Mateo County Assessor’s
Office. Any person 65 years of age or older who owns and occupies a
parcel may qualify for an exemption from the special tax. All property
which would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be
exempt from imposition of this special tax.

The proceeds of this special tax shall be used to reduce class size,
maintain quality District programs and improve compensation in order
to be competitive with surrounding school districts to maintain and
attract quality personnel.

During the last four years, class sizes have increased and important
library and classroom programs have been lost in our local elementary
and intermediate schools. To reduce class size and to restore and main-
tain programs, our schools need additional local funds. We cannot
rely on the state. Measure A will raise the local funds our schools need.

The facts are clear:

. Our District receives fewer state dollars to educate local children
than all but one of the school districts in San Mateo County.

. Increasing enrollment means we must educate more students with
fewer dollars every year.

■ Due to changes in the state education budget, our local school district
has been forced to cut $4.5 million during the last four years.

•	The result has been a dramatic increase in class size, the loss of
valuable library services and cuts in important classroom programs.

•	Class size has increased by more than 20% during the last four years.

•	One part-time professional librarian must meet the needs of all the
students in the 14 schools in the Redwood City School District.

» To reduce class size and restore programs, we must raise additional
local funds. We cannot rely on the state.

•	Measure A is the only way the Redwood City School District can
raise the local funds it needs.

This measure would also increase the District’s appropriations limit
per fiscal year, in an amount equal to the levy of the special tax for that
year, as permitted by Article XIIIB, section 4 of the California Consti-
tution. Any increase of the appropriations limit after four years will
require another election and approval by the voters.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be
levied on property within the boundaries of the Redwood City
Elementary School District in an amount not to exceed S.015
per square footage on all taxable parcels in the district. It would
also allow the appropriations (spending) limit of the District to
be raised each year in an amount equal to the levy of the tax for
that year.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to
be levied and would not allow the appropriations limit to be
raised.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure
vote “yes.”

Passage of Measure A will raise approximately $3.4 million per year for
the next six years:

•	to reduce class sizes;

•	to restore quality educational and library programs lost due to recent
budget cuts; and

•	to retain and attract quality teachers and support personnel.

Measure A has a reasonable cost. It will cost the average parcel owner
$90 per year. Most homeowners own one parcel. Senior citizens 65 and
over will be able to apply for a complete exemption from this cost.

/s/Terri S. Bailard	March	22,	1993

President, Redwood City School District Board of Trustees
/s/ Stanley A. Kangas	March	22,	1993

Redwood City Business Owner

/s/ Georgi LaBerge	March	22,	1993

Redwood City City Councilwoman

/s/ Ralph Nobles	March	22,	1993

Retired

/s/ Margaret Marshall	March	22,	1993

Co-Chair, Committee for Yes on Measures A & B

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

FUNDING MYTH
The Redwood City School District reported to the community that
they received $462 less per student than the average for districts feed-
ing Sequoia. This BOGUS figure resulted from GROSS ERROR in
analysis, perpetuatedJ'or years.

•	In 1992, state funding for District students was WITHIN $52 of
the countywide average (an apple-a-day).

SPENDING

Did you know our District spent $29,000 for campaign consultant
studies on PARCEL TAXES! Page 18 of the last study advised: “The
proposal must be written in a way that avoids an explicit connection
between additional taxes, performance incentive bonuses, and student
test scores ...”

. Why do they want to divorce taxes from performance and stu-
dent scores?

•	What are performance bonuses? Who gets them? Why are they
afraid to tell you about them?

•	Isn’t $6,500 each year enough for a child’s education?

•	Where does the money go?

AN ALTERNATIVE
The Parental Choice in Education Initiative (June 1994 ballot) will
save taxpayers $7 BILLION yearly by the year 2000.

• Choice promotes — SATISFACTION — COOPERATION —
INVOLVEMENT
. NO choice breeds — FRUSTRATION — CONTEMPT —
APATHY

With CHOICE and $2,600 scholarships, parents would participate in
securing a BETTER education for their children.

SENIORS

Measure A is divisive. Exemptions for seniors shift tax burdens
onto younger families. Buying that FIRST home is tough enough. This
new tax burden will fall on renters too, including seniors.

Measure A DOESN’T guarantee better student performance.
NOR smaller classes.

NOR better teachers or new libraries.

Measure A DOES guarantee higher taxes.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE A

/s/ John J. Hickey
Research Scientist
Is/ Lyn Sapowsky
Member, PTA
/s/ Raymond Mack Bell, Jr.

Member, John Gill School Site Council
/s/ Donald Smith
Member, PTA
/s/ Rex H. Goff

Retired Environmental Health Specialist

March 31, 1993
March 31, 1993
March 31, 1993
March 31, 1993
March 31, 1993

Californians voted in support of limited government over a decade
ago by passing the Jarvis-Gann property tax limitation and the Gann
Expenditure Limit. Both measures made the ballot the “good old-
fashioned way”, by the People, using the petitioning process.

In the years since we “spoke”, public servants have skirted the
limits we imposed. Agencies around the state have succeeded in sub-
verting the will of the People who created those limits.

The legislature’s inability to invoke the spirit of “Serrano-Priest”
brought inequities to district funding. “Assessment districts”, “mainte-
nance districts”, “parcel taxes”, “user fees” and other ploys are used to
garner increasingly larger pieces of the economic pie for govern-
ment. School districts are the worst offenders.

The legislature has contributed to the worsening of California’s
economy by increasing “school impact” developer fees for home con-
struction to$2.65/sq.ft., compounding things with matching funds.

Pending legislation would reduce the 2/3 vote requirement for tax
measures such as Measure A.

California’s per pupil expenditure in K-12 exceeds $6500/yr. More
money is not the solution.

Measure A would raise the Gann limit!

Enough already! We all have budget problems!

June 1994 will bring voters the opportunity to make a REAL
CHANGE in education in California. Parental Choice in Education,
providing $2600/yr per pupil for scholarships usable at ANY school,
will be on the ballot. Parental involvement, taxpayer savings AND
improved education for our children will likely result.

Your Redwood City School Board and the California Teachers
Association voted to oppose our right to vote on Parental Choice.
Obstructionist tactics notwithstanding, petitioners succeeded in secur-
ing our right to vote on Parental Choice.

Now, CTA is assessing members $14 million to defeat Parental
Choice.

Give “choice” a chance. Say NO to the education lobby!

Vote No on Measure A.

/s/ Herbert L. Shade
Retired General Contractor
Is/ John E. Brinnon
Airline Mechanic
Is/ John J. Hickey
Research Scientist
Is/ Rex H. Goff

Retired Environmental Health Specialist

March 19, 1993
March 19, 1993
March 19, 1993
March 21, 1993

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Since 1990, our local schools have been in a fiscal crisis. We have all
seen it in the media. Commenting on this year’s cuts, a Channel 4
reporter warned: “The Redwood City schools are facing the worst cuts
in its history.” (3-23-93)

To keep its budget balanced, the Redwood City School District has cut
nearly $4.5 million from its budget during the last four years. These
cuts have touched all school programs.

Administrative costs have been cut drastically. In addition, administra-
tors have volunteered to give up a total of 255 paid work days next year
in order to help keep funds in classroom programs.

Classroom programs have also been cut. Funds for textbooks, music
programs and instructional materials have been eliminated or reduced.
We no longer have a full time librarian anywhere in our school system.
Class sizes have increased by more than 20% in just four years.

The District has kept many programs only by asking for donations
from parents, local businesses and foundations.

These donated dollars cannot replace the $4.5 million cut from our
local budget. Nor can we rely on the state or the lottery. As the Times-
Tribune states: “The quality of school districts is dependent on the
willingness of local communities to augment their depleting state funds
through the approval of local taxes” (3-12-93).

Measure A — a parcel tax — is the only tool available to avoid contin-
ued cuts and losses in our local schools. Join us in voting YES.

/s/ Terri S. Bailard	April	1,	1993

President, Redwood City School District Board of Trustees
/s/John Lee	March	31,	1993

Redwood City Business Owner

/s/ Georgi LaBerge	March	31,	1993

Redwood City City Councilwoman

1st Ralph Nobles	March	31,	1993

Retired

/s/ Margaret Marshall	April	1,	1993

Co-Chair, Committee for Yes on Measures A & B