BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

STAR ROUTE, BOLIN AS, CALIFORNIA 94924	PHONE	868-1603

Bolinas Campus	Board of Trustees

Special Meeting	Tuesday 7:30 p.m.

October 20, 1992

The Bolinas-Stinson Union School District Board of Trustees
meeting was called to order at 7:37 p.m. by President Jack
Siedman. Trustees Bonnie Lou Feld, Laura DiStasi, Jeanne
Sherfey, and Carole Brill were present. Also present were
teachers Becky Scott and Lynn MacLaird, parents Vicki White,

Scott Finney, Cindi Rich, Judy Buchanan, Gina Alexander, Nancy
Amoroso, Leslie Kahn, Jenny Pfeiffer, Danny Rifkin, Helen
Fontan, Kathy Rosenbaum, Keith Sherr, Meg Sanders, Erica
Paasch, and Joy Churchman, Superintendent/Principal Sarah
Pusey, and secretary Linda Donahue.

President Siedman gave an overview of the seventh/eighth grade
class beginning with the resignation of Calvin Honda after the
third day of school up to the present with interviews for the
hiring of a new teacher beginning at 4:00 p.m., October 21.
Superintendent/Principal Pusey listed the staff recommendations
which are (1) hire an aid to help in the math and language arts
periods, (2) Steve, Linda, and Tauni having a more active role
in classroom management, (3) switching the math and language
arts classtimes, (4) accepting offers from other staff members to
help in the classroom, (5) splitting the music class from 60 to
30/30 with Terry taking half the class and Tom and Libby taking
the other half, (6) having science mentor teacher Don Jolley
teach a special science project to the class, (7) reinstituting
detention, (8) and use of the Quesada multipurpose room when
available. The parents in attendance discussed
use of the library, the Spanish A period, having an open house,
writing workshops, tutorial, enrichment activities, use of
School Site Council monies, electives, inviting local writers
into the classroom, and having a "survival skills" counseling
day.

92-93 M/s/c Brill/DiStasi to hire an aid for the 7th/8th	7/8	AID

#47	class for the first two class periods

Ayes: 5

The board discussed the parcel tax/election. The 1992-93
school year is the last year of a five year $96/parcel
tax. The board looked at budget projections with three
different scenarios: a $96/parcel tax, $0/parcel tax,
and a $140/parcel tax. The board also looked at
information on other districts' parcel tax election results
and what other districts will be going out for this November
and next spring.

92-93	M/s/c Brill/Feld to resolve to order an election

#48	in the matter of a special parcel tax

election on March 2, 1993 asking the voters
for a $140/per parcel tax with a duration of
five years beginning in the 1993-94 fiscal year.

Ayes: 5

PARCEL TAX
ELECTION

Trustee Sherfey volunteered to write a thank you letter to the
staff thanking them for all the work they did on the staff
recommendations for the 7th/8th grade class.

The special meeting was adjourned at 9:00 p.m.
Respectfully submitted.

(