OFFICIAL BALLOT	SPECIAL	ELECTION

COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA	March	2,1993

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS
MEDIDAS SOMETIDAS A VOTO DE LOS VOTANTES

SCHOOL / ESCUELA

MORELAND SCHOOL DISTRICT
DISTRITO ESCOLAR DE MORELAND

MORELAND SCHOOL DISTRICT QUALIFIED SPECIAL Yes ISf

BTAX FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS. “In order to-----------—

restore and maintain essential academic programs and ijn
services, and to enhance instructional materials, to partially w
restore library services, to provide student advisement services at the middle
school level, to increase teacher:pupil contact through the reduction of class
size, to maintain an instrumental music program, and to restore cleaning
services at schools, shall the Moreland School District provide funds for the
reinstatement and continuance of these Districtwide programs by levying a
qualified special tax of eighty dollars per year per assessor’s parcel, excluding
property exempted by law, and Governing Board Resolution, for a limited period
of eight years, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending June 30, 2001? Shall the
State Appropriations Limit be increased accordingly?"

DISTRITO DE ESCUELA MORELAND CALIFICO IMPUESTO ESPECIAL
PARA PROGRAMAS EDUCACIONALES. “En order) de restaurary mantener
esenciales programas acaddmicos y servicios, y para mejorar materiales
mstrucionales, para parcialmente restaurar servicios dg biblioteca, para
prove* servicios de aconsejamiento de estudiante al nivel de escuela media,
para aumentar contacto de maestroralumno medlante la reduccldn de tamario
de clase, para mantener un programa de muslca Instrumental, y para restaurar
servicios de limpieza en escuelas, I deberri el Distrito_de Escuela Moreland
proveir londos para el restablacimien to y continuacidn "de estos programas de
todo-el-Disirito medlante la exaccidn de un impuesto callficado especial de
ochenta dolares per ano porparcels de asesor, por un periodo llmitado tie ocho
afios, comenzando el 1 de Julio, 1993 y terminando el 30 de Junto, 2001?
iDebera el Limits de Apropiaciones de Estado ser aunemtado de acuerdo con
lo antedicho?

43 1.002

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

Following is information concerning measures.

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the
proposed laws are the opinions of the authors

Although the materials in this pamphlet have been carefully proofread,
typographical errors occasionally remain undetected,
if any substantive errors are discovered after the pamphlet has
been printed, correction notices will be printed in appropriate
local newspapers on Friday, February 26, 1993.

corte por la linea de puntos - cut along dotted line

SOLICITUD PARA LOS MATERIALES ELECTORIALES
EN ESPANOL
REQUEST FOR ELECTION MATERIALS IN SPANISH

Nombre - Name

ftesidencia (Num., Caiie) - Residence (No., StreetI

Direccidn postal (si es diferente) - Mailing address (if different)

Ciudad - City

Zip

Adjunte en un sobre y envie por correo a; Enclose in envelope and mail to:

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

P.O. BOX 1147
SAN JOSE, CA 95108

Envie por correo no m6s tarder que el 23 de febrero de 1993.

Mail no later than February 23, 1993.

G1

MEASURE B

COUNTY COUNSEL'S ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The Government Code authorizes districts to impose a special tax through the imposition
of a parcel tax on real property upon approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters
in an election held for the purpose of imposing such a tax. This measure would authorize
a parcel tax of $80.00 per parcel per year for a period of eight years. A "parcel" is
defined as any parcel of land shown on the current assessment roll prepared by the
County Assessor. The California Constitution authorizes an extension of the
appropriations limit for a period of four years from the most recent vote approving such
extension. Therefore the District would have to obtain voter approval to extend the
increase in the appropriations limit beyond four years if the tax caused the limit to be
exceeded.

A ."yes" vote is a vote in favor of levying the proposed special tax and raising the
appropriations limit correspondingly. The funds derived from the parcel tax would be
expended to restore and maintain essential academic programs and services; to enhance
instructional materials; to partially restore library services; to provide student advisement
services at the middle school level; to increase teacher-pupil contact through reduction
of class size; to maintain an instrumental music program; and to restore cleaning services
at schools.

A "no*1 vote is a vote not to authorize the Imposition of the special tax and the increase
of the appropriations limit.

STEVEN M. WOODSIDE

County Counsel

By: Brian Carr

Deputy County Counsel

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B. THE FULL
TEXT OF THE MEASURE IS AS FOLLOWS.

MORELAND SCHOOL DISTRICT QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL

PROGRAMS

"In order to restore and maintain essential academic programs and services, and to
enhance instructional materials, to partially restore library services, to provide student
advisement services at the middle school level, to increase teachenpupil contact through
the reduction of class size, to maintain an instrumental music program, and to restore
cleaning services at schools, shall the Moreland School District provide funds for the
reinstatement and continuance of these Distriotwide programs by levying a qualified
special tax of eighty dollars per year per assessor's parcel, excluding property exempted
by law, and Governing Board Resolution, for a limited period of eight years, beginning
July 1, 1993 and ending June 30, 2001?

The Governing Board shall require and make public a review each year of the funds
collected and the manner in which they were expended under this measure at a public
hearing prior to budget adoption.

The term "Parcel" shall mean any parcel of land, developed or undeveloped, wholly or
partially located within the District, or which the Santa Clara County Assessor has
assigned an assessor's identification number and is not otherwise exempt.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriations limit for the Moreland
School District shall be increased by the aggregate sum collected by the levy of the
special tax in each of the years for which the special tax is authorized."

11

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Can Moreland schools continue to reflect quality? California's funding of schools is
currently inadequate to assure that the Moreland District can maintain its distinguished
schools and outstanding student achievement. The prospect of increased funding is
bleak. The State has advised school district that funding will not improve for the next
two years. California schools now rank 41st in the nation in per pupil spending.
Moreland receives $600 per student less than the statewide funding average.

The Moreland School District has been seriously affected by state funding cuts. Last
year, outs exceeding $ 1,000,000 were made to a $ 15,000,000 budget labour $ 250 per
student) to accommodate the funding shortfall. Cuts increased class sizes, eliminated
counseling services and library services, and reduced supplies and cleaning services. The
music program would also have been eliminated if parents had not helped fund the
program. The district has implemented every possible efficiency while continuing to
provide the highest quality basic education. However, with the present budget limits and
with no prospect of additional funding from the State, the outstanding instructional
program that Moreland has developed has been seriously eroded and will continue to be
impacted. A committee of community members has recommended a parcel tax of $80
per year. The entire proceeds of this parcel tax will go directly to providing critical school
programs, services and supplies. The proceeds will be dedicated to:

reducing class size

❖	restoring and maintaining essential academic programs and services

❖	enhancing instructional materials

$	restoring	library services

❖	providing student advisement services at the middle schools

❖	restoring	an instrumental music program

❖	restoring	adequate school cleaning services

Our community has the opportunity to assure that State budget cuts do not sacrifice
quality in our Moreland schools. Your help is needed to adequately fund your school
district. Please vote YES for Moreland students.

MORELAND SCHOOL DISTRICT BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Art Woods	,	Tim	Cassell

Susan Zimmer	Frances	Amlin

Jerry Pasek

No argument against Measure B was submitted.

12