TITLE: ANALY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ELECTION
ELECTION DATE:	JUNE	8. 1993

REGISTERED VOTERS:	32.228

RESULTS

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

SCHOOL

MEASURE A

rite

A Shall the Analy Union High School
District and its feeder elementary
school districts that have chosen to .join
with the high school district impose cpiali-
fied special taxes in the amount not to
exceed $39 per parcel. $12.09 per parcel
for the high school district and $26.91 per
parcel in the'feeder elementary school dis-
tricts, to maintain and enhance education-
al programs and services, such tax to con-
tinue for a period of 5 years beginning
July 1, 1993. and correspondingly in-
crease their respective appropriations lim-
its for the maximum time allowed by law?

YES

NO

|

%

M

m

0

PASSED STATEWIDE?

Y X N___

2/3 MAJORITY? X
MAJORITY?______

YES 6324
NO 2.853

°\\7l

I

i

MEASURE A

Analy Union High School District and its feeder elementary districts the
following measure, to wit:

MEASURE A

A Shall the Analy Union High School District and its feeder el-
ementary school districts that have chosen to join with the
high school district impose qualified special taxes in the amount
not to-exceed $39 per parcel, $1-2.09 ger parcel for the high
school district and $26.91 per parcel in the feeder elementary
school districts, to maintain and enhance educational programs and
services, such tax to continue for a period of 5 years beginning
July 1, 1993, and correspondingly increase their respective appro-
priations limits for the maximum time allowed by law?

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

JOINT RESOLUTION
OF THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF THE
ANALY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
FORESTVILLE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
FORT ROSS SCHOOL DISTRICT
GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
GUERNEVILLE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
HARMONY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MONTE RIO UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MONTGOMERY SCHOOL DISTRICT
SEBASTOPOL UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
TWIN HILLS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SONOMA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of a Joint)
Special Tax Election )

RESOLUTION AND ORDER
OF ELECTION

. The Analy Union High School District and each of its feeder elementary
school districts are authorized to join together to impose qualified special
taxes under a single measure, pursuant to Assembly Bill 3184 of the
1991-92 Regular Session.

' , under Measure A, the Analy Union High School District and those of its
feeder elementary districts that so agreed, have joined together to impose
qualified special taxes in the amount of $39.00 per parcel based upon
the use or right of use on each assessor's parcel within the boundaries
of the Analy Union High School District for a period of five (5) years.-
beginning July 1, 1993, and increasing their respective appropTISTTCns
'limit for the maximum time allowed by law by the amount of revenue
generated by that special tax; The proceeds from the taxes shall be dis-
tributed between the Analy Union High School District, serving grades 9
to 12, inclusive, and, if they have so chosen to join the Analy Union High
: School District in imposing these taxes, the feeder elementary school dis-
tricts, serving grades kindergarten to 8 inclusive, based upon the percentage
of grades each district serves {$12.Q9 per parcel for the high school
district and $2§ji1 per parcel in those feeder elementary school districts
that have chosen to join with the high school district to impose these
taxes), to maintain and enhance their educational programs and services
to the extent allowed by the revenue generated from the special taxes.

Exemptions from the assessment will be made available as follows:
a. To each individual in the Districts who will attain 65 years on or
before May 1 of the assessment year, and wTtcT owns a beneficial
interest In the parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of such
parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of
:. residence.

, b. Any property which the County of Sonoma has determined to be 1
exempt from property tax due to low value.	i

c.For multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part of one eco- I
nomic unit under the same name and ownership. Such multiple 'parcels^
may be charged as one parcel.

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide adequate
and necessary funding to the continued operations of Analy Union High
School District and its feeder elementary districts; and as a result of this
lack of funding and financial support the school districts have eliminated
many programs beneficial and necessary to the children who attend the
Analy Union High School District and its feeder elementary districts; and
WHEREAS, the Analy Union High School District and its feeder elementary
districts wish to improve the quality of education for its students; and
WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program delivers
many long lasting benefits and advantages to all of the residents of our
community; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079 and 53720
et seq. authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for.
the purpose of conducting its business upon the approval of two-thirds
of the votes cast by voters voting upon such a special tax proposal; and
WHEREAS, the Analy Union High School District and each of Its feeder
elementary districts are authorized to join together to impose qualified;
special taxes under a single measure, pursuant to Assembly Bill 3184
(Chapter 116) of the 1991 -92 Regular Session; and
WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution allows
the appropriations limit of school districts to be increased by the electors.;
Such approval is required for the school districts to use the revenues1
generated by the tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Governing Board of the Analy
Union High School District and its feeder elementary districts that have
chosen to join with the high school dfSTilCTresolve to conduct a special
election on June 8, 1993, at which time will be submitted to the qualified
voters of the Analy Union High School District a measure to authorize a
special tax for the purpose of maintaining and enhancing educational pro-
grams and services to the extent allowed by the special tax. Said measure
shall also authorize the increase of the appropriations limit of Analy Union
High School District and each of its feeder elementary districts which
have chosen to join together to impose qualified special taxes by the
amount of revenue generated by the special tax.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries'
of the Anaiy Union High School District and its feeder elementary districts
at which election shall be submitted to the qualified voters within the:

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the Analy High School District
on or before July 15, 1993 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year.
Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption
for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such
applicant continues to qualify for the exemption. The districts shall establish
■ an administrative review process to grant such exemptions.: -
: The measure to be placed on the ballot shall read as follows:

Shall the Analy Union High School District and its feeder elementary
school districts that have chosen to join with the high school district
impose qualified special taxes in the amount not to exceed $39. per parcel,
$12.09 per parcel for the high school district and $26.91 per parcel in
the feeder elementary school districts, to maintain and enhance educational
programs and services, such tax to continue for a period of 5 years
beginning July 1, 1993, and correspondingly increase their respective
appropriations limits for. the maximum time allowed by law?

-------Yes-------No

The Analy Union High School District may assess and collect its share
. of the qualified special tax as set forth in this measure ($12.09 per
parcel) only if it attains a two-thirds vote of the electorate voting on the
•measure within the entire boundaries of its jurisdiction. If the Analy Union
■’High School District fails to attain the required two-thirds vote and a
feeder elementary school district attains the required two-thirds vote, only
69 percent of the tax, or $26.91 per parcel, due to the feeder elementary
school district, shall be assessed and collected.

Each of the feeder elementary school districts may assess and collect
its share of the qualified special tax set forth in this measure ($26.91
per parcel) only if it joins with the , Analy Union High School District to
impose the taxes and attains a two-thirds vote of the electorate voting
on this measure withirLiha-hmiadariea of its jurisdiction, if a feeder ele-
mentary school district chooses not to join the Anaiy Union High School
District to impose the .taxes, or fails to attain the required two-thirds vote
and the Analy Union High School District attains the required two-thirds
vote, only 31 percent of the tax, or $12.09 per parcel, due to the Analy
Union High School District shall be assessed and collected.

The following Analy Union High School District feeder elementary school
districts have chosen to join with the nigh school district to impose qualified
special taxes pursuant to this Measure: Forestville Union School District,
Fort Ross School District, Gravenstein Union School • District, Guerneviile
Union School District, Harmony Union School District, Monte Rio Union

School District, Montgomery School District, Sebastopol Union School Dis-
trict, and Twin Hills Union School District.

Section 2. As used In this joint resolution, "qualified special taxes" means
special taxes that apply uniformly to all taxpayers or all real property in
each of the districts. If an elementary school district has not chosen to
join with the Analy Union High School District to impose the taxes, or
fails to attain the required two-thirds vote and the Analy Union High School
District attains the required two-thirds vote, only the percentage of the
tax due to the Analy Union High School District shall be assessed and
collected, If the Analy Union High School District does not attain the
required two-thirds vote, only the percentage of tax due to the feeder
elementary school districts that have attained the required two-thirds vote
shall be assessed and collected.

Section 3. Commencing on July 1,1993, the special tax collected annually
on all assessor's parcels at the rate specified above, shall be collected
and administered In the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are
fixed and collected under provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Sonoma County Is hereby
requested to call a special election of the said special tax to be held on
June 8, 1993 and to consolidate this election with any elections to be
held on this same date. The Sonoma County Board of Supervisors is
hereby requested and authorized to consolidate this election with any elec-
tions to be held on this same date. The County Clerk is hereby requested
and authorized to: 1) set forth all sample ballots relating to said election
to be mailed to the qualified electors of the Analy Union High School
District and its feeder elementary districts: and 2) to provide absentee
voter ballots for said special tax election for use by qualified electors of
the Analy Union High School District and its feeder elementary districts
who are entitled thereto in the manner provided by Law.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this joint res-
olution is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portion of this joint resolution. Each Governing
Board declares that It would have adopted this resolution and each section,
subsection, phrase or clause thereof Irrespective of the fact that any one
or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases or clauses shall be
declared invalid.

Section 6, This joint resolution is executed in counterparts and each
counterpart shall be deemed an original. The clerk of the Analy Union
High School District Governing Board and the clerks of each of Its feeder
elementary districts' governing boards are hereby authorized and directed
to certify to the due adoption of each counterpart of this joint resolution
and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Superintendent of Schools
of Sonoma County, the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors, and to file
a copy hereof so certified with the County Clerk of Sonoma County.

The foregoing joint resolution was adopted by the Governing Boards of
the following districts:

Analy Union High School District
Forestville Union School District
Fort Ross School District
Gravenstein Union School District
Guernevllle Union School District
Harmony Union School District
Monte Rio Union School District
Montgomery School District
Sebastopol Union School District-
Twin Hills Union School District

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE A

State law requires voter approval before a school district can impose special
taxes. The Legislature has authorized the Analy Union High School District
and each of its “feeder" elementary districts to join together to impose
special taxes under a single measure. “Feeder" districts are those elementary
school districts within the boundaries of a high school district All "feeder"
elementary districts with the exception of Oak Grove Union School District
have Joined in submitting this measure.

The governing boards of these school districts have called an election on
whether taxes should be imposed.

This measure proposes a tax of $39 per parcel of land. The tax would
remain In effect for five years beginning July 1, 1993. Revenue from the
tax would be used to restore and continue academic and educational programs.
The tax would be collected in the same manner as annual property taxes.

The proposed $39 special tax Is composed of two parts: $12,09 would
be allocated to the high school district, and $26.91 would be allocated to
the elementary school district in which the parcel is located. The high school
district may impose Its share of the tax ($12.09) only if two-thirds of all
voters in the high school district who vote on the measure approve it. If
the high school district fails to attain the required two-thirds vote but a
"feeder" elementary school district does attain the required vote, only that
portion of the tax allocated to the elementary school district ($26.91) will
be imposed.

The measure exempts (1) parcels owned or partially owned by a person
who will be over the age of 65 on or before May 1 of any year for which
the tax is imposed and who uses the parcel as his or her principal place
of residence (for example, if a husband and wife own a parcel, and one of
them will be over age 65, the parcel will be exempt); (2) parcels determined
by the County to be exempt from property tax due to low value; and (3)
contiguous parcels used as one economic unit under the same ownership
would be taxed as one parcel. Persons claiming exemptions must apply to
the school district by July 15, 1993, or, subsequently, the May 1 preceding
the fiscal year in which the exemption is first claimed.

The measure also provides that the spending limits of the school districts
would be Increased by the amount of revenue generated by the tax. Voter
approval of the change In the spending limit permits the districts to keep
and spend money raised by the new tax.

s/James P. Botz
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Over the years, our community has worked hard to establish a high quality
of. education for our children. Reduced state funding seriously threatens the
outstanding school systems you have built and supported. Instructional pro-
grams have already been cut or eliminated. Passage of "Measure A" will
raise local funds to help avoid future cuts. Funds raised by "Measure A" will
go directly to classroom programs and services which directly benefit
the children of West County.

Passage of "Measure A" will:

•	Purchase textbooks, computers, science equipment, and other educa-
tional materials, providing our students a more comprehensive education.

•	Improve library services.

■ Support fine art programs including art. music and drama.

•	Help maintain vocational classes at the high schools to improve job
prospects for graduates.

Passage of "Measure A* will provide local funds necessary to keep programs
like these alive in our community. Property owners will be asked to' pay
$39 per year for five years - only $3.25 per month to provide students
essential components of a quality education.

Senior citizens are exempt. Residents 65 or older may apply for an exemption
from the tax. Other exemptions include multiple contiguous parcels.

"Measure A" is the best way to commit local resources to our,local schools
where they are needed the most. All of the money generated will remain in
West County, with 69% for elementary schools and .31% for high schools.
None of the money will be used for administrator salaries.

The following ten school districts have formed a unique alliance to improve
educational opportunities which benefit all of us In West County:

Forestvllle	Fort Ross	Gravenstein

Guerneville	Harmony	Montgomery

Sebastopol . Twin Hills	Monte	Rio

Analy/EI Mollno

Join us by VOTING YES ON "MEASURE A" to maintain quality in our
local schools.

s/David J. Henry, s/Reverend Gene Nelson, s/Kim Caruso,

Pharmacist/Owner	Senior Minister,	Program Coordinator,

El Molino Pharmacy	Community Church	of	Sebastopol

Sebastopol	Community Center

s/Horace F. Sharrocks, M.D.	s/Sam	Pullaro, Superintendent,

General Practitioner	Guerneville Elementary

(retired)	School District

______SPECIAL	PARCEL	TAX	ELECTION______

ELECTION DATE:	JUNE	8.	1993

REGISTERED VOTERS:	3.677

RESULTS

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS		i
SCHOOL		m  &&  M
MEASURE A		
A Shall the Anulv Union High School tt District and its feeder elementary		m
		
school districts that have chosen to join		I  m
with the high school district impose <|uali-		
tied special taxes in the amount not to		
exceed $39 per pnreel, $12,119 per parcel for the high school district and $26.91 per		
	YES	
parcel in the feeder elementary school dls-		
tricLs, to maintain and enhance education-	NO	
al programs and services, such tax to con-		
tinue for a period of 5 years beginning		
July t, 1993, and correspondingly in-		
crease (heir respective appropriations lim-		m
its for the maximum time allowed hy law?		
		

PASSED	YES	449

Y N_X_	NO	294

2/3 MAJORITY? X
MAJORITY?



SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ELECTION
ELECTION DATE:	TUNE	R.	1993

A Shull I he A mil\ Union High Schiml
District timl Its feeder elementary
school districts thnt haw chosen to Join
with the liiitb scIhhiI district impose tpiall-
nctl specinl lues in the amount not to

exceed $J9 per parcel. $12.09 tier pared _____

for the high school district and $26.91 per y„ ,— ,
parcel In the feeder elementary school dis-	—1

Irkts. to maintain and enhance education-
al programs and sen ices, such tax to eon- NO

YES.
NO

\

REGISTERED VOTERS:	779

RESULTS

MEASURE A

2/3 MA JORITY? X

MAJORITY?.

TITLE:	SEBASTOPOL UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

_______SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ELECTION

ELECTION DATE:	JUNE	8.	1993

REGISTERED VOTERS:	7.460

RESULTS

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS		is
SCHOOL		
MEASURE A		
A Shull Ihe Anuly Union High School t\ District and Its feeder elementnrv		m  m
		
school districts that have chosen to join		M
with the high school district impose quali-		
tied special taxes in the amount not to		
exceed $39 per parcel, $12.09 per parcel for the high school district and $26.91 per		t%
	YES	
parcel in the feeder elementary school dis-		
tricts, to maintain and enhance education-	NO	
ul programs and services, such tax to con-		
tinne for a period of 5 years beginning		
July 1, 1993, and correspondingly in-		
crease their respective appropriations lim-		P
its for the maximum time allowed by law?		

PASSED

r_XAL_

YES 1.687
NO 548

2/3 MAJORITY? X
MAJORITY?________

PASSED
Y X N

_______SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ELECTION

ELECTION DATE:	JUNE	8.	1993

REGISTERED VOTERS:	3.880

RESULTS

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS		■:k  m  aW  m
SCHOOL		
MEASURE A		
rt Shall the Amily Union High School rl District and iis feeder elementary school districts that have chosen to join with the high school district impose quali- fied special taxes in the amount not to exceed $39 per parcel, $12.09 per parcel		
for the high school district and $26.91 per parcel in the feeder elementary school dis- tricts, to maintain and enhance education- al programs and services, such tax to con- tinue for a period of 5 years beginning July 1. 1993, and correspondingly in- crease their respective appropriations lim- its for the maximum time allowed by law?	YES	
	NO	
		n*  is

2/3 MAJORITY? X
MAJORITY?_____

YES

NO

TITLE:	GRAVENSTEIN	UNION	SCHOOL	DISTRICT

_______SPECIAL	PARCEL	TAX	ELECTION_____

ELECTION DATE:	JUNE S. 1993

REGISTERED VOTERS:	3.765

RESULTS

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS		m
SCHOOL		
MEASURE A		58$
A Shall the Analy Union High School Hi District anti its feeder elementary school districts that have chosen to join with the high school district impose quali- fied special taxes in the amount not to exceed $39 per parcel, $12.09 per parcel for the high school district and $20.91 per parcel in the feeder elementary school dis-		M  m  m
	YES	r~.t
tricls. to maintain and enhance education- al programs and services, such tax to con- tinue for a period of 5 years beginning July I. 1993, and correspondingly in- crease their respective appropriations lim- its for the maximum time allowed by law?	NO	
		w  m  IWci

PASSED
Y__NX

YES___766

NO 406

2/3 MAJORITY? X
MAJORITY?______

SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ELECTION
ELECTION DATE:	TUNE	8.	1993

REGISTERED VOTERS:	7.460

RESULTS

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS		w
SCHOOL		rriJJri:
MEASURE A		
A Shull the Analv Union High School M District and its feeder elementnry school districts that have chosen to join with the high school district impose <|uali- fied special taxes in the amount not to exceed $39 per parcel, $12.09 per parcel		i
for the high school district and $26.91 per parcel in the feeder elementary school dis-	YES	rzi
tricts, to maintain and enhance education- al programs and services, such tax to con- tinue for a period of 5 years beginning July 1, 1993, and correspondingly in- crease their respective appropriations lim- its for the maximum time allowed by law?	NO	
		M
		■YivV

PASSED

Y_JLN__

YES JLML
NO 548

2/3 MAJORITY? X
MAJORITY?