10/27/92

9.1

BOARD REPORT

1.1 Apcmval - Resolution #92/93-2 - Proposing a Qualified Special Tax (Parcel Tax)

Based on recommendations from the Special Election Task Force, Resolution #92/93-2
(9.1.1) is being presented to the Board to place a Parcel Tax measure on the ballot for a
Special Election March 2,1993. This measure will offer the Burlingame community the
opportunity for choice in determining the quality of its schools.

ED MOTION: Approve Resolution #92/93-2, placing a Qualified Special
Tax on the ballot March 2,1993.

ky:	XC-

10/27/92

9.1.1

RESOLUTION #92/93-2
OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
BURLINGAME SCHOOL DISTRICT
PROPOSING A QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX
AND

ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, the Burlingame School District ("District") has been forced to eliminate and
| many essential educational services due to inadequate funding from the State Legislature;

WHEREAS, increased revenues are necessary to continue meeting the students' basic
cational needs; and

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to generate funds for the
rict's educational program, including lobbying in the State legislature, local fundraising efforts,
1 cost-cutting measures, and those efforts have not produced sufficient revenues to maintain
gjential educational programs; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIILA. of the California Constitution and Government
Code Section 50079 authorize a school district, upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate
noting on the measure, to levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes following notice and
public hearing; and

WHEREAS, this Board believes that such a qualified special tax is necessary to provide an
«iequate educational opportunity for the students of this District; and

WHEREAS, the annual appropriations limit of the District should be raised concurrently to
illow the District to expend the amounts raised by said tax.

THEREFORE, be it resolved that:

1.	This Board hereby proposes to adopt a qualified special tax to lessen the impact of
Statewide educational budget cuts and support educational programs for the students
in the Burlingame School District.

2.	Said qualified special tax shall be in an amount not to exceed $64 per year assessed
against each parcel of taxable land in the District.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the district which now receives a
separate tax bill from the San Mateo County Assessor's Office provided that upon
application an exemption will be granted for parcels owned and occupied by a person
65 years of age or older. All property which would otherwise be exempt from
property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of said special tax.

3.	In connection with the proposal of said special tax, this Board further proposes to
increase the District's appropriations limit per fiscal year, in an amount equal to the
levy of special taxes for said year, as permitted by Article XLLLB, Section 4 of the
California Constitution.

■Lame school district

^ This Board hereby requests that the San Mateo County Clerk (the "County Clerk") to

I ' submit to the voters of this District on March 2, 1993 the following ballot measure.

MEASURE:

"Because the quality of education in our local public schools is threatened by recent
budget cuts, shall the Burlingame School District, for the benefit of its students be
authorized to impose a qualified special tax? The funding generated by this tax will
lessen the impact of statewide educational budget cuts, decrease class size and
support educational programs at the rate of $64 per year per parcel of land for a
limited period of six (6) years, beginning July 1, 1993 and ending June 30, 1999
and, in connection therewith, raise the appropriations limit of the District each year in
an amount equal to the levy of the said tax for said yearsT^Exemptions may be made
for parcels owned and occupied by a person 65 years orage or older, upon
application, as well as certain other property currently exempted by law. By the end
of the first four (4) years after enactment of the special tax, the School Board will
appoint a Citizens' Financial Review Committee to examine the financial records and
operations of the District and report its findings to the Board with a recommendation
as to whether this special tax is needed beyond its expiration."

5.	That the authority for the specifications of this election order is contained in Section
5322 of the California Education Code.

6.	That this resolution shall stand as the order to the County Superintendent of Schools
to call an election within the boundaries of the District on March 2,1993.

7.	That the Clerk of this Board is hereby directed immediately to send a certified copy of
this Resolution to the County Superintendent of Schools so that said Superintendent
receives it on or prior to October 29, 1992.

8.	That the Clerk of this Board is hereby directed to send a certified copy of this
Resolution to the County Clerk no later than October 29, 1992.

9.	That the County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to deliver this
Resolution, which constitutes the order of election, and a formal notice of the election
to the County Clerk no later than October 30,1992.

10.	That this Board requests the governing body of any such other political subdivision,
or any officer otherwise authorized by law, to consolidate partially or completely
such election and to further provide that the canvass be made by any body or official
authorized by law to canvass the returns of the election; and, that this Board consents
to such consolidation.

11.	The Clerk of this Board of Trustees is ordered and directed to cause all notices required
by law in connection herewith to be published and posted, as the case may be.

12.	Subject to said voter approval, the qualified special tax shall be collected by the San
Mateo County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject
to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector. The
tax and penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem
property taxes until paid.

13.	The collection of the qualified special tax provided for herein shall not decrease the
funds available from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date
hereof.







3

n

fC

/

«& ame school district

0„ #92/93-2

If any section, sub-section, phrase or clause of this resolution is for any reason held
to be invalid, such decisions shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of
this resolution. This Board declares that it would have adopted this resolution and
each section, sub-section, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that one or
more sections, sub-sections, sentences, phrases or clauses shall be declared invalid.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE BURLINGAME
^OOL DISTRICT ON THIS 27TH DAY OF OCTOBER, 1992, BY THE FOLLOWING

m

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN

ABSENT

President, Board of Trustees

ATTEST:

Secretary, Board of Trustees

