ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

Cutting the number of City Council meetings by half will further eat away the
democratic process in Albany.

This charter amendment is the latest step in the bureaucratization of Albany. Six
years ago meeting procedures were changed leaving little or no city business on every
other agenda. Last year the council cancelled one in four meetings citing “lack of
quorum.” “The staff runs the city anyway,” a councilmember said.

Meeting every Monday night is not “efficient,” the council says. City business has
become too deep and complex for the citizens to understand, they say. Trust us, they
say.

Many things have changed since our charter was adopted in 1927 but the citizens’
right to full public access to their government remains the cornerstone of a
democratically-run city. For this reason alone, the frequency of meetings must not be
reduced or given over the council itself to determine.

If councilmembers do not have the time or inclination to share the decision-making
process with the citizens who elected them, let us elect representatives who do.

Democracy, called the worst form of government except for all the others, may not
be efficient, but the fulfillment of Albany’s avowed mission to maintain our small town
ambience depends on its full exercise.

Though we may not be able to stop the council from secretly diminishing our right
to know and participate, let’s not give it away in the voting booth. Vote No on
Measure M.

s/Phyllis Lyon, Member	s/Dario Meniketti

Charter Review Committee	Perennial	Council-watcher

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

Contrary to the claims of the opponents of Measure M, the City has never reduced
the amount or kind of business to be considered by the City Council.

Several years ago it did move most of the business to two of the monthly meetings,
leaving the other two primarily for public input, even though only a small handful of
citizens ever shows up to participate. The Council is currently, therefore, handling most
of its business in two meetings.

The effect of the current weekly schedule on Albany’s City staff is that every week,
whether or not a meeting is really needed, they have to spend a lot of time producing
and distributing agendas and other material. It’s a big waste of their time and our
money.

A recent survey of the meeting schedules of nearby comparably-sized cities
revealed that 38 of the 39 cities met only twice, or even once, per month, with only
Albany meeting four to five times.

The cities with two or fewer meetings per month apparently feel satisfied with the
state of democracy. However, just to be sure that citizen access during a public meeting
is not denied, Measure M allows the Council to add extra meetings whenever the need
arises.

s/Loretta Hawley	s/William	Dann

s/John Henry

CITY OF ALBANY MEASURE

N MEASURE N: PROPOSED ORDINANCE - LIBRARY SERVICES
ACT OF 1994. Shall the City of Albany impose a special tax to
provide funds necessary to maintain public library services in the
City of Albany?

YES

NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N

SECTION 5-22 LIBRARY SERVICES ACT OF 1994
Section 5-22.1 TITLE AND PURPOSE

A.	Title. This Ordinance may be cited as the “Library Services Act of 1994”, and
shall be codified in Chapter 5 part 22 et seq.

B.	Purpose. The tax imposed under this Ordinance is solely for the purpose of
raising revenue for public library services in the City of Albany.

It is the intention of the voters and of the City Council that the monies raised
by this tax be used primarily to replace funding reductions from Alameda
County.

It is further the intent of this legislation that these monies raised by the taxpayers
of the City of Albany pursuant to this Ordinance shall be spent to provide public
library services and materials to citizens of Albany in an efficient and
appropriate manner. To this end, the Council, after careful public deliberation,
may determine that the services currently provided can be provided more
effectively by changing the method of delivery. If such determination is made,
the Council may procure such public library services from Alameda County, or
other public entity, or agency, or provider it deems suitable, and/or establish
public library services by any of the methods prescribed by State law.

In recognition of the potential hardship on low-income families and enterprises,
the Ordinance provides a complete exemption from the tax for low-income
homeowners, schools, hospitals, churches, and land used for agricultural
purposes.

This special tax is not an ad valorem tax on real property nor a transaction tax
nor sales tax on the sale of real property within the City.

Section 5-22.2 DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this Ordinance only, the following terms shall be defined as set
forth below:

A.	“Building" shall mean any structure having a roof supported by columns or by
walls and designed for the shelter or housing of any person, chattel or property
of any kind. The word “Building” includes the word “structure”.

B.	“Commercial," “Industrial" and “Institutional” shall refer to all buildings and
improvements within the City that are not classified by this chapter as dwelling
units.

C.	“Dwelling” shall mean a building or portion of a building designed for human
occupancy.

D.	“Family” shall mean one or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, who are living together in a single Residential Unit and maintaining
a common household. Family shall also mean all unrelated persons who live
together in a single Residential Unit and maintain a common household.

E.	“Improvements” shall mean all Buildings, structures, fixtures, fences and
paving in the City erected or affixed to land, and all items which are permanently
affixed to land which have become a part of real property by having been
physically incorporated therein or permanently affixed thereto.

F.	“Non-Residential” shall mean all parcels that are not classified by this
Ordinance as Residential Units, and shall include, but not be limited to,
industrial and institutional Improvements, as well as Vacant Parcels.

G.	“Owner” shall mean the Person having title to real estate as shown on the most
current official assessment roll of the Alameda County Assessor.

H.	“Parcel” shall mean a unit of real estate in the City of Albany as shown on the
most current official assessment roll of the Alameda County Assessor.

I.	“Person” shall include individuals, and for profit and nonprofit organizations,
including, but not limited to, corporations, partnerships, business associations
and trusts.

J.	“Possessory Interest” as it applies to property owned by any agency of the
government of the United States, the State of California, or any political
subdivision thereof, shall mean possession of, claim to, or right to the
possession of, land or Improvements and shall include any exclusive right to
the use of such land or Improvements.

K.	“Residential Unit” shall mean a Building or portion of a Building designed for
or occupied exclusively by one Family.

L.	“Square footage” shall mean the total gross area of a Parcel as determined by
the Alameda County Assessor and/or as otherwise known to the City’s Public
Works Director.

M.	“Vacant Parcel” shall mean an unimproved Parcel, but shall not include
unimproved Parcels which have been dedicated as open space or parklands.

N.	“Library Collections" are defined as including, but not limited to books,
magazines, newspapers, electronic databases, materials for public use that are
in video and audio formats, as well as learning materials used to enhance
reading andiitei acy skills.

Section 5-22.3 IMPOSITION OF PARCEL TAX

There is hereby imposed a special tax on all parcels in the City of Albany, except
where the parcels are otherwise exempt from taxation by Section 5-22.4 of this
Ordinance.

The tax imposed by this section shall be assessed to the Owner unless the Owner
is by law exempt from taxation, in which case, the tax imposed shall be assessed to
the holder of the Possessory Interest in such parcel, unless such holder is also by law
exempt from taxation.

The tax hereby imposed shall be at the following rates:

(A)	For all single family Residential Parcels, the tax shall be at the annual rate of
$42 per Parcel.

(B)	For all condominium Residential Parcels, the tax shall be at the annual rate of
$42 per Parcel.

(C)	For all multiple unit Residential Parcels, the tax shall be at the annual rate of
$31.50 per Residential Unit located on such Parcels.

(D)	For non-Residential Parcels the tax rate shall be at the annual rate of $42 for
every single family Residential Parcel unit equivalent. Equivalents will be based
on Parcel square footage and by land use category as follows:

LAND USE CATEGORY	AREA	(SFE)

. 5,000

5,000

Commercial ..........................

Industrial ..........................

Vacant land at 1/2 the developed rate.

Example: assessment calculation for a commercial parcel with
an area of 9,700 sq. ft.:

Area

9,700 SF - 5,000 SF = 1.94 SFE

1.94 SFE x $42 = $81.48
Section 5-22.4 EXEMPTIONS

The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be subject to the exemptions set forth in
this section.

A.	Low-Income Homeowner Exemption. Exempt from this tax are owners of
single-family Residential Units in which they reside whose combined Family
income, from all sources for the previous calendar year, is at or below the
income level qualifying as “very low-income” for a Family of such size under
Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S.C.A Sections 1437
et. seq.], for such year. The application process will be in the form of self-
certification under penalty of perjury. Owners must apply for the exemption
provided for in this section annually by petition to the Director of Finance of
the City of Albany in the manner and at the time set forth by the Director of
Finance and Administrative Services. Such petitions shall be on forms provided
by the Director of Finance and Administrative Services and shall provide such
information as the Director of Finance arid Administrative Services may require.
If the Director of Finance and Administrative Services determines the need to
audit an application, the Director of Finance and Administrative Services may
require additional information, including, but not limited to, federal income tax
returns and W-2 forms of owner-occupants eligible for this exemption.

B.	Low-Income Renter Rebate. Renters who reside in a rental unit within the City
of Albany whose combined Family income, from all sources for the previous
calendar year, is at or below the income level qualifying as “very low-income”
for a Family of such size under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 [42 U.S.C.A Sections 1437 et. seq.], for such year may apply for a rebate
of the special tax imposed by this Ordinance that applies to the rental unit in
which they reside. The application process will be in the form of self-
certification under penalty of perjury. Renters must apply for the rebate
provided for in this section annually by petition to the Director of Finance of
the City of Albany in the manner and at the time set forth by the Director of
Finance and Administrative Services. Such petitions shall be on forms provided
by the Director of Finance and Administrative Services and shall provide such
information as the Director of Finance and Administrative Services shall require.
If the Director of Finance and Administrative Services determines the need to
audit an application, the Director of Finance and Administrative Services may
require additional information, including, but not limited to, federal income tax
returns and W-2 forms of renter-occupants eligible for this exemption. Only one
such rebate shall be allowed annually to a rental unit.

Section 5-22.5

REDUCTION IN TAX AND LIMITED AUTHORITY TO INCREASE

(a) Subject to paragraph (b), the tax rates imposed by this Ordinance are maximum
rates and may not be increased by the City Council above such maximum rates. The
tax imposed by this Ordinance may be reduced or eliminated by the City Council on
or before July 1 in any year in which the City Council determines that after such
reduction or elimination there will be sufficient revenues available to balance the City
Council’s Adopted Policy Budget. Such reduction or elimination shall be effective for
the fiscal year following such vote.

(b) After the first year of imposition of this tax, the City Council may increase the tax
imposed hereby only upon a finding that the cost of living in the immediate San
Francisco Bay Area, as verified by the Consumer Price Index established by the United
States Bureau of Labor Statistics (all Urban Consumers - San Francisco Bay Area), has
increased; the increase of the tax imposed hereby shall not exceed such verified index.
It is further provided that in no event shall the tax rate adjustment imposed hereby
exceed, on an annual basis, five percent (5%) of the tax rates imposed by the City of
Albany during the immediately preceding fiscal year.

Section 5-22.6 PROPERTY TAX

This special tax is a property tax and qualified property owners and renters shall
be entitled to the benefits of the Gonsalves-Deukmejian-Petris Senior Citizen’s Property
Tax Assistance Law (California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 20501 et. seq.) and
the Senior Citizens and Disabled Citizens Property Tax Postponement Law (California
Revenue and Taxation Code Section 20581 et. seq.), as provided by law.

Section 5-22.7 ANNUAL AUDIT

A certified public accounting firm retained by the City will perform an annual audit
to assure accountability of the proper disbursement of these tax proceeds in
accordance with the objectives stated herein.

Section 5-22.8 EXAMINATION OF BOOKS. RECORDS. WITNESSES: PENALTIES

The Director of Finance and Administrative Services, or her/his designee, is hereby
authorized to examine assessment rolls, property tax records, records of the Alameda
County Recorder and any other records of the County of Alameda deemed necessary
in order to determine ownership of Parcels and computation of the tax imposed by this
Ordinance.

Section 5-22.9 COLLECTION OF TAX; INTERESTAND PFNALTIES

The City Council of the City of Albany is authorized to have the taxes imposed by
this Ordinance collected by the County of Alameda in conjunction with the County’s
collection of property tax revenues for the City of Albany. In the event that the County
of Alameda collects the taxes imposed by this Ordinance, the imposition of penalties,
additional fees and interest upon persons who fail to remit any tax imposed by this
Ordinance, or who fail to remit any delinquent remittance under this Ordinance, shall
be subject to and governed by the rules, regulation, and procedures utilized by the
County of Alameda in its collection of property taxes for the City of Albany and its
collection of this additional tax for the City of Albany.

Section 5-22.10 COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES

The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under the provisions of this
Ordinance shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any person owing money under the
provisions of this Ordinance shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City
for the recovery for such amount.

Section 5-22.11 REFUND OF TAX. PENALTY. OR INTEREST

PAID MORE THAN ONCE; OR ERRONEOUSLY OR ILLEGALLY COLLECTED.

Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been paid more than once,
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City under this
Ordinance, it may be refunded provided a verified claim in writing therefor, stating the
specific ground upon which such claim is founded, is filed with the Director of Finance
and Administrative Services within one (1) year from the date of payment. If the claim
is approved by the Director of Finance and Administrative Services, the excess amount
collected or paid may be refunded or may be credited against any amounts then due
and payable from the Person from whom it was collected or by whom paid, and the
balance may be refunded to such Person, his/her administrators or executors.

Section 5-22.12 SAVINGS CLAUSE

The provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to any Person, or to any property
as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the City of Albany to impose the tax
herein provided. If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this Ordinance
is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality, or
invalidity shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this
Ordinance and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences,
clauses, sections or parts of this Ordinance. It is hereby declared to be the intention
of the City of Albany, that this Ordinance would have been adopted had such
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid provision, sentence, clause, section or part thereof
not been included herein.

Section 5-22.13 REGULATIONS

The City Council is hereby authorized to promulgate such regulations as it shall
deem necessary in order to implement the provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 5-22.14 NO AMENDMENT

This Ordinance may not be amended by action of the City Council without the
applicable voter approval.

Section 5-22.15 INCREASE APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriation limit for the City
of Albany is hereby increased by the aggregate sum authorized to be levied by this
special tax for each of the four fiscal years from 1994-95 through 1997-98.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

The Albany Library is a County library. This Measure provides a mechanism for
Albany to raise revenues to supplement funding from Alameda County in an effort to
assist in maintaining library services at a level prior to funding cuts due to state and
county budgetary constraints. Alameda County Board of Supervisors has been cutting
funds to its libraries throughout the County. The City of Albany may enact its own tax
in an effort to maintain library services. If this Measure passes, the City of Albany would
then negotiate with Alameda County for expansion of library services.

This measure requires approval of two-thirds of the voters of the City of Albany.
Obviously, this Measure will result in an increase of tax dollars paid by the citizens of
the City of Albany. The single family homeowner and condominium owner will pay $42
per year. Apartment owners will pay $31.50 per unit.

s/Robert J. Zweben
City Attorney

</9