VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF HEALDSBURG
MEASURE C

ADVISORY VOTE ONLY

C Do you support a benefit assessment of S7.25 each month
per typical parcel to allow the City of Healdsburg to provide
for the maintenance and repair of City Parks, sport and
school fields, and recreational facilities, for example the pool, Museum, the
Senior Center, and Boys and Girls Club, which would be reviewed annually
and end in five years?__________________________________________

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

Measure C is submitted to the Electorate of the City of Healdsburg (the "City")
for an advisory vote.

Under current state law, general law cities, including the City of Healdsburg,
may create an assessment district for the purpose of maintenance of parks and
recreation facilities. While the action described in Measure C may be initiated
under state law without the voter approval, the City Council has resolved to submit
the consideration of such action to an advisory vote of the city electorate.

Therefore, this measure which is ADVISORY ONLY, if passed, would have no
effect on existing law and would not be binding on the council members. It would,
however, constitute an expression of the desire of the voters that:

-They support the formation of an assessment district providing for real
property assessments in the amount of not to exceed S7.25 each month, to
provide for the maintenance and repair of city parks, sport and school fields
and recreational facilities; and

-The city would, if such an assessment were imposed, review it annually; and
-The assessment, if imposed, would end five (5) years, or sooner, after imposition.

The purpose of this assessment district is for the maintenance and repair of
the city parks and recreational facilities, including, but not limited to, the city pool,
museum, senior center, and boys and girls club.

The imposition of this assessment would also carry with it the corollary power
to use reasonable means to effect collection.

' si Kenneth A. Wilson
City Attorney
City of Healdsburg

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

The Parks and Recreation Commission, the Committee for SPARCLE and
many community organizations are recommending the City of Healdsburg form a
Parks benefit assessment district. This community has struggled for years to
secure adequate and continued funding sources to support maintenance needs
for the parks, school grounds, and recreational facilities so important to its
wellbeing. This assessment of S7.25 per month for the next five years, known as
SPARCLE, will help us accomplish this goal.

To balance its budget, the State of California has taken hundreds of thousands
of general fund dollars from this community that have benefited local recreation.
Services have already been reduced in all levels of City government. The Parks
and Recreation department has been reduced 28% since 1990. Staffing has been
reduced 38%, leaving only one park maintenance worker.

As the State strives to balance its budget more reductions are expected and
without revenue replacement community participation in adult sports, youth
sports, swimming, positive recreational choices for children, programs for seniors,
and special events will be affected. Further reductions will result in the loss of
support for athletic fields, the FFA Fair, the Scout Hut, and the Boys and Girls
Club. The maintenance of public facilities and restrooms, the Plaza, street trees,
the parks and other green areas, such as Tilly Grove, the Villa, and Foss Creek
will also be drastically affected.

Without SPARCLE, reasonable fees and rental rates for facilities cannot be
financially feasible to support current parks and recreational facilities. To preserve
Healdsburg’s exceptionally good quality of life and for the sake of our children, we
urge you to endorse SPARCLE and approve an equitable financial alternative.

si Tom Chambers,	si Dick Bugarske, Chair

Healdsburg City Council	Healdsburg	Parks	&	Recreation Commission

si Joe Palla,	si Beulah McCaffrey

Chief of Police	Senior

CITY OF HEALDSBURG
MEASURE D

ADVISORY VOTE ONLY

n Do you support a charge on your City electric utility bill not
to exceed S6.50 each month, to maintain Police and Fire
protection, which would be reviewed annually and end in three years?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

Measure D is submitted to the Electorate of the City of Healdsburg (the "City”)
for an advisory vote.

Under current state law, general law cities, including the City of Healdsburg,
may impose a tax on utilities such as electricity. While the action described in
Measure D may be taken under state law without the voter approval, the City
Council has resolved to submit the consideration of such action to an advisory
vote of the city electorate.

Therefore, this measure which is ADVISORY ONLY, if passed, would have no
effect on existing law and would not be binding on the council members. It would,
however, constitute an expression of the desire of the voters that:

-They support a charge on their city electric bill not to exceed S6.50 each month,

to go into the general fund, to maintain police and fire protection; and
-The city would, if such a tax were imposed, review it annually; and
-The tax if imposed would end three (3) years, or sooner, after imposition.

The purpose of this utility user’s tax is to generate revenue to the city for general
fund purposes, including, but not limited to, police and fire protection.

The imposition of this tax would also carry with it the corollary power to use
reasonable means to effect collection.

si Kenneth A. Wilson
City Attorney
City of Healdsburg

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

The City of Healdsburg’s general fund budget has been reduced sharply by
the state over the past three years. Depending on new state actions to balance
its budget, the 1994/95 city general fund will have to sustain additional cuts of at
least S300,000. Police and Fire represent 72% of the general fund budget. During
the pastthree years, city cutbacks have focused on non public safety departments;
but, with such a large portion of total city dollars dedicated to Police and Fire,
these departments can no longer escape reductions. City staff has been reduced
by eighteen positions since 1991; seven of these were Police and Fire personnel.
Further layoffs of Police and Fire personnel are likely, unless funds are raised to
offset our budget shortfall.

We are now at a point where the quality of life that Healdsburg citizens have
come to know is in jeopardy. The recession has affected each and every one of
us, and we cannot allow declining economic times to sacrifice our personal safety
and well-being. We must stand up and support this measure to maintain the vital
functions of the Healdsburg Fire Department and Police Department. Voting for
a utility user tax will ensure the safety of the community as you know it.

If this utility user tax doesn’t pass, it could mean a four to six minute delay in
responding to emergency situations, due to eliminating already reduced personnel.

Your support and yes vote for the proposed S6.50 per month charge to be
added to city utility bills is most urgently requested. Public safety is important to
every home and family. It is equally important to our city’s ability to attract needed
new businesses and jobs and maintain the quality of life we’ve grown to love and
expect.

s/Tony Pinochi	s/Marie Sparks s/Jan Kiely

Public Safety Associations Senior Advocate President, Chamber of Commerce

32

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED
AGAINST MEASURE C

49-55

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED
AGAINST MEASURED