(3) The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance;

') A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obli-
gated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance;

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance,
the storage, use or other consumption in this District of tangible per-
sonal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to
a transactions tax under any State-administered transactions and use
tax ordinance;

(2)	Purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation un-
der a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant
to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California;

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this ordinance;

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a con-
tinuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the
lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance;

'5> For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, stor-
j, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any
right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not
to be obligated pursuant to a contract of lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the District shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships
or delivers the property into the District or participates within the Dis-
trict in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place
of business of the canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the
District under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	"A retailer engaged in business in the District* shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 {commencing with Section 9850) of the Ve-
hicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at
an address in the District.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions
tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use
or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 11. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the ef-
fective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
'''consistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
de, and all amendments to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
..>d Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordi-
nance; provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so
as io arrect the rate or tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 12. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.No injunction
or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the
District, or against any officer of the State or the District, to prevent

or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.

Section 13. IMPLEMENTING POLICIES AND REGULATIONS.
Upon approval of this ordinance by a majority of the voters, the County
of Santa Cruz may adopt policies and regulations and take such other
action as may be necessary for the implementation of the one-quarter
of one percent (1/4%) transactions and use tax authorized by this
ordinance.

Section 14. CONTRACT FOR SHARING OF SALES TAX PRO-
CEEDS. The County of Santa Cruz is hereby authorized to carry put
the terms of the contract to share proceeds from the transactions and
use tax levied under this ordinance, a copy of which contract is at-
tached to this ordinance as Exhibit *1*. Except as otherwise provided
in the contract for sharing sales tax revenues with participating cities,
the proceeds from the transactions and use tax shall be allocated to
the County General Fund.

Section 15. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to
other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 16. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES. This ordinance
shall take effect as provided by law.This ordinance shall become effective
according to law only if at least a majority of the electors voting on the
measure at the election on November 6, 1994, vote to approve enactment
of the ordinance. If so approved,the provisions of this ordinance author-
izing the levy of the replacement one-quarter of one percent transactions
and use tax shall become operative on April 1, 1997.

EXHIBIT "1"

CONTRACT FOR SHARING OF SALES TAX REVENUES

THIS CONTRACT is entered into by and between the COUNTY OF
SANTA CRUZ (hereinafter referred to as "County") and the CITY OF
SANTA CRUZ, CITY OF CAPITOLA, CITY OF WATSONVILLE (herein-
after referred to as "City").

WHEREAS, Section 7285 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code authorizes counties, such as the County of Santa Cruz, to levy
a one-quarter or one-hall cent transactions and use tax ("sales tax")
upon approval by two-thirds vote of the Board of Supervisors and by
majority vote of the voters of the County; and
WHEREAS, Article XIII, Section 29, of the California Constitution and
Sections 55701, et seq. of the California Government Code authorize
cities and counties to enter into contracts for sharing sales tax reve-
nues subject to approval of the voters; and
WHEREAS, the County and each City signing this agreement have
jointly developed a proposal for repairing, maintaining, and renovating
library buildings, constructing certain new library buildings, and restor-
ing previously reduced library services in libraries throughout the
County, which funding will only be available if a transactions and use
tax (sales tax) is levied; and

WHEREAS, the County of Santa Cruz has proposed to seek approval
by the voters pursuant to Section 7285 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code of a one-quarter cent transactions and use (sales) tax
to replace the existing one-half cent local transactions and use (sales)
tax when it expires on March 31, 1997, in order to provide funds for
local public facilities and services for the general good of Santa Cruz
County and its citizens; and
WHEREAS, the County and each City signing this contract desire to
provide for an equitable sharing of the revenues from the replacement
one-quarter cent sales tax in the event it is approved by the voters, so
that the revenues will be available to fund local public facilities and public
services for the general good of Santa Cruz County and its citizens;
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:

1.	The net revenue from the one-quarter cent replacement transac-
tions and use (sales) tax, levied pursuant to Section 7285 of the Cali-
fornia Revenue and Taxation Code by an ordinance approved by the
voters of the County of Santa Cruz, shall be apportioned among the
County and each City signing this contract in proportion to the per-
centages of the Countywide total population which is within their re-
spective jurisdictions as set forth in Exhibit "A" attached, except as
otherwise provided by paragraph 3 below.

2.	The share of monies apportioned to the County and to each City
signing this contract shall be credited to their respective general funds
and shall be available lor use lor funding local public facilities and
services.

hi n t

3.	In the event the voters ot the County do not approve the one-quarter
cent replacement transactions and use (sales) tax and ratify this con-
tract, then this contract shall be of no force and effect. In the event
the voters of a city signing this contract do not ratify this contract,
and if such voter approval is then required by law, the sales tax
revenues which would otherwise be apportioned to such a city shall
instead be apportioned among the County and the Cities whose voters
ratified this contract in proportion to the population within their re-
spective jurisdictions.

4.	"Net Revenues" for purposes of this paragraph shall mean the
revenues resulting from the levy of the additional one-quarter cent
sales tax after deduction of the costs of administration payable to
the State Board of Equalization and the reasonable costs of the County
as determined by the Auditor-Controller in apportioning and auditing
the distribution of sales tax revenues in accordance with this contract.

5.	Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 above, this contract
shall remain in effect for the duration of the replacement one-quarter
cent transactions and use (sales) tax levied by the County pursuant
to Section 7285 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

6.	County hereby makes no guarantees or in any way warrants
whether any ordinance adopted pursuant to the approval of the pro-
posed replacement transactions and use tax measure will become
operative or remain in effect and operative. County’s agreement to
distribute funds to City and City’s entitlement to such funds are limited
to the extent to which County receives and is entitled to expend and
distribute sales tax revenue from the additional Countywide one-quar-
ter cent transactions and use tax levied under the ordinance authorized
by the voters to be adopted by County pursuant to the replacement
transactions and use tax measure on the November 8, 1994 election
ballot.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this contract
on the dates indicated below.

DATED:

DATED:

DATED:

DATED:

August 1, 1994	si
July 26, 1994	si
July 26, 1994	si
June 28, 1994	si

CITY OF SANTA CRUZ
Richard Wilson
City Manager

CITY OF CAPITOLA
Susan C. Westman
City Manager
CITY OF WATSONVILLE
Gary Smith

Assistant City Manager

COUNTY OF SANTA CRUZ

Susan Mauriello

Chief Administrative Officer

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:

1.	The net revenue from the one-quarter cent replacement transac-
tions and use tax, levied pursuant to Section 7285 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code by an ordinance approved by the voters
of the County of Santa Cruz, shall be apportioned among the County
and each city signing this contract in proportion to the percentages
of the Countywide total population which is within their respective
jurisdictions as set forth in Exhibit "A" attached, except as otherwise
provided by paragraph 3 below.

2.	The share of monies apportioned to the County and to each city
signing this contract shall be credited to their respective general funds
and shall be available for use for funding local public facilities and
services.

3.	In the event the voters of the County do not approve the one-quarter
cent replacement transactions and use tax and ratify this contract,
then this contract shall be of no force and effect. In the event the
voters of a city signing this contract do not ratify this contract, and
if such voter approval is then required by law, the sales tax revenues
which would otherwise be apportioned to such a city, shall instead,
be apportioned among the County and the Cities whose voters ratified
this contract in proportion to the population within their respective
jurisdictions.

4.	"Net Revenues" for purposes of this paragraph shall mean the
revenues resulting from the levy of the additional one-quarter cent
sales tax after deduction of the costs of administration payable to
the State Board of Equalization and the reasonable costs of the County
as determined by the Auditor-Controller in apportioning and auditing
the distribution of sales tax revenues in accordance with this contract.

5.	Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 above, this contract
shall remain in effect for the duration of the replacement one-quarter
cent transactions and use tax levied by the County pursuant to Section
7285 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

6.	County hereby makes no guarantees or in any way warrants
whether any ordinance adopted pursuant to the approval of the pro-
posed replacement transactions and use tax measure will become
operative or remain in effect and operative. County's agreement to
distribute funds to City and City's entitlement to such funds are limited
to the extent to which County receives and is entitled to expend and
distribute sales tax revenue from the additional Countywide one-quar-
ter cent transactions and use tax levied under the ordinance authorized
by the voters to be adopted by the County pursuant to the replacement
transactions and sales tax measure on the November 8, 1994 election
ballot.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this contract
on the dates indicated below.

CONTRACT FOR SHARING OF SALES TAX REVENUES

THIS CONTRACT is entered into by and between the COUNTY OF
SANTA CRUZ (hereinafter referred to as "County") and the CITY OF
SCOTTS VALLEY (hereinafter referred to as "City").

WHEREAS, Section 7285 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code authorized counties, to levy a one-quarter or one-half cent trans-
actions and use tax ("sales tax") upon approval by two-thirds vote
of the Board of Supervisors and by majority vote of the voters of the
County; and

WHEREAS, the County may utilize general fund monies for various
types of programs, including library services, and may finance those
services in locations throughout the County; and
WHEREAS, the County and the City are jointly negotiating and de-
veloping a proposals for repairing, maintaining, and renovating library
buildings, constructing certain new library buildings, and restoring
previously reduced library services in libraries throughout the County,
which funding will only be available if a sales tax is levied; and
WHEREAS, the County has proposed to seek approval by the voters
pursuant to Section 7285 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code
of a one-quarter cent transactions and use tax to replace the existing
jne-hali cent local transactions and use tax when it expires on March

31,1997,	in order to provide funds for local public facilities and services
for the general good of the County and its citizens; and
WHEREAS, the County and each City signing this contract desire
to provide for an equitable sharing of the revenues from the replace-
ment one-quarter cent sales tax in the event it is approved by the
voters, so that the revenues will be available to fund local public
facilities and public services for the general good of Santa Cruz county

Date: August 2, 1994	COUNTY	OF	SANTA	CRUZ

si Susan Mauriello
Chief Administrative Officer
Date: July 20, 1994	CITY	OF SCOTTS VALLEY

si Chuck Comstock
City Manager

EXHIBIT A

Per Capita Distribution of 1/4 Cent Sales Tax Proceeds

Jurisdiction	Percent of Population	Estimated 1997-98 Proceeds
City of Santa Cruz	21.66%	$1,144,015
City of Watsonville	13.87	732,571
City of Scotts Valley	3.95	208,627
City of Capitola	4.38	231,338
County of Santa Cruz	56.14	2,965,144
Total	100.00%	55,281,695

The percent of sales tax proceeds to be distributed to each city
shall be revised and updated each year on July 1st as determined
by the most recent population estimates prepared by the California
State Department of Finance. Any amount not distributed to the cities
shall be distributed to the County.