Will Measure "E" force the politicians to keep their promise to fund police? NO!

Will Measure "E" force politicians to be accountable for their spending practices’5 NO!
Hoes Measure "E" uphold the intent of Proposition 13? NO!

We’re TAXED ENOUGH!

Vote NO on Measure ”E'

SEAN SOUTH

Chairperson - CITIZENS FOR DEMOCRACY

DAUNITA RUSINKO

President - TAXED ENOUGH COMMITTEE

MICHAEL H CLEMENT

Former Antioch Mayoral Candidate, 1992

W1LHELMINA ANDRADE
Former Antioch (Tty Council Member

WERNER GANZ

Retired & 1993 Recall Proponent

CITY OF ANTIOCH



TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 1994
Measure E

"Arguments in Support of or in opposition to the proposed laws arc the opinions of the authors."

CITY OF ANTIOCH
SPECIAL UTILITY TAX
MEASURE E ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 1994

"Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors."

MEASURE E

"Shall the City Council impose a lax of 3% on gas, electricity, intrastate telephone	YFS	
(including cellular basic), cable television and water/sewer, with the following		
provisions: (a) voter approval required for any increases to the tax; (b) exemption for		
qualified low-income persons for telephone, gas and electricity; (c) maximum annual	NO	
tax of $1,200 per utility for large retail ami industrial users9"		

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

This Measure, if approved by the voters, would authorize the City Council to adopt an
ordinance which imposes a tax upon the use of certain utilities. The tax would be 3% of the bill for gas,
electricity, intrastate (within California) telephone, cable television, water/sewer, and the basic charge
(excluding "air time") for cellular telephone use

The measure would require that the ordinance have the following provisions;

(a)	voter approval would be required before the tax could be increased;

(b)	exemptions for eligible low-income persons for telephone, gas and electricity ;

(c)	a maximum tax to be paid in any one year of SI ,200 per utility for large users, such as

industries and large retailers.

Tax proceeds would be placed in the General Fund and would be allocated subject to the
City Council budget adoption process

This has been an impartial analysis of the measure prepared by the City Attorney, pursuant
to Elections Code §50! I.

WILLIAM R. GALSTAN
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
CITY OF ANTIOCH SPECIAL UTILITY TAX
MEASURE E ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 1994

Antioch needs more police! Public safety is our number one concern.

As part of the State budget crisis, the State Legislature has taken monies normally received by
the City. Without this revenue, we cannot hire additional police positions or provide other critical
services Our crime rate has risen as the number of officers per capita has declined

Let's stop this trend. The ballot measure helps provide funds for 37 additional public safety
personnel to lx hired over three years. Emergency and computerized dispatch equipment is included
as well. Let's give our officers the tools that they need to fight crime.

A "yes" vote means more community policing in our established neighborhoods, police in die
schools, additional patrol officers, increased officers dedicated to narcotics and gang violence, and
civilian jailers to free-up patrol officers, as well as other essential services. Our "yes" vote puts officers
on the streets where they belong,

A citizen's task force has reviewed this issue and recommended a 3% utility tax. This tax would
require voter approval before any future increase, if necessary. This small investment will reap huge
benefits. This is a quality of life issue for us and our families. We have a crime problem now. Let’s take
a stand against crime now by voting YES on Measure E.

Lett Flerendeen	Manuel C. Rose

Antioch Police Chief (Ret.)	Municipal Court	Judge (Ret.)

Leo Fontana	Gene Mayer

Antioch Businessman	Antioch Business Owner

Arne Simonscn
Antioch Citizen

ARGUMENT AGAINST
CITY OF ANTIOCH
SPECIAL UTILITY TAX MEASURE E ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 1994

VOTE NO on Measure ”E”! It's nothing more than a blank check for local " TAX and SPEND"

politicians. It'll only serve to continue fiscal mismanagement and to COVER UP the inability of our
officials to prioritize or operate within a budget. Why arc vve paying OVER $100,000.00 salary and
perks for the Police Chief, and OVER $70,000.00 for an officer?

Don't be fooled when they cry that there's no money to fund adequate police services. When out
officials can't say "NO” to Redevelopment schemes which siphon off revenues from the General Fund
and finance fiascoes like "Ferryboats," "Taj Mahal” Police Stations and the unneeded "A" Street
extension, then it's up to us to say "NO!" Amend the Redevelopment Plan, and get that money back
where it can fund police services.

Weren't our property taxes supposed to cover polices services? Didn't City officials tell us that the

Landscaping and Lighting Assessment was supposed to insure adequate police services? Where’d the
money go? Now they need a UTILITY TAX for police services? When is enough, enough?

Think of all the taxes, assessments and fees we're already paying. Under Measure "It" some taxpayers
could pay an additional $1200.00 in taxes per year, PFiR UTILITY! Once in, this tax is here to stay,
and there's nothing to force the politicians to account for how they spend it. It's the perfect "Bait and
Switch" instrument. They say it's for police, but Measure "E" money goes into the General Fund
where it can be used for anything.