VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF PETALUMA
MEASURE E

_ May the Petaluma City Council, for ten years, levy a maxi-
£ mum special assessment of S62.00 annually per detached
single-family dwelling and amounts for other land uses as
stated in the assessment report only for Police and Fire services protecting
real property (said revenues are to be added to the current General Fund
allocation of S9.5 million for Police and Fire services)?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

This ballot measure asks the voters of Petaluma whether the Petaluma City
Council may, for ten years, levy an annual special assessment against all parcels
of real property (except for government owned parcels which by law are exempt
from assessment) within the City of Petaluma to pay for the partial costs of police
and fire services for the protection of real property with any revenues generated
being added to the current general fund allocation of S9.5 million for police and
fire services.

The boundaries of the area proposed to be subject to the levy of such
assessments are the boundaries of the City of Petaluma. All future annexations
to the City, if any, shall be included in this assessment district and any new parcels
created as a result of the segregation or consolidation of existing parcels would
be included within the district.

Chapter 4.3, Title IV of the Petaluma Municipal Code sets forth a mechanism
forthe City Council to levy assessments upon parcels of land within the City based
upon the benefit they receive from police and fire services related to the protection
of real property. This would include, but is not limited to, services related to the
prevention and detection of burglary, arson, vandalism, and criminal trespass;
patrolling and surveillance of property; the investigation of crimes against real
property; the inspection of property for fire hazards; and the extinguishment of
fires. The assessment is based on availability of services related to real property
and is not dependent on the performance of actual services for any particular
parcel.

The police and fire services to be funded by revenues from the special
assessment will include salaries and benefits, services and supplies, equipment
for police and fire personnel and services, and the cost of district formation and
administration. Revenue from the district will supplement other sources of revenue
available to the City to maintain current services and fund additional police officers,
services and supplies, police and fire vehicles, and related equipment.

The amount of the assessments will vary on the type and use ofthe land. Single
family detached residences would pay S62 per year, attached houses and
apartments would pay S46 per year per unit, mobile homes would pay $31 per
unit per year, commercial/industrial would pay between $106 and $232.50 per
acre per year, and all other parcels (i.e., vacant, agricultural, private open space)
would pay $6 per year. A detailed description of the methodology used in arriving
at these amounts is set forth in the "Engineer’s Report Special Police and Fire
Services" which is available for review at Petaluma City Hall. The estimated yearly
revenue from the assessments would be approximately $1.2 million.

The City Council is required to review the assessments yearly and either
reduce, eliminate, or maintain the amounts of the assessment, but may not
increase the assessment amounts.

si Richard R. Rudnansky
City Attorney
City of Petaluma

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

The Police and Fire services in the City of Petaluma have always been the
City’s highest priority. To help meet the need for additional revenue, the City
proposes a special assessment to fund all or portions of the following:

-	Add six police officers

-	Continue DARE program in schools

-	Add and replace police vehicles

-	Replace worn out fire engines

-	Replace other critical police and fire equipment

-	Continue current police and fire protection

All of the estimated $1.2 million that will be raised annually over the next ten
years will be added to the current $9.5 million Police and Fire budgets. These
added monies will ensure funding to maintain the current police and fire services.

Over the last four years, the STATE HAS TAKEN FROM THE CITY OVER
$2.1 MILLION. We believe the STATE WILL TAKE AWAY MORE DOLLARS
NEXT YEAR. To meet the shortfall and balance the budget the City has cut 15
positions, eliminated non-essential services, delayed buying equipment, restruc-
tured departments and reduced utility costs.

This proposed assessment will assure that a local revenue source is available.

THE ASSESSMENT WILL BE CONTROLLED BY THE CITY AND CANNOT BE
TAKEN AWAY BY THE STATE.

The ANNUAL ASSESSMENTS CANNOT BE INCREASED and MAY BE
LOWERED as they are set by the City Council each year. The assessments are
only $62 per year for a single family home.

The FUTURE OF ADEQUATE POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTION OF LIVES
AND PROPERTY DEPENDS ON APPROVAL OF THIS SPECIAL ASSESS-
MENT.

For ONLY $.17 CENTS PER DAY, the assessment will provide the needed
monies to PROVIDE ESSENTIAL POLICE AND FIRE SERVICES.

JOIN YOUR NEIGHBORS, FRIENDS, AND ALL THOSE CONCERNED
ABOUT MAINTAINING OUR POLICE AND FIRE SERVICES ATTHE LEVEL WE
HAVE TODAY BY VOTING YES FOR POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTION.

si M. Patricia Hilligoss, Mayor
si Nancy C. Read, Vice-Mayor

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

Don’t be mislead. Measure E, the so-called public safety assessment, is a thinly
veiled, ten year, $12,000,000 property tax increase. The revenues are added to
the general fund with no guarantee, beyond 1994-95, that the city will not simply
reduce future general fund expenditures for police and fire. The council’s resolu-
tion to the contrary is not bindino on future councils.

If this new levy were called what it truly is—a tax—it would require a two-thirds
vote under the California Constitution. This disregard of the law has resulted in a
900% increases in "assessments" for California citizens.

Measure E is double taxation. Funds generated by this measure will be used to
provide services such as detection and prevention of burglary, vandalism, and
trespassing on private property. These are services your property taxes have
already paid for. You have every right to receive these services without paying
additional taxes.

Police and fire protection do not have to be impacted because of a general fund
shortfall. $1.2 million is 7% of the $16,700,000 original budget. If your checkbook
were shorted 7% would you cut basic necessities first? Of course not. Why would
the city consider cutting the basics first? Implying that the quality of police and fire
protection may be diminished unless taxes are increased has become the tactic
of choice employed by government officials, bureaucrats, and politicians. Don't
fall victim to scare tactics.

There are other choices. Raising taxes is not the answer. This is not a money
problem, it is a priority problem. Instead of raising taxes, the city should do what
all Petaluma families and businesses do—prioritize its spending and live within
its budget.

Vote NO on Measure E.

sI Robert J. Breen
Petaluma Citizens For
Responsive Government

sI Joel Fox, President	si Richard L. Gann, President

Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association Paul Gann’s Citizens Committee

33