ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

For 80 years our Albany Public Library has been a valuable asset serving the entire
community — children, seniors, families, singles, and students. When the State took
property tax revenues away from Alameda County in July 1993, our library operating
budget was cut by 53%. Service hours were cut from 37 1/2 to an average of 15 1/2
hours per week. Programs for children and students were eliminated, and funding for
materials was slashed.

In response to these cuts, the City Council provided $15,000 to keep our library
open every Saturday only through June. Albany citizens raised $28,000 to keep our
library open on Wednesday afternoons only through June. If we do not pass Measure
N, our library will be open only 15 1/2 hours per week — two days a week and alternate
Saturdays beginning July 1, 1994.

Measure N will guarantee more hours, including evenings and every Saturday, more
materials, and more services and programs. The funds collected can be used only for
our Albany Public Library. Measure N will provide for dependable local income for our
Library at a cost of only $3.50 per residential parcel each month. Commercial and
industrial properties will also be taxed.

Albany voters will secure the future of our library by voting yes on Measure N.
Without money for materials, our library loses value as an educational resource. Without
open hours, our library is unusable. Without services and programs, our library cannot
fulfill the needs of the entire community.

Albany citizens recognize the crucial contribution a fine library makes to our future,
and the well-being and prosperity of our town. With your YES! vote we can continue
a tradition of excellence. We urge you to vote on election day and say YES! Albany
Library Measure N.

s/Miriam H. Hawley, President	s/Bill Lewis

League of Women Voters of	Albany	Coalition	for Teens

Berkeley, Albany & Emeryville
s/Jerome Blank, Realtor	s/Thelma Rubin

Member, Albany Fiscal Task Force
Jewel Okawachi, Business Owner
Chair, Albany Prevention Council

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N SUBMITTED

CITY OF OAKLAND

PROPOSED MEASURE

TO BE VOTED UPON AT THE MUNICIPAL
NOMINATING ELECTION CONSOLIDATED WITH
THE DIRECT PRIMARY ELECTION TO BE
HELD IN THE CITY OF OAKLAND
ON TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 1994

THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE TOGETHER WITH, LEGAL ANALYSIS OF THE
MEASURE PREPARED BY THE CITY ATTORNEY, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF THE
MEASURE PREPARED BY THE CITY AUDITOR, ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF
ADOPTION AND ARGUMENTS AGAINST ADOPTION AND REBUTTALS TO
ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR AND REBUTTALS TO ARGUMENTS AGAINST. ARGUMENTS
IN SUPORT OR OPPOSITION OF THE PROPOSED LAW ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE
AUTHORS.

Copies of this Pamphlet in Spanish may be obtained by
calling 238-3611.

Se pueden obtener copias de este panfleto en espanol
llamando por telefono al 238-3611.

The Council of the City of Oakland does hereby submit on its own
motion the following proposed ordinance to be voted on by the qualified
electors of the City of Oakland at the Municipal Nominating Election
consolidated with the Direct Primary Election to be held in the City of Oakland
on Tuesday, June 7, 1994.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

0

MEASURE O: LIBRARY SERVICES RETENTION AND
ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 1994. Shall the City of Oakland
impose a special tax to provide funds necessary to maintain and

enhance library services?

YES

NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE O

LIBRARY SERVICES RETENTION AND ENHANCEMENT ACT OF 1994

Be It Ordained by the People of the City of Oakland as follows:

Section 1. TITLE AND PURPOSE

(A)	Title. This Ordinance may be cited as the “Library Services Retention and
Enhancement Act of 1994.”

(B)	Purpose. The tax imposed under this Ordinance is solely for the purpose of
raising revenue necessary to retain and enhance library services in the City of
Oakland.

In recognition of the potential hardship on low-income families and enterprises, the
Ordinance provides a complete exemption from the tax for low-income homeowners,
non-profit residential hotels, schools, hospitals, churches, and land used for agricultural
purposes.

The Library Services Retention and Enhancement Act of 1994 is for the sole
purpose of raising revenue that will be utilized for library services. This special tax is
. not an ad valorem tax on real property nor a transaction tax nor sales tax on the'sale
of real property within the City.

Section 2. USE OF PROCEEDS

The proceeds of this tax may only be used in accordance with the following
objectives:

1.	to keep neighborhood libraries open a minimum of 5 days per week;

2.	to retain availability of library services at the Main Library 7 days per week;

3.	to enhance and expand library collections;

4.	to provide educational and cultural programs for youth in every library;

5.	to expand library-based programs in support of literacy, lifelong learning and
information technology; and

6.	to operate an African-American museum and library program.

Section 3. DEFINITIONS

For purposes of this Ordinance only, the following terms shall be defined as set
forth below:

(A)	“Building” shall mean any structure having a roof supported by columns or by
walls and designed for the shelter or housing of any person, chattel or property
of any kind. The word “Building” includes the word “structure”.

(B)	“Exempt Organization” shall mean a nonprofit organization that is exempt from
taxation under Section 501 (cX3) or Section 501 (cX4) of the Internal Revenue
Code.

(C)	“Family” shall mean one or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, who are living together in a single Residential Unit and maintaining
a common household. Family shall also mean all unrelated persons who live
together in a single Residential Unit and maintain a common household.

(D)	“Hotel” shall mean any Building, or portion of a Building that is occupied or
intended or designed for Occupancy by Transients for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home, house, motel,
studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house,
dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a fixed
location, or other similar Building or portion thereof.

(E)	“Improvements” shall mean all Buildings, structures, fixtures, fences and
paving in the City erected or affixed to land, and all items which are permanently
affixed to land which have become a part of real property by having been
physically incorporated therein or permanently affixed thereto.

(F)	“Non-Residential” shall mean all parcels that are not classified by this
Ordinance as Residential Units, and shall include, but not be limited to,
industrial, commercial and institutional Improvements, as well as Vacant
Parcels.

(G)	“Occupancy” shall mean the use or possession, or the right to the use or
possession of any room or rooms or portion thereof, in any Hotel for dwelling,
lodging or sleeping purposes.

(H)	“Operator” shall mean the Person who is a proprietor of a Hotel, whether in the
capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or any
other capacity. Where the Operator performs his functions through a managing
agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent
shall be deemed an Operator for the purposes of this Ordinance.

(I)	“Owner” shall mean the Person having title to real estate as shown on the most
current official assessment roll of the Alameda County Assessor.

(J)	“Parcel" shall mean a unit of real estate in the City of Oakland as shown on
the most current official assessment roll of the Alameda County Assessor.

(K)	"Person” shall include individuals, and for profit and non-profit organizations,
including, but not limited to, corporations, partnerships, business associations
and trusts.

(L)	“Possessory Interest” as it applies to property owned by any agency of the
government of the United States, the State of California, or any political
subdivision thereof, shall mean possession of, claim to, or right to the
possession of, land or Improvements and shall include any exclusive right to
the use of such land or Improvements.

(M)	“Residential Unit” shall mean a Building or portion of a Building designed for
or occupied exclusively by one Family.

(N)	‘Transient” shall mean any individual who exercises Occupancy of a hotel or
is entitled to Occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access,
license or other agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days
or less, counting portions of calendar days as fall days. Any individual so
occupying space in a Hotel shall be deemed to be a Transient until the period
of thirty (30) consecutive days has elapsed.

(O)	“Vacant Parcel” shall mean an unimproved Parcel, but shall not include
unimproved Parcels which have been dedicated as open space or parklands.

(P)	“Main Library” is defined as the central library of the Oakland Public Library
system.

(Q)	“Library Collections” are defined as books, magazines, newspapers, electronic
databases and equipment that facilitates the use of those items, materials for
public use that are in video and audio formats, as well as learning materials
used to enhance reading and literacy skills.

Section 4. IMPOSITION OF PARCEL TAX

There is hereby imposed a special tax on all parcels in the City of Oakland, except
where the parcels are otherwise exempt from taxation by Section 6 of this Ordinance.

The tax imposed by this Section Shan be assessed to the Owner unless the Owner
is by law exempt from taxation, in which case, the tax imposed shall be assessed to
the holder of the Possessory Interest in such parcel, unless such holder is also by law
exempt from taxation.

The tax hereby imposed shall be at the following rates:

(A)	For all single family Residential Parcels, the tax shall be at the annual rate of
$29.28 per Parcel.

(B)	For all multiple unit Residential Parcels, the tax shall be at the annual rate of
$20 per Residential Unit located on such Parcels, with the following exception:
if a majority of the Residential Units have been vacant for 6 months or more,
the rate shall be reduced by 50% to $10.00 per Residential Unit located on the
Parcel.

(C)	For Non-Residential Parcels, the tax rate shall be at the annual rate of $15 for
every Single Family Residential Unit Equivalent. Single Family Residential Unit
Equivalents will be based on square footage and frontage and by land use
category as follows:

LAND USE CATEGORY	FRONTAGE	(FT)	AREA (SR

Commercial/lnstitutional .................... 80	  6,400

Industrial ................................. 100	  10,000

Public Utility............................ 1,000	  100,000

Golf Course ................................ 500	................ 100,000

Quarry ..................................  1,000	  250,000

Example: assessment calculation for a commercial or institutional parcel
with a frontage of 160 feet and an area of 12,800 sq. ft.:

______Frontage_______ __________Area__________

160 FT	12.800	SF

80 FT/SFE = 2 SFE; 6,400 SF/SFE = 2 SFE

2 SFE	+	2	SFE	= 4 SFE;

4 SFE x $15 = $60

Section 5. HOTELS

The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be imposed on each Hotel within the City
in accordance with the following:

1.	Residential Hotels. If rooms in a Hotel were occupied by individuals who were
not Transients for 80% or more of the previous fiscal year, such Hotel shall be
deemed a Residential Hotel, and such rooms shall be deemed Residential Units
and shall be subject to the Parcel tax imposed on Residential Units. The
remainder of the Building shall be subject to the applicable Square Footage tax
computed in accordance with the Single Family Residential Unit Equivalent
calculations.

2.	Transient Hotels. Notwithstanding the previous subsection, if 80% or more
of the Operator’s gross receipts for the previous fiscal year were reported as
rent received from Transients on a return filed by the Operator in compliance
with Section 5, Article 20 of the Oakland Municipal Code (commonly known
as the Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax of the City of Oakland), such Hotel
shall be deemed a Transient Hotel. The entire Building shall be deemed a Non-
Residential Parcel, categorized as Commercial, Industrial, and shall be subject
to the Square Footage and Single Family Residential Unit Equivalent
calculations set forth in Section 4(C), and the Parcel tax imposed on Residential
Units shall not apply.

Section 6. EXEMPTIONS

The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be subject to the exemptions set forth in
this section.

(A)	Low-Income Homeowner Exemption. Exempt from this tax are owners of
single-family Residential Units in which they reside whose combined Family
income, from all sources for the previous calendar year, is at or below the
income level qualifying as “very low-income" for a Family of such size under
Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 [42 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437
et. seq.,] for such year. Owners must apply for the exemption provided for in
this section annually by petition to the Director of Finance of the City of Oakland
in the manner and at the time set forth in procedures established by the Director
of Finance. Such petitions shall be on forms provided by the Director of Finance
and shall provide such information as the Director of Finance shall require,
including, but not limited to, federal income tax returns and W-2 forms of
owner-occupants eligible for this exemption.

(B)	Low-Income Residential Hotel Exemption. Notwithstanding the
apportionment requirements of Section 5.1 above, there are exempt from the
tax imposed by this Ordinance Owners and Operators of Residential Hotels
owned and operated by Exempt Organizations or by limited partnerships in
which the controlling general partner is an Exempt Organization. This
exemption shall only apply if the Residential Hotel is subject to a recorded
regulatory agreement between the Owner and the State of California or a federal
or local public agency, and if, pursuant to such regulatory agreement,' the
Owner is obligated to maintain rents in the Residential Hotel at “affordable”
levels and rent to “low income” persons as such terms are defined in the
applicable regulatory agreement. Owners must apply for this exemption to this
tax annually by petition to the Director of Finance of the City of Oakland in the
manner and at the time set forth in procedures established by the Director of
Finance.

Section 7. REDUCTION IN TAX: RATE ADJUSTMENT

(A)	Subject to paragraph (B) of this Section 7, the tax rates imposed by this Ordinance
are maximum rates and may not be increased by the City Council above such
maximum rates. The tax imposed by this Ordinance may be reduced or eliminated
by the City Council for a subsequent fiscal year upon a vote of the City Council
on or before June 30th in any year in which the City Council determines that after
such reduction or elimination there will be sufficient revenues available to balance
the City Council’s Adopted Policy Budget. Such reduction or elimination shall be
effective for the fiscal year following such vote.

(B)	After the third year of imposition of this tax, the City Council may increase the tax
imposed hereby only upon a finding that the cost of living in the immediate San
Francisco Bay Area, as shown on the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all items in
the San Francisco Bay Area as published by the U.S. Department of Labor
Statistics, has increased; the increase of the tax imposed hereby shall not exceed
such increase, using 1994 as the index year. It is further provided that in no event
shall the tax rate adjustment imposed hereby exceed, on an annual basis, five
percent (5%) of the tax rates imposed by the City of Oakland pursuant to this
Ordinance during the immediately preceding fiscal year.

Section 8. MINIMUM LIBRARY APPROPRIATION
PREREQUISITE AT FISCAL YEAR 93-94 LEVEL

For any year during which this tax is in effect, the City Council may collect this tax
only if the General Fund appropriation for Ubrary services is maintained at a level that
is no lower than the General Fund appropriation for fiscal year 1991-92. The General
Fund appropriation for Library services for fiscal year 1991-92 was $7.8 million.

Section 9. TERM OF TAX IMPOSITION

The tax imposed by the Ubrary Services Retention and Enhancement Act of 1994
shall become effective on December 1, 1994 and shall continue in effect for 15-years

thereafter. The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be deemed extended for an
additional 15-year period if on or before June 30th of 2009, the City Council submits
an ordinance to the voters of the City of Oakland extending this tax, and the voters
approve such extension. The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall remain in full force
and effect during the pendency of such election if it is held subsequent to June 30th
of 2009. In the event that this Ordinance is extended as provided in this section, this
Ordinance shall be deemed extended for ail purposes and such extension shall relate
back to the original passage of this Ordinance and shall not constitute a reimposition
of the tax imposed by this Ordinance.

Section 10. ANNUAL AUDIT

The City Auditor will perform an annual audit to assure accountability and the proper
disbursement of the proceeds of this tax in accordance with the objectives stated
herein.

Section 11. DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE;

NOTICE OF DECISIONS

It shall be the duty of the Director of Finance to collect and receive all taxes imposed
by this Ordinance, and to keep an accurate record thereof.

Said Director of Finance is hereby charged with the enforcement of this Ordinance,
except as otherwise provided herein, and may prescribe, adopt, and enforce rules and
regulations relating to the administration and enforcement of this Ordinance, including
provisions for the re-examination and correction of returns and payments. The Director
of Finance may prescribe the extent to which any ruling or regulation shall be applied
without retroactive effect.

Upon disallowing any claims submitted pursuant to Section 15, the Director of
Finance shall mail written notice thereof to the claimant at his/her address as shown
on the Alameda County Assessor’s property tax rolls.

Section 12. EXAMINATION OF BOOKS. RECORDS,

WITNESSES: PENALTIES

The Director of Finance, or his/her designee, is hereby authorized to examine
assessment rolls, property tax records, records of the Alameda County Recorder and
any other records of the County of Alameda deemed necessary in order to determine
ownership of Parcels and computation of the tax imposed by this Ordinance.

The Director of Finance or his/her designee is hereby authorized to examine the
books, papers and records of any person subject to the tax imposed by this Ordinance
for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any petition, claim or return filed and to
ascertain the tax due. The Director of Finance, or his/her designee, is hereby authorized
to examine any person, under oath, for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any
petition, claim or return filed or to ascertain the tax due under this Ordinance and for
this purpose may compel the production of books, papers and records before him/her,
whether as parties or witnesses, whenever he/she believes such persons have
knowledge of such matters. The refusal of such examination by any person subject to
the tax shall be deemed a violation of this Ordinance.

Section 13. COLLECTION OF TAX: INTEREST AND PENALTIES

The City Council of the City of Oakland is authorized to have the taxes imposed
by this Ordinance collected by the County of Alameda in conjunction with the County’s
collection of property tax revenues for the City of Oakland. In the event that the County
of Alameda collects the taxes imposed by this Ordinance, the imposition of penalties,
additional fees and interest upon persons who fail to remit any tax imposed by this
Ordinance, or who fail to remit any delinquent remittance under this Ordinance, shall
be subject to and governed by the rules, regulations, and procedures utilized by the
County of Alameda in its collection of property taxes for the City of Oakland and its
collection of this additional tax for the City of Oakland.

In addition to any other penalties otherwise imposed, a one-time penalty at a rate
set by the City Council, which in no event shall exceed 25% of the tax due per year,
is hereby imposed by this Ordinance on all taxpayers who fail to timely pay the tax
provided by this Ordinance, in addition, interest shall be assessed at the rate of 1 %
per month on the unpaid tax and the penalty thereon.

Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of this
Ordinance shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

Section 14. COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES

The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under the provisions of this
Ordinance shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any person owing money under the
provisions of this Ordinance shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City
for the recovery for such amount.

Section 15. REFUND OF TAX. PENALTY. OR INTEREST
PAID MORE THAN ONCE: OR ERRONEOUSLY
OR ILLEGALLY COLLECTED

Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest imposed by this Ordinance
has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received
by the City it may be refunded provided a verified claim in writing therefor, stating the
specific ground upon which such claim is founded, is filed with the Director of Finance
within one (1) year from the date of payment. The claim shall be reviewed by the Director
of Finance and shall be made on forms provided by the Director of Finance. If the claim
is approved by the Director of Finance, the excess amount collected or paid may be
refunded or may be credited against any amounts then due and payable from the
Person from whom it was collected or by whom paid, and the balance may be refunded
to such Person, his/her administrators or executors.

Section 16. SAVINGS CLAUSE

The provisions of this Ordinance shall not apply to any Person, or to any property
as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the City of Oakland to impose the tax
herein provided. If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this Ordinance
is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality, or
invalidity shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this
Ordinance and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences,
clauses, sections or parts of this Ordinance. It is hereby declared to be the intention
of the City of Oakland, that this Ordinance would have been adopted had such
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid provision, sentence, clause, section or part thereof
not been included herein.

Section 17. MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION

Any Person who fails to perform any duty or obligation imposed by this Ordinance
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by
a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for a period of not more than one
year, or by both such fine and imprisonment.

The penalties provided in this section are in addition to the several remedies
provided in this Ordinance, or as may otherwise be provided by law.

Section 18. BOARD OF REVIEW

Any Person dissatisfied with any decision of the Director of Finance adversely
affecting the rights or interests of such Person made by the Director of Finance under
the authority of this Ordinance, may appeal therefrom in writing to the Business Tax
Board of Review (the “Board”) within sixty (60) days from the date of mailing such
decision by the Director of Finance. All filings with the Board relating to appeals or

otherwise shall be made to the Chairperson of the Business Tax Board of Review in
care of the City Manager’s Office, One City Hall Plaza, Oakland, CA 94612. The Board
may affirm, modify or reverse such decision or dismiss the appeal therefrom, as may
be just, and shall prescribe such rules and regulations relating to appeals as it may
deem necessary. The Board’s decision on appeal will become final upon mailing notice
thereof to the Person appealing the Board’s decision at such Person’s last known
address shown on the Library Services Retention and Enhancement Tax Records.

Any tax, penalty or interest found to be owing is due and payable at the time the
Board’s decision becomes final.

The Board shall approve, modify or disapprove all forms, rules and regulations
prescribed by the Director of Finance in administration and enforcement of this tax;
such forms, rules and regulations shall be subject to and become effective only on such
approval.

All decisions rendered by the Board shall be final, and no further administrative
appeal of these decisions is provided or intended.

Section 19. REGULATIONS

The City Council is hereby authorized to promulgate such regulations as it shall
deem necessary in order to implement the provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 20. NO AMENDMENT

This Ordinance may not be amended by action of the City Council without the
applicable voter approval.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE O

This proposed Ordinance, the “Library Services Retention Act of 1994,” would
impose a City-wide special tax to fund City library services. If adopted, the tax would
be in effect for fifteen years and it could only be extended upon voter approval. It is
estimated that this tax would provide revenues necessary to finance the operation of
the City’s libraries at a level to permit: (1) neighborhood libraries to remain open 5 days
per week; (2) retaining library services at the Main Library 7 days per week; (3)
enhancement and expansion of library collections; (4) educational and cultural
programs for youth in every library; (5) expansion of programs for literacy, lifelong
learning and information technology; and (6) operation of an African-American museum
and library program. The Ordinance allows the City Council to adjust the annual tax
rates by a maximum of 5% after the third year of the tax’s implementation, consistent
with annual increases in the cost of living in the San Francisco Bay Area. The Ordinance
provides an exemption from the tax for low-income homeowners and nonprofit
residential hotels. To qualify for the low-income exemption, taxpayers must provide
documentation of their income.

The tax is based upon a per parcel rate of $29.28 for single family residential units,
$20 per unit for multi-unit residential parcels and $15 per “single family equivalent” units
for nonresidentiai parcels, such as industrial and commercial property. The multi-unit
residential rate is reduced by 50% to $10 per unit if the majority of the residential units
on such parcel have been vacant at least 6 months. For the different categories of
nonresidentiai property, tax liability is based on a standard measurement determined
to be the equivalent of a single family residential unit. This formula is expressed irt terms
of parcel frontage and area. The tax for such properties is the product of $15 times
the number of “single family equivalents” (“SFE”) for the particular nonresidentiai
property. Example: an industrial parcel with a frontage of 80 feet and an area of 6400
square feet is the equivalent of one single family unit (1 SFE); another industrial parcel
with a frontage of 160 feet (computed as 2 SFEs, as 160 80 = 2) and an area of 19,200
square feet (computed as 3 SFEs, as 19,200 -r 6400 = 3) would pay tax of $75. Thus,
2 SFEs + 3 SFEs = 5 SFEs and such 5 SFEs x the nonresidentiai tax rate of $15 = $75.

The tax is estimated to generate approximately $4,079,344 in revenues, before
allowable exemptions and county collection fees, during each of the first three fiscal
years.

Ordinances adopted by the voters for special taxes similar to this proposed
ordinance have been upheld by the California Supreme Court.

s/Jayne W. Williams
City Attorney

CITY AUDITOR’S FINANCIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE O

FISCAL EFFECT

This measure will not increase the City expenditures which are paid out of the General
Fund. All costs directly related to the implementation of this measure will be paid out
of the proceeds of this library parcel tax, as shown below:

Estimated Receipts Excluding Penalties and Interest	$4,079,344

Deduct: Exemptions (5,000 x $29.28)	(146,400)

County Collection Fee (1.7%)	(69,350)

Available	$3,863,594

First Year Spending Plan:

Office of Finance—Staff and Operating Costs	$	56,078

Office of General Services—Custodial Services and Utilities	216,700

Library Objectives:

Branch Libraries—Open 5 Days Per Week	874,602

Main Library—Open 7 Days Per Week,

Citywide Reference and Technical Services	1,198,033

Expand Book Collections	500,000

Youth Programs	592,925

Literacy, Lifelong Learning, Technology	150,000

African-American Museum and Library	275,256

Total	$3,863,594

RESTRICTIONS

1.	This tax may not be collected if the General Fund appropriation for the Library
budget is less than $7.8 million, the 1991-92 General Fund appropriation for the
Library.

2.	The proceeds of this tax may only be used in accordance with the objectives
described in the spending plan above. Allocation of funds among the objectives
may vary according to the community’s changing priorities.

3.	Unspent funds at the end of a fiscal year will be carried over to the following year,
to be spent only in accordance with the stipulations of this measure.

ACCOUNTABILITY TO TAXPAYERS

City Council: Will establish a “Library Services Retention and Enhancement Fund", in
which all revenues and expenditures pertaining to this measure will be recorded by the
Office of Finance.

Office of Finance: Will administer and enforce the collection of revenues pertaining to
this measure.

City Auditor Will annually audit the expenditures paid from this “Fund” to ensure
compliance with the approved spending plan.

Library Advisory Commission: Will provide citizen input and feedback regarding Library
services and needs.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Increase in Tax: There shall be no increase in the first three years of imposition of this
tax. After the third year, Council may increase the tax rates no more than 5% over the
preceding year’s rates unless the Consumer Price Index has increased at a greater rate,
using 1994 as the base year.

Decrease In Or Elimination of Tax: Council may vote to decrease or eliminate the tax
for a subsequent fiscal year on or before June 30 in any year if Council determines that
there will be sufficient revenues to balance the City’s Adopted Policy Budget if this tax
were to be decreased or eliminated.

Term of Tax Imposition: Tax is to become effective December 1, 1994 and continue
in effect for 15 years thereafter.

Extension of Term: The term of tax imposition will be extended an additional 15 years
if on or before June 30, 2009, Council submits an ordinance to the Oakland voters to
extend this tax for an additional 15 years and voters so approve.

s/Norma Ng Lau
City Auditor

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O

Oakland children, seniors and residents deserve a quality library system. A vote for
Measure O is a vote for children’s education and literacy.

Measure O will allow Oakland’s libraries to maintain current services. In addition
Measure O will:	(

•	Keep the main library open 7 days a week and neighborhood libraries open a
minimum of 5 days a week.

•	Provide after-school programs for youth in every library.

•	Provide full children’s services in every library.

•	Expand the library's literacy program which teaches Oakland residents to read.

•	Operate an African American museum and educational program.

•	Provide librarians and staff for the new Rockridge and Asian branch libraries.

City budget cuts have forced our libraries to cut hours and programs for youth and
seniors. Neighborhood libraries are already functioning with limited hours and
personnel, which means reduced services to children, literacy students, business
people and residents. To stop further cuts in services, the libraries need additional
funding which the City and State cannot provide.

The Library Advisory Commission, composed of Oakland residents, will be responsible
for reviewing expenditures to ensure that funds are spent properly. Funds from Measure
O are supplementary, and are to be used to enhance and improve existing library
programs.

A yes vote for Measure O is a vote for our children and our community. Please support
Oakland’s libraries in its effort to provide a brighter future for all Oakland residents.

s/Elihu Hams, Mayor,	s/Terry Preston, President,

City of Oakland	Friends	of Oakland Public Library

s/Sheila Jordan	s/Roland Smith

Councilmember District 1	CPA	- Small Business Owner

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O

Continued cries of “budget cuts" are simply distortions! The Library department
was budgeted at $9,728,339 this fiscal year. Last year it was $9,680,517, and the year
before the Library spent $8,833,498. THAT’S NEARLY A MILLION DOLLAR INCREASE
IN THREE YEARS! NOT A “REDUCTION." AN INCREASE! The number of authorized
employees this year is 166, last year it was 161. Where’s the reduction?

OAKLAND VOTERS SAID “NO” IN 1992!

We defeated virtually the same measure, but the politicians aren’t listening. Their
only change was to cynically revise the single-family home rate from $30 to $29.28.

THIS IS REALLY ABOUT PAYING TWICE FOR THE SAME SERVICES!

Measure O sets the Library apart from essential City departments, with a
GUARANTEED budget of $7.8-million from general funds, plus $4-million from this
parcel tax — far more than just “retention of services." A non-elected board would
determine spending of that $4-million, not our elected representatives! And, the City
Council would lose policy decision over $7.8-million of the general fund. WE WILL
CONTINUE TO PAY for Library services from property, sales and other taxes — THEN
WE WILL PAY AGAIN FROM THE ADDED PARCEL TAX! People in Rockridqe who are
paying a $25 Mello-Roos parcel tax will pay three times!

A highly cost-effective Library reorganization proposed by a former Director was
shot-down because each Councilmember demanded branches is his/her district, even
if under-used.	<

NO NEW TAXES! NO ON MEASURE O!

s/Arthur B. Geen
Executive Vice President
AlamedaOourtty Taxpayers Association, Inc.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O

This Measure is NOT about “Library Services Retention.” It’s about SIPHONING
MORE DOLLARS OUT OF TAXPAYERS’ POCKETS! A LOT of dollars — over $60-
MILLION during the 15-year life of this parcel tax!

Look at your PROPERTY TAX BILL — beside the usual tax, you’re slapped with
LANDSCAPING AND LIGHTING ASSESSMENTS, a CITY PENSION FUND tax, and a
flock of others! Look at your UTILITY BILLS and see the City’s 7.5 percent UTILITY
USER tax on telephone, gas and electric. Look at your GARBAGE BILL and count the
CITY FEES. Look at your WATER BILL with its OUTRAGEOUS CITY CHARGES!

They think they’re fooling us, spreading around these taxes and fees, but we
recognize what the free-spending City of Oakland, with its top-heavy administration.
is doing!

According to their own budget document, All Funds spending was $371.53-
MILLION in 1989-90; $497.78-MILLION in 1992-93; and $520.49-MILLION for this fiscal
year — yet they cry “deficit.”

The Libraiy spent $8,016,004 in 1989-90; $9,680,517 in 1992-93 and will spend
$9,728,339 this fiscal year. It was authorized 161 employees last year, 166 this year.
WHERE ARE THE SO-CALLED REDUCTIONS?

SO. WHAT IS THIS MEASURE ALL ABOUT?

It sets one department above all others, with a guaranteed budget. Even if Police,
Rre, Parks and other services are cut, this one department can spend and spend! ‘That’s
BAD GOVERNMENT, BUDGET ANARACHY, and leaves Oakland taxpayers with an
unequal distribution of their tax dollars! The Library system deserves an equitable share
of City revenues — but so do other essential services!

ENOUGH IS ENOUGH!

Oakland voters DEFEATED this same TAX AND SPEND SCAM in 1992. That should
have ended it!

Send the City Council a resounding message — NO NEW TAXES!

VOTE NO ON MEASURE O!



s/Arthur B. Geen, Executive Vice President ■
Alameda County Taxpayers Association, Inc.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O

Opponents of the Library would like you to believe that passage of Measure O will
cost Oakland taxpayers millions of dollars each year.

They would also like you to believe that defeat of Measure O will “send a message
to City Hall.”

Let’s look at the facts: Measure O will cost Oakland homeowners less than $2.50
per month,'or about 8<t per day. That's it.

Money generated by Measure O will be earmarked specifically for library services.
It will not be used for high priced administration or overhead. Money raised by Measure
O will not be used for anything other than library services.

Specifically Measure O will:

1.	Keep neighborhood libraries (used primarily by seniors and children) open a
minimum of five days a week.

2.	Provide after school educational programs to Oakland youth.

3.	Allow Oakland Main Library to be open 7 days a week.

4.	Allow the Library to increase subscriptions to newspapers and other periodicals
and to purchase new books.

5.	Support literacy programs for Oakland residents who cannot read or write.

Two years ago 66% of Oakland residents voted in favor of a similar ballot measure,
falling just a few votes short of the necessary 2/3’s. Since that time our libraries have
shortened hours, cut back services and reduced senior and children’s programs.

Defeat of Measure O will not reduce your taxes nor will it send a message to City
Hall.

Defeat of Measure O will hurt Oakland residents who depend on neighborhood
libraries.

s/lgnacio De La Fuente	s/Jean	Quan

Member, City Council	Member,	School Board