ALBANY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE

A MEASURE A: Shall the purposes of the school bond measure	YES

passed by voters of the Albany Unified School District on March -----------

'27 1993, be modified, with no increase in the amount of the	NO

bondf_which may be issued, to permit the purchase of real property--------------

and the construction of public school facilities thereon?

TAX RATE STATEMENT FOR MEASURE A

An election will be held in the Albany Unified School District (the “District”) of Alameda
County on November 8, 1994. The election has been called by the Board of Education
of the District pursuant to Sections 5301 et. seq. (including Section 5304), 15100,
15120, and 35160 of the California Education Code.

The purpose of the election is to submit to the electors of the District the question of
whether to expand the bond authorization granted by the voters of the District on March
2, 1993, in order to permit the District to spend the proceeds from the sale of bonds
authorized on March 2,1993, for the additional purposes described in the present ballot
measure. No additional bonds and no increase in property taxes would be authorized
by approval of this measure.

The information contained herein regarding tax rates is given to comply with Sections
5300 et seq. of the Elections Code. Any bonds issued for the additional purposes
authorized by this election would be issued and sold pursuant to all of the terms
applicable to the bonds authorized on March 2,1993, including that the interest on such
bonds shall not exceed the maximum rate allowable by law. Principal of and interest
on previously issued bonds and any bonds issued in the future are payable from the
proceeds of tax levies made upon the taxable property in the District. In connection
with the March 2, 1993 election, the District provided the following estimates, as
required by law, of the tax rates which would be required to fund the bonds authorized
by the voters of the District: The tax rate required to be levied to fund the bond issue
during the first fiscal year after the first sale of the bonds (Fiscal Year 1993-1994) was
estimated to be 3.42<t per $100 of assessed valuation. The tax rate required to be levied
to fund the bond issue during the first fiscal year after the last sale of the bonds (Fiscal
Year 2011-2012) was estimated to be 12.88<t per $100 of assessed valuation. The
highest tax rate required to be levied to fund the bond issue (estimated to occur in Fiscal
Year 1999-2000) was estimated to be 23.13<t per $100 of assessed valuation. Approval
of the proposition on November 8, 1994, will not increase property tax rates within the
District.

The foregoing statement has been approved by the Board of Education of the District.

Dated: June 29,1994

s/J. D. Hudson, Superintendent,

Albany Unified School District

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

On March 2, 1993, voters of the Albany Unified School District approved a bond
measure, Measure A, which authorized the District to issue up to $31,600,000 of general
obligation bonds, proceeds from the sale of which could be used to rehabilitate existing
buildings, to make improvements to meet health, safety and seismic standards, and
to construct needed classrooms and school facilities.

This measure, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting thereon, would permit
the District to spend the proceeds from the sale of authorized bonds of the District for
the additional purposes described in the present ballot measure: the purchase of real
property and the construction of public school facilities thereon. No additional bonds
and no increase in property taxes would be authorized by approval of this measure.

Any bonds issued for the additional purposes authorized by this election would be
issued and sold pursuant to all of the terms applicable to the bonds authorized on
March 2, 1993, including that any bonds would have a maturity not exceeding twenty-
five years, and that the interest on such bonds would not exceed the legal limit.

The Board of Education of the District has called this election by authority of the
Education Code of the State of California and its inherent authority. Unless otherwise
prescribed by the Board of Education of the District, the procedures to be followed for
the election are specified in the Education Code, the Elections Code, and the
Government Code of the State of California. The procedures for the issuance of the
bonds are specified in the Education Code and the Government Code of the State of
California.

Principal of and interest on general obligation bonds issued by a school district are
payable from the proceeds of tax levies made upon the taxable property in the district.
In connection with the March 2, 1993 election, the District provided its best estimates,
as required by law, of the tax rates which would be required to fund the bonds
authorized by the voters of the District. Those estimates are found in the Tax Rate
Statement of the Superintendent of the District which follows this analysis. Approval
of the proposition on November 8, 1994, will not increase property tax rates within the
District.

s/Kelvin H. Booty, Jr.

County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

With no new cost to taxpayers, Measure A offers Albany a unique opportunity to
solve its school facility problems for generations of children to come. Last year, Albany
voters-approved a $31.6 million bond for the rehabilitation of existing buildings and the
construction of much needed classrooms. The classrooms needed, six elementary and
eight middle school, were to be built on our present campuses. This plan was the best
solution available at the time, but it meant an excessive burden on bathrooms,
cafeterias, and libraries and drastically reduced play space.

Recently, a superior alternative has emerged. The Hill Lumber property, the only
available site in Albany where a new school could be built, is now for sale. A citizens’
committee has developed a plan to buy the property, build a middle school there and
convert our present middle school to an elementary campus. If Albany voters pass
Measure A, we will have three efficient and well-equipped elementary schools located
throughout our city. Improvements including rehabilitation, safety, and seismic repairs
will still be made to Cornell, Marin and Albany High School.

There will be no increase in cost over the amount voters approved in 1993. But that
bond measure did not specifically authorize the use of funds to buy property, so it is
necessary for voters to approve this modification. Measure A has the support of all
members of the Albany City Council and the Albany Board of Education.

Measure A is a win-win proposition. Our children win with better, safer schools and
we taxpayers win too. High quality schools sustain a vital community and contribute
to increased property values. Your vote for Measure A will give us better value for money
we have already agreed to spend. We strongly urge a YES vote on Measure A.

s/Helen Laird, Principal,
Vista/MacGregor Primary School

s/Robert E. Nichols
Former Mayor, City of Albany

s/Todd M. Armstrong
Albany Business Owner

s/Marsha C. Skinner, Member,
Board of Education,

Albany Unified School District
s/Marjorie B. Keck
Albany Resident, 25 years

NO ARGUMENT SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE A

BERKELEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE

YES

NO

MEASURE B: To support quality public education, shall the
H Berkeley Unified School District be authorized to continue its
special tax for twelve years at a rate of 9.5<t/square foot on resi-
dential buildings and 14.25<C/square foot on commercial buildings, to
provide: smaller class sizes; school enrichment programs; supplementary books and edu-
cational materials; and school maintenance and security; and,

Shall the District’s constitutional spending limit be increased for four years in the amount
of the tax?

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

“BERKELEY PUBLIC SCHOOLS EDUCATIONAL EXCELLENCE ACT OF 1994”

1.	TITLE AND PURPOSE

The revenues raised by this Measure, the “Berkeley Public Schools Educational
Excellence Act of 1994,” are to be used to provide quality educational programs which
lead to improved student achievement in the Berkeley Public Schools. The Measure
reflects agreements of a community with diverse perspectives about programs to
enhance student achievement in the Berkeley Public Schools.

2.	ALLOCATION OF FUNDS

Funds raised by this special tax shall be deposited in restricted accounts, and the
available funds raised by this special tax shall be allocated as follows:

•	Smaller class sizes and program diversity ............60%

•	School Enrichment Programs ...........................20%

•	Books and Educational Materials ......................12%

•	School maintenance and security .....................  8%

3.	DEFINITION OF PURPOSES

A.	Smaller class sizes and program diversity

Sixty percent (60%) of the available revenues generated by this Measure shall be
dedicated annually for the Purpose of reducing class sizes in the elementary
schools, and reducing class sizes and allowing a wider diversity of course offerings
in grades seven through twelve than could be achieved solely through the use of
the District’s General Fund for this purpose.

i.	The goals for class sizes to be achieved by the use of these monies are an
average class size district-wide'of 25:1 for the elementary grades and of 27:1
for grades seven through twelve. Alternative methods to reduce class sizes may
be developed at a school site in a particular year by that particular school
community (staff and parents) and adopted as approved by the School Board.

ii.	The monies dedicated to this Purpose may be spent to cover all personnel,
operational and material costs attendant to class size reduction. This includes,
in addition to all attendant personnel expenses, those expenses associated
with maintaining or opening classrooms or schools needed to accommodate
the additional teachers hired to reduce class size. In no case, however, may
monies dedicated in this Measure for the Purpose of Maintaining Reduced
Class Sizes and Program Diversity be expended for any other purpose.

iii.	The monies dedicated to the Purpose of reducing class sizes and maintaining
program diversity shall be expended in accordance with a Plan as developed
annually by the Planning and Oversight Committee (as described in Paragraph
5A below) and adopted as approved by the School Board.