Bond Measure Special Election___

ELECTION DATE:	April	12. 1994

REGISTERED VOTERS:	22.987

RESULTS

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

SCHOOL

RINCON VALLEY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE B

B RINCON VALLEY UNION ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL OISTRICT ASSESSMENT FOR
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

Shall the Rincon Valley School District Impose quali-
fied special taxes in an amount not to exceed S39 00
per parcel to continue computer education, libraries,
existing class site, music and maintain educational
programs for children, said tax to remain in effect for
S years, and correspondingly increase its ap- £?£
propnations limit for the maximum time al-
lowed by law, beginning July 1, 1994, with YES i CD

certain senior citizen and other exemptions as -1-

set forth in the full text of the Measure?	NQ	g—i

PASSED?

YX N____

2/3 MAJORITY? X
MAJORITY?____

YES 4.786
NO 1.829

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE
PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

RINCON VALLEY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE B

B RINCON VALLEY UNION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DIS-
TRICT ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

Shall the Rincon Valley School District impose qualified spe-
cial taxes in an amount not to exceed $39.00 per parcel to
continue computer education, libraries, existing class size,
music and maintain educational programs for children, said
tax to remain in effect for 5 years, and correspondingly in-
crease its appropriations limit for the maximum time allowed
by law, beginning July 1, 1994, with certain senior citizen and
other exemptions as set forth in the full text of the Measure?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

State law requires voter approval before school districts can im-
pose special taxes. The Rincon Valley Union School District has
called an election on a measure to impose such a tax.

If the measure is approved by two-thirds of the District’s voters
who vote on it, the District could levy a special tax of $39 per
year per parcel for each parcel of land within the district’s bound-
aries. The tax would be based on the privilege of using the parcel,
and will remain in effect for five years beginning July 1, 1994.
Proceeds of the tax could only be used to maintain existing class
size and to continue the District’s basic academic and educational
programs, including computer education, library services, and
music.

The tax would not apply to (1) parcels owned or partially owned
by a person who will be over the age of 65 on or before May 1
of the year for which the tax is assessed and who uses the parcel
as his or her principal place of residence (for example, if a hus-
band and wife own a parcel, and one of them will be over 65,
the parcel will be exempt); (2) parcels exempt from property tax
because of low value; and (3) contiguous parcels used as one
economic unit under the same ownership: those parcels would be
taxed as one parcel. Persons claiming exemptions must apply to
the District by July 15, 1994, or, subsequently, the May 1 preced-
ing the fiscal year in which the exemption is first claimed.

The measure also provides that the spending limit of the District
would be increased by the amount of revenue generated by the
tax. Voter approval of the change in the spending limit permits
the District to keep and spend money raised by the new tax.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Rincon Valley Union School Dis-
trict who vote on this measure vote "yes," the measure will pass
and the special tax will be levied. The tax would be collected in
the same manner as regular property taxes starting with the 1994-
1995 fiscal year.

si James P. Botz
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

We have worked hard in Rincon Valley to bring excellence to o
schools. Five of our schools have received California Disti
guished School Awards, and two have received the National Dl
tinguished School Award given by the President of the Unite
States. This is a remarkable record for any school district.
Passage of Measure B is necessary for us to continue providir
our children the excellent programs and services they deserv
Reduced state funding over the past five years has caused i
structional program cuts. To maintain essential programs for st
dents, your help is needed.

Measure B will provide local funds and enable the district to:

*	continue the current operation of computer labs for grades ;
4, 5, and 6. Students are developing computer skills essenti;
to keep them competitive in tomorrow’s working world.

*	maintain current library services at each school.

*	prevent an increase in class size.

*	preserve our music and band programs.

Measure B is the best way to commit necessary local resource
directly to our neighborhood schools. All seven elementar
schools in the district (Binkley, Madrone, Matanzas, Spring Creek
Sequoia, Village and Whited) will benefit from your "Yes" vote o.
Measure B. None of the money will be used for administrativi
salaries. All of the funds from Measure B will go directly to class
room programs and instructional services benefiting students.

Property owners will be asked to pay $39 per year for five year:
($3.25 per month). Senior citizens, 65 years of age or older, art
eligible to apply for an exemption.

Please join us by voting "Yes" on Measure B. The cost is small
and the benefit to students is great. Further, quality schools enhance
the property values of our community. Help Rincon Valley maintair
its record of providing an excellent education for its students.

si Edwin 0. Zumwalt	si	Douglas L. Whited

Businessman	Retired Educator

si Susan K. Bisbee	s/ Kris Baird

PTA Parent	Community Volunteer

si Dennis Magatelii
Banker

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

RESOLUTION NO. 12-93-01
BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
RINCON VALLEY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SONOMA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of a )	RESOLUTION	AND	ORDER

Special Tax Election )	OF ELECTION

WHEREAS, the Rincon Valley Union School District is committed
to quality education for every student and high standards of ac-
ademic achievement and performance; and
WHEREAS, the Rincon Valley Union School District has two Na-
tionally Distinguished and five California Distinguished schools; and
WHEREAS, a high quality public education is vital to the
community’s well-being and fosters the growth of society’s great-
est natural resource - the minds of children; and
WHEREAS, the investment in children’s education is beneficial
to the economic well-being of our community and our country; and
WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has been unable to
provide adequate and necessary funding as required by law to
the continued operations of the Rincon Valley Union School Dis-
trict; and as a result of thjs lack of funding and financial support,

49-501

49501

' i i i	v.. %• v-'v/’v ' -		1		fti~ 'M W' ill liMBB  k •	. . . s. . ..	<,
.... <k $ w i . -	cm ...»r r. CM -1		H 1	WMm			♦ *

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE
PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

the Rincon Valley Union School District has eliminated many pro-
grams beneficial and necessary to the children who attend the
Rincon Valley Union School District; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitu-
tion and Government Code Sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079
and 53720 et seq. authorize school districts to levy a special tax
to raise funds for the purpose of conducting its business upon
the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon
such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitu-
tion allows the appropriations limit of school districts to be in-
creased by the electors. Such approval is required for the District
to use the revenues generated by the tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Governing Board of
the Rincon Valley Union School District shall conduct a special
election on April 12, 1994, at which time will be submitted to the
qualified voters of the Rincon Valley Union School District, a mea-
sure to authorize a special tax for the purpose of maintaining to
the greatest extent possible programs key to the full education of
the children of the Rincon Valley Union School District. In partic-
ular, to the extent funds are available from this special tax, they
will be used to continue computer education programs; to continue
adequate library services; to continue existing class size; to con-
tinue music and fund other educational programs necessary to
provide the District’s children with a quality education.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the
boundaries of the Rincon Valley Union School District at which
election shall be submitted to the qualified voters within the Rin-
con Valley Union School District the following measure, to wit:

MEASURE B

Shall the Rincon Valley Union School District provide funds for
the purpose of maintaining to the greatest extent possible, pro-
grams key to the full education of children in the Rincon Valley
Union School District, in particular, to the extent funds are avail-
able from this special tax, they will be used to continue computer
education programs; library services; to continue existing class
size; music programs and fund other educational programs nec-
essary to provide the District’s children with a quality education,
by establishing a special tax based upon the use or right of use
on each assessor’s parcel within the boundaries of the Rincon
Valley Union School District for a period of five (5) years begin-
ning July 1, 1994 and increasing its appropriations limit for the
maximum time allowed by law by the amount of revenue gener-
ated by that special tax?

The special tax will be in the amount of $39.00 per year for each
assessor’s parcel. The proceeds of the tax shall be deposited in
a special fund to be used for the purposes described above. Ex-
emptions from the assessment will be made available as follows:

a.	Exemptions for each individual in the District who will attain
65 years on or before May 1 of the assessment year and who
owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, or a divided or undi-
vided portion of such parcel, and who uses that parcel as his
or her principal place of residence.

b.	Exemptions for any property which the County of Sonoma has
determined to be exempt from property tax cue to low value.

c.	Exemptions for multiple parcels which are contiguous and are
part of one economic unit under the same name and owner-
ship. Such multiple parcels may be charged as one parcel.

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or
before July 15, 1994 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment
year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide
an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the assess-
ment so long as such applicant continues to qualify for the ex-
emption. The District shall establish an administrative review
process to grant such exemptions.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each indi-
vidual ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

RINCON VALLEY UNION ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
DISTRICT ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
Shall the Rincon Valley School District impose qualified
special taxes in an amount not to exceed $39.00 per parcel
to continue computer education, libraries, existing class
size, music and maintain educational programs for children,
said tax to remain in effect for 5 years, and correspondingly
increase its appropriations limit for the maximum time al-
lowed by law, beginning July 1, 1994, with certain senior
citizen and other exemptions as set forth in the full text of
the Measure?

____________ YES _______________NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1, 1994 the special tax collected
annually on all assessor’s parcels at the rate specified above,
shall be collected and administered in the same manner as ad
valorem property taxes are fixed and collected under provisions
of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Sonoma County is
hereby requested to call a special election of the' said special tax
to be held on April 12, 1994 and to consolidate this election with
any elections to be held on this same date. The Sonoma County
Board of Supervisors is hereby requested and authorized to con-
solidate this election with any elections to be held on this same
date. The County Clerk is hereby requested and authorized to: 1)
set forth all sample ballots relating to said election to be mailed
to the qualified electors of the Rincon Valley Union School Dis-
trict; and 2) to provide absent voter ballots for said special tax
election for use by qualified electors of the Rincon Valley Union
School District who are entitled thereto in the manner provided
by Law.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this
resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this res-
olution. The Governing Board declares that it would have
adopted this resolution and each section, subsection, phrase
or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, phrases or clauses shall be
declared invalid.

Section 6. The Secretary of the Rincon Valley Union School Dis-
trict Governing Board is hereby authorized and directed to certify
to the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy
hereof so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Sonoma
County, the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors, and to file a
copy hereof so certified with the County Clerk of Sonoma County.

The foregoing resolution was introduced by Board Member
Joseph Gaylord, who moved its adoption, seconded by Board
Member Nancy Hansen, and adopted on roll call on December 7,
1993 by the following vote:

Board Member	Robert McFarland	Aye

Board Member	Debbie Miramontes	Aye

Board Member	Ira Lowenthal	Aye

Board Member	Nancy Hansen	Aye

Board Member	Joseph Gaylord	Aye

AYES: 5 NOES: 0 ABSENT OR NOT VOTING: 0

SO ORDERED.

s/ Robert D. McFarland
President, Board of Trustees

CERTIFIED

s/ Debbie Miramontes
Clerk, Board of Trustees

49*502

49502