COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OP MEASURE ______

The California Constitution authorizes school districts to levy a
qualified special tax upon approval of two-thirds of the votes cast
by voters in an election.

The Vacaville Unified School District proposes to levy a qualified
special tax in an amount not to exceed $20 per year assessed
against each parcel of taxable land in the District. The tax would
be levied for a period of eight years. Exemptions from the tax
would be available for all parcels which would be otherwise exempt
from property taxes or which are owned and occupied by persons aged
65 and older.

A "yes" vote is a vote to authorize the levy of a qualified special
tax in ata;amount not to exceed $20 per year for eight years. The
funds raised by the tax would be used to purchase and install
computers and related technology in all schools and facilities of
the district. A "no" vote is a vote not to authorize the levy of
the tax.

Acting County Counsel

c:\x-vacavil\pcltax.any

Yes on Measure B

Help local school kids get access to the computer training they need to compete for the best jobs.

We’re Falling Behind

Computer literacy is vital for students who want to compete for good jobs, but
Vacaville school students don’t have adequate access to computers, software and
training. Please help us assure that local kids aren’t condemned to second-class
jobs because they can’t get adequate computer training.

Why We Need Both Measure A and Measure B

Measure A will help construct, remodel and retrofit classrooms and other school
buildings. Computer labs in elementary, middle and high schools will guarantee
that computer technology plays a vital part in school instruction and support
services.

Measure A is a General Obligation bond. By law it can not be used to buy
computers, instructional materials or other equipment.

Measure B is a parcel tax designed to bring computer instruction to

life and give local students the educational advantages enjoyed by so many other

California kids.

Measure B: A Crucial Priority For Vacaville School Kids

•	Computer access for local students and teachers

•	Computers and printers for local classrooms

•	Library/media telecommunication centers bringing worldwide information-resources to
Vacaville schools

•	New emergency communication capacity

•	Districtwide use of computers, laser discs, CD-ROMs and telecommunications in our
local instruction

Computers have opened a new world for teaching and learning. Students who have full access to
computers and telecommunication instruction develop critical thinking skills, maximize
achievement, open up broad horizons of information access and prepare themselves to compete
successfully for jobs.

Measure B assures Vacaville students that they won’t be left behind in the world of computer

Grace Powell
Retired School Educator

Parent/Callison Elementary School

Rebuttal to Yes on Measure B

Are voters prepared to pay a parcel tax in addition to the proposed property
tax increase of the Measure A bond, plus existing special assessments? Many
homeowners are already in danger of losing their homes because of high taxes.

Measure B must be clarified: School Board Resolution 16 states that an
exemption is available to a person over age 65 "who applies." However, die ballot
statement, including County Counsel's analysis, indicates persons over age 65 are
exempt, but nothing is mentioned that they will need to apply for that exemption.

We realize computers are an important tool in today's technology but we do
not buy the idea that children are condemned to a future of second class jobs
because of inadequate computer training. Computer training might help people
land an entry level job; but, without basic skills, they are not going to excel in their
chosen fields.

We urge a NO vote on Measure B. (Word, Count: 161)

Senior Advocate

Retired School Superintendent

Barbara MacArthur, District
Elementary Health Education
Advisory Committee Member

Donald F. Monroe, Vacaville Chapter
Solano Co. Taxpayers Association

REBUTTAL ON BEHALF OF MEASURE B

Measure B is critically needed to help local school kids get access to the
computer training they need to compete for the best jobs. Here are the
points that the opposition fails to tell you:

1.	We're falling behind in the ability to help local youngsters
gain computer literacy.

2.	Measure B will bring computer instruction to life and give
local students the educational advantages enjoyed by so many
other California kids:

Computer access for local students and teachers
Computers and printers for local classrooms
Library/media telecommunication centers bringing
worldwide information resources to Vacaville schools
New emergency communication capacity

Districtwide use of computers, laser discs, CD-ROMs and
telecommunications in our local instruction
Teacher to coordinate all computer training

3.	Every dollar will be spent only as authorized in the ballot
measure.

In addition, information in the opposition arguments is just plain
incorrect.

Money raised by Measure B cannot be "used for any purpose." There
are specific restrictions in State law and in the ballot measure
which are placed on funds raised by Measure B. Indeed, Measure B
is our one chance to pay for the computer education our youngsters
need for the right start in life.

Measure B assures Vacaville students that they won't be left behind in the
world of computer technology. And it does so in an efficient,
cost-conscious manner.

Measure B is the right thing to do and the right way to do it.

Say YES to our kids' future. Say YES to Measure B.

Grace Powell

Parent/President, Board of Education

Parent/Callison Elementary School

Parent/Vacaville High School

EXHIBIT A

ty.i v/VL

FORMAL NOTICE OF SCHOOL PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Vacaville
Unified School District of Solano County, California, that in
accordance with the provisions of the Education Code of the State
of California, an election will be held on March 7, 1995, at
which election the following proposition shall be submitted to
the qualified electors of the District and voted upon:

"To better educate and enhance employment opportunities for all
students by providing them with equal access to computer use,
shall the Vacaville Unified School District be authorized to
impose a special tax to purchase and install computers and
related technology in all schools and facilities throughout the
District, at the rate of $20 per year per parcel, excluding
property exempted by law and parcels owned and occupied by
persons G5 years or older and, in connection therewith, shall the
appropriations limit of the District be raised each year in an
amount equal to the levy of the tax for that year."

Bonds - Yea	Bonds	-	No

All of- the purposes enumerated in the foregoing proposition
shall be united and voted upon as one single proposition.

The County Superintendent of Schools of Solano County, by
I	this	Notice of Election, has called the election pursuant to a

Resolution of the Board of Trustees of the Vacaville Unified
School District, adopted November 3, 1994, in. accordance with the
provisions of Education Code SB 5322, 5361 and 15100.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this _____

day of November, 1994.

County Superintendent of Schools,
Solano County, California

3SB7D\D0D02\212'ilS.l

5