96345

RESOLUTION No.

OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF NEVADA

CONSOLIDATION OF ELECTIONS CALLED FOR NOVEMBER 5, 1996
WITH THE PRESIDENTIAL GENERAL ELECTION

WHEREAS, resolutions have been adopted by the governing bodies
of the Sierra Joint Community College District, the Nevada County Board of
Education, the nine elementary school districts, one high school district,
one unified school district, ten fire protection districts, fourteen other types
of special districts, the City of Grass Valley, and the Town of Truckee
calling governing board member elections on November 5,1996; and

WHEREAS, the Beyers Lane Community Service District adopted Res.
96-4 and Ordinance No. 96-2 calling a special election on November 5, 1996
on a special tax for the purpose of funding road improvements and
maintenance programs, and increasing the spending limitation under
Article XIIIB of the Constitution of the State of California in the amount of
$40,000, and requesting that the Board of Supervisors consolidate the
special election with the November 5,1996 general election; and

WHEREAS, the Nevada County Consolidated Fire District adopted
Res. 96-16 and Ordinance 96-2 calling a special election on November 5,
1996 on an assessment to finance fire suppression services, and
requesting that the Board of Supervisors consolidate the special election
with the November 6,1996 general election; and

WHEREAS, the Western Gateway Recreation & Park District adopted
Res. 96-3 calling a special election on November 5, 1996 on the question of
the increase of a special tax already established as a source of funds for
the operation and maintenance of the recreation and park facilities, and
requesting that the Board of Supervisors consolidate the special election
with the November 5,1996 general election; and

WHEREAS, the City of Nevada City adopted Res. 96-24 calling a
special election on November 5, 1996 on an initiative measure regarding
regulation of architecture and landscaping of owner-occupied residences
outside of the Historical District, and requesting that the Board of

Supervisors consolidate the special election with the November 5, 1996
general election; and

WHEREAS, the City of Grass Valley adopted Res. 96-64 calling a
special election on November 5, 1996 on City Charter amendments on the
subject of fire department organization, and requesting that the Board of
Supervisors consolidate the special election with the November 5, 1996
general election.

WHEREAS, Elections Code Sections 10400, 10402, and 10403 provide
that the county board of supervisors may order the consolidation of any
election called for the submission of a question, proposition, or office.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Supervisors of
the County of Nevada, State of California, that all governing board elections
called by the jurisdictions cited above and the special elections called by
the Beyers Lane Community Services District, Nevada County Consolidated
Fire District, Western Gateway Recreation and Park District, the City of
Nevada City, and the City of Grass Valley shall be consolidated with the
November 5, 1996 general election, that the County Clerk shall conduct
these elections in all respects, and that the County Clerk shall bill these
jurisdictions for the cost of conducting their elections.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Nevada at a regular
meeting of said Board, held on the 6th day of ___________________August__________»	1996 .

by the following vote of said Board:

ATTEST;

CATHY R. THOMPSON

Ayes: Supervisors Christine Foster, Karen Knecht,
Fran Grattan, Rene Antonson, Sam Dardick.

Noes:	None.

Absent:	None.

Abstain:	None.

DATE	COPIES SE|IT TO
8-7-96	County Clerk (jt>
	CLCSD
	NCCFD
	WGRPD
	City of Nevada City
	City of Grass Valley
	
	