ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SCOTTS VALLEY REPEALING TITLE

3,	CHAPTER 3.35 OF THE SCOTTS VALLEY MUNICIPAL CODE ENTITLED

UTILITY USER’S TAX AND ADDING A NEW TITLE 3, CHAPTER 3.35

ENTITLED ELECTRICITY, GAS AND TELEPHONE USERS TAX

WHEREAS, by a two-thirds vote of the entire Scotts Valley City Council on June
19, 1996, in Resolution No. 1568.2, a proposal to impose a tax on gas, electrical and
telephone users was to be placed on the ballot for the November 5, 1996, general
election; and

WHEREAS, a majority of the qualified Scotts Valley voters voting in the
November 5, 1996, election voted in favor of the proposed utility user taxes.

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SCOTTS VALLEY DOES ORDAIN
AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Title 3, Chapter 3.35 of the Scotts Valley Municipal Code, entitled
"Utility User’s Tax" is hereby repealed.

SECTION 2. Title 3, Chapter 3.35 of the Scotts Valley Municipal Code is hereby
added to read as follows:

"Chapter 3.35
Electricity. Gas, and Telephone Users Tax

Sections:

3.35.010	Purpose.

3.35.020	Definitions.

3.35.030	California Public Utilities

Commission jurisdiction.

3.35.040	Exemptions: Gas and Electric	User	Tax.

3.35.050	Electricity users tax.

3.35.060	Gas users tax.

3.35.070	Telephone users tax.

3.35.080	Submetered electrical energy and/or	gas.

3.35.090	Collection and remittance.

3.35.100	Authority of director.

3.35.110	Recordkeeping requirements.

3.35.120	Delinquent remittance --

Service supplier or master meter user.
3.35.130	Delinquent tax - Service user.

3.35.140	Assessment by director.

SCOTTS\ORDINANCE\CHAPTER.3.35\6.20.96kc

1

3.35.150

3.35.160

3.35.170

3.35.180

3.35.190

3.35.200

Payment.

Bankruptcies and refusals.
Appeal procedures.

Action by City.

Refunds.

Compliance required.

3.35.010 Purpose. The taxes imposed and levied by the provisions of this chapter are
solely for the purpose of providing revenue for the usual current expenses of the City.
The provisions of this chapter are not enacted for regulatory purposes.

3.35.020 Definitions. Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions
contained in this section shall govern the construction of this chapter:

A.	"City" means the City of Scotts Valley.

B.	"Day" means calendar day.

C.	"Director" means the director of finance.

D.	"Electrical corporation" shall have the same meanings as set forth in sections
216 and 218 of the California Public Utilities Code, as those sections may
be amended from time to time.

E.	"Gas corporation" shall have the same meanings as set forth in sections 216
and 222 of the California Public Utilities Code, as those sections may be
amended from time to time.

F.	"Month" means calendar month.

G.	"Remit" means to deliver in person or to deposit in the mail.

H.	"Service supplier" means a person who does any of the following:

1.	Sells electrical energy to a service user in the City;

2.	Sells gas which is delivered through mains or pipes to a service user
in the City;

3.	Sells intrastate telephone communication services as defined in section

3.35.070	to a service user in the City;

4.	Transports and delivers electrical energy or gas through mains or
pipes to a service user in the City and who charges the service user
for such transportation and delivery.

SCOTTS\0RDINANCE\CHAPTER.3.35\6.20.96kc

2

I.	"Service user" means a person who does any of the following:

1.	Uses electrical energy provided by a service supplier in the City; or

2.	Uses in the City, gas, which is delivered by a service supplier through
mains or pipes; or

3.	Uses telephone communication services as defined in section 3.35.070
in the City.

J.	"Telephone corporation" shall have the same meanings as set forth in
Sections 216 and 234 of the California Public Utilities Code, as those
sections may be amended from time to time.

3.35.030 California Public Utilities Commission jurisdiction. Nothing contained in this
chapter is intended to conflict with applicable rules, regulations or tariffs of any service
supplier subject to the jurisdiction of the California Public Utilities Commission. In the
event of any conflict, the provisions of said rules, regulations or tariffs shall control.

3.35.040 Exemptions: Gas and Electric Users Tax.

A.	Exempted Users. This chapter regarding gas and electric users taxes shall
not apply where the director determines that a service user is one of the
following:

1.	The City;

2.	Any person when imposition of a tax imposed by this chapter upon
that person would be in violation of the Constitution of the United
States or that of the state of California;

3.	The state, any county, municipal corporation, city and county, district
or any political subdivision of the state of California;

4.	The United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof; or

5.	Any person otherwise exempted by this chapter from payment of a
tax imposed by this chapter; or

6.	Service users qualified for and participating in the local electrical and
gas corporation "Low Income Rate Assistance" program (LIRA).

B.	Filing Application. Except those persons determined to be exempt pursuant
to the rules and regulations adopted by the director, no exemption shall be
granted by the director unless an application in writing, stating under penalty
of perjury the specific grounds for the exemption, is filed with the director.
The application shall be submitted on forms furnished by the director.

3

C.	Proof Required. No exemption shall be granted by the director unless the
applicant establishes to the satisfaction of the director a right thereto by
written records demonstrating entitlement.

D.	Determination by the Director. Within a reasonable time following receipt
of a properly completed application, the director shall notify the applicant
in writing of the director’s determination on exemption. In the event of
approval, director shall also give written notice to the applicant’s service
supplier.

E.	Action by Service Supplier(s). If the director grants an exemption to a
service user, the service supplier(s) shall discontinue collecting taxes imposed
by this chapter from the service user within sixty (60) days of receipt of the
director’s written notice.

F.	Refund. In the event a service user who has paid the tax is granted an
exemption, that service user may apply for a refund of the tax paid under
section 3.34.190.

G.	Finality. Any decision of the director made under this section shall be final.

3.35.050 Electricity user tax.

A.	Imposition of Tax. Every service user using electrical energy in the City,
other than an electrical, gas corporation, or person operating a cogeneration
facility to the extent of the percentage of sales made to persons that are
exempt from paying the tax imposed by this chapter, shall pay a tax at the
rate of five (5) percent of the charges billed for such energy, including
charges for service, transportation and delivery. The service user shall pay
the tax to the service supplier or master meter user at the same time as and
along with payment of the charges billed for the energy.

B.	Duly of Seller. If the person selling electrical energy, also transports and
delivers such energy to the service user, then that person shall collect from
the service user five (5) percent of the charges billed for the energy and
shall remit the tax to the director.

C.	Dufy of Deliverer. The person transporting and delivering the electrical
energy, if different from file person selling such energy, shall collect from
the service user five (5) percent of the charges billed for such transportation
and delivery and shall remit the tax to the director.

D.	Procedure. The procedure for collection and remittance of the tax is set
forth in section 3.35.090.

4

3.35.060	Gas users tax.

A.	Imposition of Tax. Every service user in the City using gas which is
delivered through mains or pipes, other than an electrical corporation, gas
corporation, or person operating a cogenerating facility to the extent of the
percentage of sales made to the persons that are exempt from paying the
tax imposed by this chapter, shall pay a tax at the rate of five (5) percent
of the charges billed for such gas, including charges for service,
transportation and delivery. The service user shall pay the tax to the service
supplier or master meter user at the same time as and along with payment
of the charges billed for the gas.

B.	Duty of Seller. If the person selling gas also transports and delivers such
gas to the service user, that person shall collect from the service user five
(5) percent of the charges billed for the gas by that service supplier and
shall remit the tax to the director.

C.	Duty of Deliverer. The person transporting and delivering the gas, if
different from the person selling such gas, shall collect from the service user
five (5) percent of the charges billed for transportation and delivery and
shall remit the tax to the director.

D.	Procedure. The procedure for collection and remittance of the tax is set
forth in section 3.35.090.

3.35.070	Telephone users tax.

A.	Imposition of Tax. Except for a telephone corporation, there is hereby
imposed a tax upon every service user in the City using international,
interstate and/or intrastate telephone communication services in the City,
including cellular telephone communication services and other telephone
communication services that gain access to the public switched network
(PSN) by means of various technologies. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate of five (5) percent of the charges made to a service user
for such services by a service supplier and shall be paid by the service user
to the service supplier at the same time as and along with payment of the
charges billed for the services.

B.	Coin-operated Telephone and Mobile Services. As used in this section, the
term "charges" shall not include charges for services paid for by inserting
coins in coin-operated telephones, except that where coin-operated services
are furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such
guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be included
in the base for computing the amount of tax due; nor shall the term
"charges" include charges for any type of service or equipment furnished by
a service supplier subject to public utility regulation during any period in
which the same or similar services or equipment are also available for sale

SCOTTS\ORDINANCE\CHAFTER.3.35\6.20.96kc

5

or lease from persons other than a service supplier subject to public utility
regulation; nor shall the words "telephone communication services" include
land mobile services or maritime mobile services, which do not gain access
to the public switched network (PSN). The term "telephone communication
services" refers to that service which provides access to a telephone system
and the privilege of telephonic-quality communication with substantially all
persons having telephone stations which are part of such telephone system.
The term "telephone communication services" also refers to that service
which provides access to a telephone system for data and/or video to the
extent permitted by law. The telephone users tax is intended to, and does,
apply to all charges billed to a telephone account having situs in the City,
irrespective of whether a particular communication service originates and/or
terminates within the City. The situs shall be the service address, if known;
otherwise, the billing address.

C.	Federal Exemptions. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this
section, a tax shall not be imposed upon any person for using intrastate
telephone communication services to the extent that the amounts paid for
such services are exempt form or not subject to the tax imposed under
section 4251 of Title 26 of the United States Code, or as that section may
be amended from time to time.

D.	Duty of Seller. The person selling the telephone communication services
shall collect the tax from the service user and shall remit the tax to the
director.

E.	Procedure. The procedure for collection and remittance of the tax is set
forth in section 3.35.090.

3.35.080	Submetered electrical energy and/or gas.

Whenever a master meter service user submeters electrical energy and/or gas to
residents or tenants of an apartment house, mobilehome park or other residential multi-
family accommodation, or to non-residential premises, the following provisions shall
apply:

A.	The master meter shall collect the tax from the submetered tenants or
customers at the same time as and along with the charges imposed in
accordance with the regular billing practice of the master meter user.

B.	The master meter user shall pay to the service supplier five (5) percent of
the charges billed by the services supplier to the master meter user.

C.	The master meter user shall remit to the director the full amount of taxes
collected from submetered tenants or customers in excess of the amount of
taxes paid to the service supplier. Such remittance shall be made for each
calendar year in which there is an excess and shall be remitted on or before

SCOTTS\ORDINAHCE\CHAPTER.3.35\6.20.96kc

6

January 31 of the following year. Concurrently with each remittance of
taxes, the master meter user shall file a report with the director on a form
furnished by the director. The report shall include information required by
the director.

3.35.090 Collection and remittance.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this chapter shall be performed
as follows:

A.	Collection by Service Supplier. Except as provided in subsection E of this
section, the service supplier shall collect the tax from the service user at the
same time as and along with the charges made in accordance with the
regular billing practice of the service supplier. In the event that the amount
paid by a service user is less than the fall amount of the charges and the
tax which have accrued for any billing period, a proportionate share of both
the charges and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid unless:

1.	The amount paid is equal to the full amount of the charges due; or

2.	The service user has notified the service supplier of the service user’s
refusal to pay all or any portion of the tax due. (See section
3.35.130).

B.	First Regular Billing Period. Except as provided in subsection C of this
section, the duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user
shall commence with the first regular billing period applicable to that service
user on or after July 1, 1997.

C.	Annexations. Whenever it annexes property, the City shall provide notice
to service suppliers of the addresses of service users within file boundaries
of the newly annexed area. The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax
from a service user within the newly annexed area shall commence no later
than the third regular billing period applicable to that service user after the
service supplier receives the notice provided for in this subsection C.
However, the time to commence collection may be extended by the director
upon a prior written request therefor and good cause appearing.

D.	Remittance by Service Supplier. The service supplier shall remit to the
director either the amount of taxes collected or the amount of taxes billed
each month, including delinquent taxes collected or billed at the same time
as and along with collection of delinquent service charges, on or before the
twenty-fifth (25th) day of the following month. Concurrently with each
remittance of taxes, the service supplier shall file a return with the director
on forms furnished by the director. The information to be provided with
the return shall include such information as the director may reasonably

SCOTTS\ORDINAHCE\CHAPTER.3.35\6.20.96ko

7

require in rules and regulations adopted by the director to ensure proper
administration of this chapter.

E.	Timely Remittance. K remittance is made by personal delivery, then
remittance is timely if delivered on or before the due date provided in this
section. Whenever remittance is by mail or other delivery service, the
director shall consider the remittance as timely if:

1.	The envelope containing the remittance bears a postmark or receipt
showing that the remittance was mailed or sent on or before the due
dates provided in this section; or

2.	Proof satisfactory to the director is furnished that the remittance was
in fact sent or deposited in the mail on or before such due dates.

3.35.100 Authority of director.

The director is authorized to establish rules and regulations consistent with the
provisions of this chapter, concerning payment, collection and remittance of the taxes
imposed herein. Such rules and regulations shall be on file and available for public
examination in the office of the director.

3.35.110 Recordkeeping requirement.

A.	Every service supplier required to collect and remit to the director any tax
imposed by this chapter and every master meter user required under section

3.35.080	to remit taxes collected from service users in excess of those taxes
paid to service providers shall keep and preserve, for a period of three (3)
years from the due date of remittance, all records as may be necessary to
determine the amount of any tax such service supplier, service user or
master meter user may have collected or been required to remit.

B.	All such records shall be made available for inspection, audit or copying by
the City’s authorized representatives at any time during regular business
hours upon written request by such representatives.

3.35.120 Delinquent remittance - Service supplier or master meter user.

A.	Delinquent Remittance. Taxes billed or required to be collected from a
service user by a service supplier or excess taxes collected by a master meter
user which are not remitted to the director on or before the due dates
provided in sections 3.35.080 or 3.35.090 are delinquent.

B.	Penalties and Interest. Penalties and interest for the delinquent remittance
of any tax shall be assessed as follows:

SCOTTS\ORDINANCE\CHAPTER. 3.35\6.20.96kc

8

1.	Any service supplier or master meter user who fails to remit any tax
imposed by or required to be collected pursuant to this chapter within
the time required shall pay a penalty of ten (10) percent of the
amount of the tax.

2.	If the director determines that nonpayment of any remittance is due
to intentional misrepresentation or intentional material omission by
the service supplier or master meter user, a penalty of twenty-five
(25) percent of the amount of the delinquent tax shall be added
thereto in addition to the penalty imposed by subsection B.l of this
section.

3.	In addition to the penalties imposed by subsections B.l and B.2, any
service supplier or master meter user who fails to remit any tax
imposed by this chapter on or before the due date shall pay interest
at an annual rate established to be one (1) percent on the total
amount of the delinquent tax and penalties beginning from the date
on which the tax first became delinquent until paid.

4.	In the event penalties and interest are assessed pursuant to this
section, the director shall give notice of assessment and the service
supplier or master meter user shall have the right to a hearing
pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs B. and C. of section 3.35.140.

5.	All penalties and interest imposed upon a service supplier under this
subsection shall be paid and remitted.

C.	Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, in the event a payment
was postmarked or received no more than one day after the due date, the
taxpayer may apply for relief from the penalty by seeking a hearing pursuant
to section 3.35.140.

D.	The director of finance, after a hearing pursuant to subsection B. above,
shall find the taxpayer excused from the penally if the taxpayer has a record
of timely payments for the five (5) years prior to this date of the delinquent
payment. All payments due plus applicable interest (see 3.35.120 B.3.) must
still be remitted.

3.35.130 Delinquent tax — Service user.

A.	Delinquent	tax. Any tax imposed on a service user by this chapter which

is not paid	to a service supplier, master meter user or the director on or

before the due dates provided in this chapter is delinquent.

B.	Delinquent	Service Charges. Whenever a service user has not timely paid

the service	charges and the tax billed by the service supplier or master

9

meter user, the service supplier or master meter user shall pursue collection
of the delinquent tax in the same manner as and along with pursuit of the
delinquent service charges. The service supplier or master meter user shall
impose, and the service user shall pay, interest on such tax at the same rate
of interest as charged by the service supplier or master meter user on the
delinquent service charges. The interest imposed on such tax shall become
a part of the tax required to be paid by the service user and remitted to
the director by the service supplier or master meter user. When collected,
the service supplier or master meter user shall remit the delinquent tax and
all accrued interest thereon to the director in the same manner as provided
in sections 3.35.090.C. and 3.35.090.D.

C.	Refusal to Pay Tax. Whenever the director determines that a service user
has paid for the service but has not paid or refuses to pay to a service
supplier or master meter user any tax imposed by this chapter, the following
provisions shall apply:

1.	Collection by Director. The director shall relieve the service supplier
or master meter user of the duty to collect the delinquent tax from
such service user for those billing periods for which the tax was not
paid.

2.	Demand for Payment. The director shall notify the service user in
writing that the director has assumed responsibility to collect the
delinquent tax for the stated periods, and shall demand payment of
such tax from the service user.

3.	Penalties and Interest.

a.	If the service user fails to remit the delinquent tax to the
director within fifteen (15) days from the date of mailing of
such notice, the service user shall pay a penalty of ten (10)
percent of the amount of the tax set forth in the notice or Ten
Dollars ($10.00), whichever amount is greater.

b.	In addition to the penalty imposed by this subsection, any
service user who fails to remit the delinquent tax and penalty
to the director within the time specified shall pay interest on
the amount of the tax and penalty at an annual rate
established in the schedule of fees adopted by resolution of
the City Council beginning from the date the tax first became
due and payable until paid.

c.	All penalties and interest imposed upon a service user under
this subsection shall become a part of the tax required to be
paid and remitted.

SCOTTS\ORDINAHCE\CHAPTER. 3.35\6.20.96kc

10

D.	Failure to Pay Tax to Director. Penalties and interest for the delinquent
remittance of any tax required to be paid to the director by a service user
shall be assessed as follows:

1.	Any service user who fails to remit a tax imposed by section 3.35.050,

3.35.060	or section 3.35.070 within the time required by section
3.35.090.D., shall pay a penalty of ten (10) percent of the amount of
the tax or Ten Dollars ($10.00), whichever amount is greater.

2.	If the director determines that nonpayment of any tax is due to either
intentional misrepresentation or intentional material omission, a
penalty of twenty-five (25) percent of the amount of the tax shall be
added thereto in addition to the penalty imposed in subsection D.l.
of this section.

3.	In addition to the penalties imposed in this subsection, any service
user who fails to remit a tax shall pay interest on the amount of the
tax and penalties at an annual rate established by the City Council
beginning from the date on which the tax first became delinquent
until paid.

4.	All penalties and interest imposed upon a service user under this
subsection shall become a part of the tax required to be paid and
remitted.

3.35.140 Assessment bv director.

A.	Assessment. If any service supplier, master meter user or service user
required under section 3.35.090 to pay a tax to the director, fails to timely
remit any tax imposed by this chapter, the director shall obtain the necessary
facts and information on which to base a reasonable estimate of the tax due.
Upon obtaining such facts and information, the director shall determine and
assess against the service supplier, master meter user or service user the tax,
interest and penalties imposed by this chapter.

B.	Notice of Assessment. The director shall give written notice of the amount
assessed under subsection A. of this section to the service supplier, master
meter user or service user. The service supplier, master meter user or
service user may, within fifteen (15) days after the date of mailing of such
notice, make application in writing to the director for a hearing on the
amount assessed.

C.	Hearing. If an application for hearing is made, the director shall give not
less than five (5) days written notice to the service supplier, master meter
user or service user to show cause at a time and place specified in said
notice why the assessed amount should not be fixed for such tax, interest
and penalties. At the hearing, the service supplier, master meter user or

11

service user may appear and offer evidence why the assessed amount should
not be so fixed. K application by the service supplier, service user or master
meter user for a hearing is not made within the time prescribed in this
subsection, the tax, interest and penalties assessed by the director shall
become final and conclusive and immediately due and payable.

D.	Notice of Determination. After the hearing, the director shall determine
the tax, interest, and penalties, if any, to be remitted, and shall thereafter
give written notice to the service supplier, master meter user or service user
of such determination. The amount determined to be due shall be payable
fifteen (15) days after the date of mailing of such notice unless an appeal
is taken as provided in section 3.35.170.

3.35.150 Payment.

Payment of delinquent taxes by service suppliers, master meter users and service
users shall be applied by the director to the oldest outstanding obligation of the service
supplier or service user.

3.35.160 Bankruptcies and refusals.

A.	Service suppliers or master meter users who seek to collect charges for
service in bankruptcy proceedings shall also include in any such claim the amount of
taxes due City for those services, unless the director determines that such duty is in
conflict with any federal or state law, rule, or regulation or that such action would be
administratively impractical.

B.	All service suppliers and master meter users not required to collect taxes
in connection with pursuit of claims for service charges in bankruptcy proceedings
pursuant to subsection A above, shall notify the director in writing within forty-five (45)
days after receipt of notice that a service user has initiated bankruptcy proceedings.

C.	All service suppliers or master meter users who do not seek to collect
charges for service in bankruptcy proceedings shall notify the director in writing within
forty-five (45) days after receipt of notice that a service user has initiated bankruptcy
proceedings.

D.	All service suppliers or master meter users who receive notice of a service
user’s refusal to pay shall notify the director in writing within forty-five (45) days after
receipt of such notice.

E.	All persons who have notified the director of a refusal or bankruptcy
proceeding under subsections B, C and D above shall be relieved of the duty to collect
and remit any tax owed by the service user.

F.	All remittances of tax collected pursuant to this section shall be remitted
to the director on or before the twenty-fifth (25th) day of the month following collection.

SCOTTS\ORDINANCE\CHAPTER.3.35\6.20.96kc

12

3.35.170 Appeal Procedure.

A.	Any person aggrieved by any decision of the director pursuant to sections
3.35.120, 3.35.130 or 3.35.140 may appeal to the City council by filing a notice of appeal
with the City Clerk and the director within fifteen (15) days of mailing of the decision.
The council shall fix a time and place for hearing the appeal, and the City Clerk shall
give written notice thereof to such person.

B.	The City council shall hear and determine all questions raised on the appeal
and may affirm, reverse or modify the decision of the director. The decision of the
council shall be final and any amount found to be owing by the council shall be
immediately due and payable. The City Clerk shall mail written notice of the council’s
decision to the person who brought the appeal.

3.35.180 Action bv Citv.

A.	Debt Owed by Service User. Any tax required to be paid by a service
user under this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City.

B.	Debt Owed by Service Supplier or Master Meter User.

1.	Any tax required to be collected under this chapter by a service
supplier which is not billed to the service user shall be deemed a debt owed to the City
by the service supplier.

2.	Any tax collected from a service user by a service supplier which
has not been remitted to the director shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the
service supplier.

3.	Any excess tax collected by a master meter user and not remitted
to the director when due shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the master meter
user.

C.	Action. Any person owing money to the City under this chapter shall be
liable to the City for the recovery of such amount, together with reasonable attorney’s
fees, in any action brought in the name of the City.

D.	Remedy not exclusive. The remedy provided in this section is not exclusive
but is in addition to all other legal remedies the City may have, whether civil or criminal.

SCOTTS\ORDINANCE\CHAPTER. 3.35\6.20.96kc

13

3.35.190 Reftinds.

A.	Filing claim.

1.	Any tax imposed by this chapter, including any interest or penalty
added thereto, may be refunded by the director as provided in subsections B and C of
this section whenever such tax has been:

a.	overpaid;

b.	paid more than once; or

c.	erroneously collected or received by the City, including any
instance where a service supplier, pursuant to an order by
the California Public Utilities Commission or a court of
competent jurisdiction, refunds to its service users taxes paid
on refunded charges.

2.	No refund shall be paid by the director unless a claim in writing,
stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded,
is filed with the director within three (3) years of the date of payment of such tax. The
claim shall be submitted on forms furnished by the director. The director may require
such additional information or documentation to support a claim for refund or credit as
set forth in the rules and regulations adopted by the director.

B.	Refund or Credit to Service Supplier. A service supplier may obtain a
refund of or take as a credit against taxes remitted any amount overpaid, paid more
than once, or erroneously collected or received by the City. Neither a refund nor a
credit shall be allowed unless the tax has either been refunded to the service user or
credited to charges subsequently payable by the service user to the service supplier.

C.	Refund to Service User. A service user may obtain a refund of any tax,
interest, or penalty when:

1.	The service user was required to remit directly to the director a tax
imposed by section 3.35.050, 3.35.060, or 3.35.070 and the service user establishes to the
satisfaction of the director that the amount was overpaid, paid more than once, or
erroneously collected; or

2.	The service user establishes that the amount was overpaid, paid more
than once, or erroneously collected and has paid the tax to the service supplier but is
unable to obtain a refund or credit from the service supplier who collected the tax.

D.	Finality. Any decision of the director made under this section shall be

final.

SCOTTS\ORDINANCE\CHAPTER. 3.35\6.20.96kc

14

3.35.200 Compliance required. No person shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter or any regulation or rule passed in accordance herewith, or knowingly or
intentionally misrepresent to any officer or employee of this City any material fact or in
any record or report required to be kept or made."

SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall take effect July 1, 1997.
Prior to the expiration of fifteen (15) days from the date of adoption, this ordinance shall
be posted in at least three public places in the City of Scotts Valley.

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase
or portion of this ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court
of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision of such ordinance and shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions thereof.

SECTION 5. REPEALS CONFLICTING ORDINANCES. All other ordinances of
the City of Scotts Valley which are in conflict with this ordinance are hereby repealed
to the extent of such conflict.

This ordinance was introduced on the__________day	of______________________

1996, and passed and adopted on the ________day	of__________________ ,	1996,	at	a

duly held meeting of the City Council of the City of Scotts Valley by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

Attest:________________________

Judi Coffman, City Clerk

JOE MILLER, MAYOR

SCOTTS\ORDINANCE\CHAFTER. 3.35\6.20.96fcc

15