to vole for these local public services.

Let’s keep our streets lit. Let’s continue to maintain the City parks for our children anti

grandchildren. And let’s maintain our property values and preserve our quality of life. Let’s Vote Yes.

Nonna Jellison, Mayor

Sundar Shadi, Citizen

Arthur E Schroeder, Citizen

Gina M. Brusatori, Task Force Member

W.M, Commcrford, Task Force Member

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

NOVEMBER 5, 1996

None filed.

cr EL CERRITO
FIRE SUPPRESSION BENEFIT ASSESSMENT
MEASURE II

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5,1996

"Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors."

MEASURE H

Shall Ordinance No. 964 be approved, confirming the levy of an annual City-wide fire
suppression assessment, as authorized by Stale law, in the yearly amount of $125.00
for a. single family residence, anti proportionate amounts for other property uses, to
provide dedicated and stable funding for the provision of fire hazard abatement and
fire-fighting services in the City of El Cerrito?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE 1!

BY THE EL CERRITO CITY ATTORNEY

State law authorizes cities which provide fire services to levy an assessment to pay all, or
a portion, of those services. Through Measure H, the City seeks confirmation of Ordinance No. 96-8,

establishing a city-wide fire assessment. The assessment proceeds will be dedicated exclusively for
fire suppression services.

The recommendation that El Cerrito establish a fire assessment was made by a citizen task
force. The City council charged the task force to evaluate City sendees and finances and issue
recommendations regarding the appropriate level of City services and the best method to finance these
services.

The task force concluded that present levels of fire protection must be maintained to protect

public health and safety. Reductions in the level of service could significantly jeopardize life and
property.

According to Ordinance No. 96-8, the task force concluded that a dedicated source of
funding is required to assure adequate fire suppression sendees. The task force rejected exclusive
reliance on the general fund to finance fire services because of general fund instability caused by such
factors as past State actions which reduced local property tax to balance the Stale budget, and the loss
of sales tax caused by the Emporium store closing Through a dedicated funding source, fire services
could be made financially secure, even if future events threaten the general fund. The assessment
raises $ 1.26 million yearly, approximately 50% of the Fire Department budget.

Ordinance No. 96-8 adds Chapter 4.48 to the Municipal Code Section 4.48.010 states that
the ordinance is authorized by State law. Section 4.48.020 dedicates the assessment proceeds
exclusively for fire suppression services.

Sections 4.48,030 and 4.48.040 set out the manner of calculating the assessment, based on
the determination of benefit units for each type of property usage. Single family residences are
assigned one benefit unit. Benefit units for other uses arc based on usage, size, improvements and
response factors

Section 4.48.050 establishesa$l25.00 yearly assessment lor single family residences. The
assessments for other property uses are proportionate, based on the calculation of benefit units. The
assessment rate is automatically adjusted yearly based on the CPI I lowcver, the assessment amount
may not be increased above the $125 base without compliance with State law. including provisions
which may require a popular vote.

Section 4.48 060 provides a 50 percent rebate for properties with fire sprinkler systems
'cct t 4.48.070 incorporates Slate law exemptions for lower income seniors, blind ot disabled
,,t'A a. Section 4 48 080 authorizes the collection of the fire assessment with the property tax. for
th 1m al year, the City will bill the assessment

Adoption of Ordinance No, 96-8 will constitute approval of the fue assessment in
compliance with the voter requirements of Proposition 218, the Right To Vote On faxes Act, should
it be enacted This will ensure continued reliance on a dedicated and secure source of funds for fire-

suppression services

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance No. 96-8. If you desire a ropy of the
ordinance, please call the election official's office at 215-4300 and a copy will be mailed at no cost
to you.

Dated:	August	5,	1996	Howard	Stem.	City	Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE II
NOVEMBERS, 1996

Currently, 85% of El Cerrito’s city budget is spent on police and fire Services Property
ami sales taxes are the major funding sources for police and fire services. But, in recent, years, the Slate
has taken over $3 Million from City tax revenues, forcing cuts in these services. Next year, the City
expects to lose another half a million dollars. Meanwhile, Cincinnati-based Federated Stores closed

5

our Emporium, at a loss of $250,000 in annual sales taxes to our City.. Without a stable funding
source, our public safety services remain vulnerable.

A citizens task force recently completed a study of City finances and services. The
members examined every City department ami concluded that the City had cut services, including
essential police and fire services, to the bare minimum, they recommended a Fire Assessment as the
best way to provide permanent, stable funding and protect our fire services from further State rip offs.

At roughly $10 per month, this Assessment will provide dedicated and permanent tundmg
for our fire department. The citizens task force also recommended that (he Assessment provide express

exemptions and reductions for seniors and low-income residents.

The citizens task force further recommended restoration of services that the City previously
cut in response to past State rip offs. These services include restoring police patrols, library hours.

street maintenance, youth after-school programs, and senior services. But, we cannot restore anything

unless we have a secure, dedicated source of revenue tor our fire department. In fact, failure to pass
this Assessment will mean further service cuts.

El Cerrito needs a dedicated and stable funding source for fire services. A Yes vote on this

Measure secures our fire services for (he long term Support our firefighters. Vote Yes.

Norma Jcllisort, Mayor
Sundar Shadi, Citizen

Arthur E. Schroeder, Citizen

Gina M. Brusatori. Task Force Member

William.!.. Commerford. Task Force Member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H
NOVEMBER 5,1996

The city’s 1995-19% budget is $12.3 Million, The combined Police and Fire budget is $7.2
million; that is 59% of the budget, not 85% as the proponents claim. In addition, during the 95-96
fiscal year, the city had sufficient, excess funds to add about $250,000 to the city's reserve, bringing
the total to $1.0 Million. This city is not in dire financial circumstances.

6

The proponents omit the fact that the citizen's task force recommended only S75 for measure II;
even that amount would have added extra staff The Council over-rode the recommendation of the
citizens and imposed the $125 amount.

Perhaps the Council needs the extra funds so they can continue to make loans of $3OO.O0O/ycar
to the Redevelopment Agency which already owes the general ftmd over $1.0 Million. II the city used
its general fund wisely, the additional sen ices the proponents desire would be affordable without any
tax increase.

The city has stable funding for police and fire; it is the general fund, already supported by your
taxes. Attempts to shift funding for tire services to this special assessment is just a scheme to increase
taxes; no additional funds would go to the fire department. Measure H would amount to $1.3 Million
just in the first year; with the automatic inflation clause it could explode in later years.

This Sax increase is excessive and irresponsible. It does not deserve your support?

Vote No!

EL CERRITO CITIZENS” ALLIANCE

Beverley Gent

Steven B. Magyar)
Robert W. Schnelker

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H
NOVEMBER 5, 1996

Make No Mistake! Measure II is a Huge l ax Increase!

11 is 3 Times the amount required to replace the loss of the property transfer tax; 1.6 Times the amount
the Council 's own task force recommended.

It continues the Shell Game, started with the landscape and lighting Assessment, whereby special
assessments make general fund money available for the Council’s pet projects, such as
redevelopment subsidies.

This tax is Tragically Flawed:

1.	ft has an Automatic Inflation Increment. Given the history of inflation in the 70’s,
this lax could Balloon to $500 or more per year, with No Upper limit

2.	It has No Sunset Clause (our children’s children will still be paying it.)

Measure H, regardless of its title, will Not Increase Funding for the Fire Department. The primary

beneficiaries would be the Council, who would be at liberty to spend the excess monies freed
from the general fund

The Issue is Also Otic of Trust:

While the city pleads poverty, its Redevelopment Agency

1, Squandered at Least S4 Million of your tax dollars on Target.

7

2.	Costs the city $0.4 Million annually in property taxes lost to the general fund.

3.	Has cost a total of $4 Million in property taxes lost since the inception of the Agency.

M these amounts were available to Uje general fund. Measure H would be completely
unnecessary!

Don’t Believe the Stare Tactics. There is sufficient money to fund the fire department From the
general fund. Some slight increase in taxes might be justified by the loss of the property transfer
tax. but Measure H is unbelievably out of proportion to the $440,000 shortfal I. Vote No to send
Measure ! I back to the Council. They should come back with a reasonable proposal.

Vote No!

Beverley {lent
Steven B. Magyar)
Robert W. Schnelker

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H
NOVEMBER 5,1996

DON’T BE FOOLED!

THIS ELECTION IS ABOUT THE LEVEL OF SERVICES WE WANT FOR EL CERRITO!
Since Prop 13, we went from .3 fire stations to 2,

Our engine companies have only 3 firefighters, THE BARE MINIMUM.

Once 39 Strong, our police now number 34.

Most shifts have only 3 officers on patrol. An injury accident, felony or drunk driver arrest take 2 of

the 3 off she street,

85% of the City ’s budget goes to fund police and fire services We've cut city staff by 20% and
reduced service levels in ail departments during the last four years.

State grabs of City revenues continue unabated...$3 5 million since 1992.

Your friends and neighbors from throughout 131 Cerrito-ALL VOLUNTEERS, NOT APPOINTED and
WITH DIFFERENT POINTS OF VIEW met 11 times this spring, studied the City's services and
revenues, and UNANIMOUSLY SAY:

NO MORE CUTS IN SERVICES!

STABILIZE FUNDING; SECURE IT FROM STATE RIP OFFS!

THIS FIRE BENEFIT ASSESSMENT GUARANTEES HALF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT’S
BUDGET.

THEY SAY NO SUNSET AS LONG AS WE HAVE A FIRE DEPARTMENT.

ANNUAL ADJUSTMENTS ENSURE STABILITY AND CAN GO UP fM DOWN,
Only with adjustments can we maintain service levels.

8

WHAT IF THE MEASURE FAILS'

ITS SIMPLE-PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES WILL BE CUT,

THIS IS NOT A SCARE TACTIC. MOST OTHER CITY SERVICES ARE FULLY SUPPORTED
BY USER FEES.

PUBLIC SAFET Y HAS NO FUNDING SOURCE BUT US.

SUPPORT YOUB FIREFIGHTERS.....VOTE YES ON MEASURE H!

Norma Jellison, Mayor

William i. Commerfard, Businessman & Task Force Member
GinaM. Brusalori, Task Force Member
Sundar Shadi, Citizen
Arthur E. Schtoeder, Citizen

j

9