County of

Sample Ballot

& Voter’s Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5,1996

Compiled by Fresno County Clerk

:

!

i

f-
; ;

i

Last day to register to vote in this election:
OCTOBER 7, 1996

If you moved on or before the above date, you are eligible to vote in
your new precinct. If you moved after this date, you are eligible to
vote in your old or new precinct. For details and locations, call the
County Clerk/Elections Office at 488-3246.

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER
POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

For Voting Information Call 488-3246

10FC 1OFC

10FC

00	OFFICIAL BALLOT  CONSOLIDATED GENERAL ELECTION  November 5,19S6 Fresno County		
91Q VOTER APPROVAL FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENT TAXES. ^ 10 LIMITATIONS ON FEES, ASSESSMENTS, AND CHARGES. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Requires a majority of voters to approve increases in general taxes. Requires property-related assessments, fees, charges be submitted to property owners for approval. Fiscal Impact: Short-term local government revenue losses of more than $100 million annually. Long-term local government revenue losses of potentially hundreds of millions of dollars annually. Comparable reductions in spending for local public services.		YES	CO  eo
		NO	1841
			

CITY

CITY OF ORANGE COVE UTILITY USERS’ TAX
________________MEASURE	H_______________

U Should the City of Orange Cove have a Utility Users’ Tax? If adopted, H the rate of this tax shall be seven percent of the charge to the customer	YES	2041
of utility service and shall apply to each of the following utilities; intrastate telephone services (other than that of a telephone corporation using such	NO	2051
act vicca/j ciccuiuii cucigj' aci yilcs^ utuui ai gits uciIVtlCU llliuugll IlldlilSi Ul  pipes (other than such services to a gas corporation or electrical corporation).		
10806—183 thru 185		

10806

CITY OF ORANGE COVE UTILITY USERS’ TAX MEASURE H

(Full Text of Measure)

Should the City of Orange Cove have a Utility Users’ Tax? If adopted, the rate of this tax shall be seven
percent of the charge to the customer of utility service and shall apply to each of the following utilities;
intrastate telephone services (other than that of a telephone corporation using such services); electrical
energy services; natural gas delivered through mains of pipes (other than such services to a gas corporation
or electrical corporation).

CITY OF ORANGE COVE UTILITY USERS’ TAX MEASURE H

(Impartial Analysis by City Attorney)

In 198§, the Orange Cove City Council adopted a utility users’ tax. A process similar to the one used by the
City Council to adopt that tax was recently found by a court to be unconstitutional in a case brought against
another public agency elsewhere in California. Since that court decision was announced, several cities,
other than Orange Cove, have been sued over tax measures which they had adopted using this process.
These suits have argued that any such tax measure should have gone to a vote of the public after the vote
of the City Council. The Orange Cove City Council has placed this tax measure before you, the voters, so
that, if a majority of you approve this measure, the City can continue to receive these monies without having
to pay for expensive and time consuming litigation.

This ballot measure, if adopted, would re-enact this same tax, at the same rate which the utility customers
in Orange Cove have been paying since the Council adopted this tax over six years ago. The rate of this tax
will be seven percent of the charge to the customer for utility service and will apply to each of the following
services: telephone calls made within California; electrical energy services; natural gas delivered through
mains or pipes (rather than by tank or bottle). The tax would be collected by the utility company as a part
of a customer’s bill. The tax money would then be forwarded from the utility to the City of Orange Cove.

If this measure passes, the rate of the tax could not be increased above seven percent and the types of
utilities to which it applied could not be increased without a further vote of the people. However, the City
Council would be empowered to adopt and modify the rules regarding the collection of this money by the
utility companies involved, their payment of these monies to the City of Orange Cove and other, similar,
procedural matters.

For each of the years in which this tax has been collected, the City Council has deposited the money collected
from the tax in the City’s general fund and has appropriated money from the general fund in a similar amount
to pay the Fresno County Sheriff‘s office for providing police services in the City of Orange Cove. There
has not in any of these years been any legally binding requirement that these funds be used forthis purpose.
If this measure passes, there would be no additional legal requirements imposed on the City Council and
these funds would be spent as a majority of the City Council decided was in the best interests of the residents
of the City of Orange Cove.

s/ Thomas J. Keene

NO ARGUMENT WAS FILED FOR OR AGAINST THIS MEASURE

10-33

10-33