FOR VOTER’S INFORMATION I' " ~ „-;-77—-------

AND CAMPAIGN INFORMATION http://marm.org/elections/index.html

O

SPECIAL SCHOOL ELECTION

TUESDAY, JUNE '4,1996

SAMPLE BALLOT

and Voter’s Pamphlet

tv-V1

N----------------- 21-FC

.iiiiiMnimn

Voting Instructions

STEP 1. Remove ballot card from
envelope. Using both hands, insert
the ballot card all the way into the
Vote Recorder.

STEP 2. Be sure the two holes in the
top stub of your card fit down over
the two red pins.

STEP 3. TO VOTE, hold the punch
device straight up. Punch down
through the card for the candidates
or measure responses of your
choice. Do not use pen or pencil.

STEP 4. Turn printed pages to con-
tinue voting. Vote all pages.

STEP 5. After voting, withdraw the ballot card. Inspect it to be
sure all holes are cleanly and completely punched out.

STEP 6. Place ballot card back into envelope and return it to the
Precinct Board Member. There is a place for write-in votes on the
ballot envelope.

Note: If you make a mistake, return your ballot card and envelope
and obtain another.

PUNCH OUT BALLOT CARD ONLY WITH
PUNCHING DEVICE ATTACHED TO VOTE RECORDER-
NEVER WITH PEN OR PENCIL

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

To vote for a candidate whose name appears on the ballot; punch the ballot card
in the hole at the point of the arrow opposite the candidate’s name. Where two or
more candidates for the same office are to be elected, punch the ballot card in the
hole at the point of the arrow opposite the names of all candidates for the office for
whom you desire to vote, not to exceed, however, the number of candidates to be',
elected.	.

To vote for a qualified write-in candidate, write the name of the office and the per-
son’s name in the blank spaces provided for that purpose on the Write-In Ballot
Envelope.

To vote on any measure, punch the ballot card in the hole at the point of the arrow,
opposite the word “YES” or opposite the word “NO."

All distinguishing marks or erasures are forbidden and make the ballot void.

If you wrongly punch, tear or deface the ballot card, or tear or deface the Write-
In Ballot Envelope, return the ballot to the Precinct Board Member and obtain
another.

GO TO NEXT PAGE

VW1-E

OFFICIAL BALLOT — COUNTY OF MARIN
SPECIAL SCHOOL ELECTION
JUNE 4, 1996

SCHOOL		
KENTFIELD SCHOOL DISTRICT		
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES MEASURE B		
r> Shall the Kentlield School District provide funds to continue specific educational D programs and services by levying a special assessment for a period of 7 years, beginning July 1, 1996, at the rate of $295 per assessor's parcel, which in tax year 1996-1997 would supplement the presently authorized assessment of $167 per asses- sor's parcel by $128, and each year increase the prior year's rate by 5% during the assessment period, with an exemption for any beneficial owner of a parcel who has attained the age of 65 on or before July 1 of any assessment year and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence, and continue senior exemptions granted during the term of the current special assessment?		
	YES	8 4
	NO	9 4

END OF BALLOT

21-101-01.

■ J:±4

The following pages contain
CANDIDATES'STATEMENTS
together with
BALLOT MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

Marin County needs conscientious persons, dedicated to protecting the
electoral process, to work on precinct boards.

You don't need previous experience, but you must be a registered voter.
If you are interested, please call the Election Department at 499-6744 or
499-6456.

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE
PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

This pamphlet may not contain a complete list of candidates.
A complete list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot. Each
candidate's statement in this pamphlet is volunteered by the
candidate and is printed at the expense of the candidate unless
otherwise determined by the governing body. Candidate statements
range in cost from $115.00 to $1,308.00 depending on the size of the
jurisdiction.

ELECTION DAY WORKERS NEEDED

Election Day Hours-6:30 A.M.-9:00 P.M.

Pay - $75.00 Inspector

$65.00 Judge
$55.00 Clerk

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

SCHOOL

KENTFIELD SCHOOL DISTRICT

SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ASSESSMENT
FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
MEASURE B

B Shall the Kentfield School District provide iunds to continue specific educational
programs and services by levying a special assessment for a period of 7 years,
beginning July 1, t996, at the rate of $295 per assessor's parcel, which in tax year
1996-1997 would supplement the presently authorized assessment of $167 per assessor’s
parcel by $128, and each year increase the prior year’s rate by 5% during the assessment
period, with an exemption for any beneficial owner of a parcel who has attained the age
of 65 on or before July 1 of any assessment year and who uses that parcel as his or
her principal place of residence, and continue senior exemptions granted during the term
of the current special assessment?

FULL TEXT OF RESOLUTION NO. 8, 1995-1996
MEASURE B

RESOLUTION NO. 8, 1995-1996
BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
KENTFIELD SCHOOL DISTRICT
MARIN COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of a	}	RESOLUTION AND ORDER

Special Tax Election	)	OF ELECTION

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide adequate funding for
the continued operations of the schools (Anthony Bacich Elementary School and Adaline
E. Kent Middle School) of the Kentfield School District; and as a result of this lack of
funding and financial support for the schools, the Kentfield School District is in danger
of eliminating many study programs beneficial and necessary to the children who attend
the schools of the District; and once eliminated these programs of study will be extremely
difficult to reinstitute; and
WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to generate funds for the
educational program, including lobbying in the State Legislature and many local fund
raising efforts, and has undertaken cost-cutting measures, including employee layoffs,
reduction of programs and services beneficial ana necessary to the students of the Kentfield
School District; and

WHEREAS, continued reliance solely on State funding will result in further loss of
critical programs; and
WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program delivers many long
lasting benefits and advantages to all of the residents of our community; and
WHEREAS, 78% of the voters of the District previously authorized a similar special
assessment of $16? per parcel which special assessment expires on June 30,1997; and
WHEREAS, without a renewed authorization by the voters for a special assessment,
substantial reduction or elimination of educational programs and services will be necessary
and will have a severe impact on the children of the District; and ‘

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government
Code sections 50075,50076,50077,50079, and 53720,53721,53722 and 53724 authorize
school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the purpose of conducting its

business upon the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon such a
special tax proposal;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the governing board of the Kentfield School
District resolves to conduct a special election on June 4,1996, at which will be submitted
to the qualified voters of the Kentfield School District a measure to authorize a special
tax for the purpose of continuing vital educational programs critical to the educational
process in the schools of the Kentfield School District; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1: Said election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries of the Kentfield
, School District to submit to the qualified voters within the Kentfield School District the
following measure, to wit:

MEASURE "B"

Shall the Kentfield School District provide funds to continue the specific educational
programs and services described below by levying a special assessment for a period of
7 years, beginning July 1, 1996, at the rate of $295.00 per assessor's parcel which in
tax year 1996-1997 would supplement the presently authorized assessment of $167 per
assessor’s parcel by $128.00, and each year increase the prior year’s rate by 5% during
the assessment period with an exemption tor any beneficial owner of a parcel who has
attained the age of 65 on or before July 1 of any assessment year and who uses that
parcel as his or her principal place of residence, and continue senior exemptions granted
during the term of the current special assessment?

The following educational programs and services shall be supported by the special
tax:

Class Size: Class size ratios will be maintained at current levels and, when possible,
will be reduced.

Computer Education: Implementation of the 5 year Technology Use Plan to enhance
the instruction in ail areas of the curriculum.

English: Additional instruction of English Literature, grammar and writing skills in grades
6, 7, and 8 and special resource staff to teach specific groups in grades 1 through 5.
Mathematics: Curriculum offerings in pre-algebra and algebra for grades 7 and 8 and
special resource staff to teach specific groups in grades 1 through 5.

Foreign Language: Basic instruction in Spanish in grades K-8.

Library Sciences: Library staff (Librarian at Kent Middle School and Library Specialist
at Bacich School) to support the study of literature at all grade levels.

Increase Classroom Time: Continuation of additional academic time and study time
above state minimum requirements.

Special Student Needs: Special resources and staffing for students with special re-
quirements.

Science: Instructional programs for all grade levels with a full three-year program at
Kent Middle School.

Textbooks/Library Books: Textbooks, library books and instructional materials for ali
students.

Staff Development: Provide for a staff development program to meet the ongoing needs
for curriculum, development and implementation.

Fine Arts: Continue current art, music and drama programs.

The parcel tax will be imposed in the amount of $295 (two hundred and ninety five
dollars per year) for each assessor’s parcel. An exemption from the assessment will be
made available to each individual in tne District who will attain 65 years prior to July 1
of the assessment year, and who owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, and who uses
that parcel as his or her principal place of residence, and who applies to the District on
or before July 1,1996, or July 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any one application
from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term
of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her
principal residence.

Measure B - Continued Next Page

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B, Continued

, Senior exemptions granted during the term of the current special assessment will be
continued.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual ballot shall be
abbreviated and shall read as follows:

KENTFIELD SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL PARCEL TAX
ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES .

Shall the Kentfield School District provide funds to continue specific educational programs
and services by levying a special assessment for a period of 7 years, beginning July
1,1996, at the rate of $295 per assessor’s parcel, which in tax year 1996-1997 would
supplement the presently authorized assessment of $167 per assessor’s parcel by
$128, and each year increase the prior year’s rate by 5% during the assessment period,
with an exemption for any beneficial owner of a parcel who has attained the age of
65 on or before July 1 of any assessment year and who uses that parcel as his of
her principal place of residence, and continue senior exemptions granted during the
term of the current special assessment?

YES_________	NO_______:

Section 3. Commencing on July 1, 1996, the special tax collected annually on all
assessor’s parcels at the rate specified above, shall be collected and administered in the
same manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of
the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Marin County is hereby requested to call
a special election of the said special tax to be held on June 4, 1996. The County Clerk
is hereby requested and authorized to: 1) set forth on all sample ballots relating to said
election to be mailed to the qualified electors of the Kentfield School District said measure;
and 2) to provide absent voter ballots for said special tax election for use by. qualified
electors of the Kentfield School District who are entitled thereto in the manner provided
by Law. ,

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this resolution is for any
reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion of this resolution. The. governing board declares that it would have adopted this
resolution and each section, subsection, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases or clauses shall be declared
invalid.

Section 6. The Clerk of the Kentfield School District governing board is hereby authorized
and directed to certify to the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof
so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Marin County and to file a copy hereof
so certified with the County Clerk of Marin County.

The foregoing resolution was moved by board member Katie Horn, seconded by Anna
Pilloton, and adopted on roll call on January 30, 1996 by the following vote:

Board Member: Brett Dick
Board Member: Randy Fong
Board Member: Robert Goldman
Board Member: Katie Horn
Board Member: Anna Pilloton

AYES: 5	NOES: 0	ABSENT: 0 ABSTAIN: 0.

. WHEREUPON, the President declared the foregoing resolution duly adopted and SO
ORDERED.

Date: January 30, 1996	s/	Brett R. Dick

President, Governing Board
Kentfield School District

The Clerk of the Kentfield School District Governing Board certifies to the adoption of
this Resolution.

Date: January 30, 1996	s/	Randall C. Fong

Clerk, Governing Board
Kentfield School District

State of California )

County of Marin	)	,

I hereby certify the foregoing is a true and correct transcript of a resolution duly adopted
and affirmed by a formal vote of the members of the Governing Board of KENTFIELD
SCHOOL DISTRICT, at a duly constituted meeting of the. Board which was open to the
public, held at its usual meeting place on January 30, 1996, as it appears upon the
minutes of said meeting of the Governing Board.

Date: January 30,1996	.	si	Robert	B.	Caine

' Superintendent and
Secretary to Board of Trustees

Measure B • Continued Next Page

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B

If this measure is approved by a 2/3 vote, the Kentfield School District will be authorized
to levy a special tax assessment annually for a period of 7 years, beginning July 1,1996,
of $295.00 per.Marin County Assessor’s Parcel. The assessment would, in the year 1996-
1997, supplement the presently authorized assessment of $167.00 per Assessor's Parcel
by $128.00 and each year increase the prior year’s rate by 5% during the assessment
period. The proceeds of the assessment may be used only for the purposes set forth in
the measure. The District’s appropriations limit will be increased, in the amount of the
proceeds of the assessment.

Exemptions will be available for individuals who have obtained the age of 65 as set
forth in the measure.

Dated: March 13, 1996.

THOMAS G. HENDRICKS
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Top-ranked public schools produce and sustain higher property values. Families choose
to live in Kentfield and Greenbrae for quality schools. Our schools are a valuable community
asset, making this a desirable place to raise children.

Bacich Elementary and Kent Middle are well-managed, award-winning schools. In the
most recent statewide test, our students scored in the top 1 - 2% in math and language
arts, statewide and in Marin.

For a decade, excellence has been achieved through rigorous cost-control, voluntary parent
and community contributions, and the voter-approved parcel tax. Without the parcel tax
the district would be more dependent upon state support, which has declined 11% in the
last four years. California now ranks 40th among states in expenditures per student, and
50th, dead last, in class size, library staff, counselors and principals.

The difference between dead last and excellence is the crucial 10% of our budget provided
by Measure B. In 1991, 78% of voters authorized a supplemental tax of $167 per parcel
to fund textbooks, school libraries, math, science and humanities programs, and maintain
current class sizes.

That amount is no longer adequate, and without an increase our basic programs are at risk.

"Measure B" updates the parcel tax into the next century, reducing our vulnerability to
inadequate state support. This seven-year tax authorizes $295 per parcel for 1996-1997
with 5% annual adjustments to support projected enrollment growth, inflation and rising
basic costs. No new programs are funded. In comparison, an adjacent district currently
levies a $450 parcel tax.

Property owners 65 and older are exempted from this tax on their primary residence by
applying to the Kentfield School District.

Our children need our support. Measure B is an investment in their futures and insures
superior property values for our community.

si Brett R. Dick, President
Board of Trustees
si Judith O'Connell Allen, Former Trustee
Kentfield School District
si Ken. MacDonald, Community Member
si Paula Daly Skov, Community. Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED



End of Measure B-

SAVE TIME!

• Mark your choices in this Sample Ballot
and take it to your polling place for
reference.

Your polling place location is shown
on the back cover.

•If possible, vote in the mid-morning
or mid-afternoon hodrs. This will help
shorten lines during the evening rush.

Polls are open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.

X4

NOTICE

PERMANENT ABSENT VOTER'S
INFORMATION

Election Code Section 3201 provides that (a) AnV voter who has
any of the following impairments or conditions may apply for per-
manent absent voter status.

,1) Has lost one or more limbs or the use of one or more limbs.

A2) Has lost both hands or the use of both hands.

(3)	Is unable to move about without the aid of an assistant device (e.g.,
canes, crutches, walker, wheelchair).

(4)	Is suffering from lung disease, blindness, or cardiovascular disease.

(5)	Has a significant limitation in the use of the lower extremities.

(6)	Is suffering from a diagnosed disease or disorder that substantially

impairs or interferes with his or her mobility.

(b) The following voters may also apply for permanent
absent voter status:

NOTICE TO THE HANDICAPPED VOTER:

If your polling place is indicated inaccessible for voting,
and neither absentee voting nor "curbside voting" is
acceptable to you, call 499-6985 to make special
arrangements.

ASSISTANCE TO THE VISUALLY, HEARING, OR SPEECH IMPAIRED

The Secretary of State's Office has a TDD (Telecom-
munications Device for the Deaf) to provide election in-
formation: 1-800-833-8683 (1-800-TDD-VOTE). For the
Visually Impaired, audio tapes of State Ballot Measures
are available from the Elections Department.

NOTICE ON ELECTIONEERING

(ELECTION Code Section 18370}

(1)	A spouse who resides with, and is the primary caregiver
to, a voter described in subdivision (a).

(2)	A nonspousal primary caregiver to a voter described in subdivision
(a) who resides with the voter, As used in this subdivision, "nonspousal
primary caregiver" means a blood relative or family member related by
marriage who has primary responsibility for the care of the voter.

If, at any primary or general election, the PERMANENT ABSENT
VOTER neglects to vote at that election, the voter's name will be
deleted and will be required to reapply for PERMANENT
ABSENT VOTER STATUS.

If you qualify for PERMANENT ABSENT VOTER STATUS, indicate by
completing PERMANENT ABSENTEE SECTION on the absentee
ballot application.

If you are already a PERMANENT ABSENT VOTER, DO NOT
request a ballot - one will be sent to you automatically.

18370. Electioneering near polling place.

No person on election day, shall, within 100 feet of a polling
place.

(a)	Circulate an initiative, referendum, recall, or nomination peti-
tion or any other petition.

(b)	Solicit a vote or speak to a voter on the subject of marking
his ballot.

(c)	Place a sign relating to voters’ qualifications or speak to a
voter on the subject of his qualifications except as provided in
Section 14240.

(d)	Do any electioneering.

As used in this section "100 feet of a polling place" shall mean
a distance 100 feet from the room or rooms in which voters are
signing the roster and casting ballots.

Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor.

'ROM:

21-AV

FIRST

CUSS

POSTAGE

PLACE STAMP HERE

DID YOU SIGN YOUR APPLICATION?

MARIN COUNTY CLERK/REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
P O BOX E

SAN RAFAEL CA 94913-3904

llilniliilliliniilliilliiitlililn

iinliilllitiiliililiill