REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

We all support democracy and the idea of making government officials accountable to the voters.

But the current system of electing the County Treasurer has had exactly the opposite effect.

Other than writing your property tax check payable to the Treasurer, do you know much about this
office?

As an informed voter, do you know what the incumbent Treasurer’s qualifications are to manage
the investment of billions of your tax dollars? Do you know what his investment strategy has been
for these funds?

Anyone who is a registered voter in the County of San Diego can run for this office .... and there
is no financial experience required! In the event an unqualified Treasurer is elected, we can only
cross our fingers and hope we don’t end up like bankrupt Orange County.

Currently the Treasurer has a four year term. Poor investment decisions can not be corrected until
the term is over, or unless an expensive, time consuming recall campaign is held. That may take
too long to correct a serious problem. With an appointed treasurer, problems can be corrected
immediately.

Your YES vote for Proposition A guarantees the County’s Treasurer will be a financial professional.

Vote YES on Proposition A to ensure professionalism and accountability in the County Treasurer’s
Office.

RON ROBERTS
Chairman

County Board of Supervisors

MARY HERRON
Director

League of California Cities

EDWARD B. MEYER
Brig. General

U.S. Marine Corps (Retired)

Former Foreman

San Diego County Grand Jury

STEPHEN P. CUSHMAN
Chairman

Greater San Diego Chamber of Commerce

N SD 053-018

COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 112 - CAMPO
Proposition M

■ ■ Shall the San Diego County Board of Supervisors have
mHIIW luj the authority to levy special benefit taxes in County Ser-
1 ‘	vice	Area	112	-	Campo,	which	shall	not	exceed	the

amount stated below for each classification of land?

Parcel, Class of Improvement
to Property, Use of_Property

Residential

Commeicial, Industrial,
Institutional, Recreational

Maximum Special
Benefit Tax

$50 per dwelling plus
$5 per acre not to exceed
$50 for the acreage charge

$50 per building plus
$5 per acre not to exceed
$50 for the acreage charge

Irrigated Farm Land	$50	per building plus

$10 per acre not to exceed
$100 for the acreage charge

Unimproved Acreage	$5	per acre not to exceed

$50 per parcel

For the purpose of the fire protection tax, all single family residences,
mobile home units, apartment dwelling units, and trailers shall be consid-
ered equal and shall not be subject to separate calculation

There will also be an annual adjustment based on the increase in the con-
sumer price index for the San Diego area as determined by the U S.
Department of Labor

The attached ordinance indicates this method.

IF PROPOSITION M AND PROPOSITION N ARE BOTH APPROVED BY THE VOTERS,
ONLY PROPOSITION M WILL TAKE EFFECT.

ORDINANCE NO. 8619 (NEW SERIES)

AN ORDINANCE DETERMINING AND PROPOSING FOR
ADOPTION AN ANNUAL SPECIAL BENEFIT TAX FOR STRUCTURAL
FIRE PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES WITHIN
THE BOUNDARIES OF COUNTY SERVICE AREA 112 - CAMPO

The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Diego do ordain as follows:

Section 1. The Board does hereby determine and proposed for adoption an annual special
benefit tax for structural fire protection and emergency medical services within the boundaries of
County Service Area 112 - Campo of San Diego County, pursuant to Government Code Section
53978, to be levied on a parcel, class of improvement to property, and use of property basis, in
amounts not to exceed the following schedule:

Parcel, Class of Improvement
to Property, Use of Property

Maximum Special
Benefit Tax

RESIDENTIAL

COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL,
INSTITUTIONAL, RECREATIONAL

$50 per dwelling plus
$5 per acre not to exceed
$50 for the acreage charge

$50 per building plus
$5 per acre not to exceed
$50 for the acreage charge

PR-9930-1

N SD 053-019

IRRIGATED FARM LAND

$50 per building plus
$10 per acre not to exceed
$100 for the acreage charge

UNIMPROVED ACREAGE	$5 pei acre not to exceed

$50 per parcel

For the purpose of the fire protection tax, all single family residences, mobile home units,

apartment dwelling units, and trailers shall be considered equal and shall not be subject to

sepaiate calculation.

There will also be an annual adjustment based on the increase in the consumer price index

for the San Diego area as determined by the U.S. Department of Labor.

Section 2. Such charges shall be charged to any parcel, improvement, and use of property to
which fire protection and emergency medical services may be made available, whether or not such
fire protection and emergency medical services are actually used upon such parcel, improvement,
or use of property, except such tax shall not be imposed upon a federal or state governmental
agency or another local agency.

Section 3. Such charges shall be imposed for the purposes of obtaining, furnishing, operating
and maintaining fire protection and emergency medical equipment and apparatus.

Section 4. In fiscal year 1996-97 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Board of Supervisors may
direct the maximum special benefit tax as stated in Section 1 to be increased by a percentage
equal to the percentage increase of the adjusted consumer price index measured between
January 1 of the immediately preceding fiscal year and the preceding January 1 as determined for
the San Diego area by the U.S. Department of Labor. Increases greater than the increase of the
adjusted consumer price index shall not be made unless they are authorized by a two-thirds vote
of voters casting ballots in the year for which such increases are proposed.

Section 5. Pursuant to Government Code Section 53978, the special benefit taxes proposed
by this ordinance shall be submitted to the voters within the boundaries of County Service
Area 112 - Campo. The ballot proposition shall be worded as provided in the resolution of the
Board of Supervisors calling the election within the County Service Area.

Section 6. This ordinance shall become operative as an ordinance of County Service
Area 112 - Campo on July 1, 1996, if the special benefit taxes proposed by this ordinance are
approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the question of the adoption of the special benefit
taxes.

Section 7. If the proposition is approved, the Board of Supervisors shall establish schedules
varying each of such special benefit taxes according to the value of the benefits to each parcel,
improvement, and use of property, and according to the availability of fire suppression equipment,
apparatus, and personnel to the affected parcel, improvement and use of property. However, the
special benefit taxes shall not exceed the maximum charges set forth in Section 1 hereof.

Section 8. If any portion of this ordinance be declared unconstitutional, invalid or otherwise
unenforceable, the other provisions of this ordinance shall remain in full force and effect.

Section 9. Pursuant to Government Code Section 25123, this ordinance is effective
immediately as an ordinance relating to an election.

Section 10. Before the expiration of fifteen (15) days after its passage, this ordinance shall be
published once with the names of the members voting for and against the same, in SD Daily
Transcript, a newspaper of general circulation published in the County of San Diego.

N SD 053-020

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

You are asked to vote on an ordinance applicable within County Service Area 112-Campo
authorizing the imposition of a special benefit tax on real property in the maximum amount per land
use classification set forth in the ordinance. The revenue raised by the tax may be used only to pay
for the acquisition, furnishing, maintenance and operation of fire protection and emergency
medical equipment and apparatus. The maximum amount of the tax may be increased in
accordance with the consumer price index. The tax shall be authorized if the proposition is
approved by two-thirds of those voting on the measure.

Campo Volunteer Firefighters dedicate over 20.000 hours a year manning the Fire Station, training
and protecting the lives and property of the residents of Campo They willingly serve without pay,
helping anyone needing assistance; many times placing themselves in the path of danger in the
process of helping Now they need our help.

The present budget of $16,000 a year is simply not adequate to operate the Fire Department. It is
not adequate to outfit the firefighters with protective clothing. It is not adequate to replace the
antiquated, worn out safety equipment. It is not adequate to replace the fire engine

The Department is making a determined effort to continue to upgrade service and make it possible
for property owners to obtain lower fire insurance rates that will more than offset the cost of this
proposition. But in order to make this happen, the Department must first correct the inadequacies
caused by an inadequate budget. The funds the Department will receive as a result of this
proposition will be used to bring the Department’s equipment up to standard.

This is a win-win situation for us and our dedicated volunteer firefighters. Support our firefighters
as they support us Please vote YES on Proposition M.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION M

BUDDY LEE CAFIROLL
Fleet Manager
City of San Diego

ROXIE V. LEWIS

ROBERT W. APPLEGATE
Retired Fire Chief

MARILEE J. APPLEGATE

MICHAEL A. NEFF

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION M

No argument against the proposition was filed in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-9930-3

N SD 053-021