ORDINANCE NO. 491

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
MORENO VALLEY, CALIFORNIA, ENACTING A BUSINESS
LICENSE TAX AND REPEALING AND REENACTING CHAPTER
5.02 OF THE CITY OF MORENO VALLEY MUNICIPAL CODE,
RELATING TO SUCH TAX.

The City Council of the City of Moreno Valley, California does ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. REPEAL OF PRIOR ENACTMENT:

1.1	Ordinance No. 408 of the City Council is hereby repealed, effective upon the
effective date of this Ordinance.

1.2	Chapter 5.02 of the City of Moreno Valley Municipal Code is hereby repealed, the
repeal to be effective only upon the effective date of the reenactment of said Chapter 5.02 as set
forth in Section 4 of this Ordinance.

SECTION 2. REENACTMENT OF CHAPTER 5.02:

2.1 Chapter 5.02 of the City of Moreno Valley Municipal Code is hereby reenacted in
its entirety to read as follows:

Chapter 5.02
BUSINESS LICENSES

Sections:

5.02.005	Title

5.02.010	Definitions

5.02.020	Licenses Required

5.02.03 0	Schedule of License Fees Generally

5.02.035	Exemption from Payment of Fee

5.02.040	Evidence of Doing Business

5.02.050	Fixing of Business License Fees and	Tax

5.02.060 New Business License Fee and Tax; When Payable

5.02.070	Two or More Allied Businesses

5.02.080	Combined Businesses

5.02.085 Separate Computation of License Fee and Tax; Branch Establishments
5.02.090 Single Location; Multiple Businesses; Separate Owners
5.02.095	Business Classifiable Under Different Categories

5.02.100	Concessions; Separate License Required

5.02.110	Association with Local Business

5.02.120

5.02.130

5.02.140

5.02.145

5.02.150

5.02.160

5.02.170

5.02.180

5.02.190

5.02.200

5.02.210

5.02.220

5.02.230

5.02.240

5.02.250

5.02.260

5.02.270

5.02.280

5.02.290

5.02.300

5.02.310

5.02.320

5.02.330

5.02.340

5.02.350

5.02.360

5.02.370

5.02.380

5.02.390

5.02.400

5.02.410

5.02.420

5.02.430

5.02.440

5.02.450

5.02.460

5.02.470

5.02.480

5.02.490

5.02.500

5.02.510

5.02.520

5.02.530

Partnerships

Corporations; in General

Fee and Tax Adjustments Required in Cases of Constitutional Conflict
Limitation to Intracity Business; Petition for Adjustment
Payment of Other Licenses Not Excused

Effect of Chapter on Past Actions and Obligations Previously Accrued
Display of Licenses

Identification Symbol; Affixing, Altering, Tampering, or Changing

License Does Not Permit Business Otherwise Prohibited

Other Agency Review

Decisions on Amounts Imposed

Unpaid Taxes; Tax Plus Penalties

License Tax; A Debt; Civil Action

Penalty; Conducting a Business Without First Having Procured a License

Fee and Tax Exempt License-Limitations

Misrepresentation; Penalty

Suspension or Revocation

Remedies Cumulative

Cancellation; Right of Licensee to Request

Establishment of Business Categories

Collector; Duties and Powers

Duty to Certify General Contractor's Statement

Conducting Business After Suspension or Revocation

Notice to Collector of Permit Application

Application for Business License

Statement Not Conclusive; Information Confidential

Application Processing Charge

Contents of License

Term of License; New

Term of Licence; Renewal; Due Date; Grace Period
License Renewal; Affidavit

Fee and Tax; How and When Payable; Effect of Dishonored Instrument

Application of Money Towards Delinquent Fees

Statement of Fee; Mistake Not Conclusive

Renewal Statement; Gross Receipts Submission and Filing

Payments/Statements Made by Mail; Effect

Penalties for Delinquency; Application - Written Agreement to Satisfy
Indebtedness; Effect
Penalties Added to Tax
Penalties; Interest

Penalties; Suspension and Revocation of License

Refunds Authorized

Application for Refund

No Refund in Instance of Other Delinquency

2

ORDINANCE NO. 491

5.02.540	No Refund in Instance of Misrepresentation

5.02.550	Proof of Payment Prerequisite to Refund

5.02.560 No Refund upon Termination of Business

5.02.570 License Nontransferable, Change of Name or Location

5.02.580	Duplicate License

5.02.590 Use of License by Unlicensed Person

5.02.600	Enforcement of Chapter

5.02.610	Payments/Statements Made	by	Mail; Effect

5.02.620	Penalty for Violation

5.02.63 0	Continuing Violations

5.02.640	Appeals

5.02.650	Fee and Tax; A Debt to City;	Actions for Collection

5.02.660	Fee and Tax Exemptions and	Exclusions; Disabled Veterans;

5.02.670	Fee and Tax Exemptions and	Exclusions; Nonprofit Organizations

5.02.675	City Sponsored or Co-sponsored Events (including Parks &	Recreation) -

Exemptions

5.02.680	Business License Required;	Exceptions

5.02.690	Hobby

5.02.700 Fee Exempt Licenses; Issuance and Administration

5.02.710	Specified Exemptions from Licensing Requirement

5.02.720	Specified Exclusions from Fee Requirement

5.02.730 Radio and Television Broadcasting; Soliciting Advertising

5.02.740 Transportation of Property, Goods; Exemptions and Exceptions

5.02.750	Telephone Services

5.02.760	Rates and Schedules

5.02.770	Notice

5.02.780	Severability

5.02.005 Title. This Chapter shall be known as the "Business License Tax Law." It is
enacted solely to raise revenue for municipal purposes and is not intended for regulation.

5.02.010 Definitions. For the purpose of this Chapter, unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, the words, and phrases used herein shall have the following meanings:

(a)	"Ambulance" means any vehicle specifically equipped, intended for use, or
previously used to transport the sick, wounded, handicapped, injured, or deceased.

(b)	"Ambulette" means any vehicle equipped or primarily used for transporting
handicapped persons for nonemergency purposes.

(c)	"Annualization" means an estimation, extended for a twelve (12) month
period, based on reported gross receipts for a prior period of less than twelve (12) months.

(d)	"Applicant" means any person who applies for a license or a license renewal
under the provisions of this Chapter.

3

ORDINANCE NO. 491

(e)	"Automobile Dismantler" means any person defined as such in Section 220
of the California Vehicle Code who has an established place of business and is engaged in the
business of buying, selling, or dealing in vehicles of a type required to be registered pursuant to
Sections 4000 and following of the California Vehicle Code, as the same now exists or as hereafter
amended, for the purpose of dismantling the same, who buys or sells the integral parts and
component materials thereof, in whole or in part, deals in used motor vehicle parts. This Section
does not apply to any person who is excluded from the definition of "automobile dismantler" by
Section 221 of the California Vehicle Code.

(f)	"Builder-Owner" means any person employing subcontractors, specialty
contractors, general engineering contractors, or workers under his or her supervision and direction
by the hour or day, for the purpose of constructing improvements on real property owned by him
or her within the City; such person shall be charged herein the same as a Contractor as defined in
this Section unless his or her only building activity is constructing on his or her property
improvements which will be used in whole or in part for the purpose of his or her own occupancy
for a period of not less than one year. Proof of the sale or offering for sale of any such structure by
the builder-owner within one year after completion of same is presumptive evidence that such
structure was undertaken for purpose of sale.

(g)	"Building	and Loan" means any person who for a fee engages in the loan of

money upon personal security, automobiles, or any personal property, or purchases automobile
contracts, commercial paper, evidences of debt, assignments of salary, salary warranty, salary
demands, time checks, or other evidences of salary due or to become due, or automobile paper. The
term building and loan as used in this Chapter includes savings and loans, but does not include
pawnbrokers or the holder of a bond brokers license, or any person conducting a banking business
under the laws of the state or any person subject to the state corporate income tax as a financial
corporation.

(h)	"Building-Tradesman	(Handyman)"	means	any	person engaged within the

City, as an independent contractor in any trade, art, calling, avocation or occupation of the building
trades and not licensed as a contractor by the state.

(i)	"Business"	shall	include	all	activities	engaged	in	or caused to be engaged in

within the city, including any commercial or industrial enterprise, trade, profession, occupation,
vocation, calling, or livelihood, including lease or rental of residential or nonresidential real estate,
and every other kind of activity whether or not carried on for gain or profit, and whether or not
engaged in as a principal or as an independent contractor, but shall not include the services rendered
by an employee to his employer.

(j)	"Business	by	Vehicle"	means	the	running,	driving	or	operating	of	any

vehicle, automobile, truck, automobile tank, wagon or any vehicle for the purpose of transportation,
sale, collection, or delivery of goods, wares, merchandise, or other personal property of any kind
from a vehicle, either as a principal business or in connection with any other business, or in
soliciting for work, labor, or services to be performed upon the public streets on or from a vehicle,

or to be performed on goods, wares, merchandise, clothes, or other personal property to be taken for
such purpose to a plant or establishment inside or outside the City. This definition shall not be
deemed to apply to the delivery of goods by persons operating such a vehicle in conjunction with
a fixed place of business within the City for which such business a license fee has been paid
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. This definition shall not be construed as imposing a tax
upon vehicles, but as a method of classification of businesses and distinguishing between persons
maintaining a fixed place of business in the conduct of which a vehicle is used, and persons
maintaining a business in the conduct of which vehicles are used, but who do not have a fixed place
of business in the City.

(k)	"Business License Fee Receipt" means the receipt required to be posted or
displayed as evidence of a business's payment of the charge required by the provisions of this
Chapter.

(l)	"Business License Inspector" means the person designated by the Director
of Finance to hold such position.

(m)	"Business License Officer" means the Director of Finance of the City, or the
designee of such person.

(n)	"Business License Receipt" means the receipt required to be posted or
displayed as evidence of a business' payment of the tax required by the provisions of this Chapter
and shall herein be referred to as "license receipt" or "license" except as otherwise specified.

(o)	"Business License Tax" means the privilege tax paid as required by the
provisions of this Chapter and shall herein be referred to as "business or license tax" or "fee" except
as otherwise specified.

(p)	"Charge" means any fee fixed or authorized herein which is intended solely
to cover the reasonable administrative costs incurred in performing any specified act or acts on
behalf of the City.

(q)	"City" means the City of Moreno Valley.

(r)	"City Manager" means the City Manager of the City.

(s)	"Coin-operated Machine or Device" means any machine or device that
dispenses a product, or provides a service, or utility or amusement; resulting from insertion or use
of a coin, slug, token, plate, disc, plug, key, check or other device, or money, or thing of value.

(t)	"Collector" means the person designated by the City Manager to administer
and enforce this Chapter.

(u)	"Commission Agent, Broker or Merchant" means any person engaged in
the business of buying and selling of goods, wares, or merchandise for the owner or consignee

5

ORDINANCE NO. 491

thereof for a fee of commission, whether or not the operation of such business customarily includes
the actual possession, custody or control of goods, wares or merchandise to the extent that such
person: (1) does not engage in the business of manufacturing, refining, fabricating, milling, treating
or other processing of the goods, wares or merchandise bought and sold, and does not cause said
goods, wares or merchandise to be manufactured, refined, fabricated, milled, treated or otherwise
processed; (2) does not obtain or retain title to said goods, wares or merchandise except while such
goods wares or merchandise are actually in transit, or for short periods of time before transportation
commences or after it ceases; and (3) does not store or warehouse such goods, wares or merchandise
except while such goods, wares or merchandise are actually in transit, or for short periods of time
before transportation commences or after it ceases.

(v)	"Conduct" means and includes engaging in, carrying on, owning,
maintaining, managing, or operating any business within the City.

(w)	"Contractor" means any person who is licensed as a contractor by the State
and who does by himself or by others, or who undertakes, or offers to undertake, or purports to have
the capacity to undertake, or submits a bid to construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract from, improve,
move, wreck or demolish any building, highway, road, railroad, excavation or other structure,
project, development or improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the erection of scaffolding
or other structures or works in connection therewith. The term contractor as used in this Chapter
includes, general engineering contractor, general building contractor, specialty contractor and
subcontractor except as otherwise specified herein.

(x)	"Cost of Doing Business" means the cost of performing administrative or
management-related services at an office or other facility within the City in connection with sales
or services performed or rendered elsewhere. Such amount shall be computed by determining the
total cost of maintaining said local office or facility, and shall include, but is not limited to, wages,
salaries, commissions, bonuses, rent or depreciation, telephone, postage, utilities, janitorial and other
expenses allocated for maintenance of said office or facility.

(y)	"Director of Finance" means the person designated by the City Manager to
hold such position.

(z)	"Disabled Veteran" means a veteran of the military, naval, or air service of
the United States with a service-connected disability who is a resident of the State of California.

(aa)	"Driver" means any person in charge or control of, or driving or operating

any motor vehicle upon any public street, alley or highway of the city, either as owner, agent or
employee of a business.

(bb)	"Employed" means engaged in the conduct of a business, or related activity,

whether as a proprietor or otherwise.

(cc)	"Employee" means, in relation to a business, any and all owners, or members

of the owner's family, partners, or associates or individuals, to whom the business pays a wage, all

of whom shall be included in the computation of the average number of employees of the business.

(dd)	"Engaged	in Business" means the transacting and carrying on, managing or

operating of a business whether done personally or by means of another person. (EE) "Fee"
means that amount charged to cover administrative and enforcement costs of processing any
business license application or renewal.

(ee)	"Fee" means that amount charged to cover administrative and enforcement

costs of processing any business license application or renewal.

(ff)	"Flea Market" means a type of Swap Meet.

(gg)	"Fixed	Place of Business" means the place within the City at which the

principal tools, equipment, or machinery used in a business are customarily stored or located, or at
which are maintained the principal stock of wares, materials or supplies and the books and records
used in a business.

(hh)	"Fixed Rate" or "Flat Rate Tax" means a fixed amount assessed per business

location, or alternately, a fixed amount or fixed scale of amounts whose sum is variable depending
on the number of factors furnishing the basis for determination of the license tax.

(ii)	"General	Contractor"	means	and	includes	a	general	building	contractor or

general engineering contractor or any other person who is licensed pursuant to Sections 7056 or
7057 of the California Business and Professions Code as the same now exists or as hereafter
amended.

(jj)	"Garage	Sale"	means	the	sale,	or	offering	for	sale,	of	personal	property in,

at or upon any property used or occupied for residential purposes. Garage sales shall include, but
not be limited to, any yard sale, home sale, patio sale, or any other sale similarly conducted on any
property used or occupied for residential purposes.

(kk)	"Gross	Receipts"	means	and	includes	the	total	amount	of	the	sale	price of all

sales and the total amount charged or received for services rendered of whatever nature, for which
a charge is made or credit allowed, whether or not such act or service is done or rendered as part of
or in connection with the sale of materials, goods, wares, or merchandise. The following shall be
included in "gross receipts": all receipts, rents, cash, credits, and property of any kind or nature,
without any deduction therefrom on account of the cost of property paid or payable, or loss or other
expenses whatsoever.

(1) The following shall be excluded from "gross receipts":

A.	Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;

B.	Any tax required by law to be included in or added to the purchase
price and collected from the consumer or purchaser;

7

ORDINANCE NO. 491

C.	Such part of the sale price of property returned by purchasers upon
rescission of the contract of sale as is refunded either in cash or by credit;

D.	Amounts collected for others where the business is acting as an agent
or trustee, to the extent that such amounts are paid to those for whom collected, provided the agent
or trustee has furnished the Collector with the names and addresses of the other and the amounts
paid to them; provided that any agent or trustee dealing in stocks or other similar written instruments
evidencing a right to participate in the assets of any business, or dealing in bonds or other evidences
of indebtedness, who also deals in such property as a principal, shall include in the gross receipts
by which the tax is measured the amount of his or her trading profits resulting therefrom. No
deduction from receipts attributable to trading as a principal shall be made unless such deduction
is provided for in this section;

E.	As to the seller, the difference between the balance owed and paid on
a defaulted purchase or finance contract upon repossession by seller and the amount received from
resale of the repossessed article by the repossessing seller;

F.	Receipts of refundable deposits, except that refundable deposits
forfeited and taken into income of the business shall not be excluded;

G.	As to alcoholic beverages, that portion of the receipts of a
manufacturer, transporter, retailer or wholesale distributor generated or otherwise collected from the
manufacture, transport, retail or wholesale of intoxicating liquors within the State pursuant to Article
XX, Section 22 of the State Constitution;

H.	As to a retail gasoline dealer, that portion of his or her receipts from
the sale of motor vehicle fuels equal to the motor vehicle fuel license tax imposed by and previously
paid under the provisions of Part 2 of Division 2 of the State Revenue and Taxation Code, as the
same now exists or as hereafter amended;

I.	As to a retail gasoline dealer, the special motor fuel tax imposed by
Section 4041 of Title 26 of the United States Code, as the same now exists or as hereafter amended,
if collected by him or her from the purchaser and paid by him or her to the taxing authority;

J.	The cash value of sales, trades, transfers, or other transactions as made
between separate departments, divisions, or units of any single business entity if such transactions
result in actual receipts to the department, division or unit.

K.	Sales for convenience where sales of new goods, wares, or
merchandise are made by a person engaged in selling such articles to another person engaged in
selling like or similar articles:

1.	Where the primary purpose of the particular transaction of sale

is to accommodate the purchaser rather than to make a sale in the ordinary course of business and

8

ORDINANCE NO. 491

the price paid is essentially the book value of the article;

2.	Where, in the particular kind of business involved, a similar
manner of dealing is frequent or customary in the circumstances under which the particular sale is
made; and

3.	Where cash or property of substantially equivalent value to that
which was sold is received in consideration.

L.	As to general contractors and other similar businesses, that portion of
the receipts of a general contractor which represents payments to subcontractors, provided that such
subcontractors are licensed under this chapter, and provided the general contractor furnishes the
Collector upon request with the names and addresses of the subcontractors and the amounts paid to
them;

M. As to building and loan associations:

1.	Interest on real estate loans;
2.	Loan fees of various kinds such as: fee for escrow, appraisal drawing papers, and other similar charges;
3.	Bonuses received for prepayment of loans;
4.	Penalty charges on delinquent loans;
5.	Tax service fees;
6.	Interest on personal loans to depositors; and
7.	Receipts over and above the recovery of principal from the sale of mortgages or other evidence of money due from loans.
N. As to a business established outside the City but maintaining an office with the City through an agent, broker, or employee, "gross receipts" shall include the total sales or receipts attributable to the office or facility, agent, broker or employee within the City.	
0. As to a business established outside the city but transacting and	

carrying on business within the city, or otherwise performing or rendering services negotiated, or
contracted for within the city, whether or not by a principal or through an agent or employee, "gross
receipts" shall include the total fees, commissions, or other receipts attributable to the business
activity conducted.

(2) The following shall be included in "gross receipts":

A. As to bail bond brokerages, commission agent brokerages, mortgage

brokerages, real estate brokerages, securities brokerages, travel agencies, and other similar
businesses employing agents, brokers and commissioned employees, the total gross commissions
or other receipts attributable to the local office, agents, brokers and employees.

B.	As to accountants, architects, attorneys, chiropractors, doctors,
dentists, optometrists, podiatrists, psychologists, veterinarians and other professionals, either
practicing solely, or in partnership, or as a professional corporation, the total gross fees or other
receipts attributable to services performed or otherwise rendered within the City.

(3)	As to other persons having a fixed place of business within the City and
providing a service or plying an occupation or trade, or involved in similar businesses, the total fees,
commissions, or other receipts attributable to that local location or employees.

(4)	As to building and loan associations:

A.	Interest and dividends earned from the placing of surplus funds in
bonds, securities, or federal home loan banks;

B.	Payments received on the principal amount of outstanding loans;

C.	Sale of capital assets used in the conduct of the business;

D.	Payments made to other building and loan associations which
represents their share of interest under participation agreements; and

E.	Gains or losses on the sale of real estate acquired by foreclosure.

In the event separate sales or receipt records are not maintained for a local office or
facility of a business established outside of the City, agent, broker or employee, or in the event any
retailing, wholesaling, manufacturing, or processing activity conducted thereat does not generate
gross receipts as hereinabove defined, or in the event said local office or facility, agent, broker, or
employee is engaged in providing administrative or management related services, to include, but not
limited to, record keeping, data processing, research and development, advertising, public relations,
personnel administration, or legal services, in connection with sales or services performed or
rendered elsewhere, the business tax shall be based upon an amount which bears the same proportion
to the total gross receipts of the business which cost of maintaining said local office, facility, local
agent, broker or employee bears to the total cost of maintaining said business.

As to a business established within the city and maintaining a separate local branch
office or establishment through an agent, broker, or employee engaged in providing administrative
or management related services within the City, the business tax shall be based on an amount
equivalent to the cost of doing business.

(11)	"Independent Contractor" means any person other than a Contractor, who

is engaged to aid in the business of any other person, whether as a professional as defined herein

10

ORDINANCE NO. 491

below, or whether pursuant to any license, certificate or registration authorized by the California
Business and Professions Code, as the same now exists or as hereafter amended, or whether with
regard to any other trade, skill or occupation, and who receives remuneration either through
commission, or pursuant to any contract of employment which excludes regular wages or salary, or
in any other manner other than through regular wages, salary or a direct participation in the profits
of the business.

(mm)	"Insurance Agent" means any person, including bailbond agents, directly

authorized by and on behalf of an insurer, to provide insurance coverage and to bind the insurer in
the execution of insurance policies.

(nn)	"Insurance Broker" means any person, including bailbond brokers, who, for

compensation and on behalf of another person, offers to provide insurance coverage, other than life,
with, but not on behalf of, an insurer.

(oo)	"Insurance Solicitor" means a natural person employed to aid an insurance

agent or insurance broker in transacting insurance business other than life.

(pp)	"Itinerant Merchant" means any person who engages in a temporary or

transient business in the City, selling or offering for sale goods, wares, merchandise, or things or
articles of value, with the intention of conducting such business in the City for a period of not more
than ninety (90) days in any calendar year, and who, for the purpose of carrying on such business,
hires, leases, or occupies any room, doorway, vacant lot, building or structure, for the exhibition or
sale of goods, wares or merchandise, or who associates temporarily with any local dealer, trader,
merchant or auctioneer, or who conducts such temporary or transient business in connection with
or as a part of or in the name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer.

(qq)	"Junk	Collector" means any person not having a fixed place of business in

the City engaged in the business of buying or selling, either at wholesale or retail, any rags, bottles,
papers, cans, metals or other junk.

(rr)	"Junk Dealer" means any person having a fixed place of business in the City

engaged in the business of buying or selling, either at wholesale or retail, any rags, bottles, papers,
cans, metals or other junk.

(ss)	"Junk	Salvager" or "Junk Recycler" means any person, at a fixed place of

business in the City engaged in the business of carrying on or collecting, buying or selling at either
retail or otherwise dealing in junk or rubbish, waste material, refuse or any rags, sacks, bottles,
papers, cans, metals, rubber, cordage, tires and other like articles, whether the same can be sold or
otherwise disposed of for the purpose of being treated, repaired or prepared so as to be used again
in some other form.

(tt)	"Junk Yard", "Automobile Wrecking Yard" and "Salvage Yard" means

any space of two hundred (200) square feet or more of area of any lot used for the storage, sale,
keeping or abandonment of inoperable vehicles, junk or waste material, including scrap metal or

11

ORDINANCE NO. 491

other scrap materials, or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles, other
vehicles, machinery or parts thereof, other than an impound yard.

(uu)	"License" means a license issued pursuant to this Chapter.

(w)	"Licensee" means any person who holds a valid, current business license

issued to that person under this Chapter.

(ww)	"Life Agent" means any insurance agent authorized, by and on behalf of a

life, disability or life and disability insurer, to transact life, disability or life and disability insurance.

(xx)	"Life and Disability Insurance Analyst" means a person who, for a fee or

compensation of any kind, paid by or derived from any person insured under, named as a beneficiary
of, or having an interest in, a life or disability insurance contract, purports to advise or offers advice
to such person in any manner concerning that contract or his or her rights in respect thereto.

(yy)	"Manufacture" or "Process" means and includes all activities of a

commercial or industrial nature wherein labor or skill is applied to materials, by hand or machinery,
so that as a result thereof a new or different useful article of tangible personal property or substance
of trade or commerce is produced, including the production or fabrication of specially made or
custom made articles.

(zz)	"Manufacturer" means any person, who, directly or by contracting with

others for the necessary labor or mechanical services, manufactures for sale or for commercial or
industrial use from his or her own materials or ingredients any articles, substances or commodities.

(aaa)	"Mobile Vending" means the conduct of a business by means of an

automobile, truck, automobile tank, cart, wagon, motorcycle or any other vehicle which may be used
to transport, sell, collect or deliver goods, wares, merchandise or property of any kind from a
vehicle, either as a principal business or in connection with any other business, or in the solicitation
of work, labor or services to be performed on the public streets or private places in or from a vehicle.

(bbb)	"Motorbus" means any motor vehicle used in the business of carrying

passengers for hire which receives and discharges passengers along a fixed route traversed by it,
except any bus regulated by the California Public Utilities Commission.

(ccc)	"Nonprofit organization" means an institution, corporation, organization,

or association organized or conducted for charitable, religious, political or other nonprofit purposes
only, where the receipts derived from peddling or soliciting activities are to be used wholly for the
benefit of such entity and, except for wages paid to employees of such entity, are not used in whole
or in part for the private gain of any person. Such organizations shall have State and United States
government tax exempt status. Within the meaning of this Chapter, solicitors and peddlers who are
paid for such services by a nonprofit organization are not employees of the nonprofit organization.
All other organizations shall be termed "for profit organizations."

(ddd)	"Out-of Town" means the conducting of a business within the City, but not

having a fixed place of business within the City.

(eee)	"Owner"	as	applied	to	any	building	or	land	shall	include	any part owner, joint

owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, co-
partnerships of the whole or of a part of such building or land, or a person having an interest in
community property as a member, or former member, of the community.

(ffi)	"Pawnbroker"	means a person employed in the business of loaning money

upon personal property, personal security, pawns or pledges, or the business of purchasing articles
of personal property and reselling, or agreeing to resell, such articles to the vendors or their
assignees at prices agreed upon at or before the time of such purchase.

(ggg)	"Pawnshop"	means a room, store, or place in which the business of a

pawnbroker is conducted.

(hhh)	"Peddler"	means	a hawker, vendor, or other person who, without appointment

thereat, goes from house to house, place to place, or in or along the streets of the City selling and
making immediate delivery, or offering for sale and immediate delivery, any goods, wares,
merchandise, or anything of value in the possession of the peddler to persons other than
manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers, or retailers in such commodities.

(iii)	"Permit"	means	a	written authorization, or permission, to conduct a business

within the City. A business license issued pursuant to this Chapter does not constitute a "permit".

(jjj)	"Person"	means	a	domestic	or	foreign	corporation,	an	association, a

syndicate, a joint-stock corporation, a partnership of any kind, a club, business or common-law
trust, a society or an individual conducting any business in the City.

(kkk)	"Pick up" means to take into a vehicle.

(Ill)	"Premises"	means	all lands, structures and places connected or used therewith

in any business.

(mmm)	"Processor"	means	any	person	engaging	in	the	business	of	converting an

article, substance or commodity into marketable form for the purpose of resale by changing its
physical form or chemical composition.

(nnn)	"Professional"	means any person, including any professional corporation,

wherever located, engaged in or carrying on, within the City, any profession requiring examination
or satisfactory compliance with standards adopted by a branch of the State or Federal government
or requiring a certain amount of tenure and experience in such occupation. Such professions include
but are not limited to: Accountancy (all types). Architecture (all types), Auditing, Audiology,
Chiropractics, Counseling, Dentistry, Electrology, Gemology, Geology, Herbalism, Law, Medicine,

Naturopathy, Nursing, Optometry, Osteopathy, Pharmacy, Podiatry, Psychology, Social Work,
Speech Pathology, Surveying, Undertaking, Veterinary Medicine.

(ooo)	"Professional Corporation" means any corporation organized under the State

law which is engaged in rendering professional services in a single profession, and which in its
practice or business designates itself generally or particularly as a professional corporation.

(ppp)	"Real Estate Agent" means any person licensed as such by the State and

employed by a real estate broker in the business of buying, selling and leasing real property on
behalf of third persons.

(qqq)	"Real Estate Broker" means any person licensed as such by the State and

engaged wholly or in part in transacting and carrying on the business of dealing in real estate,
including soliciting or offering to buy, sell, or lease real property for others; negotiating and
collecting loans for borrowers or lenders; dealing in real property sales contracts and promissory
notes; receiving advance fees for real estate listings; and dealing in real estate syndicate securities.

(rrr)	"Real Property Developer" means any person conducting, managing, or

transacting and carrying on the business of acquiring, subdividing, improving, selling, renting and
otherwise dealing in and disposing of or developing real property, for commercial, industrial,
residential, or other purposes including, but not limited to, one who constructs improvements upon
real property for commercial, industrial, residential, or other purposes with the object of selling,
renting or developing it for his or her own use.

(sss)	"Recreational Services" means any person engaged in the business of

providing facilities for recreational use. Such services include but are not limited to: amusement
machine arcades, bowling alleys, driving ranges, golf courses (including miniature), motion picture
theaters (including drive-in), pool halls (including billiards and snooker), riding stables, skating
rinks, social clubs, sports clubs (including spas, health clubs, and conditioning gyms), swimming
pools, and tennis and racket clubs.

(ttt)	"Rental of Real Estate" means and includes the business of renting, leasing,

providing, exchanging or trading, without change of ownership, any land, dwelling, building,
premises or portion thereof for any use, including, without limitation, industrial, commercial, office,
warehouse or residential uses or purposes.

(uuu)	"Retailer" means any person engaging in the business of selling goods, wares,

or other merchandise to consumers or users thereof.

(vw)	"Revenue Officer" means the duly authorized agent of the Collector charged

with assisting the Collector in the exercise of the duties imposed upon him or her hereunder.

(www)	"Revocation" means the act of revoking, or the condition of being revoked,

canceled, or repealed.

14

ORDINANCE NO. 491

(xxx)	"Safety Inspection Sticker" means a sticker affixed to a vehicle for hire or

ambulance evidencing that it has been inspected by the Riverside County Sheriff, Moreno Valley
Police Department, or the California Highway Patrol and found to be in safe operating condition.

(yyy)	"Sale"	means	the	transfer, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of title

to property for a consideration; the serving, supplying, or furnishing for a consideration of any
property. A transaction whereby the possession of property is transferred but the seller retains the
title as security for the payment of the price is not a "sale" within the meaning of this definition.

(zzz)	"Sale	At Retail" and "Retail Sale" means every sale of tangible personal

property (including articles produced, fabricated or imprinted) other than sale to one who (1)
purchases for the purpose of resale as tangible personal property in the regular course of business,
or (2) purchases for the purpose of consuming the property purchased in producing for sale a new
article of tangible personal property or substance, of which such property becomes an ingredient or
component, or as a chemical used in processing, when the primary purpose of such chemical is to
create a chemical reaction directly through contact with another ingredient of a new article being
produced for sale.

(aaaa)	"Sale	At	Wholesale"	and	"Wholesale Sale" means any sale of tangible

personal property which is not a "sale at retail." Sales otherwise classified hereinabove as "retail
sales", may, nevertheless be classified as "wholesale sales" under this section, if the vendor can
establish to the satisfaction of the Collector that the sale was made to a government agency, public
utility, manufacturer, processor or contractor who consumed the articles in the course of his or her
own operations and did not offer the articles for resale to the general public except as an integral part
of manufacturing, construction or service.

(bbbb)	"Services"	means the business of providing, maintaining, or performing labor

for the benefit of another within the City; of supplying some general demand for the benefit of
another within the City which does not produce a tangible commodity; or furnishing of services and
all activities in which any person, for any other person performs any personal service and all
services in which any real or personal property, stocks or bonds, or other financial instruments, or
evidences of debt, or contacts of insurance or any money or credits are exchanged, leased,
transferred, or loaned; as well as every business of maintaining, storing, cleaning, improving or
repairing tangible commodities within the City whether or not such business is conducted from a
premises, vehicle, or mobile location within or outside the City. Services include recreation services
but do not include theatrical performances, exhibitions, or temporary amusements nor do they
include professional services, or telephone services within the terms of this Chapter.

(cccc)	"Solicit"	means: (1) to endeavor to obtain a passenger for hire by words or

gestures, including, but not limited to, the use of a sign indicating that such vehicle is available for
hire; or (2) to act as a solicitor in respect to other services or goals.

(dddd)	"Solicitor"	means a person engaged in soliciting, canvassing, or taking orders

from house to house, or from place to place, or by telephone, or by any other means of
communication for any goods, wares, merchandise, or any article to be delivered in the future, or
for services to be performed in the future, or making, manufacturing, or repairing any article
whatsoever for future delivery, or subscriptions to periodicals or tickets of admission or
entertainments, or memberships in any club. Solicitor includes persons soliciting funds for
organizations which are not nonprofit organizations as defined herein. Solicitor also includes those
receiving donations in public places or places open to the public who do not accost or approach
persons for the purpose of soliciting or begging alms.

(eeee)	"State"	means	the State of California.

(ffif)	"Stock	Broker"	and	"Bond	Broker"	means	any person engaged in the

business of buying or selling federal, state or municipal bonds, or stocks or bonds of partnerships
or incorporated entities, or evidences of indebtedness of private persons, partnerships or of
incorporated entities, for a fee or commission.

(g§8§)	"Swap	Meet"	means any event where the place or location at which the event

is held has been advertised by any means whatsoever as a place or location to which members of the
public at large, during a specified and limited period of time, may bring identifiable, tangible
property and exhibit the same for sale or exchange.

(hhhh)	"Swap	Meet	Exhibitor" means any person exhibiting, displaying, selling,

exchanging, or offering for sale or exchange any property at a swap meet.

(iiii)	"Swap	Meet	Operator" means any person or organization conducting or

operating the business of a swap meet on any premises in the City excluding, however, swap meet
exhibitors.

(iiii)	"Sworn	Statement"	means an affidavit sworn to before a person authorized

to take oaths, or a declaration, certification, or verification made under penalty of perjury.

(kkkk)	"TAX"	shall	be	that	amount	collected	for	the	privilege	of engaging in a

business or occupation.

(1111)	"Taxicab"	or	"Taxi"	means	any	motor vehicle used in the business of

transportation of passengers for hire, where transportation is not over a fixed and definite route, but
is under the control, as to the destination or route, of the passenger or passengers being carried
therein.

(mmmm) "Taximeter" means any mechanical instrument, appliance, device or machine
by which the charge for hire of a motor vehicle is mechanically calculated, whether for distance
traveled or time consumed, or both, and on said instrument is indicated by figures.

(nnnn)	"Telephone	Services"	means	any	person	engaged	in	the	business	of

providing telephone services as a "telephone company" pursuant to Article XIII, Section 19 of the

Transact And Carry On” means to repeat, or intend to repeat, or to

State Constitution.

(oooo)
continue, and includes:

(1)	The maintaining, operating, managing, or being in control of, any office,
store, warehouse, factory, establishment, location or place of any one or more of the following:

A.	Having one or more telephones listed for any business, activity in
any classified telephone directory or in the classified section of any consolidated telephone
directory.

B.	Having in use in connection with any business, one or more counters,
desks, chairs, tables, filing cabinets, typewriters, adding or calculating machines, or other articles
of office equipment.

C.	At, from, or in which, any processing, supervising, administration,
research, sales promotion, solicitation, distributing, routing, delivery, dispatching, billing, collection,
accounting, record keeping, or other activity is conducted in connection with any business.

D.	In, or at which, one or more persons may, for any valuable
consideration intended to result, or that results, in any livelihood, financial profit or commercial gain
to any person, receive any instruction, advice, treatment or examination, or any service upon their
person, or any repair, refinishing, renewing, cleaning, or other improvement to, or of, any personal
property.

E.	In which any letter, announcement, advertisement, circular, handbill,
newspaper, agreement, contract, instruction, legal instrument, financial statement, statement of
account, financial record, or any other instrument or record, is written, printed, reproduced,
published, prepared or kept, in connection with any business.

F.	From which any circular, handbill, newspaper, announcement,
statement of account, card or letter is sent, or distributed, in writing, or any contract is made, in
person or by telephone, in connection with any business.

G.	Upon any exterior side, wall, window, door, roof or other portion, or
in the proximity of which, there is maintained any sign, lettering, announcement or advertisement
indicating that such office or place is one in, at or from, which any article exists, or any act is
performed, in connection with any business.

(2)	The repeated or continuous offering, or contracting, orally or in writing, in
connection with any business of any one or more of the following:

A.	To sell or rent one or more articles, or one or more rooms, apartments,
portions or parcels, of any real or personal property, or

17

ORDINANCE NO. 491

B.	To transport any person or personal property, or

C.	To perform any service.

(3)	In connection with any business, the repeated or continuous.

A.	Sale or renting of one or more articles or parcels of real or personal

property, or

B.	The transporting of any person or property, or

C.	The performance of any service.

(4)	The performance, as part of the conduct of any business, of any single act,
with intent to repeat or continue the performance of such act.

(PPPP)	"Utility"	and	"Public	Utility"	means any person furnishing the public with

communication, water, natural gas, light, heat, sewer, cable television or power services, subject to
regulation by the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California.

(qqqq)	"Vehicle"	means	every	device	in, upon or by which any person or property

is or may be transported or drawn upon a public street or highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.

(rrrr)	"Vehicle	For	Hire" means any motorbus, taxicab, limousine, tow truck or

any other motor vehicle offered in the City for the transportation of passengers for compensation or
used or engaged in the soliciting or pickup of passengers for hire in the City, exclusive of any
vehicle for which a certificate of public convenience is needed and has been granted by the Public
Utilities Commission of the State of California. "Vehicle for hire" shall not mean an ambulance,
ambulette or other vehicle equipped or previously used for transporting the wounded, injured, sick,
handicapped or deceased.

(ssss)	"Vending	Operations"	means	any business conducted by any person

engaged in the business of operating coin-operated machines or devices on premises owned or
controlled by such person or on the premises of another or in the business of owning, renting,
leasing, lending, or otherwise distributing or supplying coin-operated machines or devices while
retaining title thereto. Such machines include, but are not limited to, vending, amusement, service
and telephone machines.

(tttt)	"Vendor"	means	any	person	engaged in the conduct of selling merchandise

or a service.

(uuuu)	"Wholesaler"	means	any	person	engaging in the business of selling goods,

wares, merchandise or other products for the purpose of resale and not to consumers or users thereof.

18

ORDINANCE NO. 491

(ww)	"Yard	Sale"	means a type of Garage Sale.

5.02.020 Licenses Required.

(a)	There is hereby imposed upon every business conducted within the City, a business
license fee, in the amount sufficient to recover costs incurred, as set by City Council resolution from
time to time. There is also hereby imposed upon every business conducted within the City, a gross
receipts tax, in the amount hereinafter prescribed or that lesser amount that may be set by City
Council resolution from time too time. It shall be unlawful for any person, whether as principal or
agent, either for himself or for any other person, or as an officer of any corporation to conduct any
business within the City without first having procured a license from the City to do so, and paid the
license fee and applicable gross receipts tax therefor or without complying with all applicable
provisions of this Chapter.

(b)	This Section shall not be construed to require any person to obtain a license prior to
doing business within the City if such requirement conflicts with applicable statutes of the United
States or of the State of California.

(c)	Persons not required to obtain a license prior to doing business within the City
because of conflict with applicable statutes of the United States or of the State shall be liable for
payment of the tax imposed by this Chapter unless likewise exempted from such payment.

5.02.030 Schedule Of License Fees Generally.

(a)	Every person who engages in business within the City shall pay a license fee at the
rate which the City Council may from time to time set by resolution. Every person who engages in
business within the City shall also pay a gross receipts tax in the amount hereinafter prescribed or
that lesser amount that may be set by City Council resolution from time to time.

(b)	This Section shall not be construed to require any person to pay a license fee and tax
prior to conducting business within the City if such requirement conflicts with applicable State or
Federal law.

5.02.035 Exemption from Payment of Fee.

(a)	Persons exempted from payment of a license fee and tax prior to conducting business
within the City because of conflict with applicable State or Federal law as provided in Section
5.02.030 shall nevertheless apply for and obtain a business license upon the commencement of
business within the city.

(b)	Any person claiming exemption pursuant to Section 5.02.030 shall file a sworn
statement with the Business License Officer, stating the facts upon which exemption is claimed.

(c)	The Business License Officer or Collector shall upon a proper showing contained in
the sworn statement, issue a license to a person claiming exemption under Section 5.02.030.

19

ORDINANCE NO. 491

Issuance of a license under this Section shall be without payment to the City of any license fee and
tax otherwise required by this Chapter.

(d)	The Business License Officer, after giving notice and reasonable opportunity for
hearing to the affected applicant or licensee, may revoke or deny the issuance of any license granted
or applied pursuant to the provisions of this Section and Section 5.02.030 upon a showing that the
licensee is not entitled to the exemption as provided herein.

5.02.040 Evidence Of Doing Business When any person by use of signs, circulars, cards,
telephone book, or newspapers, advertises, holds out, or represents that such person is conducting
a business within the City, or when any person holds an active license or permit issued by a
governmental agency indicating that such person is in business within the City, or when any person
indicates by any other evidence that such person is conducting a business within the City and such
person fails to deny by a sworn statement given to the Business License Officer or Collector that he
is.conducting a business within the City, after being requested to do so by the Business License
Officer or Collector, then such state of affairs shall be considered prima facie evidence that such
person is conducting a business within the City.

5.02.050 Fixing Of Business License Fees and Tax.

(a)	The City Council from time to time shall set business license related application and
other administrative or enforcement fees by resolution. The City Council may from time to time set
the gross receipt tax at a lesser amount than hereinafter prescribed by City Council resolution. The
City Council may differentiate in the amount of fees to be charged according to the business
categories established by such resolution. Exemption from a business license fee under this Chapter
does not excuse an exempted business from application requirements hereunder.

(b)	In the event separate sales or receipt records are not maintained for a local office or
facility of a business established outside of the City, agent, broker or employee, or in the event any
retailing, wholesaling, manufacturing, or processing activity conducted thereat does not generate
gross receipts as hereinabove defined, or in the event said local office or facility, agent, broker, or
employee is engaged in providing administrative or management related services, to include, but not
limited to, record keeping, data processing, research and development, advertising, public relations,
personnel administration, or legal services, in connection with sales or services performed or
rendered elsewhere, the business tax shall be based upon an amount which bears the same proportion
to the total gross receipts of the business which cost of maintaining said local office, facility, local
agent, broker or employee bears to the total cost of maintaining said business.

(c)	As to a business established within the City and maintaining a separate local branch
office or establishment through an agent, broker, or employee engaged in providing administrative
or management-related services within the City, the business tax shall be based on an amount
equivalent to the cost of doing business.

(d)	The license tax for such business shall be assessed separately for each property and
liability for said tax shall be determined by ownership of the property. Agents acting for property

20

ORDINANCE NO. 491

owners are responsible for payment of the license tax on the rental of such property if the owner of
said property has not paid the tax when due and payable, and in addition, are subject to the license
tax as a separate business.

5.02.060 New Business License Fee and Tax: When Payable.

(a)	Initial business license fees including gross receipts tax, are due and payable prior
to issuance of the license for which application is made. The fee for the business license application,
including gross receipts tax, shall be established by resolution of the City Council. The payment of
such fees shall not in any way constitute a right or permission to begin operations of said business.

(b)	Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, all fees and taxes for renewal of a
business license under the provisions of this Chapter shall be due and payable not later than the day
after the date on which said license expired. The annual business license fee and tax shall become
delinquent on the thirtieth day after the due date.

5.02.070. Two Or More Allied Businesses.

(a)	Whenever any person is engaged in two or more correlated businesses, or is carrying
on two or more allied activities, at the same location and under the same ownership and management
in either case, then in that event the business license processing fee and tax charge shall be applied
once only, and a single combined license shall be issued for such businesses or activities.

(b)	Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed to relieve the payment of two
or more business license fees and taxes when required, where two or more separate businesses are
conducted in the same location by the same owner and management and such businesses are not
construed by the Collector to be correlated or allied with each other. An appropriate business
license as set forth in this Chapter shall be paid for each business.

5.02.080 Combined Businesses.

(a)	Whenever any person engaged in a combined business conducted at the same location
and by the same owner and management is carrying on manufacturing, selling at wholesale and
selling at retail, or any combination of the previously stated, and where such combined business is
not otherwise specifically licensed on a flat rate basis, then in that event a single combined
statement separately showing the amount of manufacturing, wholesale and retail revenues derived
from each activity shall be filed and the combined fee shall be separately calculated according to the
respective rates appropriate for each category of business activity, to which amount the business
license tax and business license processing fee shall be applied once only, and a single combined
license shall be issued for the combined tax and fee.

(b)	In the event that such a combined statement is not filed, or in the event sufficient
records have not been kept which will enable the revenues from the manufacturing, wholesale, and
retail portions of such business to be separately ascertained, then in that event all business done by
any such person, whether manufacturing, wholesale, or retail, shall for the purposes of this Section

21

ORDINANCE NO. 491

be considered a retail business and the rate prescribed for retail business shall be applied to calculate
the amount of the business license tax due, to which amount the business license tax and business
license processing fee shall be applied once only, and a single combined license shall be issued for
the combined tax and fee

(c)	Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed to relieve the payment of two
or more business license fees and tax when required, where two or more separate business activities
are conducted in the same location by the same owner under the same management and such
business activities are not construed by the Collector to constitute a combined business. An
appropriate business license fee and tax as set forth in this Chapter shall be paid for each business.

5.02.085 Separate Computation Of License Fee and Tax: Branch Establishments

(a)	Where a license fee is imposed upon any business pursuant to this Chapter, and such
business is conducted with branch establishments or at separate fixed places, the fee and tax shall
be computed as if each such branch or place were a separate and independent business.

(b)	A separate license shall be obtained for each branch establishment or location of the
business and, except as otherwise provided herein, for each separate type of business at the same
location. Each license shall authorize the licensee to transact and carry on only the business licensed
thereby, at the location specified in the license, and in the manner designated in such license.

(c)	Warehouses and distributing plants used in connection with and incidental to a
business shall not be deemed to be separate places of business or branch establishments within the
meaning of this Section.

(d)	Nothing in this Section shall be construed to relieve any person who is eligible for
or claims to be eligible for exemption from payment of a branch establishment business license fee
from the requirement to obtain a business license. Said person shall apply to the Business License
Officer or Collector for a license in the same manner, and at the same time as is required in this
Chapter of all other persons applying for a business license and shall be subject to the same
procedures for enforcement and for penalties as provided herein.

5.02.090 Single Location: Multiple Businesses: Separate Owners Except as otherwise
specifically provided in this Chapter, nothing contained herein shall be construed to relieve any
person of the obligation to obtain a separate license and to pay the appropriate license fee and tax
required for each business owned or conducted by a separate owner within an individual
establishment or location whether or not under the same management.

5.02.095 Business Classifiable Under Different Categories. Whenever a business may
reasonably be classified under two or more separate categories established by the City Council, with
differing bases for fee and tax computation, the fee and tax shall be computed using the basis which
will result in the highest fee and tax.

5.02.100 Concessions: Separate License Required. Each person who operates any

ORDINANCE NO. 491

business, whether upon a cost, rental or commission basis as a concession or upon rented floor space
in or upon the premises of any person licensed under the provisions of this Chapter, shall be required
to obtain a separate and independent license pursuant to this Chapter except as may be otherwise
specified herein.

5.02.110 Association With Local Business. Any person who shall associate temporarily
with any local business, dealer, trader or merchant, or by conducting any temporary business in
connection with, or as a part of or in the name of, any local business, dealer, trader or merchant,
shall not be relieved from the provisions of this Chapter and shall be required to pay the appropriate
business license fee and tax as specified herein.

5.02.120 Partnerships. In the event that any business conducted, managed or carried on
in the City is organized as a partnership or joint venture, the scheduled license fee and tax need be
paid only by the partnership or joint venture and not by each individual partner or joint venturer.

5.02.130 Corporations: In General. In the event that any business conducted, managed
or carried on in the City is organized as a corporation, pursuant to California or other law, the
scheduled license fee and tax need be paid only by the corporation and not by individual
shareholders thereof.

5.02.140 Fee and Tax Adjustments Required In Cases Of Constitutional Conflict.

(a)	None of the license fees and taxes provided for in this Chapter shall be so applied so
as to occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce or be violative of the equal protection and
due process clauses of the Constitution of the United States or of the State.

(b)	In any case where a license fee and tax is believed by a licensee or applicant for a
license to place an undue burden upon interstate commerce or be violative of such other federal or
State constitutional clauses, such person may apply to the Business License Officer or Collector for
an adjustment of the fee and tax. Such application may be made before, at the time of, or within six
months after, payment of the prescribed license fee and tax. The applicant or licensee shall, by
sworn statement and supporting evidence, show his method of conducting business, and such other
information as the Business License Officer or Collector may deem necessary in order to determine
the extent, if any, of undue burden or violation. The Business License Officer or Collector may then
conduct an investigation, and fix as the license fee and tax for the applicant or licensee an amount
that is permitted by law. If the license fee and tax has already been paid, the Business License
Officer or Collector shall order a refund of the amount over and above the license fee and tax so
fixed. In fixing the license fee and tax to be charged, the Business License Officer or Collector shall
have the power to base the license fee and tax upon any measure which will assure that the license
fee and tax assessed shall be uniform with that assessed upon businesses of like nature. Any
adjusted fee and tax fixed pursuant to this Section shall not exceed the license fee and tax prescribed
for similar businesses as to which no adjustment has been made pursuant to this Section.

23

ORDINANCE NO. 491

5.02.145 Limitation to Intracitv Business: Petition for Adjustment

(a)	None of the license fees and taxes provided for in this Chapter shall be so applied as
to occasion an undue burden upon any business done in the City, where the business conducted is
related to a regularly established business conducted elsewhere. In any case where a license tax and
fee is claimed by any licensee or applicant for license to place an undue burden upon such business,
he or she may apply to the Collector for an adjustment of the tax and fee so that it shall not be
discriminatory or unreasonable as to such business. Such application must be made before, at, or
within six (6) months after payment of the prescribed license fee and tax. The applicant shall by
affidavit or declaration under penalty of perjury show his or her method of conducting business, the
gross volume of business inside the City, and such other information as the Collector may deem
necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of undue burden of such business. The Collector
shall then conduct an investigation, and, after having first obtained the written approval of the City
Attorney, shall fix as the business tax for the applicant an amount that is reasonable and
nondiscriminatory. If the license tax has already been paid and is in excess of the amount which is
found to be reasonably due, the Collector shall order a refund of the amount over and above the
license tax so fixed. In fixing the license tax to be charged, the Collector shall base the license tax
upon a percentage of gross receipts from business conducted inside the city or upon any other
measure which will assure that the business tax assessed shall be uniform with that assessed on
businesses of like nature, so long as the amount assessed does not exceed the business tax as
prescribed by this Chapter. Should the Collector determine the gross receipts measure of business
tax to be the proper basis, he or she may require the applicant to submit, either at the time of
termination of applicant's business in the City or at the end of each twelve (12) month period, a
verified affidavit or declaration under penalty of peijury of the gross receipts from business
conducted within the City and payment of the amount of license tax therefor; provided that no
additional license tax during any one calendar year shall be required after the licensee has paid an
amount equal to the annual license tax as prescribed in this Chapter.

(b)	The Collector shall, upon proper showing contained in the affidavit or declaration,
cause the issuance of a license to such person showing partial exemption under this section with a
license tax based upon the approved reduced gross receipts.

(c)	The Collector, after giving notice and a reasonable opportunity for hearing to the
licensee, shall revoke any license granted pursuant to this section upon good cause shown that the
person is not entitled to the adjustment as provided herein.

5.02.150 Payment Of Other Licenses Not Excused. Any person required under this
Chapter to pay a license fee and tax for conducting a business shall not be relieved from the payment
of any license fee for the privilege of conducting such business required under any other provision
of this Code or any other federal. State or local law or regulation, and such person shall remain
subject to all such regulatory provisions.

5.02.160 Effect Of Chapter On Past Actions And Obligations Previously Accrued.

Unless otherwise specifically or by necessary implication provided herein, neither the adoption of
this Chapter nor its superseding of any portion of any other ordinance of the City shall in any

ORDINANCE NO. 491

manner be construed to affect prosecution for the violation of any other such ordinance committed
prior to the adoption hereof, nor be construed to affect the validity of any license, bond or cash
deposit required by any such ordinance to be posted, filed or deposited, nor shall any proceeding,
permit, license or other entitlement commenced or issued under or pursuant to such prior enactment
be nullified by the adoption of this Chapter; and, unless otherwise specified herein, any
administrative or court proceeding taken or commenced under such enactment prior to the effective
date hereof may be prosecuted to completion, as if such prior enactment was still in full force and
effect, and all rights and obligations thereunder appertaining shall continue in full force and effect.

5.02.170 Display of Licenses.

(a)	Each licensee transacting and carrying on business at a fixed place of business in the
City which is open to the public shall keep the license prominently posted in a conspicuous and
public place upon the premises where such business is carried on. Provided further that any licensee
transacting and carrying on business at a fixed place of business in the City which is closed to the
public shall nevertheless keep the license posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises where
such business is carried on.

(b)	Each licensee transacting and carrying on business at a fixed place of business in the
City without an agent or employee on the premises shall post in a conspicuous and public place the
name, address and telephone number of the person or persons to be contacted to verify the
possession of a proper and valid license.

(c)	Each licensee transacting and carrying on business, but not operating at a fixed place
of business in the City, shall keep the license within his or her possession at all times while
transacting and carrying on such business.

(d)	Whenever the City shall provide a special tag or plate for the identification of a
vehicle for which a business license fee and tax has been paid, such tag or plate shall be affixed to
the vehicle in accordance with the pertinent regulations of the Collector.

(e)	Each person having a license under the provisions of this Chapter shall produce and
exhibit the same whenever required to do so by the Collector, by a Business License Inspector, by
any law enforcement officer, or by any other officer or official or City employee authorized to
enforce the provisions of this Chapter, or when requested to do so by any person being solicited to
bestow patronage on the business for which such license was issued.

(f)	No person shall exhibit a revoked business license unless a valid and currently active
license is exhibited at the same place and time.

(g)	No person shall reproduce, duplicate, copy or alter an original business license for
the purpose of circumventing the requirement of this section by giving a false or misleading
impression that any duplication of an original City business license is valid and that the appropriate
fee and tax therefore has been paid.

ORDINANCE NO. 491

5.02.180 Identification Symbol: Affixing. Altering. Tampering. Or Changing

Whenever an identifying sticker, tag, plate, or symbol has been issued for a vehicle, device,
machine, or other piece of equipment as evidence of the issuance of a license pursuant to this
Chapter, the person to whom such sticker, tag, plate, or symbol has been issued shall firmly affix
such symbol upon each such vehicle, device, machine, or piece of equipment and keep it affixed
during the term of the related license at such place thereon as is designated by the Business License
Officer It is unlawful for any person to tamper with, change, or alter any such symbol or to
otherwise fail to comply with the provisions of this Section

5.02.190 License Does Not Permit Business Otherwise Prohibited

(a)	A business license issued pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter constitutes a
receipt for the license fee and tax paid and shall have no other legal effect A business license is a
requirement, not a permit, to conduct a business within the City The business license fee and tax
receipt is evidence only of the fact that such fee and tax has been paid Neither the payment of the
fee nor the possession of the business fee and tax receipt authorizes, permits or allows the doing of
any act which the person paying or holding the same would not otherwise be entitled to do, and any
permit, license, variance or other instrument of approval or evidence that any conditions exist as
required by any other federal. State or local law or regulation must first be obtained or complied
with before the doing of any act or thing for which such instrument of approval is required

(b)	The granting of a license for a business shall not be deemed a permit to conduct the
same in an unlawful manner or on premises where such business is prohibited by law

5.02.200 Other Agency Review The Business License Officer or Collector may refer to
any governmental agency, any statement and all other information submitted by persons subject to
the provisions of this Chapter in connection with the conduct of a business regulated or supervised
or otherwise the concern of any such agency, including agencies concerned with health regulations,
zoning conformance, fire safety, police considerations, or any other safeguard of the public interest.
Failure to comply with conditions required by other agency review shall result in revocation of the
license once granted or of denial of the issuance or renewal of a license upon application therefor.

5.02.210 Decisions On Amounts Imposed If any license fee and tax imposed on a
business or category of businesses pursuant to this Chapter is for any reason held to be invalid in
amount, by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity of a different amount imposed by the Collector, provided that such different amount is not
in itself violative of any applicable court decision The City Council hereby declares that it would
have imposed a license fee and tax of some amount on the business in question, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more of the license fees and taxes imposed pursuant hereto may be declared
invalid in amount

5.02.220 Unpaid Taxes: Tax Plus Penalties No business license for any succeeding,
current or unexpired tax period shall knowingly be issued to any person, who at the time of
application, is indebted to the City for any unpaid tax, fee, charge, penalty or interest The total

26

ORDINANCE NO. 491

indebtedness to the City shall include the total amount due plus interest and penalties for failure to
pay the tax and fee when due.

5.02.230 License Tax A Debt: Civil Action. The amount of any business license fee and
tax and penalty imposed by the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City. An
action may be commenced in the name of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction for the
amount of any delinquent license tax, penalties, interest and administrative costs incurred in
connection therewith, including attorneys fees.

5.02.240 Penalty: Conducting A Business Without First Having Procured A License.

Any person who shall conduct business within the City without first having procured a business
license from the City pursuant to this Chapter, shall be assessed in addition to the regular license fee
assessable in connection with such business, a penalty of fifty percent (50%) of the total amount of
the regular license fee and tax owing, which amount shall be calculated for the period beginning
with the calendar month in which the commencement of business activity within the City began, and
ending with the expiration of the current annual licensing period; provided, however, that the start
of such period shall not exceed three (3) years prior to commencement of the licensing period in
which notification of violation is given. Such penalty and interest shall be collected, and the amount
thereof enforced, in the same manner as business license fees are collected and the payment thereof
enforced.

5.02.250 Fee-exempt License-Limitations. Every license duly issued without payment of
the usual fee shall be stamped "Fee-Exempt" upon its face. Every license issued as fee-exempt shall
be subject to suspension and revocation by the Collector in the event that it is determined by the
Collector that the applicant is not entitled to exemption. Any such suspension or revocation shall
be made only after notice and right to a hearing. Every license issued as fee-exempt shall be void
and shall afford no defense in any civil or criminal prosecution if any statement contained in the
application, statement of facts or any other document or representation made to the Collector in
claiming the exemption is false or fraudulent in a material respect. No fee-exempt license may be
transferred or loaned. Upon uncertainty, for lack of information or otherwise, as to the entitlement
of any person to a fee-exempt license, the Collector may require the filing of a verified report of all
funds received and disbursed by any applicant or licensee. Upon demand such applicant or licensee
shall file said report with the Collector within fifteen days (15) days after demand therefore by the
Collector and in such form and detail as the Collector may prescribe from time to time.

5.02.260 Misrepresentation: Penalty. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or
intentionally misrepresent to any officer or employee of the City any material fact in applying for
the issuance or renewal of a business license pursuant to this Chapter. (

5.02.270 Suspension Or Revocation.

(a)	The Business License Officer shall have the power to suspend or revoke any business
license issued hereunder whenever it appears to the Business License Officer that the holder of the
license:

27

ORDINANCE NO. 491

(1)	Has violated any provision of this Chapter, or any rule or regulation adopted
pursuant hereto; or

(2)	Commits any act or offense which would have constituted grounds hereunder
to deny the issuance or renewal of a business license; or

(3)	Failure to make lawful payment of a fee, tax, charge, penalty or interest due
under this Chapter.

(b)	No suspension shall be for a period of more than thirty (30) days. Notice of
suspension or revocation shall be given by either personal service to the licensee or by mail to the
licensee's address of record with the Business License Officer. In the event of such revocation or
suspension of a business license, said license shall be surrendered to the Business License Officer
by the holder thereof within ten (10) business days after notice of the revocation or suspension is
given the Business License Officer.

(c)	A second suspension of a business license for the same reason or a third suspension
for any reason shall operate as a revocation of such license. No person whose business license has
been revoked shall, for a period of at least one (1) year thereafter, be granted a business license
within the City of Moreno Valley.

(d)	In the event of suspension or revocation of any business license, said licensee shall
have a period of ten (10) business days after the Business License Officer gives notice thereof to
appeal such suspension or revocation. Such appeal shall be in writing, shall state the grounds
therefor and shall be received by the Business License Officer within the time allowed for appeals.

(e)	If said licensee fails within the allotted ten (10) day period to make payment of all
delinquent amounts or to request a hearing to show cause why his or her license should not be
suspended or revoked, then and in that event the suspension or revocation shall become effective
according to its terms.

5.02.280 Remedies Cumulative. The conviction and punishment of any person for
conducting a business within the City without first obtaining a license to conduct such business shall
not relieve such person from paying the business fee and tax to conduct such business, nor shall the
payment of any business fee and tax prevent a civil action or criminal prosecution for the violation
of any of the provisions of this Chapter. All remedies prescribed hereunder shall be cumulative and
the use of one or more remedies by the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose
of enforcing the provisions hereof.

5.02.290 Cancellation: Right Of Licensee To Request.

(a) The Business License Officer or Collector shall cancel a valid unexpired license
issued or granted to a licensee pursuant to this Chapter at the request of the licensee provided: (1)
The licensee so endorses, signs and surrenders the business license receipt along with each issued

28

ORDINANCE NO. 491

decal, metal-cal, sticker or tag, and (2) all business activity pursuant to said license has ceased.

(b) Liability of the licensee for further business license fees shall cease only if the license
is duly canceled pursuant to this Section.

5.02.300 Establishment of Business Classification. The Collector is authorized to
establish a list of specific businesses that are included within each of the classifications set forth in
general terms by this chapter. This list shall be reviewed and updated periodically so as to be all-
inclusive as possible. The list shall be kept on file in the offices of the Collector and the Clerk of
the Council and shall be available for use by the general public. The classification of any business
into a general category shall be at the determination of the Collector. Any person aggrieved by the
decision of the Collector shall have the right to a hearing pursuant to Section 5.02.675.

5.02.310 Collector: Duties and Powers.

(a)	There is hereby established the position of Collector. The Collector shall be the
person designated as such by the City Manager.

(b)	It shall be the duty of the Collector to enforce each and all of the provisions of this
Chapter, including the collection of fees, taxes, charges, penalties and interest assessed pursuant to
this Chapter.

(c)	The Collector shall keep full, adequate and accurate records pertaining to the
issuance, denial, expiration, suspension and revocation of licenses under this Chapter and the
collection of all fees, taxes, penalties and other monies in connection therewith. The Collector shall
keep in his or her office a public ledger in which he or she shall keep the accounts of all licenses
currently issued by him or her and remaining in full force and effect.

(d)	All fees, taxes, penalties, charges and other monies received by the Collector pursuant
to the provisions of this Chapter shall be delivered to the City Treasurer for deposit in the General
Fund of the City on the next business day following the receipt of the same.

(e)	The Collector shall prescribe the form and cause the preparation of licenses,
applications, reporting forms, notices and form correspondence.

(f)	The Collector shall determine which business or type or class of business in which
a licensee or applicant is engaged in or about to engage.

(g)	In addition to all other powers, subject to approval of the City Manager, the Collector
shall have the power to make rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this Chapter as
may be deemed necessary or desirable to aid in the enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter.

5.02.320 Duty to Certify General Contractor’s Statement. Every person acting as a
general contractor, whether building for their own occupancy or not, shall file with the Collector a
full, true and complete written statement, signed by such person, under penalty of perjury, listing
all subcontractors who have performed or shall perform any service whatsoever for such person

ORDINANCE NO. 491

within the City. Said statement shall include the name, address and telephone number of each
subcontractor. Any builder-owner, general engineering contractor, specialty contractor, or
subcontractor, subcontracting any work shall be deemed a general contractor for the purpose of this
Section.

5.02.330 Conducting Business After Suspension or Revocation Any person transacting
and carrying on any business during any period of license suspension or revocation shall be deemed
to be doing so without a license. Further, any person transacting and carrying on business during
any period of license revocation or suspension shall be refused any permits or entitlements of use
the issuance of which requires the production of a valid unexpired business license.

5.02.340 Notice to Collector of Permit Application. Each department or division of the
City which issues permits or entitlements of use shall notify the Collector of each application for a
permit or entitlement; provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall be construed to require
any person to obtain a license to do business within the City as a prerequisite for the issuance of a
City permit or entitlement of use if such requirement conflicts with any applicable statutes of the
United States or of the State.

5.02.350 Application for Business License.

(a) Before any business license is issued pursuant to this Chapter, the applicant shall
make a written application to the Collector, which shall contain the following information.

(1)	The exact nature or kind of business, profession, show, exhibition, game,
occupation or enterprise for which the license is requested;

(2)	The place where such business, profession, show, exhibition, or enterprise
is to be conducted; and if the same is not to be conducted at any permanent place of business, then
the residence address, identified as such, of the applicant;

(3)	The address where the applicant will receive mail concerning the license

applied for;

(4)	Where any person contracts, sells or delivers any goods, wares or merchandise
in the City for which sales or use tax is payable, the application shall set forth the appropriate
California State Board of Equalization Permit number;

(5)	Where any person employs others in the course of such business the
application shall set forth the appropriate Federal and/or State Employer Identification number;

(6)	Where any person conducting any business is self-employed, the application
shall set forth the applicant's Social Security Number and California Driver's License number;

(7)	In the event that the application is made for the issuance of a license to a
person doing business under a fictitious name, the application shall set forth the names and addresses

30

ORDINANCE NO. 491

of residences (post office boxes are unacceptable) of those natural persons owning said business or
enterprise, or the address of the principal office of such corporation as may own the business
together with the residential addresses of the officers of the corporation.

(8)	In the event that the application is made for the issuance of a license to a
person doing business as a State licensed contractor, the application shall set forth the applicant's
State Contractor's License Number and Specialty Classification, if any;

(9)	Any further information which the Collector may require to enable him or her
to issue the type of license applied for; and any further information which the Collector may deem
necessary to properly identify the applicant.

(10)	A declaration made under penalty of perjury that the statements made therein
are true and correct, which declaration shall be required to be filed with the Collector upon
submission of any original license application, annual renewal statement, miscellaneous
supplementary statement, or other return or filing. Each such declaration of truth of application or
statement shall have included therein, or attached thereto, a certification or declaration, which shall
be substantially in the following form:

"I declare, under penalty of perjury, that the statements and information set forth in
this application, form or statement (including any accompanying schedules, statements, and
supporting data has been examined by me, and, to the best of my knowledge, information, and
belief, is true and correct."

The declaration shall show the date and place of execution and shall be signed by the
owner, or partner, or officer of the corporation, or other authorized agent or representative of any
of the owner or owners.

(b)	All information specified to be set forth on any application form, including all
documents attached thereto and incorporated therein as prescribed by the Collector shall be
submitted completely and accurately and the license shall be deemed based upon the information
submitted and represented. The Collector shall not be required to receive or consider any
application form or statement unless the above quoted declaration, in substantially the form
hereinabove set forth, is contained therein or attached thereto and properly executed by the applicant
or the authorized agent or representative of the applicant, and it is unlawful in any such application
form or statement for such applicant or authorized agent or representative of the applicant to make
any statement which is false or which is contrary to the declaration or representation made in the
above quoted form.

(c)	Each license shall be deemed valid based upon the application on file, and if the
information is incomplete or inaccurate in any material respect, the license shall be deemed invalid.
If information submitted in an application subsequently becomes incomplete or inaccurate by reason
of a change in circumstances known to a licensee, the licensee shall correct or complete the
information within a reasonable time or the license shall thereafter be deemed invalid. Upon the
Collector's learning of any inaccuracy or incompleteness, notice shall be given forthwith to the

licensee, at the licensee's address of record with the City that the license has become inaccurate or
incomplete for specified reasons and requesting the licensee to correct the deficiencies and to apply
for a re-validated license within ten (10) business days after the date of the notice.

(d)	Upon the licensee's successful application for a re-validated license within the period
hereinabove set the Collector shall apply pro rata to the re-validated license the remainder of the sum
originally paid by the licensee

(e)	Upon the licensee's failure to make successful application for a re-validated license
within the period hereinabove set the Collector shall give notice forthwith that the licensee's license
is hereby suspended, effective as of the date of the notice. Thereafter, upon denial of licensee's
appeal it shall be revoked whereupon the licensee's original payment shall be forfeited.

5.02.360 Statement Not Conclusive; Information Confidential.

(a)	No declaration, statement or application required hereunder shall be conclusive as
to the matters set forth therein by or on behalf of the applicant or third parties, nor shall the filing
of the same preclude the City from determining otherwise or from collecting by appropriate action
such sums as are actually due and payable hereunder.

(b)	The Business License Officer shall not make known in any manner whatever the
business affairs, operations, or information obtained by an investigation of records and equipment
of any person required to obtain a license or pay a license fee under the provisions of this Chapter,
or to divulge the amount or source of income, profits, losses, expenditures, or any particular thereof
set forth in any statement or application, or to permit any statement or application, or copy of either,
or any other document relating thereto which contains specific information as to the amount or
source of income or expenditures of any person obtaining a license to be seen or examined by any
person; provided, that nothing to this Section shall be construed to prevent the disclosure to or
examination of records by another City agent for the sole purpose of administering or enforcing any
of the provisions of this Chapter or auditing of accounts of the Business License Officer, Federal
or State officials, or a grand jury or court of law upon subpoena or in a legal or administrative
proceeding to determine the existence or amount of any license fee liability of the particular licensee
to the City; nor shall the disclosure of the names and addresses of persons to whom licenses have
been issued, the general type of their business, the amount of business license fee paid hereunder
by a particular business or general statistics regarding business fees collected or business done in
the City be prohibited under this Section.

5.02.370 Application Processing Charge.

(a)	A minimum application fee is required for the processing of any license application.
This fee shall be in addition to the business license tax and shall not be prorated. The fee shall not
be refunded if the application is rejected. However, if after receipt of applicant's written notification
of cancellation, no required inspection or investigation has taken place pursuant to any applicable
provision of this Code, and no business activity has been transacted or carried on, then in that event
a refund request for all inspection or investigation charges paid exceeding thirty-five dollars

ORDINANCE NO. 491

($35.00) may be made pursuant to Section 5.02.540. In no event, however, shall the application
processing fee be made refundable, other than as part of a refund made pursuant to said Section
5.02.540.

(b)	The Collector may waive the application processing fee upon a showing that the
applicant is a bona fide non-profit, charitable, or otherwise fee-exempt entity.

5.02.380 Contents Of License. All licenses, unless otherwise provided in this Code, shall
be prepared and issued by the Collector upon the payment to the City of the sum required to be paid
hereunder, or upon filing of proof satisfactory to the Collector of eligibility for exemption from such
payment. Each license so issued shall state upon the face thereof the following:

(a)	The license number of the license.

(b)	The date of expiration of such license.

(c)	The person or persons to whom the same is issued; where the licensee is doing
business under a fictitious name, both the actual and fictitious names of the person to whom the
license is issued.

(d)	The kind of business licensed and the location of the same as provided in Section
5.02.350(a)(2).

(e)	Where said business involves the contracting for, sale, or delivery of any goods,
wares or merchandise in the City for which sales or use tax is payable to the State, the State Board
of Equalization Permit number issued to the business.

(f)	A statement that the holder thereof has paid a license fee or a statement that the
holder thereof is exempt from such payment, and that said license when issued, shall be deemed the
receipt for said payment received by the City.

(g)	A statement that the license is issued without warranty as to whether the licensee or
its employees have qualified for or obtained such additional licenses or permits as may be required
to conduct the licensed business.

5.02.390 Term Of License; New. All new annual licenses issued on or before October
thirty-first of the current year shall be for the period of time remaining in the current year and shall
expire on the thirty-first of December. All new annual licenses issued on or after November first of
the current year shall be for the period of time remaining in the current year as well as the entire
period of the following year ending December thirty-first.

5.02.400 Term Of License; Renewal: Due Date: Grace Period. AH license renewals shall
be for the period of one year beginning on the first day of January and ending on the thirty-first day
of December. The license fees and taxes required to be paid pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter shall become due and payable on or before the first day of January of the licensing year and
shall become delinquent on the first day of February of each such year.

ORDINANCE NO. 491

5.02.410 License Renewal: Declaration. In all cases, the applicant for the renewal of a
license shall submit to the Collector for his or her guidance in ascertaining the amount of the license
fee and tax to be paid by the applicant, a declaration under penalty of perjury, upon a form to be
provided by the Collector, setting forth such information concerning the applicant's business during
the preceding year as may be required by the Collector to enable him or her to ascertain the amount
of the license fee and tax to be paid by said applicant pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter.

5.02.420 Fee and Tax: How And When Payable; Effect Of Dishonored Instrument. All

business license fees and taxes or deposits in lieu thereof due hereunder shall be paid in advance,
in lawful money of the United States, or by check, draft or other instrument deemed to be acceptable
in the discretion of the Collector, at the office of the Collector in the Finance Department of the City.
No business license shall be issued or renewed until the amount due and payable has been paid in
full. Any license, the fee for which has been paid by an instrument such as a check, or draft which
is dishonored upon presentation for payment, shall be void and of no effect from its inception. The
Collector may, in his or her discretion, withhold the effect of this provision if the fee is paid within
ten (10) days. Payment of license fees following a dishonor of such instrument upon presentation
for payment shall thereafter be made only by cashier's check, money order or cash, which fee shall
include any applicable penalty, as well as a service charge as set forth within the City's current fee
resolution. The Collector shall be authorized to reject payment other than by cash, cashier's check
or money order from such licensee for a period of two (2) years following any such dishonor.

5.02.430 Application Of Money Towards Delinquent Fees. Money received for a license
shall first be applied to the payment of delinquent fees, taxes, interest and penalties due during any
preceding licensing year, any balance remaining thereafter shall be applied to the payment of the
current license fees, taxes and penalties. A license issued during any prior year to the same owner,
tenant or occupant for the same place of business shall be prima facie evidence in any court or
administrative proceeding that the business was continuously operated by the same person or firm
from said prior year to the current year.

5.02.440 Statement of Fee: Mistake Not Conclusive.

(a)	No greater or lesser amount of money shall be charged or received for any license
fee other than provided for in this Chapter. In no case shall any mistake of the Collector in stating
the amount of a license fee, or of penalties, or interest accrued thereon prevent or prejudice the
collection by the City of what should actually be due from any person carrying on a business subject
to license fee or other charges under this Chapter. No statement shall be conclusive as to the matters
set forth therein, nor shall the filing of the same preclude the City from collection by appropriate
action such sum as is actually due and payable hereunder.

(b)	Where a mistake is made in the issuance of any license with regard to the
classification under which said license was issued, then a new license shall be issued in the proper
classification in lieu thereof, under the date of the original license, and the licensee shall pay any
additional amount required by such a change.

34

ORDINANCE NO. 491

5.02.450 Renewal Statement: Gross Receipts Submission And Filing. In all cases where
the license is based on gross receipts, the applicant shall submit to the Collector, for his or her
guidance in ascertaining the amount of the license to be paid by the applicant, a written declaration
under penalty of perjury executed on a form to be provided by the Collector, or a sworn statement
executed before a person authorized to administer oaths, setting forth such information concerning
the nature, location, intended duration, and ownership of applicant's business as well as applicant’s
gross receipts during the preceding year as may be required by the Collector to enable him or her
to ascertain the amount of license fee to be paid by said applicant pursuant the provisions of this
chapter. The filing dates for the submission of gross receipts statements shall be during the period
from the first day of January to the twenty-eighth day of February for the period of the preceding
calendar year.

5.02.460 Pavments/Statements Made By Mail: Effect. When the last day of the month
in which the business license fee and tax is due falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or City holiday,
payment of the business license fee and tax may be made without penalty on the first City business
day of the succeeding month. For the purpose of this Chapter, postmarks shall be accepted as the
date of payment made, provided the transmitting envelope contains a post office cancellation
establishing deposit in the United States Mail not later than the date due, or in the case of a Saturday,
Sunday or City holiday, not later than the first following City business day.

5.02.470 Penalties For Delinquency: Application - Written Agreement To Satisfy
Indebtedness: Effect

(a)	For failure to pay a license fee when due, the Collector shall add to said fee the
following penalties until the fee is paid or the license is surrendered for cancellation:

(1)	Ten percent (10%) of said fee on the delinquency date thereof;

(2)	An additional fifteen percent (15%) of said fee on the first day of the second
month after the delinquency date thereof;

(3)	An additional twenty-five percent (25%) of said fee on the first day of the
third month after the delinquency date thereof; and

(4)	An additional fifty percent (50%) of said fee on the first day of the fourth
month after the delinquency date, provided that the maximum total penalty amount imposed
pursuant to this Section shall not exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the amount of the business
license fee due.

(b)	No license, sticker, decal, tag, plate or symbol shall be issued, nor shall one which
has been suspended or revoked be reinstated or reissued, to any person who, at the time of applying
therefor, is indebted to the City for any delinquent business license fee and tax or related charge,
unless such person, with the consent of the Collector, enters into a written agreement with the City,
through the Collector, to pay such delinquent fees, plus ten percent (10%) simple interest upon the

35

ORDINANCE NO. 491

unpaid balance, in monthly installments, or oftener, extending over a period not exceeding one (1)
year. In any agreement so entered into, such person shall acknowledge the obligation owed the City
and agree that, in the event of failure to make timely payment of any installment, the whole amount
unpaid, principal together with interest, shall become immediately due and payable. In the event,
such person fails within a period of thirty (30) days thereafter to render payment in full, his or her
current business license shall be revoked by the Collector. In the event legal action is brought by the
City to enforce collection of any amount included in the agreement, such person shall pay all costs
of suit incurred by the City or its assignee, including attorney fees. The penalties on unpaid balances
shall be imposed at the rate provided hereinabove, but no penalties or additional interest shall accrue
as hereinafter provided on account of fees included after the execution of the agreement during such
time as such person shall not be in breach of the agreement. The execution of such an agreement
by the licensee shall constitute a waiver by the licensee of any and all right to contest the agreement
or any provision thereof, including the imposition and amount of any fee, charge, tax, penalty or
interest.

5.02.480 Penalties Added to Tax Any penalties assessed hereunder, exclusive of interest,
upon attaining a combined amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the amount of the
business license tax due shall become merged with the tax payable hereunder and shall be
considered as a part thereof for all purposes.

5.02.490 Penalties: Interest In addition to the penalties imposed, any business that fails
to remit the business license tax when due shall pay interest on the amount thereof at the rate of one
percent (1%) per month, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which remittance first became
delinquent until paid, provided however, that pursuant to Section 5.02.510, penalties upon attaining
the maximum total amount shall be merged with the tax payable hereunder and any additional
interest charged from and after the date of merger shall be charged on the combined amount
delinquent until paid.

5.02.500 Penalties: Suspension And Revocation Of License.

(a)	The Collector shall suspend or revoke any license issued or granted pursuant to this
chapter only upon those grounds set forth in Sections 5.02.270 or upon conditions set forth in any
written agreement executed pursuant to Section 5.02.500.

(b)	Notwithstanding Section 5.02.270(a)(3), unless revocation is made upon conditions
set forth in a written agreement executed pursuant to Section 5.02.500, no license shall be suspended
or revoked for failure to pay the license fee or any other amount due pursuant to this Chapter until
the penalties accruing from such failure to pay, exclusive of interest, equal one hundred percent
(100%) of the business license fee due for such license.

5.02.510 Refunds Authorized. Any business license fee and tax, or penalties or interest
thereon, or portion thereof, may be refunded, by the Collector in any of the following circumstances:

(a) If paid more than once;

36

ORDINANCE NO. 491

(b)	If erroneously or illegally collected;

(c)	If paid in excess of the correct amount;

(d)	If issued for a business which subsequently does not operate in the City, due to
applicant's inability to obtain additional permits required under any provision of this Code. In such
case, the applicant shall be entitled to a refund of the business license fee paid. Where applicant
cancels his license prior to any inspection or investigation taking place, then in that event, applicant
shall be entitled to a refund of all fees and inspection or investigation charges paid, less the thirty-
five dollar ($35.00) application processing charge, without further deduction to cover the
administrative cost therefor.

(e)	If issued for a business which subsequently becomes prohibited or illegal under any
law of the State or the United States. In such case, the amount refunded shall be prorated on the
basis of the proportion which the number of months remaining in the period for which the business
license fee was paid bears to the number of months in the whole period.

5.02.520 Application For Refund.

(a)	No refund of monies howsoever paid or collected shall be allowed in whole or in part
unless an application therefor is filed with the Collector by or on behalf of the licensee within a
period of one (1) year from the expiration of the license period for which a refund is sought. Such
claims must be filed on forms furnished by the Collector in the manner prescribed by the Collector.
Upon the filing of such a claim, and when he or she determines that a refund is warranted, the
Collector shall refund the amount warranted, less thirty-five dollars ($35.00), to cover the
administrative cost of the refund.

(b)	In the case of a reftind made pursuant to Section 5.02.540 Subsection (b) or
Subsection (d), no deduction shall be made on account of the administrative cost therefor.

(c)	Failure to file such application within the time prescribed herein shall bar any future
right of recovery.

5.02.530 No Refund In Instance Of Other Delinquency. Where the Collector has
determined pursuant to Section 5.02.540 that a refund is due upon a particular business license, but
where the applicant or licensee is at the same time determined to be delinquent or is determined to
be liable for a business license fee upon a separate business license or for a separate unlicensed
business; then in that event, the Collector shall apply said refund amount to the balance owing and
delinquency for said business license or for said unlicensed business. The Collector shall then
refund any amount remaining.

5.02.540 No Refund In Instance of Misrepresentation. No refund shall be made where
the business license was issued under a misrepresentation of fact by the applicant or such applicant
actually engaged in the conduct of the business for which the license was granted prior to the date

ORDINANCE NO. 491

stated in applicant's original application.

5.02.550 Proof Of Payment Prerequisite To Refund. In all cases proof of payment shall
be a prerequisite to any refund.

5.02.560 No Refund Upon Termination Of Business. The business license fees collected
pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter are not refundable upon termination of a business or for
any unused portion or term of a license period.

5.02.570 License Nontransferable. Change Of Name Or Location.

(a)	No license issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be transferable or assignable;
provided, that where a license is issued authorizing a person to conduct a business at a particular
place, the licensee thereunder may upon application therefor and upon paying a charge as specified
in City Council resolution have the license amended to authorize the conducting of such business
under said license at some other location to which the business is or is to be moved.

(b)	Where a person holding a license issued under the provisions of this Chapter changes
the name of the licensed business, such person shall, upon changing the name, submit an application
to the Collector together with the amount of the charge therefor specified in a City Council
resolution, to have said license amended to reflect the change in name.

(c)	Transfer, whether by sale or otherwise, to another person under such circumstances
that the real or ultimate ownership after the transfer is substantially the same as the ownership
existing before the transfer, shall not be prohibited by this Section. For the purpose of this Section
stockholders, bondholders, partnerships, or other persons holding an interest in a corporation or
other entity herein defined to be a person are regarded as having the real or ultimate ownership of
such corporation or other entity.

5.02.580 Duplicate License. A duplicate license may be issued to replace any license
previously issued hereunder which has been lost, damaged, or destroyed upon the licensee filing a
declaration of such fact under penalty of perjury, and at the time of filing such declaration, paying
a duplicate license charge at a rate specified in a City Council resolution.

5.02.590 Use Of License By Unlicensed Person. It shall be unlawful for any person
holding a license required by this Chapter to permit any unlicensed person to use the license, the
licensed premises or the licensee's name for the purpose of evading payment of any license fee or
of evading any other provision of this Chapter.

5.02.600 Enforcement of Chapter.

(a)	The Business License Officer in the exercise of the duties imposed hereunder and
acting through his or her deputies or duly authorized assistants, shall examine or cause to be
examined all places of business in the City to assure compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.

38

ORDINANCE NO. 491

(b)	The Business License Officer, and each and any of his or her assistants, and any law
enforcement officer, and any business license inspector, and any code enforcement officer, and the
Collector shall have the power and authority to enter, free of charge or hindrance, and at any
reasonable time, any place of business required to be licensed under this Chapter, and demand an
exhibition of its business license.

(1)	A person having in his or her possession or control the license for such
business, and who willfully fails to exhibit it on demand shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
Chapter.

(2)	A licensee not having a license for such business on display in a conspicuous
place on the premises shall be guilty of a violation of this Chapter.

(3)	A licensee whose license fee is delinquent, or any licensee who has been duly
placed on notice of a suspended or revoked license, and who has not paid such fee or is in the
process of a timely appeal from such suspension or revocation pursuant to Section 5.02.270 of this
Code shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this Chapter.

(4)	Any person who has violated one or more provisions of this Chapter and who
has been previously duly placed on notice of such violation, and who has not paid said business
license fee or applied for exemption therefrom and who has not applied for, or who is not
undergoing the process of a hearing or appeal pursuant to Section 5.02.270 of this Code shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this Chapter.

(c)	It shall be within the authority of the Business License Officer, subject to the
approval of the City Attorney, to cause a civil or criminal complaint to be filed in a court of
competent jurisdiction against any person found to have violated or to be in violation of any
provision of this Chapter.

(d)	Each application, declaration, report and other document filed with the Collector
pursuant to this Chapter shall be subject to audit and verification by the Collector or other duly
authorized agents of the City, who are hereby authorized to examine, audit, and inspect such books
and records of any licensee or applicant for license, as may be necessary in their judgment to verify
or ascertain the amount of license fee and tax due.

(e)	All persons subject to the provisions of this Chapter shall keep complete records of
business transactions, including rent collected, sales, sales tax collected and paid to the State,
receipts, purchases, and other expenditures, including the number of persons employed and
otherwise engaged in the business, and shall retain all such records for examination by the Collector
or other authorized agents of the City. Such records shall be retained for a period of three (3)
complete years after the latest entry therein. No person required to keep records under this Section
shall refuse to allow authorized representatives of the Collector to examine said records at
reasonable times and places as determined justifiable and necessary by the Collector. Any person
who willfully refuses to allow said examination on demand and at a reasonable time and place as

39

ORDINANCE NO. 491

herein provided shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this Chapter.

(f)	It shall be unlawful for the Collector or any person having access to business records
furnished to the Collector under the provisions of this Chapter to make known in any manner
whatsoever the business affairs, operations, or information obtained by an investigation or
examination of records of any person required to obtain a license, or pay a license tax, or any other
person visited or examined in the discharge of official duty, or the amount or source of income,
profits, losses, expenditures, or any particular thereof to be seen or examined by any person except
as may be required in the discharge of such person's official duties. All gross receipts statements
or estimates required by this Chapter shall be confidential and are hereby declared not to be public
records. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of such information by any officer, agent or employee
of the City shall be deemed to constitute a violation of this Chapter.

(g)	Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent:

(1)	The disclosure to, or the examination of records and equipment by, another
City official, employee, or agent for collection of taxes for the sole purpose of administering or
enforcing any provisions of this Chapter, or collecting taxes imposed hereunder;

(2)	The disclosure of information to, or the examination of records by, federal
or state officials, or the tax officials of another city or county, if a reciprocal arrangement exists, or
to a grand jury or court of law, upon subpoena;

(3)	The disclosure of information and results of examination of records of
particular taxpayers, in a court of law in a proceeding brought to determine the existence or amount
of any license tax liability to the City of the particular taxpayers;

(4)	The disclosure after the filing of a written request to that effect, to the
taxpayer himself or herself, or to his or her successors, receivers, trustees, executors, administrators,
assignees or guarantors, if directly interested, of information as to the times included in the measure
of any tax paid, any unpaid tax or amounts of tax or charges required to be collected, interest and
penalties.

(5)	The disclosure of the names and business addresses of persons to whom
licenses are currently issued, and the general type or nature of their business;

(6)	The disclosure by way of public meeting or otherwise of such information as
may be necessary to the City Council in order to permit it to be fully advised, when in session, as
to the facts when a taxpayer files an appeal claim for fee-exemption, license reinstatement, refund
of forfeited fees or bonds, compromise with regard to a claim asserted against him or her by the City
for business license taxes, or when duly acting upon any other official matter; or

(7)	The disclosure of general statistics regarding taxes collected or business done

in the City.

5.02.610 Pavment/Statements Made bv Mail: Effect. When the last day of the month in
which the business tax is due falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or City holiday, payment of the business
license tax may be made without penalty on the first City business day of the succeeding month.
For the purpose of this Chapter, postmarks shall be accepted as the date of payment made, provided
the transmitting envelope contains a post office cancellation establishing deposit in the United States
mail not later than the date due or in the case of a Saturday, Sunday or City holiday, not later than
the first following City business day.

5.02.620 Penalty For Violation. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
Chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished in accordance with the provisions of Sections
1.01.200 through 1.01.230 of this Code.

5.02.630 Continuing Violations. The conduct of any business within the City without
complying with the requirements of this Chapter is a separate violation of this Code for each and
every day of such non-compliance.

5.02.640 Appeals.

(a)	For Denial of License. Any person aggrieved by any decision of the Business
License Officer with respect to the issuance or refusal to issue any license may appeal such decision
pursuant to Sections 2.04.100 through 2.04.130 of this Code.

(b)	If the owner(s) of a business disagree with the classification to which they have been
assigned they may submit an appeal for a change of classification to the Business License Office.
The appeal must be in writing and must be received in the Business License Division of the Finance
Department no later than ten(10) working days after the receipt of their annual Business License
renewal form or at the time of application for a new Business Tax Certificate. The appeal should
state the name of the owner(s), the location of the business and the reasons for requesting a
reclassification. The Finance Director, Business License Officer and Business License Inspector
shall review the facts of the appeal and will respond to the applicant no later than fifteen (15)
working days from the date of submission. If applicant does not agree with the decision of the
Review Committee, he/she may appeal in writing to the City Council by filing with the City Clerk
a written notice of such appeal per Chapter 2.04.100 of the City of Moreno Valley Municipal Code.

5.02.650 Fee and Tax a Debt to City: Actions for Collection. The amount of any license
fee, tax, penalty, or interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by the provisions of this Chapter
shall be deemed a debt to the City. Pursuant to Section 3.10.010 of this Code, an action may be
commenced in the name of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction for the amount of any
delinquent fee, penalty, interest, or charge due hereunder.

5.02.660 Fee and Tax Exemptions and Exclusions: Disabled Veterans: Every person
who has been honorably discharged from military service of the United States and who is exempted
from the payment of business license fees by statute of the State on account of disability related to
such service may distribute circulars, hawk, peddle, and vend any goods, wares or merchandise

41

ORDINANCE NO. 491

owned by him, except spirituous, malt, vinous or other intoxicating liquor, without payment of a
license fee and tax under this Chapter, subject however to the restrictions, limitations, regulations
and conditions hereinafter set forth:

(a)	Every applicant must furnish a certificate of physical disability executed by a
qualified physician or submit equivalent evidence of disability.

(b)	Every applicant must submit to being photographed by the City of Moreno Valley
Police Department. One copy of said photo shall be permanently affixed to the license issued to said
applicant and another copy shall be transmitted to the Collector for attachment to the portion of the
license application retained by him or her. The applicant must also sign both the application and the
license at the time of issuance.

(c)	A license, when issued, is subject to the following conditions:

(1)	Said license shall not be defaced, mutilated, disfigured or otherwise altered
subsequent to its issuance, and failure to comply herewith is grounds for revocation of said license
and for refusing its renewal or the issuance of a new license thereafter.

(2)	It is nontransferable and for the exclusive use of the licensee named.

(3)	Should a license be found in the possession of one other than the licensee
named, it shall be surrendered to the Collector and, unless such possession was beyond the control
of the licensee, revoked. Neither the licensee named nor the holder thereof shall thereafter be
entitled to hold a license under the provisions of this Section.

(4)	The licensee named must identify himself by his signature whenever required
to do so by any City Police Officer, or any authorized agent of the Collector.

(5)	Every license issued under the provisions of this Section shall expire on the
31st day of December of the license year; provided however that a license newly issued on or after
November 1 st of the current year shall expire on the 31 st day of December of the next year.

(6)	It is unlawful for any person other than the licensee named to use or have in
his or her possession any license issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section.

(7)	It is unlawful for any person to purchase, sell or transfer any license issued
pursuant to the provisions of this Section or for any person to transfer or convey a certificate
mentioned in this Section to any other person for the purpose of securing a license as herein
provided.

5.02.670 Fee and Tax Exemptions and Exclusions: Nonprofit Organizations.

(a) The provisions of this Chapter shall not be construed to require the payment of a
license fee and tax to conduct any business, occupation or activity or require the payment of any
license fee from any institution or organization which currently has or is eligible for an exemption

ORDINANCE NO. 491

from the payment of federal income taxes under Section 501 of the Federal Internal Revenue Code
as amended from time to time and/or exemption from the payment of State income taxes under
Section 23701 et seq. of the California Revenue and Taxation Code as amended from time to time.
An institution or organization claiming a license fee exemption under this Section has the burden
of furnishing to the Collector such information as the Collector may require to establish the claim
of eligibility for exemption.

(b) Nothing in this Section shall be construed to relieve an institution or organization
which is eligible for or claims to be eligible for exemption of the requirement to obtain a business
license as provided in Section 5.02.020 of this Chapter.

5.02.675 City Sponsored or Co-Sponsored Events (including Parks & Recreation! -
Exemptions. Organizations shall apply to the City Council for consideration of waiving payment
of a processing fee or business gross receipts tax for vendors participating in a short term (one to
three day) event to be sponsored (or co-sponsored) by the City of Moreno Valley (“City”) or Moreno
Valley Community Services District (“District”). Said application shall be made in conjunction with
the application for City sponsorship or co-sponsorship under the City’s Special Events policy as
adopted and amended by the City Council from time to time. This Section shall not preclude
application of the requirements of this Chapter for any business routinely conducting business within
the City at other than City or District sponsored events.

5.02.680 Business License Required: Exceptions. Each person, institution or organization
claiming exemption from the payment of a business license fee and tax under Section 5.02.035 shall,
nevertheless, apply to the Collector for a business license in the same manner, and at the same time
as is required in this Chapter of all other persons applying for a business license and shall be subject
to the same procedures for enforcement and to the same penalties as provided herein.

5.02.690 Hobbv. The provisions of this Chapter shall not be deemed or construed to apply
to any person engaged in hobby or service activity in the City unless such person sells or solicits the
sale of products generated by such hobby or service.

5.02.700 Fee Exempt Licenses: Issuance and Administration.

(a)	Every license issued without payment of the business license fee shall be stamped
"Fee-Exempt" upon its face.

(b)	Any license issued as fee-exempt shall be subject to suspension and revocation by
the Collector in the event that it is determined by the Collector that the licensee is not entitled to
exemption. All such suspensions and revocations shall be made after notice and right to a hearing
pursuant to Section 5.02.270.

(c)	Any license issued as fee-exempt shall be void and shall afford no defense in any
civil or criminal prosecution if any statement contained in the application, statement of facts or any
other document presented or representation made to the Collector in claiming the exemption is false
or fraudulent in a material respect.

43

ORDINANCE NO. 491

(d)	No fee-exempt license may be assigned, transferred or loaned.

(e)	Upon uncertainty, for lack of information or otherwise, as to the entitlement of any
person to a fee-exempt license, the Collector may require the filing of a declaration executed under
penalty of perjury of all funds received and disbursed by any licensee. Upon demand such licensee
shall file said report within fifteen (15) days thereafter in such form and detail as prescribed by the
Collector.

5.02.710 Specified Exemptions from Licensing Requirement

(a)	A business license shall not be required for the conducting of any entertainment,
concert, exhibition or lecture on scientific, historical, literary, cultural or moral subjects whenever
the receipts of any such activity are to be appropriated to any educational, charitable or benevolent
purpose within the City, or to a non-profit organization within the City.

(b)	A business license shall not be required for any person under eighteen (18) years of
age, who is a citizen of the City, and who is enrolled in an institution of secondary education;
provided, that such person has no employee or employees working for him or her.

(c)	A business license shall not be required for any attorney whose only business done
in the City is in the courts operated in this City, nor for any doctor whose only business done in the
City is surgery or consultation in a regularly established hospital, clinic or medical office in the City.

(d)	A business license shall not be required for any other licensed person providing
professional services not having a fixed place of business within the City and not engaged in other
than the occasional furnishing of professional services wholly negotiated and contracted for outside
the City.

(e)	A business license shall not be required for any nonprofit institution, corporation,
organization, or association organized or conducted for nonprofit purposes only, when the receipts
derived are to be used wholly for the benefit of the organization, and, except for wages paid to
employees of such organization, not in whole or part for the private gain of any person. This
exemption shall not apply to promoters employed by nonprofit institutions, corporations,
organizations, or associations.

(f)	When a business, otherwise exempt pursuant to this Section, is conducted by a
nonexempt person on behalf of such business, or in conjunction with a non-exempt business, the
exemption shall be applicable only with regard to the exempt business, and shall not be applicable
with regard to the nonexempt person or business.

5.02.720 Specified Exclusions from Fee Requirement. Except as may be otherwise
specifically provided in this Chapter, the terms hereof shall not be deemed to apply to or be
construed to require the payment of a license fee and tax by any of the following:

ORDINANCE NO. 491

(a)	A public utility making franchise payments to the City, except to the extent said
public utility engages in retail sales or services within the City not covered or otherwise authorized
by such franchise.

(b)	Banks, including national banking associations, federal credit unions, and financial
corporations, to the extent that a City may not levy a license fee upon them under the provisions of
Article XIII, Section 27 of the State Constitution.

(c)	Insurance companies or associations engaged in the sale and servicing of insurance
and their direct agents, including bailbond agents and life agents, but not including brokers or
bailbond brokers or life and disability insurance analysts or insurance solicitors to the extent that a
City may not levy a license fee upon them under the provisions of Article XIII, Section 28 of the
State Constitution.

(d)	A governmental agency or political subdivision and the employees thereof, to the
extent they are engaged in the business of such governmental agency or subdivision.

(e)	A motor vehicle carrier, or household goods carrier operating under the jurisdiction
of the Public Utilities Commission of the State of California or any public transportation system in
the City whose definite permanent points of origin or termination lie outside of the boundaries of
the City to the extent that, pursuant to Section 4301 et seq. of the State Public Utilities Code, such
entities are not subject to the license fee requirements of this Chapter.

(f)	A State alcoholic beverage licensee engaged in the manufacture, sale, purchase,
possession, or transportation of alcoholic beverages within the State to the extent that a City may
not levy a license fee upon them under provisions of Article XX, Section 22 of the State
Constitution.

(g)	Any day care facility where not more than six (6) people are cared for on a full or
part-time basis, to the extent that a City may not levy a license fee upon them pursuant to Section
1523 of the State Health and Safety code.

(h)	Any residential care facility where not more than six (6) people are cared for on a full
or part-time basis, to the extent that a City may not levy a license fee upon them pursuant to Section
1566.2 of the State Health and Safety Code.

5.02.730 Radio and Television Broadcasting: Soliciting Advertising.

(a)	Any person engaged in transaction and carrying on activities related to the generation
of electromagnetic waves within the City for the purpose of commercial broadcasting by radio
transmission or television transmission shall pay an annual business license fee pursuant to Section
5.02.020 of this Chapter.

(b)	Any person engaged in transaction and carrying on activities related to the solicitation
of advertising within the City for radio or television transmission in intrastate commercial

45

ORDINANCE NO. 491

broadcasting and not otherwise licensed under the provisions of this Chapter and not having a
regularly established place of business within the City, shall pay an annual business license fee and
tax pursuant to Section 5.02.020 of this Chapter.

5.02.740 Transportation of Property. Goods: Exemptions and Exceptions.

(a)	Every person whose business is that of the transportation of property for
compensation, and who in the course of that business uses the public streets and highways within
the City to receive or discharge, pick up or deliver property within the City, shall pay a business
license fee and tax in accordance with Section 5.02.020 of this Chapter.

(b)	The provisions of this Section shall not apply to persons transporting property within
the City on an occasional and incidental basis. For the purpose of this Section, "occasional and
incidental" is defined to be the doing or performing of not more than three incidents or acts as
specified in this Section in any twelve month period.

(c)	The business license fee and tax imposed under the provisions of this Section shall
not apply to any person who is subject to fee under the Highway Carrier's Uniform Business License
Tax Act, commencing with Section 4301 of the California Public Utilities Code; nor shall the
provisions of this Section apply to the operation of any vehicle operated exclusively in interstate
commerce.

5.02.750 Telephone Services. Every person engaged in the business of providing telephone
services shall pay an annual business license fee and tax according to Section 5.02.020 of this
Chapter. For the purpose of this Section, a fee for processing and tax computed on prior year's gross
receipts will be applied.

5.02.760 Rates and Schedules. The fees, taxes, charges, penalties, interest rates and
schedules for and in connection with business licenses as authorized by this Chapter shall be in the
forms and amounts attached hereto as Exhibit A, which shall be codified in this Section as Figure
1.

5.02.770 Notice. Unless specifically provided otherwise in this Chapter, notices required
or authorized herein to be given shall be in writing and shall be delivered or deposited into the
United States mail at least ten (10) business days in advance of the action to be taken by the City or
required to be taken by the person to whom notice is given.

5.02.780 Severabfflitv. If any article, section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
Chapter is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision or any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not effect the validity of the remaining portions of the
Chapter. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this Chapter and each
remaining article, section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase hereof, irrespective of the fact that
any one or more of the articles, sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases hereof be
declared invalid or unconstitutional.”

46

ORDINANCE NO. 491

3.1	Within fifteen (15) days after the adoption of this Ordinance, the City Clerk shall
certify to the adoption hereof and cause it to be posted in at least three (3) public places within the
City.

SECTION 4 EFFECTIVE DATE:

4.1	This Ordinance shall become effective thirty (30) days after the date of its approval
by a majority vote of the electors of the City voting in a general or special election on a ballot
measure concerning this Ordinance.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council and signed by the Mayor and attested
by the City Clerk this 12th day of March 199 6.

ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

City Attorney

dec2.ord

03/01/96/RDH/ar

47

ORDINANCE NO

491

ORDINANCE JURAT

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE ) §

CITY OF MORENO VALLEY )

I, ALICIA CHAVEZ, City Clerk of the City of Moreno Valley, California, do hereby
certify that Ordinance No. 491 had its first reading on March 5, 1996 and had its second
reading on March 12, 1996 and was duly and regularly adopted by the City Council of the
City of Moreno Valley at a regular meeting thereof held on the 12th day of March, 1996 by
the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Flickinger, Stewart and Mayor Lanning

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Councilmembers	Crothers and	Lefler

ABSTAIN:	None

(SEAL)

48

ORDINANCE NO. 491

AFFIDAVIT OF POSTING
CITY OF MORENO VALLEY

I, Alicia Chavez, City Clerk of the City of Moreno Valley, California, certify that on the
22nd day of March, 1996, I caused to be posted Ordinance No. 491 in the following places
pursuant to City of Moreno Valley Resolution No. 95-62:

City Hall, City of Moreno Valley
14177 Frederick Street

Purchasing Division, City of Moreno Valley
15670 Perris Boulevard

Senior Center
25075 Fir Avenue

Dated: March 22, 1996

(SEAL)