FINAL ENGINEER'S REPORT

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL PARK
AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
LANDSCAPING AND LIGHTING DISTRICT NO. 92-1
ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT
CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS

As amended June 18,1996

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
Board of Supervisors

Gloria Molina  Supervisor	Michael D. Antonovich  Supervisor  Yvonne Brath waite Burke  Supervisor
Zev Yaroslavsky  Supervisor	Deane Dana  Supervisor  JoAnne Sturges  Executive Officer-Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
Sally Reed  Chief Administrative Officer	DeWitt W. Clinton  County Counsel  Assessment Engineers  Willdan Associates  Richard L. Kopecky, P.E.  Angelique M. Lucero

FINAL ENGINEER S REPORT
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL PARK
AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
LANDSCAPING AND LIGHTING DISTRICT NO. 92-1
ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT
CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS

I	HEREBY CERTIFY that the enclosed Engineer’s Report and Boundary Map was filed
with me on the 18th day of June, 1996.

Joanne Sturges

Executive Officer-Clerk of the Boar d of Supervisors
County of Los Angles, California

By

Deputy

FINAL ENGINEER'S REPORT

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL PARK
AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
LANDSCAPING AND LIGHTING DISTRICT NO. 92-1
ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT
CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS

I.	INTRODUCTION	1

II.	BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICT	3

III.	DESCRIPTION OF IMPROVEMENTS	4

IV.	COST ESTIMATE	22

V.	RATE AND METHOD OF ASSESSMENT	24

TABLES

TABLE

FINAL ENGINEER S REPORT
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL PARK
AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
LANDSCAPING AND LIGHTING DISTRICT NO. 92-1
ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT
CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS

I.	INTRODUCTION

This Report is prepared in compliance with the requirements of Article 4 of Chapter I of
the Landscaping and Lighting Act of 1972, Part 2 of Division 15 of the California Streets and
Highways Code.

This Report presents the engineering analysis for an additional assessment within the District known as:
County of Los Angeles Landscaping and Lighting District No. 92-1, hereinafter referred to as
the "District."

The District will provide funding for park, recreation and open space improvements and some park
maintenance throughout the District.

Levying of the assessments will be carried out pursuant to Sections 22500 et seq. of the California
Streets and Highway Code and Sections 5506.9, 5538.9 and 5539.9 of the California Public Resources
Code. As required in Section 5539.9 of the Public Resources Code, any additional assessment to be
levied in the District must first be approved by a majority of the voters in the District voting on the
proposition. The District will administer the assessment if it is approved by voters. The additional
assessments shall exist, be effective and be deemed to be levied upon the date of the election, at which
a majority of the voters in the District voting on the proposition approved the proposition.
Similarly, changes to the rate and method of the 1992 Assessment and amendments to the
permitted uses of proceeds from the 1992 Assessment must be submitted to the voters of the District
for their approval.

Each of the projects listed in Section 8 of the Order of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Los
Angeles Initiating Procedures for the Formation of the Los Angeles County Regional Park and Open
Space District dated March 17, 1992 which is by this reference incorporated herein, shall be items to be
acquired, constructed and/or maintained with the proceeds of the additional assessments.

Pursuant to Section 5539.9 of the Public Resources Code, the rate and method of apportionment of the
proposed additional assessment to be levied by the District and the improvements proposed to be funded
by the additional assessments must be submitted to the voters for majority approval.

The Landscaping and Lighting Act of 1972 requires that assessments be apportioned with reference to
benefit rather than according to assessed value. Section 22573 of the California Streets and Highways
Code states:

"The net amount to be assessed upon lands within an assessment district may be apportioned by
any formula or method which fairly distributes the net amount among all assessable lots or

1

parcels in proportion to the estimated benefits to be received by each such lot or parcel from the
improvements.

The determination of whether or not a lot or parcel will benefit from the improvements shall be
made pursuant to the Improvement Act of 1911 Division 7 commencing with Section 5000 of the
Streets and Highway Code."

Payment of the additional assessment for each parcel will be due in the same manner and at the same
time as payments of property taxes for that parcel.

Properties owned by public agencies, such as cities, the county, the state or the federal government,
will not be assessed except when such property is not devoted to a public use. For a complete
discussion of exempt properties, see the Rate and Method of Assessment.

Where the estimated cost of the proposed improvements is greater than can be conveniently raised from
a single annual assessment, the District will issue bonds payable from the assessments under the
provisions of the Improvement Bond Act of 1915, California Streets and Highways Code, Section 8500
et seq., which shall govern the proceedings as related to bonds.

2

FINAL ENGINEER S REPORT
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL PARK
AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
LANDSCAPING AND LIGHTING DISTRICT NO. 92-1
ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT
CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS

II.	BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICT

The boundaries of the District are coterminous with the boundaries of the County of Los Angeles. The
Diagram showing the exterior boundaries of the District and the lines and dimensions of each lot or
parcel of land within the District has been submitted to the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors.
A reduced scale copy is included in this Report. The lines and dimensions of each lot or parcel within
the District are those lines and dimensions shown on the maps of the Assessor of the County of Los Angeles
that support the secured tax roll for fiscal year 1995/1996. The Assessor's maps and records
are incorporated by reference herein and made part of this Report.

3

FINAL ENGINEER S REPORT
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
LANDSCAPING AND LIGHTING DISTRICT NO. 92-1
ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT
CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS

III.	DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS

In accordance with Sections 22567 and 22568 of the Streets and Highways Code, the description of the
general nature, location and extent of the items to be acquired, constructed, and/or maintained is outlined
below.

4

DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED IMPROVEMENTS

a.	Specific County Regional Projects	$51,050,000

1. County Park and Recreation Facilities
These projects consist of county park and recreation facilities, which are regional in nature and are
located throughout the District. County-operated park and recreation facilities include many of the
District's large regional parks and recreation areas that offer a wide variety of recreation opportunities
not available elsewhere in the District, significant natural resources, and trail and river systems that
traverse the entire District. These facilities include:

•	large recreational centers and multi-use sports facilities

•	large regional parks

•	lakes, fishing and boating facilities

•	extensive trail systems and connections into National Forest areas. State Parks, river systems

•	senior citizen recreation facilities

•	mountain ranges and canyons

•	significant ecological areas and critical natural lands

•	equestrian facilities

Funds are included for the following specific county park and recreation facilities, natural areas, trail
systems and community facilities throughout the District which meet the regional criteria.

A. Amigo Park	$100,000

Landscape and/or irrigation improvements and general park improvements. Located at Obregon
and Eduardo Street in Pico Rivera and serving the communities of Pico Rivera, Whittier, and
Santa Fe Springs.

B. ADA Compliance projects	$600,000

Rehabilitate park facilities throughout the County to improve accessibility for the disabled as
required by the Americans with Disabilities Act in park facility restrooms, play grounds,
buildings, picnic facilities, routes of travel and parking lots.

C.	Antelope Valley	Wetland Preservation	$350,000

Acquire and/or preserve wetland habitat, create interpretive exhibits, limited viewing access and
protective barriers. Located in the Antelope Valley.

D.	Belvedere Park	$500,000

Develop new soccer field at Diaz Plaza area and/or general park improvements. Located at 4914
C. Chavez Avenue in East Los Angeles and serving the communities of Monterey
Park, Montebello and Commerce.

E.	Bethune Park	$70,000

Security improvements, install fencing and remove existing block wall. Located at 1244 East 61st
Street in Los Angeles, and serving the communities of Los Angeles, Florence, Vernon and
Huntington Park.

F.	Bonelli Regional Park	$1,200,000

Rehabilitate swim beach, lake, picnic areas, turf restrooms parking facilities and/or other general
park improvements. Located at 120 Park Road, San Dimas and serving the communities of San
Dimas, La Veme, Pomona, Claremont, Walnut and Covina.

G.	Burton Park	$300,000

Construct multi-purpose recreation facility and new picnic shelters at this park serving the
communities of Hacienda Heights, Rowland Heights and City of Industry. Located at 16490
East Santa Bianca Drive.

H.	Campanella Park	$300,000

Improve and renovate community center and restroom buildings of this park serving the
communities of Compton, Los Angeles, Carson and Willowbrook. Located at 14812 Stanford
Avenue, Los Angeles.

I.	Castaic Sport Complex	$250,000

General park improvements including security lighting, landscaping and/or irrigation. Serving
the communities of Castaic, Val Verde, and the Santa Clarita Valley.

J.	Castaic Lake	$1,700,000

Rehabilitate swim beach, lake, picnic areas, turf and irrigation system, walkways, facilities and/or
other general park improvements. Located at 32132 Ridge Route Road in Castaic.

K.	Central County Senior Recreation Facilities and ADA Implementation	$2,010,000

Expand, develop, and/or rehabilitate parks serving senior citizens or to comply with the
Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) in the Central areas of the county, including but not
limited to Athens, Del Aire, and Keller Park.

L.	Cerritos Park	$1,396,000

Renovate pool and community bath house, and improve tennis courts of this park serving the
communities of Cerritos, Hawaiian Gardens, Lakewood and Artesia. Located at 19700 South
Bloomfield.

M.	City Terrace Park	$2,000,000

Constmct new gymnasium/community activity facility including showers and locker rooms at this
facility serving the communities of East Los Angeles and Monterey Park. Located at 1126 N.
Hazard Avenue.

N.	Devils Punchbowl	$250,000

Install security lighting and fencing at this significant natural area. Located at 28000 Devil's
Punchbowl Road in the Pearblossom area.

O.	East Los Angeles Senior Recreation Facilities and ADA Implementation	$1,650,000

Expand, develop and/or rehabilitate facilities serving senior citizens or to comply with the
Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) at parks in the East Los Angeles and San Gabriel Valley
areas including, but not limited to Avocado Heights, Basset, Salazar, Atlantic Boulevard and/or
Belvedere.

P.	El Cariso Regional Park	$1,700,000

Rehabilitate parking lot, develop new tennis courts, install security lighting, improve outdoor
facilities including irrigation system, replace pool pump, update restrooms to ADA codes, install
security fences around ball fields and/or other general improvements. Located at 13100 Hubbard
Street and serving the communities of Los Angeles, San Fernando and the northern San
Fernando Valley.

Q.	Franklin D. Roosevelt Park	$1,500,000

Renovate existing picnic areas, rehabilitate turf areas and irrigation, replace existing gymnasium
floor, improve drainage around gymnasium building and/or other general improvements of this
park serving the communities of Los Angeles, Huntington Park, Walnut Park, Florence and
South Gate. Located at 7600 Grahm Avenue, Florence.

R.	Gunn Avenue Park	$2,274,000

Develop new community building, to include restrooms, meeting rooms, kitchen and storage
facilities, to serve the communities of Whittier, La Mirada and Santa Fe Springs. Located at
10130 S. Gunn Avenue.

S.	Hart Regional County Park	$1,000,000

Renovate campgrounds and/or general park improvements and ADA improvements.
Located in the vicinity of the City of Santa Clarita.

T.	Jackie Robinson Park	$1,500,000

Develop regional pool facility and/or other general improvements to this park serving
the unincorporated communities in the north county including Pearblossom,
Littlerock and Longview. Located at 88th Street and Avenue R.

U.	Jesse Owens County Park	$1,748,000

Remodel gym, develop new restroom building, renovate pool building, parking lot, security
lighting and/or other general improvements of this park serving the communities of Los Angeles,
Hawthorne, Athens and Inglewood. Located at 9651 S. Western Avenue.

V.	John Anson Ford Theater	$1,500,000

General renovations and improvements to this historic amphitheater which was built in the 1920's
and features music, dance and children's exhibitions. Located at 2580 Cahuenga Boulevard East
in the City of Los Angeles.

W.	La Mirada County Park	$1,310,000

Renovate lake, replace walks, install new irrigation pumps and security lighting and/or other
general improvements to this park serving the communities of La Mirada, Norwalk, Cerritos and
Santa Fe Springs. Located at 13701 S. Adelfa Drive, La Mirada.

X.	LaderaPark	$400,000

Build two restroom buildings, install new sewer lines and/or other general improvements.
Located at 6027 Ladera Park Avenue in Los Angeles and serving the communities of
Los Angeles, Baldwin Hills, Inglewood, Windsor Hills.

Y.	Lake Los Angeles	$125,000

Develop and/or improve recreational facilities at Lake Los Angeles serving the communities of
the North County including Palmdale and Wilsona Gardens. Located at Avenue P and 170th
Street East, Los Angeles.

Z.	Lennox Park	$500,000

Expand community building, build restroom/community recreation office. Located at
Lennox Boulevard and Condon Avenue in the Lennox area and serving the communities of Los
Angeles, Inglewood and Hawthorne.

AA. Loma Alta Park	$1,200,000

Develop new	gymnasium/community activity facility and/or other general

improvements. Located at 3330 N. Lincoln Avenue and serving the communities of
Pasadena, Altadena and La Canada Flintridge.

BB. Los Robles Park	$550,000

Replace irrigation system, expand community building and renovate restrooms and/or other
general improvements. Located at 14906 East Los Robles Avenue and serving the communities
of Hacienda Heights, City of Industry, Avocado Heights and La Puente.

CC. Magic Johnson Park	$600,000

Develop sports complex and install new sewer line and/or other general improvements. Located
at 905 East El Segundo Boulevard in the City of Los Angeles and serving the communities of
Compton and Gardena.

7

DD. Manzanita Park	$810,000

Replace irrigation system, expand and renovate community building and/or other
general improvements. Located at 1747 S. Kwis Avenue and serving the communities of
Industry, Hacienda Heights and La Puente.

EE. Marshall Canyon Regional Park	$200,000

Improve campground at Marshall Canyon Regional Park serving the communities of La Verne,
Pomona, San Dimas and Claremont. Located at 6550 Stephens Road in La Verne.

FF. Mona Park	$250,000

Rehabilitate park facilities. Located at 2291 E. 121st Street and serving the communities of
Willowbrook, Lynwood and Compton.

GG. North County Parks	$3,700,000

Acquire, develop and/or rehabilitate parks, natural lands or recreation facilities in the North
County area, including but not limited to George Lane and Charles White Parks, and including
but not limited to, the communities of Acton, Altadena, Littlerock and Pearblossom.

HH. Pamela Park	$1,500,000

Develop regional pool facility and/or other park improvements at this park serving
the communities of Arcadia, Monrovia, Duarte, Bradbury and Irwindale. Located at E.
Pamela Road and Goodall Avenue in Monrovia.

II. Peck Park	$200,000

Improve picnic areas and campgrounds and/or general park improvements. Located at 5401
North Peck Road in Monrovia and serving the communities of Norwood Village,
Arcadia, Baldwin Park, Irwindale, El Monte and Temple City.

JJ. Placerita Canyon Park	$500,000

Security improvements, develop interpretive displays, land acquisition and/or
general improvements of large natural area in the North County area. Located at 19152
Placerita Canyon Road in Newhall.

KK. Rogers Park	$112,000

Develop restroom, community and recreation facilities and/or general improvements. Located
at 1335 E. 103rd Street and serving the communities of Los Angeles.

LL. Rosas Park	$300,000

Install new playground equipment, improve hand court, lighting and/or general improvements.
Serving the communities of Rowland Heights and Hacienda Heights.

MM. Rowland Heights Park	$100,000

Improve hard courts and lighting. Located at Banida Avenue in Rowland Heights.

NN. San Dimas Canyon Park	$100,000

Develop restrooms, improve security and install interpretive displays and/or
general improvements. Located at 1628 North Sycamore Canyon Road and serving the
communities of San Dimas, La Verne, Claremont and Glendora.

OO.	Santa Fe Dam Regional Park	$500,000

Improve picnic areas, lake, irrigation system and/or general improvements of this large regional
park. Located at 15501 E. Arrow Highway and serving the communities of Irwindale, Duarte,
Azusa, Covina, West Covina, Baldwin Park, Arcadia, Monrovia and Bradbury.

PP. Schabarum Regional Park	$730,000

Renovate lighting, install new roof at facility building, install new irrigation system for Ume
Grove and/or other general improvements at this large regional park. Serving the
communities of Rowland Heights, La Puente,La Habra Heights and South San Jose Hills.

QQ. Senior Citizen Projects	$800,000

North County Senior Citizen Facilities	$250,000

Improve and rehabilitate senior citizen facilities in the North County area.

East Los Angeles and San Gabriel Valley Senior Citizen Facilities	$550,000

Improve senior citizen facilities in the East Los Angeles area, the San Gabriel Valley and the
Puente Hills area of the County.

RR. South County and Puente Hills Senior Citizen and Youth Facilities	$2,160,000

Develop and/or rehabilitate parks serving senior citizens, youth and/or at-risk youth in the Puente
Hills and South County areas, including, but not limited to Trailview, Country Wood and Blevins
Parks.

SS. Steinmetz Park	$470,000

Rehabilitate irrigation system, improve park drainage, upgrade lighting and/or other
general improvements. Located at 1545 South Stimson Avenue in Hacienda Heights and
serving the communities of Hacienda Heights, La Puente, City of Industry and Rowland
Heights.

TT. Trails in the North County	$150,000

Improve access, signage, install fencing, create staging areas and/or general restoration of trails.
UU. Urban Parks in Central Los Angeles County	$2,000,000

Development and/or general improvements to park, recreation and/or community facilities
in densely-populated communities with a high population of youth, particularly at-risk
youth, including, but not limited to Athens, Watts, Willowbrook, and Florence

W.	Urban Parks in East Los Angeles/San Gabriel Valley	$1,650,000

Develop and/or improve park, recreation and/or community facilities in densely-populated
communities with a high population of youth, particularly at-risk youth in the East Los Angeles
and San Gabriel Valley areas.

WW. Val Verde Park	$675,000

Acquire, develop and improve active sports fields at Val Verde Park serving communities in the
northeast county including Val Verde, Castaic, Del Valle, Pico and Stephenson Ranch. Located
at 30300 W. Arlington Street in Castaic.

XX. Vasquez Rocks Regional Park	$1,200,000

Develop nature center/museum, parking area, restrooms and/or general improvements at this
significant natural area. Located at 10700 W. Escondido Canyon Road in Saugus.

YY. Victoria Park	$500,000

Enclose pool and construct two restrooms and/or general improvements. Located at 419

E.	192nd Street in Carson and serving the communities of Compton, Gardena and
Harbor Gateway.

ZZ. Washington Park	$360,000

Improve pool bathhouse and facilities. Located in the City of Los Angeles and serving
the communities of South Gate, Walnut Park, Florence, Watts and Firestone.

AAA. Whittier Narrows Nature Center	$200,000

Improve nature center, including security lighting and fencing. Located at 1000 N. Durfee
Avenue and serving the communities of Rosemead, El Monte, South El Monte, Montebello, Pico
Rivera and Monterey Park.

BBB. Whittier Narrows Park	Recreation Area	$3,300,000

Improve irrigation system, construct amphitheatre, expand parking facilities and develop
and improve this large regional facility. Located at 823 Lexington-Gallatin Road and serving
the communities of Rosemead, El Monte, South El Monte, Montebello, Pico Rivera and
Monterey Park.

9

2. County wide Competitive Funds	$7,000,000

These funds are designed to meet the wide and varied park, natural lands and recreation-related needs
in all regions of the District by making funds available through grants to public agencies and qualified
non-profit organizations throughout the District on a competitive basis. These funds will be available
on a regular basis in accordance with criteria and program guidelines established by the District. Funds
will be available for the following purposes:

•	Trails: to acquire and develop land for walking, hiking, horse, bicycle and handicapped access trails,
for trails that provide vital recreation opportunities in recreation-poor urban communities, improve and
develop river trails, connect river, urban and mountain areas. National Forests, State Parks, canyons and
regional and local parks throughout the District, and for improvements to and development' of public

access.

•	Senior Citizen Facilities: to acquire, develop, improve and restore senior citizen recreation facilities
that serve many communities in all regions of the District.

•	Urban Tree Planting: to plant trees in public places for urban beautification projects, particularly in
heavily-urbanized, tree-poor areas of the District.

•	Graffiti Prevention: to improve and to increase the safety of parks, recreation facilities and community
open space areas by removing and preventing graffiti on public facilities throughout the District.

•	Rivers and Streams: to develop compatible recreational opportunities and public access, and to
improve and restore natural lands for wildlife enhancement along rivers and streams and their tributaries
throughout the District.

•	Natural Lands Restoration: to acquire and/or restore natural lands throughout the District, including
coastal sage scrub, desert, coastal dunes, coastal prairies, chaparral, vernal pools, oak woodlands, forests
and native grasslands habitat, for the purposes of protecting and restoring critical natural resources cf
the county.

3.	At-risk Youth Facilities Competitive Funds	$7,000,000

These funds are designed to meet the growing need for positive recreation alternatives for at-risk youth
to increase gang prevention and intervention efforts throughout the District by making funds available
through grants to public agencies and qualified non-profit organizations throughout the District on a
competitive basis. These funds will be available on a regular basis in accordance with criteria and
program guidelines established by the District. Funds will be used to build regional youth service
facilities for at-risk youth for gang prevention purposes throughout the District, and will be available
equally for meeting the needs of girls at-risk and boys at-risk.

4. Santa Monica Bay	$4,000,000

Funds for capital outlay projects that reduce the toxicity of and/or pollutant load in urban mnoff into the
Santa Monica Bay.

b.	County Regional Projects	$95,650,000

These projects consist of county regional facilities, natural areas or recreation sites which serve all
regions and residents of the District. These funds are designed to protect and improve critical coastal
and other natural areas, and facilities which are vital to the economic, environmental or recreational
health of the county; develop at-risk youth facilities to aid in gang prevention efforts; provide important
regional recreation facilities in all regions of the District that are not currently available; preserve and
restore open space, recreation, river and natural resources which are unique or significant to the entire

District; improve public access to these and other park resources; and increase the safety of park, trail
and recreation facilities. Funds are provided for the following purposes:

1.	County Beaches	$8,000,000

The county's extensive beaches are a significant natural resource and a vital economic resource. Los
Angeles County's beaches are unparalleled in the world and are a major recreational asset to the entire
region. The presence of safe, clean, attractive and usable beaches attracts millions of users every year,
encourages businesses to locate in the region, contributes to the economic viability of these businesses
and supports millions of dollars of coastal-related businesses. Funds will be provided to acquire, develop
and restore facilities to enhance beaches and public access, improve water quality, and improve the safety
of beach facilities along sixty miles of Los Angeles County's unique coast.

2.	Baldwin Hills	$11,000,000

Acquire and improve lands for park, wildlife, natural and open space purposes and develop related
recreation facilities and public access in the Baldwin Hills.

3.	Cabrillo Marine Aquarium	$1,000,000

Improve and develop this regional facility which serves almost one half a million visitors each year.
Improvements will be made in accordance with the Cabrillo Marine Aquarium Master Plan.

4.	Descanso Gardens	$350,000

Develop and improve Descanso Gardens, a regional facility which offers visitors extensive collections
and exhibitions of plant species and botanical gardens.

5.	Exposition Park	$12,000,000

Improvements and land acquisition within Exposition Park, for park, recreational, community and open
space use and for walkways, tree-planting and landscape improvements, and for improvements to the
California Afro-American Museum and to the California Museum of Science and Industry.

6.	Hollywood Bowl	$18,000,000

Rehabilitate facilities and aging, high-maintenance infrastructure including improvements for public
access and access for the disabled, repair and restore all seating areas (capacity 18,000), hand-rails and
stairways, expand picnic areas, upgrade electrical, sewage, water and other infrastructure facilities,
expand restroom facilities, upgrade security lighting and improve stage sound and lights.

7.	Los Angeles Arboretum	$1,450,000

Improve, restore and rehabilitate the Los Angeles Arboretum. This public garden features
extensive collections of plant resources from around the world and historical resources serving
residents and visitors to Los Angeles.

8.	Los Angeles Natural History Museum	$5,000,000

Improve, develop, restore and/or rehabilitate facilities of the Los Angeles County Natural
History Museum, including development of exhibition space and renovation of aging infrastructure.

9.	Los Angeles River Greenway	$12,000,000

Acquire, develop, improve and restore lands along the Los Angeles River, Tujunga Wash, Verdugo
Wash, Pacoima Wash, Arroyo Seco, and Compton Creek and other tributaries of the Los Angeles River,

11

consistent with the Los Angeles County Los Angeles River Master Plan, for the purposes of providing
recreational opportunities and public access, developing parks and trails for walking, biking, hiking and
equestrian use, and restoring natural habitat lands for wildlife along the length of the Los Angeles River,
including Compton Creek and the confluence of the Los Angeles River and Compton Creek.

10.	Los Angeles Zoo	$	12,000,000

Develop, improve and rehabilitate the Los Angeles Zoo including exhibition spaces to enhance and
improve animal health and welfare, in accordance with the Los Angeles Zoo Master Plan.

11.	Pio Pico State Historic Park	$2,500,000

Restore and rehabilitate the Pio Pico State Historic Park, in accordance with the Pio Pico State Historic
Park General Plan including repair of earthquake damage and landscaping.

12.	Santa Clara River	$1,000,000

Acquire and improve lands for the Santa Clara River Park in accordance with the Santa Clara River
Water and Recreation Features Plan.

13.	South Coast Botanical Gardens	$1,350,000

General improvements to facilities at the South Coast Botanical Gardens.

14.	Whittier Puente Hills	$10,000,000

Acquire, improve and/or restore park and natural lands and develop public access in the Puente Hills
Wildlife Corridor which connects the Puente Hills to the Cleveland National Forest and provides critical
habitat for wildlife and native plant communities.

c.	Funds to Cities	$131,550,000

1.	Per parcel funds to all cities & unincorporated area of the County	$35,000,000

Each city in the District will be allocated funds based on each city's percentage of the total number of
parcels in the District. The purpose of these funds is to ensure that each community throughout the
District will benefit from park and recreation facilities and park safety improvements. The governing
bodies of each city will allocate these funds to improve, acquire and develop necessary park and
recreation facilities in neighborhoods within each city.

The unincorporated area of the county will be allocated funds from the per parcel grant category based
on the unincorporated area's percentage of the total number of parcels in the District. The Board of
Supervisors will allocate these funds to improve, acquire and develop necessary park and recreation
facilities in neighborhoods throughout the county.

2.	Specific City Regional Projects	$96,550,000

This category consists of regional park and recreation facilities located in cities throughout all areas of
the District. Each of these projects meet the established criteria and the regional significance of each of
the projects listed was carefully documented. These projects serve a much larger area than the city in
which they are located. These projects include:

•	improvement and development of existing regional park and recreation facilities

•	development of new regional park and sports facilities

•	improvement of safety lighting, fencing and vandal-proofing at park and recreation facilities

12

•	development of at-risk youth facilities to provide positive recreation alternatives for gang prevention
purposes

•	improvement of existing and development of new senior recreation facilities

•	preservation and restoration of significant natural resources and coastal areas

•	development of trails, greenways and public access areas

A.	Agoura Hills: Regional Community Center	$500,000

Construct regional community center and gymnasium with the City of Calabasas to
provide recreational facilities for the Agoura, Calabasas and Las Virgenes areas. Located at
27050 West Agoura Road near Calabasas Sheriff’s Station.

B.	Alhambra: Almansor Park Trail	$600,000

Renovate walking/jogging trail system which connects the city of San Gabriel to the City
of Alhambra. The renovation will make the trail accessible for the disabled and erosion
resistant. Located at Almansor Park at 800 South Almansor Street.

C.	Arcadia: Civic Center Park	$200,000

Rehabilitate and improve soccer facilities used throughout the Pasadena, Monrovia, Temple City,
El Monte, San Gabriel and Arcadia areas. Located at 240 W. Huntington Drive.

D.	Artesia: At-Risk Youth Recreation Center	$500,000

Construct 4,150 square foot service center dedicated to programming for at-risk youth and their
families from the Artesia, Norwalk, Cerritos, Lakewood and Bellflower areas. Located on the
grounds of A.J. Padleford Park.

E.	Avalon: Beach and Waterfront	$350,000

Improve beaches, Dive Park, access, parking and picnic facilities. Located on Santa Catalina
Island, a regional beach designation for residents throughout Los Angeles County and tourists
worldwide.

F.	Baldwin Park: Regional Sports Fields	$200,000

Rehabilitate and/or develop four regionally used sports fields serving the communities
of Irwindale, El Monte, La Puente and West Covina.

G.	Bellflower: West Branch Greenway Trail	$400,000

Develop Bellflower's 2.25 mile portion of the West Branch Greenway bikeway project. Full
project connects four cities to regional facilities including the San Gabriel River, the Los Angeles
River and Coyote Creek. Located along Southern Pacific rights-of-way within the city limits.

H.	Beverly Hills: Beverly Gardens Park	$250,000

Complete phase two of renovation of parkway between Santa Monica Boulevard and Wilshire
Boulevard. Park is site of regional events and is heavily-used by residents of
surrounding communities and visitors to the area.

I.	Burbank: Stough Canyon Nature Center and Campground	$800,000

Develop 3,000 square foot nature center and a camping facility in Stough Canyon located in the
Verdugo Hills to enhance regional use of the Rim of the Valley Trail, Stough Canyon
Nature Center and adjacent Wildwood Canyon Park. Improvements can include multi-purpose
camping shelter, utilities, restrooms, kitchen/dining area, grading, landscaping and irrigation.
Located in Stough Canyon adjacent to DeBell Municipal Golf Course.

J.	Calabasas: Regional Community Center	$500,000

Construct a regional community center and gymnasium under the joint control of the cities
of Agoura Hills and Calabasas to provide recreational facilities for residents of Agoura
Hills, Calabasas and Las Virgenes areas. Located at 27050 W. Agoura Road near Calabasas
Sheriffs Station.

13

K.	Claremont: Claremont Community Center	$1,175,000

Rehabilitate a 31,000 square foot building for use as a multi-purpose community center. Facility
serving the cities of Claremont, Pomona, and La Verne. Facility located at 1700 Danbury Road
in northwest Claremont.

L.	Covina: Charter Oak Park	$1,000,000

Develop and/or improve the 17-acre county regional park. Improvements to include remodeling
of the recreational facility, development of skating park, rehabilitation of parking lot and
irrigation system. Located on Covina Boulevard and serving the communities of Covina,
Irwindale, Glendora, Azusa, and West Covina.

M.	Cudahy/South Gate: Los Angeles River Sports Park	$4,200,000

Acquire and restore natural lands, develop public access to the Los Angeles River Greenway and
develop regional sports fields to serve South Gate, Cudahy, Bell, and Bell Gardens. Adjacent to
the Los Angeles River in the south eastern-most corner of the City of South Gate at the border
of Cudahy.

N.	Culver City: Culver City Senior Center	$1,625,000

Construct a 26,000 square foot senior facility serving the communities of Culver City, Los
Angeles, Santa Monica, Inglewood and Beverly Hills to replace obsolete facility now used on
the site. Located at 4095 Overland.

O.	Downey: Rio San Gabriel Park	$300,000

Rehabilitate existing park buildings, installation of security lighting, and redesign of multi-
use game courts. Located at Rio San Gabriel Park at 9612 Ardine Street. Serves the
communities of Downey, Norwalk, Santa Fe Springs, and Pico Rivera. Facility links to
regional San Gabriel River Bikeway.

P.	Duarte/Bradbury: Duarte Regional Teen Center	$400,000

Rehabilitate regional teen center for use by the communities of Duarte, Bradbury, Monrovia,
Arcadia, Duarte, Santa Anita, San Gabriel and South El Monte areas. Located at 1565 E.
Central Avenue.

Q.	El Monte: Civic Center Park and Recreation Facility	$1,500,000

Improve and/or rehabilitate community center swimming pool including relocating swimming
pool, increase parking on area vacated by current pool to ensure accessibility and compliance
with ADA guidelines. Facility is used by communities throughout the San Gabriel
Valley including South El Monte, El Monte, Rosemead, Temple City and Baldwin Park.
Located on Mildred Street between California and Tyler Avenues.

R.	Gardena: Rowley Park Youth Alternative Center	$250,000

Improve and rehabilitate park facilities at Rowley Park. Construction of additional recreation
facility space, improvements to Gymnasium, safety field lighting, and/or picnic
shelter rehabilitation. Facility draws user groups from Gardena, South Gate, South
Central and Southeast Los Angeles, Lawndale, Hawthorne, and Compton.

S.	Glendale: Adult Recreation Center	$1,600,000

Improve adult and senior facility including construction of 40,000 square foot multi-purpose
center serving the residents from Los Angeles, Burbank, Pasadena, La Crescenta and Eagle Rock
areas. Located at 201 E. Colorado Boulevard.

T.	Glendora	Total:	$1,400,000

1.	Regional Teen Center	$900,000

Develop a 12,500 square foot teen center/multi-purpose facility serving at-risk youth in the
Azusa, San Dimas, Covina, and Glendora areas. Located at Dawson Avenue Park near
intersection of Bender Avenue and Dawson Avenue.

2.	Wildlife Corridor	$500,000

Acquisition of critical wildlife and natural lands in the San Gabriel Valley foothills. Located in
the foothills above the City of Glendora.

U.	Hawaiian Gardens: Lee Ware Community Aquatics Facility	$250,000

Expand swimming facility, re-roof, and upgrade to meet ADA standards. Park serves the
communities of Lakewood, Cerritos, Artesia and Long Beach. Located at 22310 Warham
Avenue.

V. Hawthorne: Memorial Center Gymnasium	$575,000

Constmct final phase of 10,000 square foot gymnasium building for children, families and senior
citizens, and other improvements to existing facilities at this 10.25-acre park serving the
communities of Hawthorne, Gardena, Inglewood, El Segundo, Lennox, Del Aire and El Camino
Village. Located at Lot 22 at Memorial Park.

W.	Hermosa Beach: Waterfront Plaza and Municipal Pier	$1,000,000

Renovate pier, including addition of elevated observation deck, and expansion of fishing decks.
Located on Pier Avenue. Pier is a regional resource serving the communities of Redondo Beach,
Manhattan Beach, Hermosa Beach, El Segundo, Torrance and Lawndale and residents
throughout Los Angeles County and tourists from around the world.

X. Inglewood: Centinela Park	$1,725,000

Improve Veteran's Memorial Building, renovate pool bathhouse, resurface tennis court,
construct soccer stadium, and renovate amphitheater. Located Northeast of Florence at
Centennially Avenue.

Y.	La Mirada: Senior Citizen and Community Center	$1,000,000

Construct a 20,000 square foot community/senior citizen center for recreation, counseling,
training, community meetings, and programming needs. Located northeast of City Hall and
adjacent to La Mirada Regional Park.

Z.	La Puente: La Puente Park Community Center	$700,000

Renovate and improve the La Puente Park Community Center with emphasis on facilities for at risk
and other community youth from the surrounding areas of Basset, Hacienda Heights, Industry,
Avocado Heights, Rowland Heights, West Covina and Valinda. Located at 501 N. Glendora
Avenue.

AA. Lakewood	Total:	$600,000

1.	Athletic Fields Safety Lighting	$300,000

Retrofit heavily-used athletic fields safety lighting with energy efficient lamps and
glare control at three regionally-used city facilities. Improvements located at Del Valle,
Palms and Bloomfield Parks and serving the communities of Lakewood, Bellflower,
Cerritos, Artesia, Hawaiian Gardens and Long Beach.

2.	Lakewood Parks Game Courts	$300,000

Construct new multipurpose courts for basketball, volleyball at city parks used by the
communities of Lakewood, Bellflower, Cerritos, Artesia, Hawaiian Gardens and
Long Beach. Located at Boyar, Bloomfield, Bolivar, Del Valle and San Martin
parks.

BB. Lancaster	$1,800,000

1.	Regional Soccer Complex	$800,000

Phase II construction of Soccer Complex in the City of Lancaster. Includes grading,
irrigation, turf and restroom/concession facility. Facility to serve all of Antelope
Valley including the communities of Palmdale, Lake Los Angeles, Pearblossom, Leona
Valley, Acton, Quartz Hill, Little Rock, and Lancaster.

2.	Prime Desert Woodland Preserve	$1,000,000

Acquire prime desert woodland habitat to complete the 75-acre preserve located in the
Antelope Valley. Project includes viewing platform, trails, and restrooms. Located at the
intersection of Avenue K8 and 35th Street.

CC. La Verne: Regional Sports Parks	$275,000

Develop and improve the facilities at several regional sports parks in the city of La Veme which
serve the communities of La Veme, San Dimas, Claremont and Pomona.

DD. Lawndale: Jane Addams Park	$175,000

Expand and rehabilitate park building, construct a restroom and renovate facilities to meet ADA
requirements of park serving communities of Hawthorne, Redondo Beach, Lawndale and
Torrance. Located at 15114 Firmona Avenue.

EE. Long Beach:	Total:	$9,900,000

1.	Belmont Pier	$500,000

Reconstruct city's main fishing pier which services 16 miles of coastline, including entry
way with the addition of signage and gates, resurface pier, rehabilitate parking lot, repair
of structural damage. Located at Ocean Boulevard and 39th Place.

2.	Belmont Plaza Pool	$2,000,000

Renovate competition-rated, Olympic pool including, security system and
general repairs. Pool facility significant on a regional, state and international level as
heavily uses facility for swim meets including the U.S. Olympic Water Polo Team.
Facility Located at 4000 E. Olympic Plaza.

3.	Park on Golden	$3,500,000

Develop recently acquired park land in downtown Long Beach. Located between
Broadway, Sixth Street, Golden Avenue, and the Long Beach Freeway.

4 Westside Park	$3,900,000

Create joint use area for community recreational needs. Acquisition and development
of new park land in densely-populated, under-served west area of city, and renovation
of Hudson Park. Located near the 2100 block of Santa Fe.

FF. Los Angeles:	Total:	$30,000,000

1.	Ballona Lagoon Marine Preserve	$1,000,000

Improve and restore wetlands for wildlife, recreational, educational and open space
purposes in the Ballona Lagoon Marine Preserve. Located near Marina del Rey and
Playa Vista.

2.	Cabrillo Marine Aquarium	$1,800,000

Improve and develop this regional facility which serves almost one half a million visitors
each year. Improvements will be made in accordance with the Cabrillo Marine Aquarium
Master Plan. Located in San Pedro and serving residents all throughout Los Angeles
County.

3.	Compton-Slauson Regional	Park	$2,000,000

Convert 8-acre industrial lot in this park-poor, densely populated high at-risk youth area
into an urban park including: landscaping, irrigation, fencing, lighting, athletic fields,
children's play area, parking, restrooms and park office. Located at the corner of Slauson
and Compton Avenues and serving youth from south east and south-central Los Angeles,
Vernon, Walnut Park and Huntington Park.

4.	Eagle Rock Area Parks	$500,000

Acquire land for park purposes in the Eagle Rock area of the City of Los Angeles.

5.	Elysian Park	$1,900,000

Develop and improve the Bishop Canyon area in Elysian Park including: picnic areas,
landscaping, irrigation, and construction of restroom facilities. Located at Elysian Park,
one of the heaviest used parks in Los Angeles.

6.	Griffith Park and Traveltown	$1,900,000

Develop and restore Locomotive Pavilion. Traveltown is located on the San Fernando
Valley side of Griffith Park near the 134 Freeway in the largest municipally owned park
in the United States with over 10 million visitors per year.

7.	Hansen Dam Recreation Area	$1,800,000

Develop facilities related to the 15-acre swim lake at Hansen Dam Recreation Area
including development of restrooms, picnic facilities and access improvements to this
regional facility serving the northeast San Fernando Valley.

8.	Housing Authority Recreation Areas	$2,300,000

Improve and enhance recreation facilities associated with public housing
projects throughout the City of Los Angeles.

9.	Inner-city High-need Urban parks	$7,000,000

Acquire, improve, and develop park, recreation and community facilities to
address unmet needs of high-density, park-poor, urban communities with high
populations of at risk youth. Located throughout the City of Los Angeles including
the San Fernando Valley.

10.	MacArthur Park	$1,500,000

Develop youth recreation facilities including soccer fields, play areas, expansion of
open space areas and relocate band shell at this 32-acre park. Located near
downtown Los Angeles and adjacent to Wilshire Boulevard this 100-year old park
receives more than 1.0 million visitors a year.

11.	North and Northeast Valley Trails	$500,000

Develop multi-use trails to connect the communities of the north and northeast
San Fernando Valley to the Hansen Dam and Angeles National Forest and network of
trails in the Rim of the Valley Corridor.

12.	Sepulveda Basin Recreation	Area	$2,800,000

Develop, restore and rehabilitate the Sepulveda Basin Recreation Area. Project
to include wildlife habitat restoration and recreational bikeways connecting to the
Basin. Park located near Balboa and Victory Boulevards with bikeways
extending along Burbank/Chandler Corridor.

13.	Stoney Point Park	$4,000,000

Acquire open space for park purposes and expansion of Stoney Point Park in
the Northwest San Fernando Valley for protection of significant natural and scenic
features. Located near the community of Chatsworth near the 118 Freeway.

14.	Mid-Valley Senior Citizen	Center	$1,000,000

Develop and/or improve a senior facility in the San Fernando Valley to serve
senior citizens from throughout the San Fernando Valley.

GG. Lynwood: Mervyn M. Dymally Park	$975,000

Complete redesign and reconstruction of this 30-acre park facility serving the communities of
South Gate, Lynwood, Compton, Paramount and Los Angeles. Located at 3798 Martin Luther
King, Jr. Boulevard at Bullis Road.

17

HH. Malibu: Malibu Pier	$700,000

Reconstruct this heavily-used pier and significant regional resource. Expand pedestrian walking
areas. Located along the waterfront and adjacent to Pacific Coast Highway, this pier is a
regional resource serving all visitors to Malibu beaches.

II. Manhattan Beach: Cultural Arts Center	$500,000

Design and renovate building to include a performance theater, exhibition gallery, storage and
community room space serving the South Bay communities. Located at 1560 Manhattan Beach
Boulevard between Peck and Redondo Avenues.

JJ. Monrovia: Recreation Park Armory Facility	$500,000

Renovate existing Armory Building, used as a recreation center, and construct an additional
2,500 square foot building. The Armory Facility located in Recreation Park serves the
communities of Monrovia, Duarte, Arcadia, Bradbury and Santa Anita. Located near the comer
of Mountain and Olive Avenues.

KK. Montebello: City Park Aquatics Center	$450,000

Construct and rehabilitate Aquatic Center including children's pool and compliance with ADA
requirements. Located at 1300 W. Olympic Boulevard serving the communities of Montebello,
Bell Gardens, Commerce and Santa Fe Springs.

LL. Monterey Park: Barnes Park	$1,000,000

Renovate this 17-acre park to include reconstructed tennis courts, ballfield, sand play area,
amphitheater, picnic shelter, swimming pool & other infrastmcture improvements serving the
communities of Monterey Park, Alhambra, Montebello, East Los Angeles, Rosemead and San
Gabriel. Located at Harding Avenue and Ramona Road.

MM. Norwalk:	Total:	$1,000,000

1. Foster Street Green belt and Trail	$375,000

Landscape and walkway improvements to a 2.2-acre greenbelt and trail which connects
to the San Gabriel River Regional bike trail. Located on Foster Avenue from LeFloss
to the San Gabriel River serving the communities of Downey, Bellflower, Cerritos, Santa
Fe Springs and Artesia.

2.	Norwalk Aquatic Pavilion	$625,000

Improve the aquatics center including new boiler/heating system, decking,
pool resurfacing, and air ventilation system at pool serving communities of
Downey, Bellflower, Cerritos, Santa Fe Springs and. Artesia. Located at Norwalk
Community Park at San Antonio Drive the Arts and Sports Complex hosts regional
tournaments, festivals and exhibitions.

NN. Palmdale: Anaverde Basin Sports Complex	$2,500,000

Develop Anaverde Basin for recreational regional use with soccer fields and baseball
diamonds serving the Antelope Valley and the unincorporated communities of Pearblossom,
Little Rock, Lake Los Angeles, Leona Valley and Quartz Hill. Located at Rayburn and Tierra
Subida Roads.

OO.	Palos Verdes Estates: Coastal Natural Lands	$500,000

Acquire lands for public access and preservation of beach, tide pool, coastal bluff. Located near
the coastal area of Palos Verdes Estates.

PP. Paramount: Progress park At-Rosh Youth Center	$300,000

Develop 8,000 square foot Progress Park Community and At-Risk Youth Center at Progress
Park serving the communities of Compton, Lynwood, Downey and Bellflower. Located near
the intersection of Jefferson and Downey Avenue.

QQ. Pasadena:	Total: $1,900,000

1.	Hahamonga Watershed Park	$ 1,000,000

Restore, rehabilitate and improve 600-acre natural area including restoration of natural habitat,
develop recreation facilities and public access. Located at the mouth of the Arroyo Seco River
as it descends from San Gabriel Mountains near the City of Pasadena.

2.	Kidspace Museum at Brookside Park	$900,000

Renovate and improve the Fannie Morrison Community Facility and children's museum. Project is
located at 360 North Arroyo Boulevard in Brookside Park in the Arroyo Seco and is heavily-
used by schools throughout Los Angeles County.

RR. Pico Rivers: Pico Rivera Community Center	$1,000,000

Rehabilitate the 40+year-old park and constmct gymnasium and community center, walkway,
improve security lighting, and basketball pavilion at the center serving the communities of Pico
Rivera, Santa Fe Springs, South El Monte, Montebello, Whittier, Downey and La Mirada.
Located at 4632 Fir Street.

SS. Rancho Palos Verdes: Critical Natural Lands	$4,000,000

Acquire critical wildlife and natural lands near the Portuguese Bend Nature Preserve on the Palos
Verdes Peninsula. Land for use as natural habitat, scenic views and by hikers and equestrians.
TT. Redondo Beach: Seaside Lagoon	$300,000

Rehabilitate and improve salt water recreation facility known as Seaside Lagoon. Improvements
include construction of restrooms, constmction of picnic pavilions, landscaping, installation of
slides and fountains, and/or renovation of pool complex. Located near the marina and serves the
Cities of Torrance, Lawndale, Hermosa Beach, and Manhattan Beach and worldwide tourists
to Redondo Beach.

UU. Rolling Hills Estates: Wildlife Habitat and Open Space	$1,000,000

Acquire natural habitat lands and open space in the City of Rolling Hills Estates. Land to be
used for natural habitat, equestrian activities, hiking, and recreational purposes.

VV. Rosemead: Garvey Boulevard Recreation Center	$1,000,000

Construct 20,000-30,000 square foot multi-purpose and senior citizen recreation facility serving
the communities of Rosemead, San Gabriel, El Monte, South El Monte, West San Gabriel.
Located at 9100 Garvey Boulevard.

WW. San Dimas: Horsethief Canyon Park Trail	$150,000

Reconstruct trails, hilltop picnic area, and staging areas in trail system in the San
Gabriel Mountains serving the communities of Arcadia, Azusa, Chino, Claremont, Covina,
Fullerton, Glendora, La Habra, La Verne, Pomona, San Gabriel and Sierra Madre.
Located north of Foothill Boulevard and west of Sycamore Canyon Road.

XX. San Fernando: Las Palmas Park Youth Activities Center	$700,000

Construct a 12,000 square foot Youth Activities center for at-risk youth serving the communities
of Sylmar, Lakeview Terrace, San Fernando, Pacoima and Arleta. Located at Las Palmas - 505
Huntington Street at the intersection of Hollister Street.

YY. San Gabriel: Smith Park	$1,700,000

Acquire and develop land for regional park and roller hockey facilities providing the only
enclosed roller hockey facility in the region and serving the communities of
Rosemead, Alhambra, San Gabriel, Glendora, Temple City, Azusa, El Monte, Duarte,
Monterey Park, Rosemead and South El Monte. Located at 232 W. Broadway.

ZZ. Santa Clarita: Santa Clarita Valley Regional Park	$2,000,000

Develop regional central park in the Santa Clarita Valley. The full project will encompass 130
acres. Project to include picnic areas, ball fields, and other recreational uses. Serves the
communities of Saugus, Canyon Country, Santa Clarita, Valencia, and Newhall.

AAA. Santa Monica: Santa Monica Beach and Coastal Access	$1,700,000

Enhance beach and park lands along the beachfront near Pacific Coast Highway and improve
public access. Project connects bluff park to beach area. Located along the coast and Pacific
Coast Highway in Santa Monica and a destination for tourists worldwide.

BBB. Signal Hill: Signal Hill Park Trails	$250,000

Acquire and improve a hiking trail to loop around Signal Hill, overlooking the surrounding cities.
Located on the hilltop known as Signal Hill.

CCC. South El Monte: Aquatics Community Fitness Center	$275,000

Construct community fitness center including weight room and boxing room. Located within
the South El Monte Civic Center Complex and serving the communities of South El Monte, El.
Monte, Rosemead, Duarte and San Gabriel.

DDD. South Gate: Hollydale Community Center	$400,000

Develop and improve Hollydale Community building at city park for at-risk youth
and community needs. Facility serves the communities of South Gate, Lynwood,
Downey, and Paramount.

EEE. Torrance:	Total:	$1,500,000

1.	Madrona Marsh Nature Preserve	$300,000

Develop natural history center and improve Madrona Marsh Nature Preserve in last
remaining fresh water marsh in the South Bay. Located near streets of
Sepulveda, Madrona, Maple and Plaza Del Amo.

2.	Wilson Park Sports Complex	$1,000,000

Constmct regional indoor sports facility at site of regional park in Torrance. Facility will
serve residents of Lomita, Palos Verdes, Rolling Hills, Palos Verdes Estates, Rolling
Hills Estates, Redondo Beach and Hermosa Beach. Located at Charles Wilson Park on
Crenshaw Boulevard between Carson Street and Sepulveda Boulevard.

3.	Victoria E. Benstead Plunge	$200,000

Rehabilitate existing pool facility including pool cover, re-sizing of pool,
interior rehabilitation and upgrade of pool heating system. Located at the Torrance
Civic Center Complex at the corner of Torrance Boulevard and Madrona
Avenue. Serving the communities of Redondo Beach, Lawndale, Gardena, Lomita
and Los Angeles.

FFF. Walnut: Senior Citizens Activity Center	$400,000

Constmct a 4,000 square foot addition to senior center serving the communities of Walnut, West
Covina, Rowland Heights and Diamond Bar. Located adjacent to City Hall Community Center
at 21201 La Puente Road.

GGG. West Hollywood: Plummer Park Youth Center	$1,100,000

Rehabilitate existing youth and senior citizen facility and/or develop new teen and senior center
complex. Facility serves the Cities of West Hollywood and Los Angeles including Hollywood
and Fairfax area and senior citizens throughout the region.

HHH. Whittier:	Total:	$3,000,000

1. Parnell Park	$500,000

Renovate and improve Parnell Park Facility including activity building, zoo area and
expansion of open space areas for recreational activities serving the communities of
Whittier, Santa Fe Springs, La Habra, La Habra Heights and Rowland Heights.
Located at Scott Avenue and Mulberry Drive.

2.	Whittier Hills Wilderness	$2,500,000

Acquire lands in the Whittier Hills for preservation of wildlife, natural lands and
to provide public access and trails. Located within the City of Whittier and in the
hills above Whittier.

d.	Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy	$22,750,000

Acquire sensitive and critical mountain and canyon lands, streams, wildlife lands, trail and scenic areas
and to develop parks, trails, public access, senior facilities and camps for at-risk youth in mountain and
canyon areas including lands and areas in the Santa Monica Mountains, the San Fernando
Valley foothills, the Santa Clarita Woodlands, and the San Gabriel Valley Foothills and for grants to
non-profit organizations.

Los Angeles County's mountain and canyon areas are a significant and unique natural resource,
and provide a wide range of easily accessible opportunities to the entire District. These areas are
critical to protection of air and water quality in the Los Angeles Basin. Mountain ranges and their
canyons and streams traverse the entire District. The Santa Monica Mountains cover 230 square
miles from the western boundary of the county to downtown Los Angeles; the Simi and San Rafael
Hills and the Santa Susana and Verdugo Mountains encircle the entire San Fernando Valley; the Santa
Susanas also border the greater Santa Clarita Valley area and the Verdugos mark the boundary of the
Antelope Valley. The San Gabriel Mountains and their foothills border the entire San Gabriel Valley and
provide ready access into the Angeles National Forest, one of the steepest and geologically unique
areas in the world.

Preservation of the county's mountains and the canyons and streams they contain helps to protect air
and water quality throughout the District, and protects irreplaceable wildlife, natural and open space
resources that are essential to the quality of life for the entire District. Funds will be provided to acquire
sensitive and critical mountain and canyon lands, streams, wildlife lands, trails and scenic areas, and to
develop parks, trails, public access, senior facilities and camps for at-risk youth in mountain and canyon
areas.

21

FINAL ENGINEER'S REPORT
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL PARK
AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
LANDSCAPING AND LIGHTING DISTRICT NO. 92-1
ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT

IV. COST ESTIMATE	CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS

A summary of the acquisition, improvements, administration and bond issuance costs follows.

22

SUMMARY OF IMPROVEMENT COSTS

Improvements:

a. Funds to County Of Los Angeles		$69,050,000
1. Specific County Regional Projects	51,050,000	
2. Countywide Competitive Funds	7,000,000	
3. At-Risk Youth Facilities Competitive Funds	7,000,000	
4. Santa Monica Bay	4,000,000	
b. Countywide Regional Projects		$96,650,000
1. County Beaches	8,000,000	
2. Baldwin Hills	11,000,000	
3. Cabrillo Marine Aquarium	1,000,000	
4. Descanso Gardens	350,000	
5. Exposition Park	12,000,000	
6. Hollywood Bowl	18,000,000	
7. Los Angeles Arboretum	1,450,000	
8. Los Angeles County Natural History Museum	5,000,000	
9. Los Angeles River Greenway	12,000,000	
10. Los Angeles Zoo	12,000,000	
11. Pio Pico State Historic Park	2,500,000	
12. Santa Clara River	1,000,000	
13. South Coast Botanical Gardens	1,350,000	
14. Whittier Puente Hills	10,000,000	
c. Grants to Cities		$131,550,000
1. Per parcel grants to cities and unincorporated areas	35,000,000	
2. Specific city regional projects	96,550,000	
d. Santa Monica Mountains Conservancy		$22,750,000
Santa Monica Mountains, Rim of the Valley Trail Corridor, Santa Clarita Woodlands, Verdugo Mountains, Santa Susana Mountains, or San Gabriel Mountain foothills.		
Total Improvements:		$319,000,000
Bond Amount and Related Costs: Estimated Bond Issuance Costs		
Construction and Acquisition (capital outlay)	$194,264,000	
Additional Financing Costs	$1,000,000	
Capitalized Interest	0	
Reserve Fund	$19,847,000	
Underwriter’s Discount (.65%)	$1,414,000	
Bond Amount	$217,525,000	
Pay As you Go Amount	$123,736,000	
Annual Amount of Assessment:	$26,705,155	

Operations and Maintenance: 15% of annual assessment revenue will be set aside for operations
and maintenance costs of projects funded by the assessment.

Administration: 5% of annual assessment revenue will be set aside for actual county administrative
costs.

23

FINAL ENGINEER S REPORT
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGIONAL PARK
AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
LANDSCAPING AND LIGHTING DISTRICT NO. 92-1
ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT
CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS

V. RATE AND METHOD OF ASSESSMENT
General

The Landscaping and Lighting Act of 1972 provides that assessments may be apportioned by any
formula or method which fairly distributes the assessment among all assessable lots or parcels in
proportion to the estimated benefits to be received by each lot or parcel from the improvements.

Benefit to Property from Park and Recreation Facilities

Studies in a number of communities, including counties and cities throughout the United States, have
indicated that recreation areas and facilities, if well maintained and wisely administered, have caused a
marked increase in property values of parcels in the community. Consequently, such recreation and park
facilities have proved a potent factor in maintaining a sound economic condition and a high
standard of livability in the community. These studies confirm the opinion long held by planning
authorities as to the economic value of parks, recreation areas and open space in a community.

"The recreation value is realized as a rise in the value of land and other property in or near the
recreation area, is of both private interest to the landowner and others holding an economic stake in
the area, and is of public interest to the taxpayers, who have a stake in a maximum of total assessed
values." (National Recreation and Park Association, June 1985)

The benefit of parks and other recreational facilities to residential and commercial/industrial
properties has been summarized by a number of studies. The United States Department of the Interior,
National Park Service, in a publication of June 1984, concluded that:

*	"Parks and recreation stimulate business and generate tax revenues."

*	"Parks and recreation create direct and indirect job opportunities."

*	"Parks and recreation help conserve land, energy, and resources."

*	"An investment in parks and recreation helps reduce pollution and noise, makes communities
more livable, and increases property values."

24

* "Public recreation benefits all employers by providing continuing opportunities to maintain a
level of fitness throughout one's working life, and through helping individuals cope with the stress of a
fast-paced and demanding life."

In addition, a publication of the National Recreation and Parks Association states: "Industry is
demanding recreation services" and in exploring site selection is increasingly taking into account "...the
educational and recreational opportunities..." available.

Property values in a community are increased when public infrastructure such as parks, open space, and
recreation facilities are in place, improved, operable, safe, clean and maintained. Facilities that are unsafe
or destroyed by the elements or vandalism decrease surrounding property values. Park and recreation
facilities are less likely to attract crime if they are well lit, clean and maintained. Clean and safe parks
increase public safety, help to reduce crime and enhance the overall quality of life and desirability of
an area. Property values in an area also increase when there is an increase in the number of parks, recreation
centers, trail systems, sports facilities and open space areas. Conversely, property values decrease when
park and recreation facilities are in disrepair, old, unsafe, unclean and unusable.

Benefit from the Improvements to property in the District

Assessment law provides that benefit must be related to the land since it is the land which must bear the
assessment. The additional park, open space and recreational improvements proposed for the
District (see Section III) will specifically benefit the properties to be assessed by increasing the property
value of each parcel in one or more of the following respects:

1)	Increased economic value of improved property due to increased capacity to draw business,
home buyers, tourists and others to the District;

2)	Expanded employment opportunities and increased economic activity due to increased capacity to
attract business;

3)	Increased economic health of the region due to stimulation and generation of additional tax
revenues,

4)	Increased attractiveness of the District for development or redevelopment as a result of the
preservation of mountains, foothills and canyons, and increased public access to these lands;

5)	Improved environmental quality by protecting, restoring and improving the District's
irreplaceable beaches, wildlife, parks, mountains and open space lands, and improved public access to
these lands;

6)	Improved air and water quality, capacity of roads, transportation and other public infrastructure
systems as a result of more evenly dispersing recreational facilities throughout the District;

7)	Increased attractiveness of the District as a place to work and live;

8)	Improved recreational opportunities and expanded access to recreational facilities for all
properties within the District, through improvements such as beaches, parks, trails and other public
recreational facilities;

9)	Increased safety and usability of park and recreational facilities and a corresponding decrease in
crime throughout the District.

25

The additional improvements to be funded by the District include acquisition, development,
improvement and restoration projects for park, recreation, community center, museum, beach and open
space purposes. These improvement projects include: regional facilities which benefit the entire
District; regional facilities which benefit large areas of the District; and neighborhood facilities which
benefit smaller, local areas of the District. The improvements are distributed between these different
categories of regional use to ensure that all areas of the District will benefit. Funds for improvements
are also distributed throughout all geographic areas of the District, and between all of the cities and
unincorporated areas of Los Angeles County.

Specific criteria were established to identify regional park and recreation projects throughout Los
Angeles County which would benefit all areas of the District. Each specific project was required to be
environmentally sound, regionally significant and strongly supported; each project also had to show
documentation of regional significance and regional use. The regional significance of each project was
required to be documented through:

*evidence that the project is a significant natural resource;

*letters or studies documenting the regional use of the proposed project by surrounding communities;
*evidence that the project is or will be made available or advertised on a regional basis; and
*evidence that the project is the only one of its kind in the surrounding region.

All eighty-eight cities were contacted, and over seventy cities in the District, county departments, civic
leaders and citizen organizations participated in the process to identify specific regional park, recreation
and open space projects. All of the specific improvements listed in Section III of this Report meet the
established criteria, and hundreds of letters were received documenting the regional significance of the
specific improvement projects located within cities.

Regional projects, by definition, are of area-wide benefit; therefore, the regional facilities in Los
Angeles County cumulatively benefit all properties within the District. As described above, the local
specific projects are distributed throughout the proposed District and are of regional significance. The
acquisition, improvement, and restoration of local and regional parks, beaches and open space lands
and recreation facilities are distributed throughout the District and therefore are of direct and specific
benefit to all parcels within the District. All areas benefit equally from the proposed improvements
although the benefit received by any individual parcel will vary.

26

To establish the benefit to the individual parcels with their varying land uses, a benefit point system is used.
Each parcel is assigned benefit points in proportion to the benefit the property receives. The number
of points are then divided into the annual revenue requirement necessary to fund the proposed parks,
recreation areas and open space improvements to determine the dollar value of benefit for each point.
Since the number of benefit points for each parcel has been established, the benefit obligation for each
parcel is established and thus the dollar amount of assessment for each parcel is established.

Land Value Benefit

In order to fairly allocate benefit from the proposed improvements to parcels throughout the District, it is
necessary to address the benefits to land and to land use. The benefit received by land varies as land
varies in size. It is our finding that larger parcels benefit more than smaller parcels. To use the benefit
point system, it is necessary to establish separately the benefit for each of the two elements, land value and
land use. To facilitate this procedure, the median single-family home is used as a standard to which all
other properties are related. The median single-family home in Los Angeles County is located on a lot
of approximately 1/7 of an acre in area with the relative valuation between the home and the lot being
75% and 25% respectively. This relative valuation is based upon the opinion of professional
appraisers, appraising current market property values for real estate in Southern California. The
land value portion typically ranges from 20 to 30 percent; for this report we are using approximately 25
percent. This evaluation is based upon current market values, not on assessed values which are skewed by
the impact of Proposition 13.

The lot, therefore, has 1/3 the value of the improvement (.25 1.15). Assigning one benefit point to a
house as the standard and using the 1/3 ratio, the lot would then represent 1/3 benefit point (See the
discussion on "Land Use (Improvement) Benefits" below where one benefit point is assigned to a
single-family house). As stated above, the median single-family home is located on a lot of
approximately 1/7 of an acre; therefore, the median density for single-family residential property in Los
Angeles County is 7 units per acre, thus the benefit point for the typical acre occupied by single family
homes would be 7 x 1/3, or 2.33 benefit points per acre. This 2.33 benefit points per acre is used as
the basis for assessing the land value benefit to all assessable parcels within the District.

Land Use (Improvement) Benefit

That portion of the benefit that is associated with land use or improvement value will, of course, vary with
the type of land use. This benefit for land use is condensed and segregated into three categories below,
and each category is assigned portions of a benefit point (BP) relative to the percentage of
improvement value it provides (see discussion under "Benefit to Property from Park and Recreation
Facilities" above).

1) Economic Value: The increase to improved property value due to increased economic activity
and health, expanded employment opportunities and increased capacity to draw business, home
buyers, renters, tourists, etc., to the District.	.50BP

27

Environmental Quality: The increase to improved property value due to the improved quality of
air, water, visual aesthetics, attractiveness of the District as a place to live and work, etc.

.25 BP

3) Recreation Enhancement: The increase to improved property value due to the availability of

useable and safe parks, beaches, and recreation facilities.	.25	BP

Land use is designated and classified in accordance with the Los Angeles County Assessor use codes as of
the date of this report. Benefits to land uses vary; therefore, the above factors have been assigned to each
land use classification as show in Table 1.

28

Single-Family Residence

A single-family residence receives all three of the above benefits, therefore 1.0 BP is assigned to each
single-family residence. The land upon which the home is located receives a separate benefit which is 2.33
times the acreage of the lot upon which the home is situated. The benefit to a typical single-family
residence is the summation of these two, i.e., one plus the product of 2.33 multiplied by the area of the
parcel in acres.

To assess land use benefit equitably, it is necessary to relate the different parcel classifications to each
other. Using one benefit point for a single-family residential unit, all other uses are related to this land
use.

Multiple-Residential and Mobile Home

Multiple-residential and mobile home land use equivalences are reduced by multiplying the number of
home units on each parcel by .75 and .5, respectively, due to the relative population density of these types of
dwelling units compared to the typical density of single-family units. Studies have consistently shown that,
an apartment unit impacts infrastructure approximately 75% as much as a single family residence, and
mobile homes impact infrastructure approximately 50% (Sources: Institute of Transportation
Engineers Informational Report Trip Generation. Fifth Edition, 1991; Metcalf and Eddy, Wastewater
Engineering Treatment Disposal Reuse, Third Edition, 1991). The reduced impact on park and
recreational facility use by residents of multiple-residential and mobile homes results in a lesser
enhancement per unit to property values. Therefore, the Economic Value, Environmental Quality, and
Recreation Enhancement benefit points for multiple-residential and mobile homes have been uniformly
reduced to 75% and 50%, respectively. (See Table 1)

The benefit points assigned to a multiple-residential or a mobile home parcel for the Land Use
(Improvement Value) portion of the assessment are calculated based on the number of house units and the
appropriate benefit point per house unit. The benefit points for multi-residential (.75) are multiplied by the
number of dwelling units on the parcel to determine the total Land Use (Improvement Value) benefit points
for the parcel. The total Land use (Improvement Value) benefit points for a mobile home parcel is calculated
by multiplying the benefit point per home unit (.50) by the number of units on the parcel. The benefit
points for the land value portion of the assessment are calculated by multiplying the land area in acres by
2.33 benefit points per acre. These two amounts are then added together to obtain the total number of benefit
points for the parcel.

Commercial/Industrial - Other

For determining the land use benefit points to be assigned for properties in commercial/industrial use, these
properties are first related to the basic single-family unit. The median home in the District has a lot size of
approximately 1/7 of an acre, therefore the typical single-family residential density is seven dwelling units
per acre. All properties that are developed for commercial/industrial are thus assigned seven benefit
points per acre for the land use portion of the parcel. Each land use category of commercial/industrial
property is then evaluated as to whether or not the three components of the land use benefit point (i.e..
Economic Value, Environmental Quality and Recreation Enhancement) applies to the particular land use
category.

29

Commercial/Industrial properties that have been found to receive the same benefits as residential
properties from increased economic activity and health, expanded employment opportunities and
increased capacity to attract business as residential properties receive .50 BP for Economic Value, as do
residential properties. Certain commercial/industrial properties, for example warehouses, storage facilities
and mineral processing, mining and petroleum facilities, receive no economic benefit because these
properties receive negligible benefit, if any, from park and recreation improvements. All
commercial/industrial properties benefit from increased environmental quality as a result of the
improvements; therefore, all commercial/industrial properties are assigned a factor of .25 BP for
Environmental Quality. Those properties which are used by or which serve people are benefited by
improved and increased park and recreational facilities; these properties are assigned a factor of .25 BP
for Recreational Enhancement. (See Table 1)

The assignment of these various benefit point factors is set forth in Table 1.

Additionally, a higher level of use for a commercial/industrial property is identified when a structural
improvement has multiple stories or occupies a greater percentage of the parcel than that which is the norm.
To account for this, the benefit points for the property use is multiplied by a number which is
proportional to the intensity of the structural improvements contained on the property.

The typical coverage of a commercial/industrial parcel with a structure is 33%. Using this as the
standard, the square footage of a structural improvement on a parcel, as this value is set forth in the Los
Angeles County Assessor's records or as determined through appeal, is divided by one-third of the area of
the parcel in square feet. The number then becomes proportional to the intensity of development on
the parcel and represents an equivalent number of stories that may be found on a parcel. For the purpose
of identifying this factor, it is set forth as "equivalent stories" in the benefit point equation. A minimum
of one "equivalent story" will be applied to any improved (non-vacant) commercial/industrial property.

A paved lot which is used exclusively for parking and which does not have a structural improvement on
the parcel will be assigned one equivalent story.

When a commercial/industrial building and a parking lot structure are located on one parcel, the improved
square footage of the parking structure will be added to the improved square footage of the
commercial/industrial building, resulting in the total improved square footage used to calculate
equivalent stories.

Vacant Property (Excluding Exempt Properties!

Vacant property has no Land Use Benefits associated with it. Even if a vacant parcel is designated as
commercial/industrial or residential, it receives no additional benefits because of its designation
because there are no improvements constructed upon it; therefore, vacant property receives only a
Land Value Benefit of 2.33 benefit points per acre.

The Land Value benefit received by property varies as the property varies in size. However, there is a
decreasing marginal utility to the benefit vacant land receives from of parks, recreation facilities and open
space that results in a benefit limit to larger vacant parcels. As vacant parcels increase in size.

the vacant portion of a larger parcel functionally serves as open space. Consequently, as a basis for
this limitation, a vacant parcel will not be assigned more benefit points than the total benefit points
assigned to an acre of median single-family residence parcels. As vacant parcels increase in size beyond 2.5
acres, the marginal benefit they receive from parks improvements is negligible. Therefore, it is our
finding that, the portion of any vacant parcel in excess of 2.5 acres shall not be subject to the
assessment. The maximum benefit points that will be assigned to a vacant parcel is 5.83 (2.33 BPsx 2.5
acres).

This finding modifies and amends our 1992 finding that vacant parcels up to 5 acres were benefited. To
the extent our conclusion contained herein is inconsistent with our previous finding, we believe our
present finding more accurately reflects the benefits received. Accordingly, any discrepancies,
differences or variations in the method of assessment should be resolved in favor of this report with
respect to projects financed both with 1992 Assessment proceeds and proceeds of the Additional
Assessment.

In addition, the unused portion of any partially improved single parcel that is in excess of 2.5 acres will not
be assessed. Such parcels that are partially improved will often appear on the Assessor's roll as
improved. Those parcels that are found to be partially improved after review will have their
assessments revised per this report.

Exempt Properties

It is the intent of this report that parcels which do not have physical or legal restrictions preventing
development or that are not owned by public agencies, will be assessed. However, several land uses
have been determined to be exempt from the assessment because they either do not benefit from the
proposed improvements or they have restricted uses that would not be in the public interest to acquire in
the event of foreclosure. Examples are common areas, open spaces, green belts, sliver parcels and
public properties. Also exempt by law, are parcels designated as uninhabited and non-vacant
agricultural and timber property. A listing of exempt properties appears at the bottom of Table 1.

Modifications

It is recognized, that when dealing with the millions of parcels that will be subject to this additional
assessment, using the information on the Los Angeles County Assessor's Roll as the primary source for
the assessment formula may lead to some errors and some circumstances that do not precisely fit the
intent of this program.

Where such circumstances are discovered, either by the persons administrating this program, or by the
owners of the properties affected, such circumstances shall be reported to a committee appointed by the
Board of Supervisors. The function and the authority of the committee will be to recommend such
corrections or adjustments with such proposed changes being consistent with the concept, intent and
parameters of the programs set forth herein. Unless such proposed changes are appealed to the Board of
Supervisors, they will be incorporated into the Assessment Roll.

Individual Assessments

In accordance with Section 22572 of the Streets and Highways Code, the net amount of the assessment to
each parcel as shown on the county assessment roll will be computed in the following steps:

31

1.	Classify each parcel by land use as shown by the use code designation on the County of Los
Angeles Assessor's Roll.

2.	Assign benefit points (BPs) to each parcel based on the following formulas:

Residential BPs

= Improvement Value BPs + Land Value BPs

= (Econ Val BP + Envir Qual BP + Recr Enh BP)*No. Units + (2.33 Bps/acre)

* Parcel Acreage

The following are examples of residential assessments:

Median SFR (1 home on 1/7 acre) BPs
= [(.5 +.25 +.25) BP/unit * 1 home] + (2.33 * 1/7 ac) BPs
= 1 Improvement Value BP + 0.3329 Land Value BP
= 1.3329 BPs

SFR (1 home on 1/4 acre) BPs

= [(.5 +.25 +.25) BP/Unit * 1 home] + (2.33 BP/acre * 1/4 ac)

= 1 Improvement Value BP + 0.5825 Land Value BP
= 1.5825 BPs

MF (25 units on 1/3 acre) BPs
= [(.375 +.1875 +.1875) BP/unit * 25 MF units]

+ (2.33 BP/acre * 1/3 ac)

= 18.75 Improvement Value BPs +.7777 Land Value BP
= 19.5277 BPs

Mobile Homes (100 units on 1/2 acre) BPs
= [(.25 +.125 +.125) BP/unit * 100 homes + (2.33 BP/ac * 1/2 acre)

= 50 Improvement Value BPs +1.165 Land Value BPs
= 51.165 BPs

32

Commercial BPs

= Improvement Value BPs + Land Value BPs

= [(Econ Val BP + Envir Qual BP + Recr Enh BP) /acre * 7BP* Parcel Acreage * No.
Equivalent Stories (1)] + [(2.33 ) * Parcel Acreage]

(1) No. Equivalent Stories is the number of stories measured by dividing the parcels'
structurally improved square feet by one-third of the parcel area (Improved Square Feet/ 1/3 x
Parcel Square Feet).

The following are examples of varying commercial or industrial assessment calculations:

Office (3 stories, 1/2 acre) BPs

= [(.5 +.25 +.25) BP/acre * 3 stories * 7 BP/ac * 1/2 ac] + (2.33 BP/ac * 1/2 ac)

= 10.5 Improvement Value BPs + 1.1650 Land Value BPs
= 11.6650BPs

Parking Lot (1 acre) BPs

= [(0 + .25 + 0) BP/ac* 1 story * 7 BP/ac * 1 ac] + (2.33 BP/ac * 1 ac)

= 1.75 Improvement Value BPs + 2.33 Land Value BPs
= 4.08 BPs

Vacant Land

= Improvement Value BPs + Land Value BPs
= (Zero Improvement Value BPs + (2.33 BPs/acre) * Parcel Acreage

An example of a vacant parcel's assessment computation follows:

Vacant Land (10 Acres) BPs (First 2.5 acres only)

= 0 BP + (2.33 BP/Acre * 2.5 ac)

= 0 Improvement Value BPs + 5.83 Land Value BPs
= 5.83 BPs

3.	Divide the annual amount to collect by the sum of all benefit points to determine the additional
assessment per benefit point. The additional annual assessment per benefit point is $5.07 per
year. Using $5.07 per benefit point, a median single-family residence would have an additional
annual assessment of $6.76 (1.3329 benefit points times $5.07 = $6.76):

The total assessment to be levied on each parcel shall be the annual assessment per parcel times the
number of years over which the assessment will be levied. The annual assessment for each parcel
shall remain in effect until the characteristics which effect the property's benefit points are updated,
at which time the assessment for that parcel will be recalculated.

33

In conclusion, it is our opinion that additional assessments for County of Los Angeles Landscaping
and Lighting District No. 92-1 have been apportioned in direct accordance with the benefits that each
parcel receives from the improvements.

Willdan Associates

34

8

&

<n

s

8

w <

^ i

£* jj i

£



s



s?

8

ii

o 2 S

IP

£

8

3

'8

88

8

8

8

8

X -*

cd q
-o «*

H

o m

n

ag

is

*m

3 1

-*■ 1

CO 0

II

• ♦

I

m

8

8

8

3)

o

2 I

c r>

s i

9-1

>?

? 2

3

5 t?
3

o' k&
m |
2.

5

a

a CD

3. ^

o

o

3

3

-?

«

ET

I? a

3 «• _.

3 2 >
= 3 &

?3 £

= 3 “

<" Q.

5

a

Z

O

<£>

c o

4* O

I

g

m

a

8

8

8

8

8

8

8

is

8

u

s

3
&

<

&

■o «

tn w
w 00
3f 5

3

I I

? =
3 I*

3 »
A

i

JO

a i ■■

TABLE 1

County of Los Angeles Landscaping and Lighting District No. 92-1
Benefit Points

Table 1 - Page 3	la-park	xlstabie	i

|£ 3

2

III

> 07 CD

11&!

:£

8

88 888

If

II

L/.3 Lfj

II

8

8

s

a J

1	S.

2	3]

m

=

o-

ii

8

<

X

fij

3

13

3

s

■ »

kS

(O

8

S

a

=■

“

7

£

o <
ho I

o

©

o
<P c

a.

CL

c

£

Q.

O'

3

0I_

S’

a

s

■° s

CO

o

3

to

B

ST

TABLE 1

County of Los Angeles Landscaping and Lighting District No. 92-1
Benefit Points

Table 1 • Page A	la-parkxlstablei

5

5

t'

o

3

is

ss

o

§

B

§

8

8

S

8

8

8

fa

8

8

8

8

c

8

8

8

8

8

8

§

8

8

8

8

8

8

I

8

8

S

8

8

8

8

8

?!

8

11

O 3

fl

S'S

8

8

8

8

8

I

8

8

8

8

ui <

II

5T

n

8

8

8

S

8

8

8

3

8

8

8

8

8

§

*2
§

J}

s

5

s*

I

1

8

c o

v* o
o C

c

—I

3

3

s

S

■n

s,

ff

w

&

x

I

ex.

O

3

S.

2

£

<

o I

II

m

3

<

_ ro

«>

C/>

c

CT

5

TABLE 1

County of Los Angeles Landscaping and Lighting District No. 92-1
Benefit Points

Table t - Page 5	la-pahkxlsta&lei

I?

s

< _

i§

z

£

s

T3

3

s

1

8

8



8

8

a

8!

O i

§

8

SFS

® C

2*

J

i'

i

c

>

Ck

Cl

X

o

a

!l

o

2

0
2.

1

!

a

<

?

a

w

2 5

g

t

3

2

<

o

a

(A

TABLE 1

County of Los Angeles Landscaping and Lighting District No. 92-1
Benefit Points

Description ol Improvements

Aj io>co4<4 Juni- IS, 1*^6