COUNTY OF ALAMEDA MEASURE D	
MEASURE D: Shall County ordinances be approved in I Border to approve and continue until June 30, 2001 the existing 5.5% Utility Users Tax which is collected only in the unincorporated areas of the County (e.g., Ashland, Castro Valley, Cherryland, Fairview, San Lorenzo, Sunol) and DOES NOT APPLY in the cities of Alameda, Albany, Berkeley, Dublin, Emeryville, Fremont, Hayward, Livermore, Newark, Oakland, Piedmont, Pleasanton, San Leandro, or Union City, the proceeds of which are used to fund general county services to the unincorporated areas, including, but not limited to, Sheriff’s Department services, County library services, and County planning services?	YES
	NO

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

If you live in one of the cities listed in this Measure, you do not pay this tax,
and you will not pay this tax should the Measure be approved. However, should
this Measure be defeated, your services could be reduced if money is shifted to
pay for services in the non-city (unincorporated) areas of the County. This tax
has been paid only by those who live in the non-city areas of the County; if the
Measure is approved, only those persons in the non-city areas of the County will
continue to pay the tax.

The County of Alameda currently collects a 5.5 percent utility users tax in
the non-city (unincorporated) areas of the County, for the purpose of providing
funding to support general governmental services to those who live in the non-
city areas, which include Ashland, Castro Valley, Cherryland, Fairview, San
Lorenzo and Sunol. Among those services are Sheriff’s Departrment services,
County library services, and County planning services.

Measure D seeks voter approval for the existing tax, and it seeks to continue
the tax until June 30, 2001. Unless a majority of the voters approve this contin-
uation, the current tax will automatically be repealed as of March 1, 1997.
Although only those who live in non-city areas of the County pay this tax, state
law requires a county wide vote on the question of continuing the tax to June 30,
2001. Consequently, many County residents who do not now pay this tax and
who will not pay the tax regardless of the outcome of the election will be able
to vote on the measure.

If Measure D is approved, the 5.5 percent utility users tax will remain in
effect in the unincorporated areas of the County until June 30, 2001 and the pro-
ceeds of the tax will continue to pay for the provision of general governmental
services (including, but not limited to, sheriff, planning and library services) to
the unincorporated areas.

If Measure D is defeated, the collection of the tax will cease and the tax pro-
ceeds will consequently not be available to fund the services which have been

CM-3

provided in the unincorporated areas of the County.
s/KELVIN H. BOOTY, JR.

County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

A YES vote on Measure D allows unincorporated area residents to preserve
essential services such as law enforcement, libraries and land use planning . . .
at no extra cost. However, if you live within ANY City, approving this measure
won’t cost you anything at all! AYES vote will preserve general government
services which affect all residents living within the unincorporated areas of
Alameda County.

By extending the current 5.5% Utility Users tax in the unincorporated area
(outside boundaries of any City), you can help preserve services which add to
the quality of life in many of our communities. This tax has been collected since
1993, and provides over $5 million for critical services . . . including over $3
million for the Sheriff’s Department and more than $1 million for Libraries.
This measure seeks your approval to extend this important source of revenue for
only four years. Low income utility users, those who rely on electricity for life
support systems, and agricultural users would not pay this tax.

A “no” vote on Measure D will have a negative effect on ALL Alameda
County residents.

If this existing tax is not extended, the Sheriff’s services (such as county jails,
school resource officers, and community policing) will be cut. Reductions to
Library funding will mean even fewer hours of operation at the Castro Valley
and San Lorenzo libraries, decreased Bookmobile service, and Library system
cuts at the main Library in Fremont. Residents and the Business community
alike would suffer from major cuts in zoning, permitting and plan preparation
functions provided by the County’s Planning Department.

Measure D makes sense for all Alameda County residents. It is NOT A NEW
TAX, there’s NO COST if you live in any City, and it PRESERVES THE
UNIQUE QUALITY OF LIFE IN OUR COMMUNITIES. Vote YES on
Measure D.

s/CHARLES C. PLUMMER
Sheriff
s/MILLIE ARIETA
President, San Lorenzo Village Homeowner’s Association
s/BONNIE DETTMER
Executive Director, Castro Valley Chamber of Commerce
s/GRACE E. GRAVES
Resident, Cherryland
s/JOSEPHINE M. SILVA
Ashland Resident

CM-4

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Should Oakland voters tax Castro Valley residents?

This is the real issue.

The proponents of this tax point out that if you live in a city, you do not have
to pay this tax. Then, we ask: WHY ARE CITY RESIDENTS VOTING ON
THIS? The County has made a bizarre interpretation of Prop 62, claiming that
a vote of the entire county is required. We believe that this interpretation is in
error, and is totally contrary to common sense and fairness.

This tax was originally intended only as a temporary funding measure. Since
the utility tax was first imposed, the Sheriff’s budget has grown from $93
Million to over $114 Million, more than a 22% increase. The recent State bud-
get includes additional funds for the Sheriff’s Department. Clearly, this tax is no
longer needed for Sheriff’s services.

This tax costs the typical unincorporated area homeowner at least $100 a
year; many pay substantially more. Businesses in the unincorporated area may
pay thousands of dollars more - this surely represents an extra cost for
EVERYONE.

Please read the ballot carefully. You’ll notice the tax revenue can be spent on
virtually ANYTHING. It is NOT restricted to sheriff and library services.
Because of the improvements in Sheriff’s funding, you may see the Supervisors
shift these tax revenues for other purposes, perhaps even to assist in a bailout of
the poorly planned Coliseum remodeling effort.

PROTECT YOUR RIGHTS!

PRESERVE THE RIGHT TO VOTE ON YOUR OWN TAXES!

VOTE NO ON D.
s/PETER KAVALER
Castro Valley resident
s/JOHN LAU
Berkeley resident
s/MAY LYNN BISHOP
Pleasanton resident

s/MARTIN EICHENGREEN
Oakland resident
s/CALVIN ERICKSON
Fremont resident

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

In 1993, the Board of Supervisors first imposed this hidden tax on PGE and
phone bills in the unincorporated areas. This was done WITHOUT a vote of the
people. Recently, the State Supreme Court ruled that all such taxes require a
public vote - that’s why this is now on the ballot. However, the Board has made
the unprecedented decision to allow the ENTIRE COUNTY to vote on this tax
even though it is paid only by unincorporated area residents and businesses.
This is a grossly unfair maneuver, and should be of great concern to ALL
CM-5

Alameda County residents. If this injustice succeeds, future “divide and con-
quer” strategies are likely to follow.

Does it seem fair to you that Fremont residents (who currently pay no utility
tax whatsoever) get to decide whether Castro Valley residents pay this tax? Is
this good public policy? Of course not. Recently, Supervisors in Butte County
were faced with the same dilemma and decided that only the unincorporated
areas of their county should vote on their own taxes.

To compound this injustice even further, the Board has directed the Registrar
of Voters to count the votes TWICE! Once for the entire county, and again for
the unincorporated area. Why would they do this? Perhaps they are doubtful as
to the legality of their poor decision.

Don’t be fooled into thinking that these funds will be spent on police and
library services. They will simply be added to the general fund, and can be used
for virtual ANY purpose - they DO NOT have to be used for police or libraries.
The Board could have restricted the use of these funds, but instead choose to
retain their power to spend these taxes virtually any way they wish.

VOTE NO ON THIS UNFAIR TAX!
s/PETER KAVALER	s/MARTIN	EICHENGREEN

Castro Valley resident	Oakland resident

s/JOHN LAU	s/CALVIN	ERICKSON

Berkeley resident	Fremont resident

s/MAY LYNN BISHOP
Pleasanton resident

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

It’s preposterous to assert that the current 5.5% Utility Users Tax was “hid-
den” from the public. In fact, it was adopted in December 1992 after lengthy
public debate and input by unincorporated area residents (outside the bound-
aries of any city) who pay the tax and benefit from this funding.

Placing this issue on the ballot continues the Board of Supervisors’ commit-
ment to involve the community in decisions on taxation and use of public dol-
lars. Revenue raised by the Utility Users Tax is spent on Sheriff, Library and
Planning Departments services provided to unincorporated area residents. The
Board’s own policy compels it to spend the money in the unincorporated areas
for unincorporated area services. The only way to preserve funding for these
essential services is to vote YES on Measure D. A YES vote will continue the
tax beyond its current sunset date of March 1, 1997, for four more years until
June 30, 2001, when it will again sunset.

Even though State law requires that this measure be placed before all Alameda
County voters, approving it won’t cost anything at all for residents of any city.
What could be more equitable than extending an existing tax, paid for by resi-
dents of the unincorporated area, and benefiting those very same residents? PRE-