I

— REPEAL AND REPLACE UTILITY USERS TAX. Shall
t the City Council of the City of Scotts Valley, in accordance
with Resolution No. 1568.2, repeal the existing 4% utility
users tax, adopted by Ordinance No. 109.3, and replace it with a
new ordinance, a copy of which is on file in the Office of the City
Clerk, establishing a 5% utility users tax upon all telephone, gas,
and electric services, to become effective July 1,1997?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF SCOTTS VALLEY MEASURE E

Measure E seeks voter approval of a utility users tax measure. A
“yes” vote on Measure E will repeal the existing utility tax in the City
of Scotts Valley and replace it with a new utility users tax of five
percent (5%) which is applicable, with some exceptions, to all
charges made to users of gas, electric and telephone services in
Scotts Valley. A “no" vote on Measure E will reject the new utility
users tax and have no affect on the existing utility users tax.

s/ Robert J. Logan, City Attorney
City of Scotts Valley

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

In 1997, the City of Scotts Valley will lose annual revenue of
$620,000. This reduction represents over 11% of its operations
budget. This is the result of expiration of the earthquake repair sales
tax, loss of state retirement fund credits, and expiration of federal
funding for expanded police patrol. We have also been balancing the
budget with unexpended funds from previous years, and carry per-
ilously low reserves.

The City runs a tight ship financially. A Finance Committee of astute
business people reviewed the budget. Finding it had no “fat," they
recommended raising revenue. So Scotts Valley, with the support of
the Chamber of Commerce, is proposing a 5% tax on PG&E and
telephone bills. This will replace the present 4% tax on PG&E bills.

This tax will make up $425,000 of the $620,000 loss. The City may
still need to cut services by $195,000. Potential service cuts include
community service programs, recreation programs, reductions in
road and park maintenance, and reductions in police services. The
higher the loss, the more drastic the service reductions must be.

With this increase, Scotts Valley will still have the lowest taxes in
the County. We tax fewer utilities at lower rates than the County or
the cities of Watsonville and Santa Cruz.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure
E. If you desire a copy of the Ordinance, please call the
City Clerk at 438-2324 and a copy will be mailed at no cost
to you.

Measure E will fairly distribute the burden of taxation to businesses
and residents alike. If your monthly PG&E bill is $100, you would pay
SI more. If your phone bill is $50, you would pay $2.50. This monthly
increase of $3.50 is more than offset for most customers by recent
reductions in sewer bills.

Now you, the voter, must make a clear choice between reducing
services OR maintaining your investment in Scotts Valley’s High
Quality of Life. Vote YE~S on E to maintain roads, pleasant parks,
and exceptional police services.

s/ Joe Miller, Mayor
City of Scotts valley
s/ Chris Pauli, President

Scotts Valley Chamber of Commerce
s/ Sam Badawi, Chair

Scotts Valley Finance Committee

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E
WAS SUBMITTED.