LOCAL MEASURE(S)

WHITTIER SCHOOLS COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ELECTION

YIS-KD

^ In orderto repair aging schools and reduce overcrowding in the Whittier
GG City School District shall the Whittier Schools Community Facilities

District finance the following projects through a levy on property as	MWO

identified in Resolution No. 9697-R-2; repair and rehabilitate existing classrooms, WBi	1111 ^ ^

replace outdated heating and cooling systems, rewire classrooms for modem technology and acquire
and construct new classrooms and facilities, so long as: i) the levy, as initially set, does not increase the
total amount of levies and assessments currently collected in the District and ii) senior citizens may
request an exemption from the levy?

nhi*

ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION GG

By DeWitt W. Clinton, County Counsel

This ballot measure will allow the Whittier City School District Board of
Education, acting as ihe governing body of the Whittier Schools Community
Facilities District, to annually levy a special tax upon real property located within
the District.

The primary residences of persons 65 years or older are exempt from the tax if
no other occupant of the residence is enrolled in the Whittier City School District.
An application for exemption must be filed annually.

The tax would be used for the acquisition, construction, expansion, relocation,
rehabilitation, lease or purchase of school sites and school facilities.

Commencing July 1,1997, the maximum annual special tax shall be $22.50 on each
parcel of taxable property, and each fiscal year shall be increased from the
previous year’s maximum by 2.00%. The Board of Education may levy less than
the maximum annual special tax, and such reduction shall be made proportionally
on each parcel of taxable property. The special tax shall be levied for no longer
than forty (40) years, through and including fiscal year 2037-38.

Approval of this measure would also establish an appropriations limit for the
Whittier Schools Community Facilities District equal to the amount of all special
taxes collected within the District for each corresponding fiscal year.

This measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

PR-025

M

tuik

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION GG

■■■Whittier’s schools need your heip in overcoming two critic	First,	with

many classrooms over 30 years old, our children’s schools are in desperate need
of rehabilitation andrepair.Sccond,wemustprovide our children with the
educational tools to prepare for the careers of tomorrow by learning the
technology of today.

Your YES vote on Measure GG will immediately improve the quality of our
children’s education, provide safe and adequate classrooms, and benefit our entire
community. Here’s how:

Many of our classrooms are over 30 years old and in desperate need of repair.

Measure GG will allow us to repair and upgrade our deteriorating schools by:

-	Repairing leaky roofs

-	Repairing and replacing out-dated plumbing and electrical systems

-	Remodeling student restrooms

-	Upgrading heating and air conditioning systems

-	Improving earthquake safety of school classrooms

Our schools’ computer technology is inadequate to teach today’s skills. Measure
GG will provide our children with upgraded technology so that they can be better
prepared for the future by:

-	Building and remodeling technology and science labs to provide students with
state-of-the-art training

-	Expanding and upgrading school media centers with computer technology

-	Providing computers, modems and printers in classrooms throughout the
District

-	Upgrading classroom electrical systems and wiring for computers and computer
networks

Measure GG makes financial sense. Measure GG is a sound financial investment
for the following reasons:

-	Measure GG will create jobs by investing tax dollars back into our local
economy

-	Measure GG funds can only be used to improve our children’s schools

-	Measure GG will reduce the high cost of maintenance caused by deteriorating
buildings and help to ensure our schools’ financial stability

(Continued on next page)

PR-025.002



ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION GG (Continued)

Invest in both Our Children and Our Community by voting Yes on Measure GG.

XOCHITL VILLALON	__	_	^	^

Orange (hove School PTA eo-president

VINCE MELE
Businessman

MICHAEL BATES
Business Owner

FREDDIE TUCCIARONE
Business Manager

MYRTIS STOUT
Retiree

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION GG WAS SUBMITTED

t

PR-025.003