5 i

j	IMPARTIAL	ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

11	CITY	OF	HOLLISTER

J	UTILITY	USER’S	TAX	MEASURE	F

11 City of Hollister Measure F presents to the electors the question
j of whether the City’s two percent (2%) Utility User’s Tax shall be
'! extended for a period of four (4) years.

j The City Council adopted Ordinance No. 853 on October 17,
f 1994, which imposes a two percent (2%) tax on the use of utilities,
| garbage disposal and cable television within the City. The City
11 Council has unanimously voted to place on the ballot the question
I: of whether the tax should be extended for a period of four (4)
j j years, beginning July 1, 1997.

j A “Yes" vote on this ballot measure is a vote in favor of extending

I	r the existing two (2%) percent Utiiity User’s Tax for a period of four
j1 (4) years, beginning July 1, 1997.

I:	A “No” vote is a vote against extending the Utility-User's Tax

II	beyond June 30, 1997,

I if the measure passes, the City Council would then formally
f consider an ordinance extending the tax for four (4) years, be-
ginning July 1, 1997. If a majority of the electorate vote against
I the measure, the City Council will repeal the Utility User's Tax
j effective June 30, 1997.

I	s/	Elaine M, Cass

I	City Attorney

|	■■:*'¥City of Hollister	"

| j

!

I

I

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

We ask the voters of Hollister to vote “Yes” on Measure F extending
the current utility users tax for four years beyond this fiscal year.

Basic Facts:

•	A “Yes" vote will NOT increase your taxes or create a new tax.
It simply continues the existing utility user tax.

•	Hollister receives one of the State’s lowest property tax percent-
ages, as little as .02 cants per property tax dollar.

•	The utility user tax was implemented two years ago as one
method of addressing a $1,000,000 operating budget shortfall.

•	The 2% utility user tax rate is one of the lowest among Califor-
nia cities; a private survey found the average to be 6.1%, with
some as high as 11%.

•	The utility user tax costs a typical Hollister family under $4.00

; per month;

•	The approximate $526,000 generated through the utility tax sup-
ports services not covered by other fees, These services include
police, fire, street maintenance, and parks.

•	The revenue generated by this utility users tax is needed to
maintain current service levels,

•	The City’s Fire, Police and Public Works Departments are al-
ready operating at a bare minimum.

•	Four years ago the City cut costs with lay-offs. This year, lay-
offs, occurred again, and a number of City departments have
been consolidated.

The extension of the utility tax will help conquer our on going community
dilemma. This is not a situation of bureaucrats crying wolf with the
budget. We, as a community, need to remain working together to
maintain our current quality of life. We need to ensure that our com-
munity is safe and vibrant with the resources to fill its needs.

Please Vote Yes on Measure F. Vote Yes for a true community need.

s/ Seth H. Irish
Vice Mayor

(Council Member District 3}

s/ Ken Duran
Council Member
(District 1)

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

35502