

V-

MEASURE N%

SHALL AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 3.20.010 AND
3.20.020 OF CHAPTER 3.20 OF TITLE 3 OF THE SOLVANG
MUNICIPAL CODE TO INCREASE THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY
TAX BE ADOPTED?

YES__________ NO'

Fro«: Rupp a 2i«Rcr at ® SWijUSuaji
To: Debbie Cloucr at 0 9,bfl£2849i



RECEIVE

u

IMPARTIAL BALLOT ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N96

Chapter 3.20 of the Solvang Municipal Code currently sets forth
definitions and procedures for collecting a transient occupancy
tax. A transient occupancy tax is a tax paid by a guest at a
•‘hotel’* and is a percentage of the amount paid by the guest to the
"hotel" operator. Measure N96 would amend two portions of Chapter
3.20.

If Measure N96 passes, campground and recreational vehicle park
would be added to the definition of "hotel".

From October 11, 1995 through October 11, 1996, the tax rate was
10%. On October 12, 1996, the tax rate was set at 8%. If Measure
N96 passes, the tax rate would again be set at 10% of the rent
charged by the operator of the "hotel".

The transient occupancy tax can be used for any lawful obligation
or expanse of the city.

Sections 1 through 3 of Measure N96 read as followsi

Section 1? The definition of "Hotel* in section 3.20-010 of
the Solvang Municipal Code is hereby amended to read ae followsi

pot el. Any structure or land, or any portion of any structure
or land, which is occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by
transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes
any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel,
bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house,
dormitory, public or private club, mobile home, house trailer, or
vehicle at a fixed location, or other similar structure or land or
portion thereof, including a camping site or a space at a
campground or recreational vehicle park.

Section 2» Section 3.20.020 of the Solvang Municipal Code is
hereby amended to read ae follower

3.20.020 Tax—Imposed on_trangients?_gater when payable. For
the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject
to and shall pay a tax in the amount of ten percent <10%) of the
rent charged by the operator. Such tax constitutes a debt.-owed by
the transient to the City which is extinguished only by payment to
the operator or to the City.* The transient shall pay the tax to
the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the
rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax
shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax 3hell be due
upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for
any reason the tax is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the
City Clerk may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the
city Clerk-

section 31	The taxes collected pursuant to the preceding

section shall be used for any lawful obligation or expense of the

To:

IIWJ/p U ------	M	______

Ocbblc Slower it Q 3,68620

City.

The above statement Is an impartial analysis of Measure N96.
If you desire a copy of the meosure, please call the solvang city
Clerk's office at 688-5575 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to
you.

James F. Rupp, Jr-
Solvang City Attorney

EXHIBIT A

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SOLVANG AMENDING SECTIONS 3.20.010

AND 3.20.020 OF CHAPTER 3.20 OF TITLE 3 OF THE SOLVANG

MUNICIPAL CODE TO INCREASE THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

The people of the City of Solvang do ordain as follows:

Section 1:	The	definition of "Hotel" in section 3.20.010 of

the Solvang Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

Hotel. Any structure or land, or any portion of any
structure or land, which is occupied or intended or designed for
occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house,
motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming
house, apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobile
home, house trailer, or vehicle at a fixed location, or other
similar structure or land or portion thereof, including a time
sharing arrangement wherein the structure or land is rented by a
person or entity who does not have an ownership or membership
right of occupancy in the structure or land, or a camping site or
a space at a campground, or recreational vehicle park.

Section 2:	Section	3.20.020	of	the Solvang Municipal Code

is hereby amended to read as follows:

3.20-.H2Q_Tax--Imposed on transients; rate; when payable.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is
subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of ten percent (10%)
of the rent charged by the operator. Such tax constitutes a debt
owed by the transient to the City which is extinguished only by
payment	to	the	operator or to	the City. The transient shall	pay

the tax	to	the	operator of the hotel at the time the rent is

paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share
of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax
shall be due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the
hotel.	If	for	any reason the	tax is not paid to the operator of

the hotel,	the	City Clerk may	require that such tax shall be	paid

directly to the City Clerk.

Sect-ion 3:	The	taxes	collected	pursuant	to	the	preceding

section shall be used for any lawful obligation or expense of t
City.

Section 4:	This	ordinance	shall	go into effect ten days

after the City Council of the City of Solvang certifies its
passage at the general election held on November 5, 1996.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N96

What would you say to a proposal that helps the City of Solvang meet its expenses
for police, fire, water, parks, and city beautification—all the services the City provides—
and does so without busting the budgets of you and our city? If you'd say yes, then
Measure H96 deserves your support.

* The cost of providing city services is increasing. Without generating more revenues,
the increased costs will be borne exclusively by the families and businesses in the
community.

Is a 2% increase in the Tourist Occupancy Tax fair? Absolutely, While tourism is
the City's economic base and brings in substantial revenues. it‘s also a drain on the
City's resources.

In 1994-95. the total tourism budget was $698,562. In addition, the City paid
principal and interest on $1,760.952 for capital projects in the Village. Likewise, water
and sewer have become big ticket items. These services are being expanded

•to accommodate more people, especially tourists. The tourists need to help *
us pay. After all. the rest of us in Solvang are paying a premium for these services.

Why shouldn’t the tourists help us out?

It’s just good business to increase revenues. Sound financial planning dictates that
revenues match expenses or preferably exceed them.

It's fair to increase the TOT from 8% to 10%. It's comparable to what every other
community in Santa Barbara County Is charging.

It's reasonable. A 2% increase on a $75 room amounts to an additional $1.50.
This small increase will not hurt tourism.

Help us keep Solvang safe and prosperous. Help us keep Solvang a beautiful
place to live and visit. With a 2% increase in the'Tourist Occupancy Tax. it wilt help us

I

Vote YES oh Measure N96.

Jim 6roe«l

UV54-'

-/

Financial Consultant
City Councilmember

-* Ul_ ,1 _

The undersigned author of the direct argument in lavor of ballot measure N96 at the
Consolidated General Municipal Election for the City of Solvang to be held on November 5,

1996 hcrcbv state that such ap

Signed:

ument,is true and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.

Datc:,

7 * * i fC

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N96

Assurance that an additional Transient Occupancy Tax, estimated to
raise $250,000 a year, will go toward payment of Solvang's State
Water is in the voters hands. If left to the City council, be
assured Special interests will exert spending influence. Example,
Solvang Chamber of Commerce Tourism Task Force, April 1996 Report
and Recommendations, rely on City Funding. In particular, they want
one~hal£ of any new TOT money. The Task Force recommended that the
Council issue $1,250,000 in Certificates of Participation Bonds
(which requires only 4 Council votes) for City beautification,
including $520,000 of new downtown street lighting. The Bond
repayment over 20 years was to come from funds raised by an.
additional 2% TOT tax. If such a proposal were to be accepted by
the Council, how many TOT dollars would remain for other City
Services? A. NO VOTE on Measure N96 will give the Voter an
opportunity to vote again on this TAX and guarantee all funds
raised by the additional 2% tax can only be used for State Mater.

It is your choice, either wait for a new TOT proposal to use the
estimated $250,000 yearly to help pay your WATER BILL, or place it
in the City..General Fund as proposed by Measure N96 and hope for
the best! LET YOUR VOICE BB HEARD WITH A NO VOTE ON MEASURE N96*
and reserve new TOT Tax Dollars to assist WATER CUSTOMERS and the
CITV meet the financial burden of State Water.

Leo Mathiasen
Member City Council

The undersigned author of the rebuttal argument against ballot measure N96 at the Consolidated
General Municipal Election for the City of Solvang to bo held on November 5, hereby state
that such argument is true and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N96

When the Voter is asked to approve a Tax there should be a clear and
compelling reason, not just adding additional tax dollars to the Sol-
vang General Fund for discretionary spending. I urge your NO VOTE.on
Measure N96 appearing on this ballot and for you to await a future
opportunity to designate additional Transient Occupancy Taxes (TOT -
better known as bed taxes) for the Special Purpose of helping to pay
Solvang's large State Water costs. Remember only a NO VOTE will give
you an opportunity to apply an additional 2% TOT to State Water.
Estimated annual income from an additional 2% TOT is $250,000. While
Visitors staying in Solvang Hotels-Motels, NOT City Residents, will
pay this tax, the tax should still be used for the benefit of the
Community as a whole. Therefore, given the most serious financial
crisis in Solvang’s history you should take the politics and uncert-
ainty out of how an additional $250,000 should be spent and ensure
that it be earmarked for State WAter. You would not pass a City Bond
issue unless it was for a specific purpose. DO NOT GIVE THE CITY
COUNCIL A BLANK CHECK TO IMPOSE AND SPEND THIS TOT TAX AS THEY SEE FIT
I am confident there will be an opportunity in the near future for
you to vote on this TOT Tax again, which you should be aware is the last
tax available to the Citizens that will raise a significant amount of
money. You should be certain your wishes for the use of new Tax Dollar:
will be followed, not lost in the City General Fund as proposed in
Measure N96. PLEASE, VOTE NO ON MEASURE N96 WHICH WILL ALLOW YOU BY

A FUTURE VOTE TO DESIGNATE ADDITIONAL TOT INCOME TO HELP PAY YOUR WATER
BILL.’	-	-

Leo Mathiasen
Member City Council

The undersigned author of the direct argument against of ballot measure N96 at the Consolidated
General Municipal Election for the City of Solvang to be held on November 5. 1996 hereby state
that such argument is true and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.





Date: _Q	Z£L

Signe^r

^RECEJV'ea AUG i 5> i99$

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure N 96

A YES vote on Measure N 96 will add 2% to the Bed Tax charged to tourists when they
stay overnight in Solvang. A YES vote on Measure N 96 will add approximately
• $250,000 to the revenues of Solvang.

How your City Council allocates monies from the General Fund should occur with your
trust and approval. That's why you elected them In the first place. Therefore. If a
majority of the Council and you, the voters, approve this increase, it could be used for
part of the state water payment In fact, with Council approval, even more monies
could be allocated for etate water expanses.

As the Council Finance Committee. Nancy Orchard and I, support disciplined spending
In city government With that objective, there is no way the 2% bed tax increase will be
squandered on frivolous expenditures.

Don’t be misled. The argument against the 2% increase going to the General is
an attempt to tie the hands of your City Council and to limit the City's ability to reduce
your water b(ll9 and maintain your quality of life. Delaying a YES vote will only cost the
residents of Solvang money now.

It is In your best interest to vote YES ON MEASURE N 96.

J VW\

^ e>tf

rn 1 £ 1396

REBUTTAL ARGUMENTS

The authors of direct arguments for and against Measure N96 may prepare and submit rebuttal
arguments not exceeding 250 words in length.

All rebuttal arguments shall be typed and in paragraph form using upper and lower case format.
All rebuttal arguments shall be accompanied by the following form statement, to be signed by
each author of the rebuttal arguments:

The undersigned author of the rebuttal argument in-favor/aflamst of ballot measure N9 6at the
Consolidated General Municipal Election for the City of Solvang to be held on November 5,

1996 herebystate that.such drgnment is true and correct to the best of his knowledge and belief.

Signed: ^—	Date:	___________

The rebuttal arguments shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk of the City of Solvang by the
deadline of 5:00 p.m<, August 12,1996.

Following the deadline for filing, all rebuttal arguments are public record. The ten-day public
examination period for the direct arguments, rebuttal arguments and impartial analysis is August
13, 1996 to 5:00 p.m. August 23, 1996.

TOTAL P.01

RESOLUTION NO. 96-402

A RESOLUTION OP THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOLVANG
DIRECTING THE CITY CLERK TO PLACE A PROPOSITION ON THE
BALLOT FOR THE NEXT GENERAL ELECTION TO CONSIDER AN
INCREASE IN THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

WHEREAS, the people of the City of Solvang face a financial
crisis in the form of increased water rates due to the state water
project;

WHEREAS, the City's need for water is partially attributable
to the influx of visitors to the hotels of the City;

WHEREAS, a transient occupancy tax is a tax levied upon
visitors to the hotels of the City; and

WHEREAS, part of the funds from an increase in the transient
occupancy tax could be used to offset a portion of the increased
water rates.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City
of Solvang as follows:

Part 1. Pursuant to the authority contained in section 9222
of the Elections Code, the City Council directs the City Clerk to
place the following proposition on the ballot for consideration by
the electorate of Solvang at the next general election.

Part 2. The text of the proposition shall read as follows:

MEASURE A

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SOLVANG AMENDING SECTIONS 3.20.010

AND 3.20.020 OF CHAPTER 3.20 OF TITLE 3 OF THE SOLVANG
MUNICIPAL CODE TO INCREASE THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

The people of the City of Solvang do ordain as follows:

Sect:ion 1:	The definition of "Hotel" in section 3.20.010 of

the Solvang Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

Hotel. Any structure or land, or any portion of any structure
or land, which is occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by
transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes
any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel,
bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house,
dormitory, public or private club, mobile home, house trailer, or
vehicle at a fixed location, or other similar structure or land or
portion thereof, including a time sharing arrangement wherein the
structure or land is rented by a person or entity who does not have
an ownership or membership right of occupancy in the structure or
land, or a camping site or a space at a campground, or recreational
vehicle park.

Section 2:	Section 3.20.020 of the Solvang Municipal Cpde-is

hereby amended to read as follows:

3.20.020 Tax--Imposed on transients: rate: when payable. For
the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject
to and shall pay a tax in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the
rent charged by the operator. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by
the transient to the City which is extinguished only by payment to
the operator or to the City. The transient shall pay the tax to
the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the
rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax
shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due
upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for
any reason the tax is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the
City Clerk may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the
City Clerk.

Section 3:	The taxes collected pursuant to the preceding

section shall be used for any lawful obligation or expense of the
City.

Section 4:	This	ordinance	shall	go	into effect ten days after

the City Council of the City of Solvang certifies its passage at
the general election held on November 5, 1996.

Part 3. Ballots for the election shall be provided in the
form and in the number provided for by law. On said ballots, in

2

addition to any other printed matter which may be required by law,
two voting squares shall be set off to the right of the measure
submitted at the election, in the manner provided by law, one
having the word "YES" printed before it, and the other having the
word "NO" printed before it.

Part 4. Each voter voting for the measure shall stamp or
write a cross, or indicate by hole punch or other means, in the
blank space opposite the word "YES" on the ballot to the right of
the measure; and each voter voting against the measure shall stamp
or write a cross, or indicate by hole punch or other means, in the
blank space opposite the word "NO" on the ballot to the right of
the measure.

Part 5. The City Clerk is hereby directed and authorized to
take all actions necessary to have the above proposition submitted
to the electorate of Solvang in the General Election to be held on
November 5, 1996.

Part 6. The City Attorney shall confer with the Santa Barbara
County Elections Division and revise the format of the tax measure
appearing in Part 2 of this Resolution, as necessary, to place said
measure in a form suitable for publication in the election ballot.
In no event shall the tax measure be revised so as to alter the tax
rate itself.

PASSED and ADOPTED this 24th day of June, 1996.

Attest:

City Clerk

3

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF SANTA BARBARA )

CITY OF SOL VANG	)

I,	Debbie Glover, City Clerk of the City of Solvang, do hereby certify that the foregoing is
a full, true and correct copy of a resolution duly passed and adopted by the City Council of the City
of Solvang, California at a meeting hereof held on the 24th day of June 1996 by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:
NOES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:
ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBERS:
ABSTAIN:	COUNCILMEMBERS:

Jim Groessl, Nancy Orchard,
Mayor Elaine Campbell

William Warwick, Leo Mathiasen

None

None

City Clerk

1