INSTRUCTIONS - VOTING AT THE POLLS

STEP 1. PUT BALLOT IN DEVICE

Insert ballot card until slots fit over the two red-tipped posts on the device. Make sure the ballot
card REMAINS secured in this position while voting.

STEP 2. VOTE YOUR BALLOT

To cast a vote for a measure, place the punch stylus into the hole located directly to the right
of your selection, and using a straight downward motion, push the stylus completely through
the hole until it stops.	ere

nr

YES

Example:	PROP_______________________________NO

Do not use a pen, pencil or other implement except the provided punch stylus. Do not mark
or deface the voting pages of the device. If you make a mistake, return the ballot card to the
precinct officer to obtain another.

STEP 3. REMOVE AND INSPECT YOUR BALLOT

When finished voting, lift the ballot card off the posts and withdraw it from the voting device.
Turn ballot over and carefully inspect the back. Remove any punchouts that did not get
completely detached.

STEP 4. RETURN VOTED BALLOT TO PRECINCT OFFICER

To ensure secrecy of your ballot, fold ballot card over and return it with the voting device to
the precinct officer.

STATE LAW REQUIRES ANY BALLOT CONTAINING DISTINGUISHING MARKS (i.e.
VOTER’S NAME, INITIALS, SIGNATURE, ETC.) TO BE DECLARED VOID.

FP-02-21

N SD 003-002

dMMPILD

OFFICIAL BALLOT
COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO UU0

CONSOLIDATED SPECIAL ELECTION
MARCH 4,1997

I HAVE VOTED - HAVE YOU?

I

SWEETWATER UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
SCHOOL FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT
DISTRICT NO. 1
SPECIAL ELECTION - MARCH 4, 1997

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

PROPOSITION A

To improve health and safety conditions
and to demolish, repair, rehabilitate, con-
struct and modernize schools throughout
the School District, including wiring for
technology, shall School Facilities
Improvement District No. 1 of the
Sweetwater Union High School District
issue $500,000,000 of general obligation
bonds at interest rates not to exceed the
statutory maximum, provided that the
tax rate necessary to repay bonds issued,
as calculated at the time of issuance,

shall not exceed $0.06 -------------

per $100 assessed YES ^

valuation?	--------------

NO »

0

0

I

FP-14

N SD 003-003

VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLET

The following pages contain

BALLOT MEASURE(S), ANALYSES, TAX RATE
STATEMENT(S) AND ARGUMENT(S)

ARGUMENTS

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed measures
are the opinions of the authors and have not been checked for
accuracy by any official agency.

FP-03-3

N SD 003-004

SWEETWATER UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
SCHOOL FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 1
Proposition A

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

a • To improve health and safety conditions and to demol-
r HUH A ish, rePa'r' rehabilitate, construct and modernize
I I IVI n SChools throughout the School District, including wir-
ing for technology, shall School Facilities Improvement District No. 1 of the
Sweetwater Union High School District issue $500,000,000 of general obli-
gation bonds at interest rates not to exceed the statutory maximum,
provided that the tax rate necessary to repay bonds issued, as calculated
at the time of issuance, shall not exceed $0.06 per $100 assessed
valuation?

TAX RATE STATEMENT

(Section 9401 of the Elections Code)

To: The voters voting in the March 4, 1997, election on the question of the issuance of General
Obligation Bonds of School Facilities Improvement District No. 1 of the Sweetwater Union High
School District.

You are hereby notified in accordance with section 9401 of the Elections Code of California of the
following:

1.	The best estimate from official souroes of the tax rate which would be required to be levied to
fund principal and interest payments during the first fiscal year after the first sale of bonds
(Fiscal Year 1998-99), based upon assessed valuations available at the time of the election
and taking into account future growth, is the following:

$0.06 per $100.00 of assessed valuation, which equates to $4.65 per month on a home with
an assessed valuation of $100,000, after taking into account the $7,000 homeowners
exemption.

2.	The best estimate from official sources of the tax rate which would be required to be levied to
fund principal and interest payments during the first fiscal year after the last sale of bonds and
an estimate of the year in which that rate will apply, based upon assessed valuations available
at the time of the election and taking into account future growth, is the following:

$0.06 per $100.00 of assessed valuation, which equates to $4.65 per month on a home with
an assessed valuation of $100,000, after taking into account the $7,000 homeowners
exemption. Year after last sale of bonds: Fiscal Year 2023-24.

3.	The best estimate from official sources of the highest tax rate which would be required to be
levied to fund principal and interest payments on the bonds and the year in which such rate
would apply, based upon assessed valuations available at the time of the election and taking
into account future growth, is the following:

$0.06 per $100.00 of assessed valuation, which equates to $4.65 per month on a home with
an assessed valuation of $100,000, after taking into account the $7,000 homeowners
exemption. Year of the highest projected tax rate: Tax is projected to be the same every year.

PR-5250-1

N SD 003-005

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This proposition, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the proposition, would
authorize the School Facilities Improvement District No. 1 of the Sweetwater Union High School
District to have issued and sold up to $500,000,000 in general obligation bonds on its behalf. The
boundaries of a school facilities improvement district include that portion of a school district's
territory which is not located within the boundaries of a Mello-Roos community facility district
formed for the construction of school facilities. The issuance and sale of a bond is for the purpose
of raising money for the district and represents a debt of the district. Moneys derived from the
issuance of the bonds may be used only to benefit the land within the school facilities improvement
district.

The proceeds of these bonds would be used (a) to demolish school buildings with the intent to
replace them, whether in the same or another location, (b) to make alterations or additions to
school facilities, including the acquisition of additional land, other than ordinary maintenance,
operation and repairs, (c) to repair, restore or rebuild school facilities, (d) to supply playgrounds
with furniture, equipment and other appurtenances of a permanent nature, (e) to permanently
improve school grounds and (f) to meet Americans with Disabilities Act requirements.

The interest rate, which is established at the time of bond issuance, could not exceed twelve
percent (12%) per annum. The final maturity date of any bond could be no later than twenty-five
(25) years after the date of the bond. Principal and interest on the bonds would be paid by revenue
derived from an annual tax levied upon the taxable property within the School Facilities
Improvement District No. 1 in an amount sufficient to pay the interest as it becomes due and to
provide a sinking fund for payment of the principal on or before maturity. Article XIII A of the
California Constitution exempts from the one percent property tax rate limitation ad valorem taxes
to pay the interest and redemption charges on any bonded indebtedness for the acquisition or
improvement of real property approved by the voters on or after July 1, 1978. The approval must
be by two-thirds of the votes cast by the voters voting on the proposition. Legal authorization is
contained in state law permitting a school district to have bonds of a school facilities improvement
district issued at the interest rate, for the period of time, and for the specified purposes, subject to
two-thirds voter approval,

A "yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the School Facilities Improvement District No. 1 of
the Sweetwater Union High School District to issue bonds for the purpose stated in the
proposition.

A “no" vote is a vote against authorizing the School Facilities Improvement District No. 1 of the
Sweetwater Union High School District to issue bonds for the purpose stated in the proposition.

PR-5250-2

N SD 003-006

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Proposition A is a no-frills plan to provide essential rehabilitation and improvements to our school
campuses.

We can all be proud of the quality of education provided by Sweetwater schools - nine of which
recently received recognition as “California Distinguished Schools.”

A critical shortage of funds for structural repairs, technology improvements and additional
classroom construction threatens our schools' high standards.

Some of our campuses are 30, 40, even 50 years old. Although the district has done a good job
with basic maintenance, most buildings need major repairs and renovations. Outdated wiring and
other deficiencies prevent our schools from providing sufficient computer and technology labs to
v prepare our young people for success in college and the increasingly competitive job market. In
addition, soaring numbers of students entering high school has caused overcrowding.

'W

To protect the high standards of our schools and the safety of our students, business leaders,
parents, teachers and school board members are urging a YES vote on Proposition A.

Your “YES” vote will help protect the quality of education Sweetwater students receive.

Proposition A will:

•	qualify the district to receive $23 million in state matching grants

•	save 45% in interest costs by incorporating pay-as-you-go financing

•	raise property values by improving the school system

•	modernize computer and science classrooms

•	improve safety and security for our students

•	renovate plumbing, electrical and heating systems

•	make structural improvements to provide earthquake safety

•	repair and build additional classrooms to ease overcrowding

•	reconstruct buildings that need structural rehabilitation

No money will be spent on administrative offices or employee salaries.

All funds are tax deductible and will stay in our community to benefit our children. An independent
auditor will monitor all expenditures.

VOTE YES ON A

MARIA PILAR MEZA

MICHAEL A. GREEN

Community Member

Community Member

BUD WILSON
Business Leader

KILE MORGAN
Business Leader

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

No argument against the proposition was filed in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-5250-3

N SD 003-007