CITY OF EMERYVILLE MEASURE	
MEASURE B: Shall the City of Emeryville increase ■■4 the business license tax imposed on persons engaged in the business of operating, conducting or managing a card room from 6.5% of gross receipts per quarter or $2,000.00 per table per quarter, whichever is greater, to 9% of gross re- ceipts per month or $1,000.00 per table per month, whichever is greater, in order to provide for general municipal services in the City of Emeryville?	YES
	NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

Exhibit “A”

ORDINANCE NO. 97-_

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF EMERYVILLE AMENDING
THE PARAGRAPH ENTITLED “CARD ROOM” OF SECTION

3-1.125 OF CHAPTER 1 OF TITLE 3 OF THE EMERYVILLE
MUNICIPAL CODE IN ORDER TO INCREASE THE BUSINESS
LICENSE TAX IMPOSED ON PERSONS ENGAGED IN THE
BUSINESS OF OPERATING, CONDUCTING OR MANAGING
A CARD ROOM FROM 6.5% OF GROSS RECEIPTS PER
QUARTER OR $2,000.00 PER TABLE PER QUARTER, WHICH-
EVER IS GREATER, TO 9% OF GROSS RECEIPTS PER MONTH
OR $1,000.00 PER TABLE PER MONTH, WHICHEVER IS
GREATER, IN ORDER TO PROVIDE FOR GENERAL MUNICI-
PAL SERVICES IN THE CITY OF EMERYVILLE
WHEREAS, at the regularly scheduled general municipal election held on
Tuesday, November 4, 1997, the City Council of the City of Emeryville placed
before the voters of the City of Emeryville a measure posing the question of
whether to increase the business license tax imposed on persons engaged in the
business of operating, conducting or managing a card room from 6.5% of gross
receipts per quarter or $2,000.00 per table per quarter, whichever is greater, to
9% of gross receipts per month or $1,000.00 per table per month, whichever is
greater, in order to provide for general municipal services in the City of
Emeryville; and

WHEREAS, at said regularly scheduled general municipal election, the elec-
torate of the City of Emeryville, by majority vote as required by law, did
approve said aforementioned measure; now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED, THAT THE ELECTORATE OF THE CITY OF EMERY-
VILLE DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION ONE. PURPOSE AND INTENT. The purpose and intent of this
Ordinance is to increase the business license tax imposed on persons engaged in
the business of operating, conducting or managing a card room from 6.5% of
gross receipts per quarter or $2,000.00 per table per quarter, whichever is greater,

to 9% of gross lv ^pts per month or $1,000.00 per table per nth, whichever
is greater, in order to provide for general municipal services in the City of
Emeryville.

SECTION TWO. AMENDING PARAGRAPH ENTITLED “CARD
ROOM” IN SECTION 3-1.125 OF CHAPTER 1 OF TITLE 3 OF THE
EMERYVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE. The paragraph entitled “Card Room”
in Section 3-1.125 of Chapter 1 of Title 3 of the Emeryville Municipal Code is
hereby amended, as to the license tax, to read as follows:

Section 3-1.125. Certain Enumerated Businesses.

Card Room. Carrying on the business of operating, conducting or managing a
card room or card game in any public place or to which an admission fee is
charged within the City of Emeryville, the license tax shall be as follows:

Card room businesses shall pay, monthly, to the City, a license tax of nine per-
cent (9%) of the monthly gross receipts of such business, or shall pay, monthly,
a license tax of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per table, per month, whichever
of these two (2) tax amounts is greater.

SECTION THREE. SEVERABILITY. Every section, paragraph, clause and
phrase of this Ordinance is severable. If, for any reason, any section, paragraph,
clause or phrase is held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or
constitutionality shall not affect the validity or constitutionality of the remaining
sections, paragraphs, clauses or phrases.

SECTION FOUR. CEOA DETERMINATION. Pursuant to Title 14 of the
California Administrative Code, Section 15378 (b)(4), this Ordinance is exempt
from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
because the submittal of proposals to a vote of the people of the state or of a par-
ticular community is not a “project” for purposes of CEQA.

SECTION FIVE. EFFECTIVE DATE AND POSTING. This Ordinance
shall take effect upon its passage by a majority vote of the electorate of the City
of Emeryville. The City Clerk is directed to cause copies of this Ordinance to be
posted or published as required by Government Code Section 33693.

SECTION SIX. CODIFICATION. Section Two of this Ordinance shall be
codified in the Emeryville Municipal Code. Sections One, Three, Four, Five and
Six shall not be so codified.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The purpose of this measure is to adopt an ordinance increasing the existing
business license tax imposed on persons engaged in the business of operating,
conducting or managing a card room in the City of Emeryville to provide for
general municipal services. Under Proposition 218, adopted in 1996, proposed
tax and fee increases must be placed on the ballot for voter approval.

Currently, the business license tax imposed on cardroom businesses is the
greater of six and one-half percent (6.5%) of gross receipts or $2,000.00 per
approved card table, paid on a quarterly basis. Under the proposed ordinance,
the business license tax imposed on cardroom businesses would be increased

EM-2

to the greater i	,ne percent (9%) of gross receipts or $ 1,1 _ 00 per approved

card table, paid on a monthly basis.

A YES vote will increase the business license tax imposed on cardroom busi-
nesses to the greater of nine percent (9%) of gross receipts or $1,000.00 per
approved card table, paid on a monthly basis.

A NO vote will not increase the business license tax imposed on cardroom
businesses; however, the present business license tax imposed on cardroom
businesses, which is the greater of six and one-half percent (6.5%) of gross
receipts or $2,000.00 per approved card table, paid on a quarterly basis, will
remain in effect.

s/MICHAEL G. BIDDLE
Emeryville City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Voting YES on Measure B will allow the City to increase the business license
tax imposed on cardrooms and generate at least $400,000 per year to maintain
and improve basic city services such as police, fire, paramedics, street and park
maintenance, as well as senior and youth programs. Emeryville has not raised the
business license tax imposed on cardrooms in over four years and the current
cardroom tax rate is among the lowest in the State.

The demand for city services has grown in Emeryville over the past years as
more people have come to Emeryville to live, work, shop, and be entertained. In
recent years, Emeryville has been proud to increase the number of police offi-
cers, expand youth, recreation, and senior programs, establish paramedic and
Job Works programs, and develop new streets and open spaces. To maintain and
continue to improve these services, the City must build a strong revenue base. A
yes vote on Measure B will ensure that the cardrooms are part of the solution in
sustaining vital city services. And even with the increase, the cardroom tax will
still be among the lowest in the Bay Area.

Support city services and join the following community leaders that urge you
to vote YES on Measure B: Kate S. Elman, Nicholas Galloro, Alan E. Gilbert,
Jim C. Golden, Janet A. Guastavino, Nellie M. Hannon, Jane T. Hoop, A1
Ingram, and Shirley Reeves.
s/NORA DAVIS

Mayor
s/KEN BUKOWSKI

Vice Mayor
s/GREG HARPER

City Councilmember

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

What’s the old saying? “A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.” Maybe
the three council members who voted for a cardroom tax increase aren’t familiar
with that expression. They want another $400,000 a year from a business that
already pays a business license tax of nearly $1 million a year!

EM-3

Of course th>. w„,ty would like to have more tax revenu maintain and
improve basic city services, but why pick on one business to seek additional rev-
enue? And since there is currently only one cardroom in Emeryville open for
business, that means the Oaks Club may bear the burden of the tax increase by
itself.

The city claims that the current cardroom tax rate in Emeryville is among the
lowest in the state. According to the California Attorney General’s Office, there
are approximately 200 licensed cardrooms in the state. Of those cardrooms. only
8 cardrooms in the entire state paid more tax dollars to their city than the card-
rooms in Emeryville. And, every single one of those 8 establishments are much
larger operations than the Oaks, with better locations, more gaming tables, and
substantially more gross revenues.

We support the city of Emeryville. We support improved city services. Who
doesn’t? But, when a few council members attempt to extract tax dollars that
could jeopardize a family owned business that has been operating in Emeryville
for over 100 years, something doesn’t seem right.

Citizens of Emeryville: Please vote NO on Measure B.
s/TINA RHODES
s/RON RAMOS

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

The City Council has decided to raise cardroom taxes again. On a split vote -
3 votes to 2 - the City Council approved a ballot measure for a cardroom tax
increase. In 1993 the City Council raised cardroom taxes 18%. Four years later,
the council wants another increase of almost 40%. This could put an Emeryville
landmark out of business.

I’ve been a resident of Emeryville for 24 years. I’ve been a customer of the
Oaks Club since then, and every time I visit the Oaks I’m reminded that it wasn’t
too long ago when the Oaks was one of the few businesses in town where a per-
son could feel comfortable having a drink or a bite to eat, playing a game of
cards, or just gathering with friends.

Last year, the Oaks lost a lot of their business when the largest cardroom in
Northern California opened in San Pablo, just 12 miles away. Consequently, 20%
of their workforce was laid off. I know that many of the people who lost their
jobs were local residents.

With an even larger cardroom already approved in the city of Albany, a tax
increase could prove to be the final straw. Last year Emeryville cardrooms paid
the city $1.4 million dollars in tax revenue: nearly 10% of the entire general
fund! If the Oaks is forced to close, where will the city go to make up the lost
revenue? Where will the laid off workers go to find work?

The Oaks has been in Emeryville for 100 years. For the last 51 years it has
been owned and operated by the same family. We would hope that the Oaks con-
tinues to be a fixture in Emeryville. Please help us keep a landmark right where
it is. Vote NO on a cardroom tax increase.
s/TINA RHODES
s/RON RAMOS

EM-4



re^Ttalto argument against mea ' .re b

Voting YES on Measure B means an increase of 2.5% in cardroom taxes frorr
6.5% to 9%. Emeryville cardroom taxes are now among the lowest in the state.

and San Pablo. Cardroom taxes in those communities range from 13% to 15%.
Even after a tax increase, the cardroom tax paid in Emeryville will be signifi-
cantly less than in other Bay Area communities.

Wla ifolnA .ho	/'nn.rthn.inn	.ft	.ho	Cmor

are profitable businesses, and Emeryville is a preferred Sddation. If wardrooms in
other communities can pay 13% to 15% of their gross revenues in business
licenses, then the Emeryville cardrooms can also. The proposed cardroom in
Albany would have paid between 10% and 15% in cardroom business taxes.
However, in July 1997, the California Court of Appeals placed the proposed
Albany cardroom on indefinite hold. ' A ■

•.
room

People come to Emeryville to live, work, shop and be entertained. Most card-

means more money

Support City services. Vote YES on Measure B, the cardroom tax increase.
s/NORA DAVIS ’ .

Mayor-1-. -1$
s/KEN BUKOWSKI
Vice Mayor

ti’ ’	■': /»T fft-- ,

"3a

lii;.

sis m i m s



... .-.A	■	.

■MM....

...

. .v . ■. • - ,*

ifci ; --^ /S

1	~	JHSj

•	A.

w ■ ..	..	A-

mm

''

iSS