SB-001.003

OFFICIAL BALLOT
COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA

SPECIAL ELECTION
June 3,1997

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

SCHOOL

LOS ALTOS SCHOOL DISTRICT

A Shall the Los Altos School District be authorized to increase their YES	3

existing special tax and the Gann Appropriations Limit by the amount-----------------------

of revenue generated by that special tax?	NO	4

END OF VOTING





U°

i

!

Group 3

N SC Ballot Type 003 - Page 004

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

The following pages contain candidates' statements
and/or ballot measures, analyses and arguments
(whichever are applicable to your ballot).

This pamphlet may not contain a complete list of candidates;
a complete list of candidates appears in the sample ballot.

Each, candidate’s statement in this pamphlet
is volunteered by the candidate and is printed
pursuant to Elections Code Section 13307.

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the
proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Although the materials in this pamphlet have been. carefully proofread,
typographical errors occasionally remain undetected.

If any substantive errors are discovered after the pamphlet has
been printed, correction notices will be printed in appropriate
local newspapers on Friday, May 30, 1997.

ACCESS TO POLLING PLACE BY THE
PHYSICALLY DISABLED

Refer to the physically disabled symbol on the
back cover of this pamphlet

If the word “NO” is printed under the symbol,
your polling place does not meet State
Guidelines for accessibility to disabled voters.

For more information about an inaccessible
polling place, and alternative methods of voting,
call:

Accessibility Coordinator
(408) 299-2694

AUDIO TAPES OF THE SAMPLE BALLOT AND VOTER PAMPHLET ARE
AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST. PHONE (408) 299-8639

REGISTRATION AND VOTING INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE TO THE
HEARING IMPAIRED BY TDD COMMUNICATION - (408) 288-9820

N SC Ballot Type 003 - Page 005

FP-004.001

L-0 f°rCtt)J>

MEASURE A
LOS ALTOS SCHOOL DISTRICT

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The, California Constitution authorizes districts to impose a special tax through the ■
imposition of a parcel tax on real property in an election held for the purpose of
imposing such a tax. A parcel is defined as any parcel of land as shown on the current
assessment roll prepared by the County Assessor. On January 27,1997, the Governing
Board of the Los Altos School District voted to hold a special election on June 3,1997,
to determine whether the District would be authorized to implement a special tax of
$96.00 per parcel for each year beginning July 1, 1997. A 2/3rds vote is required to
impose the tax. The tax would be authorized for an indefinite period. This tax would be
added to the existing rate of $168.00 per parcel, so that the District Governing Board
would be authorized to set a rate up to $264.00 per parcel.

The Governing Board also determined that the special election would include the
question as to whether the appropriations limit would be increased for a period of four
years by the amount of revenue generated by the special tax. The appropriations limit
restricts governmental spending by setting an annual appropriations (i.e. expenditures)
limit for government entities. The limit is based on the previous years limit, adjusted for
changes in the cost of living and population. An increase greater than that authorized
by the annual change must be approved by the voters at least every four years.

A “Yes" vote is a vote in favor of approving the increase of $96.00 per parcel in the
special tax for an indefinite period and increasing the appropriations limit for a period
of four years by the amount of the revenue generated by that increase.

The funds derived from the special tax would be used to continue to provide basic
educational programs without outs; support the class size reduction program; preserve
restored programs such as basic textbook budgets and libraries; and maintain and
repair aging buildings. An exemption from the special tax shall be granted upon annual
application by the school district on any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years
of age or older who occupy the parcel as a principal residence.

A “No” vote is a vote not to approve the increase in the special tax and the four year
increase in appropriations limit by the amount of revenue generated by that increase.

STEVEN M. WOODSIDE
County Counsel

'By: BRIAN L. CARR

Deputy County Counsel

N SC Ballot Type 003 - Page 006

PR-7510-1

Shall the Los Altos School District be authorized to increase their existing special tax
and the Gann Appropriations Limit by the amount of revenue generated by that special
tax?

A rate of $96 per parcel shall be added to the existing rate of $168 per parcel beginning
July 1, 1997. In accordance with State law, the voters shall have the opportunity to
. approve the continuation of the increase in the Gann Appropriations Limit at least every
four years: No later than two weeks after a Gann Appropriations Limit election, the
District Governing Board shall reset the parcel tax rate, but may not set a rate higher
than $264 per parcel per year.

The addition to the special tax is necessary to maintain programs at tire same level as
originally approved by voters eight years ago. The purpose of the special tax is to:

•	Provide basic educational program without cuts

•	Support class size reduction program

•	Preserve restored programs such as basic textbook budgets and libraries

•	Repair and maintain aging buildings

A parcel is defined as any parcel of land as shown on the current assessment roll
prepared by the Santa Clara County Assessor. The special tax shall be collected and
enforced in the same manner prescribed by law for the collection of other taxes on the
assessment role. All property that is exempt from the property tax will be exempt from
this special tax.

SENIOR EXEMPTION

,	'	■	S

An exemption from the special tax shall be granted annually by the school district on
any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over who occupy said
parcel as a principal residence, upon annual application for exemption.



PR-7510-2

N SC Ballot Type 003 - Page 007

Thanks to voter approval of Measure A’s parcel tax in support of quality education, the
Los Aitos School District has been able to avoid financial disaster caused by
unpredictable state funding for education. Measure A funds have enabled the district
to continue to provide the educational excellence our community desires.

We can all take pride in our local schools which are ranked in the top 1% of schools
in the state. Our district students continually achieve high academic scores nationally
and in California. Families choose to live in our community because of our excellent
schools.

However, some tilings have changed dramatically since the parcel tax was approved
eight years ago. District enrollment has grown by 25%, or approximately 700-students,
while increased program costs, inflation and fluctuating state revenues mean 1989
dollars no longer cover the costs to maintain the same programs at the same level as
originally implemented by Measure A.

That’s why the independent Citizens' Financial Advisory Committee, which provides
accountability for parcel tax expenditures, recommended the Board of Trustees
increase the existing parcel tax this year just to keep the same programs in place as

* initially approved.

Measure A assures our children receive a quality education. Measure A funds mean
children don’t have to share textbooks, our school Iforaries are open and classrooms
no longer have leaky roofs. Without Measure A, the district would again face academic
program cuts and class size would increase substantially. The district could not afford

to participate in the state’s class size reduction program.

We still need locally controlled, stable funds from Measure A to keep our award-winning
Los Altos schools strong, protect our community’s high property values, and guarantee
future success for our children. Vote YES on Measure A.

GERRI L. CARLTON, President, Los Altos School Distiict Board of Trustees

FRANCIS LA POLL, Mayor, City of Los Altos

CONRAD HEINTZELMAN, Business and Community Leader

GIL MORRISON, Community Leader

MARGE BRUNO, Citizens' Financial Advisory Committee

PR-7510-3

N SC Ballot Type 003 - Page 008

Providing qualify education for our children is one of the most important gifts we can
give them. Instead of spending more money on maintaining programs, why not look
for ways to improve the quality of education?

That does not require huge tax increases. It has been shown over and over again that
the two most important factors in qualify education are parental involvement and good
teachers, in that order. Everything else pales in comparison.

Parental involvement is inexpensive, but requires active approaches. All parents want
their children to do better, but few think they have enough time to be involved.

Perhaps the education of children should start with educating their parents. Perhaps
community action can entice non-participating parents into stronger bonds with their
children. Perhaps new community leaders will arise from a renewed commitment to
excellence.

Get the ball rolling, and it will go a long way.

Isn’t that worth striving for? Involvement can provide so much more than mere money
can ever do. And it costs a lot, lot less.

Vote “NO" on Measure A.

MARK W.A. HINKLE, Chair, Libertarian Party of California

PAUL J. RAKO, County Central Committee Member
Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

JON PETERSEN, Northern Vice Chair, Libertarian Party of California

PR-7510-4

N SC Ballot Type 003 - Page 009

Most school buildings appear suited to classrooms designed in the 19th century. Is it
really appropriate to prop up the current approach to education? Can't we start moving "

into the 21 st century? •

That does not mean doing what we have always done. It means moving to a tree-market
educational system which will improve the quality of education while reducing costs.

Active approaches to learning require local control, parental involvement, and well
trained teachers; however, the proposed parcel tax increase addresses few, if any, of

these needs.

More money is not the answer, because payment is based on attendance, not
performance. Increased funding has been tried over and over throughout the state, and
has seldom worked. Not much of the money gets to the classrooms; and when it does,
it usually doesn't do much good.

Measure A claims to be necessary to maintain basic programs. Isn’t maintaining basic
programs the least we should expect from our schools? And why is a 57% increase
in the parcel tax “necessary” all of a sudden? With the CaOfomia economy improving,
schools should all be receiving more money.

Hasn’t the school district built a reserve fund to smooth out variations in funding?
Throughout the state of California, close to half of ail state taxes and local property taxes
now go to schools - over $5,000 per student each year. Shouldn't that allow school

districts to live within their means?

Don’t saddle yourself with another tax bill.

Vote “NO" on Measure A.

CHARLES B. WALKER, Vice-Chair, Libertarian Parly of Santa Clara County
DONALD J.R. CORMIER, Activities Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County
JOHN COLLINS, Newsletter Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County
JON PETERSEN, Secretary, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

PR-7510-5

N SC Ballot Type 003 - Page 010

Our community values education and supports the local control Measure A funding
provides for our schools. If you don't live in our community, you might not understand
how important Measure A is to the future of our children and community.

Measure A is not just about taxes, it's about quality education and an investment in
keeping our award-winning schools strong so we can continue to have students who
achieve at high academic levels.

Our district, can’t depend on funding from Sacramento. We don’t receive $5,000 per
student. Even with Measure A funds the district's' 1996 revenue per student was well
below the national and county average. Without Measure A funds the district would
receive only $4111 per student and rank almost last in funding per student in the county.

Since Measure A was implemented in 1989, our already -high test scores have
increased. In' contrast, our already lean administration remains the same, although
district enrollment climbed 25% in eight years. The independent Citizens’ Financial
Advisory Committee says there’s no fat in the district’s budget.

We need Measure A and the increase in Measure A funds to keep our current academic
program intact. Without Measure A class size would climb, libraries would close,
buildings would deteriorate, basic academic programs would be cut and the quality of
education would suffer.

Measure A is an investment in our future. Vote YES on Measure A to preserve local
control over quality education, protect property values and keep our Los Altos schools
strong.

.GERRI L. CARLTON, President, Los Altos School District Board of Trustees
MARGE BRUNO, Citizens’ Financial Advisory Committee	4

FRANCIS A. LA POLL, Mayor, City of Los Altos
CONRAD HEINTZELMAN, Business and Community Leader
GIL MORRISON, Community Leader

I

|

PR-7510-6

N SC Ballot Type 003 - Page 011