VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

WEST SONOMA COUNTY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
FORESTVILLE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
FORT ROSS SCHOOL DISTRICT
GUERNEVILLE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
HARMONY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MONTGOMERY SCHOOL DISTRICT
OAK GROVE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SEBSTOPOL UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
TWIN HILLS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE B

Shall the West Sonoma County Union High School District
B	and its feeder elementary school districts that have chosen

to join with the high school district impose qualified special
taxes in the amount not to exceed S39 per parcel, SI 2.09 per parcel
for the high school district and S26.91 per parcel in the feeder elementary
school districts, to maintain and enhance educational programs and
services, such tax to continueforaperiod of 7 years beginning July 1,1998,
and correspondingly increase their respective appropriations limits for
the maximum time allowed by law?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

State law requires voter approval before a school district can impose special
taxes. The Legislature has authorized the West Sonoma County Union High School
District and each of its “feeder” elementary districts to join togetherto impose special
taxes under a single measure. “Feeder” districts are those elementary school
districts within the boundaries of a high school district. All ‘feeder” elementary
districts with the exception of Monte Rio Union School District and the Gravenstein
Union School District have joined in submitting this measure.

The governing boards of these school districts have called an election on
whether taxes should be imposed.

This measure proposes a tax of S39 per parcel of land. The tax would remain
in effect for seven years beginning July 1,1998. Revenue from the tax would be
used to maintain and enhance academic and educational programs. The tax would
be collected in the same manner as annual property taxes.

The proposed S39 special tax is composed of two parts: SI 2.09 would be
allocated to the high school district, and $26.91 would be allocated to the elementary
school district in which the parcel is located. The high school district may impose
its share of the tax ($12.09) only if two-thirds of all voters in the high school district
who vote on the measure approve it. If the high school district fails to attain the
required two-thirds vote but a "feeder” elementary school district does attain the
required vote, only that portion of the tax allocated to the elementary school district
($26.91) will be imposed. '

The measure exempts (1) parcels owned or partially owned by a person who
will be over the age of 65 on or before May 1 of any year for which the tax is imposed
and who uses the parcel as his or her principal place of residence (for example, if
a husband and wife own a parcel, and one of them will be over age 65, the parcel
will be exempt); (2) parcels determined by the County to be exempt from property
tax due to low value; and (3) contiguous parcels used as one economic unit under
the same ownership would be taxed as one parcel. Persons claiming exemptions
must apply to the school district by May 1, 1998, or, subsequently, the May 1
preceding the fiscal year in which the exemption is first claimed.

The measure also provides that the spending limits of the school districts
would be increased by the amount of revenue generated by the tax. Voter approval
of the change in the spending limit permits the districts to keep and spend money
raised by the new tax.

s/James P. Botz
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Passage of Measure A in 1993 has provided West Sonoma County schools with a
reliable source of local funds to improve libraries, purchase^new textbooks and
classroom instructional materials for elementary and high schools, and provide
students with up-to-date classroom technology. It has also allowed, high schools to
maintain a broad range of courses and has enabled elementary schools to continue
art, music and drama programs.

Measure B is a renewal of 1993’s Measure A. Funds from Measure B will: 1. Provide
instructional materials such as textbooks, science equipment and computers; 2.
Enhance high school technology and vocational training classes; 3. Improve
libraries by purchasing new books and research materials; 4. Assist elementary
schools with class size reduction.

Measure B will directly benefit students in elementary, middle and high schools in
West Sonoma County. None of the funds will be used for administrator salaries.
Property owners in the district 65 years of age or older may apply for an exemption
from Measure B. Those already exempt from the current parcel tax will also be
exempt from Measure B.

Schools in West Sonoma County have been designated as California Distinguished
Schools and test scores have exceeded state and national averages. Outstanding
teachers and staff have been recognized for their commitment and dedication to
excellence in education. All of this is made possible by the residents of West Sonoma
County who value good schools and recognize the importance of education.

Measure B is an investment in the quality education we provide our students as we
prepare them for the 21st century. We are proud of our educational programs and
the students, teachers, staffs, and parents that make up our school communities.

Please support our schools and our students by voting Yes on Measure B.

s/Sam Pullaro, Superintendent	s/Neil Ferguson

Guemeville School District	Community Volunteer

si Kim Caruso, Director	si Lesa Tanner

Sebastopol Community Center	School/community volunteer

si Gene Nelson, Minister
Community Church of Sebastopol

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE B

13

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

__________________  MEASURES,	ANALYSES	AND	ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

JOINT RESOLUTION
OF THE GOVERNING BOARDS OF THE
WEST SONOMA COUNTY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
FORESTVILLE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
FORT ROSS SCHOOL DISTRICT
GUERNEVILLE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
HARMONY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT .

MONTGOMERY SCHOOL DISTRICT
OAK GROVE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SEBASTOPOL UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
TWIN HILLS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SONOMA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of a Joint )	RESOLUTION	AND	ORDER

Special Tax Election )	OF ELECTION

____________________ )	Resolution #17.June.97

WHEREAS, the West Sonoma County Union High School District and its feeder
elementary districts wish to improve the quality of education for its students; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program delivers many
long lasting benefits and advantages to all of the residents of our community; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079 and 53720 et seq.
authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the purpose of
conducting its business upon the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters
voting upon such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, the West Sonoma County Union High School District and each
of its feeder elementary districts are authorized to join together to impose qualified
special taxes under a single measure, pursuant to Assembly Bill 3184 (Chapter 116)
of the 1991-92 Regular Session; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution allows the
appropriations limit of school districts to be increased by the electors. Such approval
is required for the school districts to use the revenues generated by the tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Governing Board of the West
Sonoma County Union High School District and its feeder elementary districts that have
chosen to join with .the high school district resolve to conduct a special election on
November 4,1997, at which time will be submitted to the qualified voters of the West
Sonoma County Union High School District a measure to authorize a special tax for the
purpose of maintaining and enhancing educational programs and services to the extent
allowed by the special tax. Said measure shall also authorize the increase of the
appropriations limit of West Sonoma County Union High School District and each of its
feeder elementary districts which have chosen to join together to impose qualified special
taxes by the amount of revenue generated by the special tax.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries of
the West Sonoma County Union High School District and its feeder elementary
districts at which election shall be submitted to the qualified voters within the West
Sonoma County Union High School District and its feeder elementary districts the
following measure, to wit:

MEASURE B

The West Sonoma County Union High School District and each of its feeder
elementary school districts are authorized to join togetherto impose qualified special taxes
under a single measure, pursuant to Assembly Bill 3184 of thei 991 -92 Regular Session.

Under Measure B, the West Sonoma County Union High School District and
those of its feeder elementary districts that so agreed, have joined together to
impose qualified special taxes in the amount of S39.00 per parcel based upon the
use or right of use on each assessor’s parcel within the boundaries of the West
Sonoma County Union High School District for a period of seven (7) years beginning

July 1,1998, and increasing their respective appropriations limit for the maximum
time allowed by law by the amount of revenue generated by that special tax. The
proceeds from the taxes shall be distributed between the West Sonoma County
Union High School District, serving grades 9 to 12, inclusive; and, if they have !so
chosen to join the West Sonoma County Union High School District in imposing
these taxes, the feeder elementary school districts, serving grades kindergarten to
8 inclusive, based upon the percentage of grades each district serves (SI 2.09 per
parcel for the high school district and S26.91 per parcel in those feeder elementary
school districts that have chosen to join with the high school district to impose these
taxes), to maintain and enhance their educational programs and services to the
extent allowed by the revenue generated from the special taxes.

Exemptions from the assessment will be made available as follows:

a.	To each individual in the Districts who will attain 65 years on or before
May 1 of the assessment year, and who owns a beneficial interest in the
parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of such parcel, and who uses
that parcel as his or her principal place of residence.

b.	Any property which the County of Sonoma has determined to be exempt
from property tax due to low value.

c.	For multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part of one economic
unit under the same name and ownership. Such multiple parcels may be
charged as one parcel.

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the West Sonoma County High School
District on or before May 1 of 1998 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year.
Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the
parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues
to qualify for the exemption. The districts shall establish an administrative review
process to grant such exemptions.

The measure to be placed on the ballot shall read as follows:

Shall the West Sonoma County Union High School District and its
feeder elementary school districts that have chosen to join with the high
school district impose qualified special taxes in the amount not to exceed S39
per parcel, $12.09 per parcel for the high school district and $26.91 per parcel
in the feeder elementary school districts, to maintain and enhance educa-
tional programs and services, such tax to continue for a period of 7 years
beginning July 1,1998, and correspondingly increase their respective appro-
priations limits for the maximum time allowed by law?

_______Yes ________No

The West Sonoma County Union High School District may assess and collect
its share of the qualified special tax as set forth in this measure (SI 2.09 per parcel)
only if it attains a two-thirds vote of the electorate voting on the measure within the
> entire boundaries of its jurisdiction. If the West Sonoma County Union High School
District fails to attain the required two-thirds vote and a feeder elementary school
district attains the required two-thirds vote, only 69 percent of the tax, orS26.91 per
parcel, due to the feeder elementary school district, shall be assessed and collected.

Each of the feeder elementary school districts may assess and collect its share
of the qualified special tax set forth in this measure (S26.91 per parcel) only if it joins with
the West Sonoma County Union High School District to impose the taxes and attains a
two-thirds vote of the electorate voting on this measure within the boundaries of its
jurisdiction. If a feeder elementary school district chooses not to join the West Sonoma
County Union High School District to impose the taxes, or fails to attain the required
two-thirds vote and the West Sonoma County Union High School District attains the
required two-thirds vote, only 31 percent ofthetax, orS12.09 per parcel, due to the West
Sonoma County Union High School District shall be assessed and collected.

The following West Sonoma County Union High School District feeder
elementary school districts have chosen to join with the high school district to impose
qualified special taxes pursuant to this Measure: Forestville Union School District,
Fort Ross School District, Guerneville Union School District, Harmony Union School

CONT. NEXT PAGE

14

i

i

■

i

1

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

_______________ MEASURES,	ANALYSES	AND	ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B, CONT.

District, Montgomery School District, Oak Grove Union School District, Sebastopol
Union School District, and Twin Hills Union School District.

Section 2. As used in this joint resolution, “qualified special taxes’’ means
special taxes that apply uniformly to all taxpayers or all real property in each of the
districts. If an elementary school district has not chosen to join with the West Sonoma
County Union High School District to impose the taxes, or fails to attain the required
two-thirds vote and the West Sonoma County Union High School District attains the
required two-thirds vote, only the percentage of the tax due to the West Sonoma
County Union High School District shall be assessed and collected. If the West
Sonoma County Union High School District does not attain the required two-thirds
vote, only the percentage of tax due to the feeder elementary school districts that
have attained the required two-thirds vote shall be assessed and collected.

Section 3. Commencing on July 1,1998, the special tax collected annually
on all assessor’s parcels at the rate specified above, shall be collected and
administered in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and
collected under provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Sonoma County is hereby
requested to call a special election of the said special tax to be held on November
4,1997 and to consolidate this election with any elections to be held on this same
date, The Sonoma County Board of Supervisors is hereby requested and authorized
to consolidate this election with any elections to be held on this same date. The
County Clerk is hereby requested and authorized to: 1) set forth all sample ballots
relating to said election to be mailed to the qualified electors of the West Sonoma
County Union High School District and its feeder elementary districts; and 2) to
provide absentee voter ballots for said special tax election for use by qualified
electors of the West Sonoma County Union High School District and its feeder
elementary districts who are entitled thereto in the manner provided by Law.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this joint resolution
is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portion of this joint resolution. Each Governing Board declares that it
would have adopted this resolution and each section, subsection, phrase or clause
thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sen-
tences, phrases or clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6. This joint resolution is executed in counterparts and each
counterpart shall be deemed an original. The clerk of the West Sonoma County
Union High School District Governing Board and the clerks of each of its feeder
elementary districts’ governing boards are hereby authorized and directed to
certify to the due adoption of each counterpart of this joint resolution and to transmit
a copy hereof so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Sonoma County,
the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors, and to file a copy hereof so certified with
the County Clerk of Sonoma County.

1

I

■

15