In the Matter of:

AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE SAN )

MARCO CASINO/CONVENTION	)

CENTER BY AMENDING PITTSBURG )

MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 5.24	)	ORDINANCE	NO.	97-1124

ENTITLED "CARDROOMS";	)

AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF A )

CARDROOM LICENSE FOR THE SAN )

MARCO CASINO SITE; APPROVING A )

TAX RATE STRUCTURE AND FEES )

FOR A CARDROOM LICENSE;	)

APPROVING A GENERAL PLAN	)

AMENDMENT FOR THE SAN MARCO )

SUBDIVISION VILLAGE "A"	)

PROPERTY; AMENDING THE	)

PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR )

THE SAN MARCO SUBDIVISION; AND )

APPROVING AN AMENDMENT TO THE )

SAN MARCO DEVELOPMENT	)

AGREEMENT	)

_____________________________ )

The people of the City of Pittsburg do ordain as follows:
SECTION 1. TITLE.

This ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE SAN
MARCO C ASIN O/C ON VENTION CENTER BY AMENDING PITTSBURG MUNICIPAL
CODE CHAPTER 5.24 ENTITLED "CARDROOMS"; AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE
OF A CARDROOM LICENSE FOR THE SAN MARCO CASINO SITE; APPROVING A
TAX RATE STRUCTURE AND FEES FOR A CARDROOM LICENSE; APPROVING A
GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT FOR THE SAN MARCO SUBDIVISION VILLAGE
"A" PROPERTY; AMENDING THE PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR THE SAN
MARCO SUBDIVISION; AND APPROVING AN AMENDMENT TO THE SAN MARCO
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT."

SECTION 2. BACKGROUND.

A.	In 1995, Section 19819.5 was added to the California Business and Professions
Code and enacted a three-year moratorium on the expansion of cardroom gaming in any city
beyond those levels permitted as of January 1, 1996.

B.	Business and Professions Code Section 19819 requires voter approval of
cardroom gaming in any city where those activities were prohibited before January 1, 1984.

The City of Pittsburg is exempt from the voter approval requirement of Section 19819, as the
City permitted cardroom gambling before January 1, 1984.

C.	In 1995, the Pittsburg City Council adopted an amendment to the City’s
Cardroom Ordinance, Pittsburg Municipal Code Chapter 5.24, that expanded the maximum
number of cardroom tables permitted in the City and imposed comprehensive regulations for
new cardrooms.

D.	On May 29, 1996, Seecon Financial & Construction Company, Inc., submitted
an application to the City Planning Department proposing to construct a 56,750 square foot
convention center/casino and related development on a 32.2 acre portion known as Village
"A" of Seecon’s previously approved 639 acre San Marco Subdivision. The proposed site is
located on the south side of State highway 4 just east of the Bay Point interchange at the
northeast comer of the extension of West Leland Road and Willow Pass Road (San Marco
Boulevard), Pittsburg, California, APN 097-150-009 and 097-150-011 (the "Site"). The
proposed convention center/casino would contain a 68 table cardroom, conference facilities
for 850 people, a restaurant, sports lounge and snack bar, a beauty salon/barbershop, gift
shops, parking area for 800 vehicles, a mini market, a service station/car wash,
administrative offices, security and maintenance areas and related commercial uses (the
"Project").

E.	Seecon’s May 29, 1996 application included requests to amend the City’s
General Plan from Residential Medium Density to Community Commercial (GP 96-04);
revise the 1990 San Marco Development Agreement between the City and Seecon; and
rezone the San Marco Planned Development Plan from 76 single-family homes currently
approved for Village "A" to community commercial, all in an effort to accommodate the
proposed convention center/casino and related commercial development.

F.	To operate a cardroom on the Site, a Cardroom License must be issued
pursuant to Pittsburg Municipal Code Chapter 5.24.

G.	On November 12, 1996, the Pittsburg Planning Commission conducted a duly
noticed public hearing on the Draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Report for the
Project. Many Pittsburg residents attended the public hearing and testified about the Project.

H.	The public comments, received by the Planning Commission, were
incorporated and discussed in the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Report for the
San Marco Subdivision (FSEIR) for the Project. The FSEIR is on file with the City Clerk.

I.	On December 17, 1996, the Pittsburg Planning Commission held a public
hearing on the FSEIR and the applicant’s requests for a General Plan Amendment,
amendments to the San Marco Development Agreement and Planned Development Plan and
considered all the evidence and testimony presented at the hearing. On that same date, the
Planning Commission took the following actions:

PAGE 2 OF 6

(i)	By Resolution Number 8953, the Commission recommended that the
City Council certify the FSEIR and adopt the Mitigation Measures and Statement of
Overriding Considerations for the Project;

(ii)	By Resolution Number 8956, the Commission recommended that the
City Council approve the Amendment to the Planned Development Plan for the San
Marco Subdivision to allow the San Marco Convention Center/Casino Project on the
32.2 acre Site (RZ-96-04);

(iii)	By Resolution Number 8957, the Commission recommended Council
approval of the Amendment to the Development Agreement between the City and
Seecon Financial & Construction Co., Inc. for the San Marco Convention
Center/Casino Project;

(iv)	By Resolution Number 8955, the Commission recommended City
Council approval of an amendment to the General Plan Land Use Map from
Residential Medium Density to Community Commercial for the Site.

J.	Reserved.

K.	The City Council held a public hearing on January 13, 1997, to consider the
Planning Commission’s recommendations on the Project and to take public testimony on the
FSEIR and the applicant’s request for a General Plan Amendment, revisions to the
Development Agreement and the Planned Development Plan. Many Pittsburg residents
testified concerning the Project.

L.	After considering all of the evidence and testimony presented at the January
13, 1997 public hearing, the City Council certified the FSEIR for the Project and directed
staff to prepare a ballot measure placing the San Marco Convention Center/Casino Project
approval, and other matters deemed necessary by the City Attorney, before the electorate.

M.	In deciding to place this matter before the electorate, the Council has
determined that the Project, once operational, could provide from $1.2 million to $5.0
million to the City of Pittsburg in general annual tax revenues as required by Chapter 5.24 of
the Municipal Code, as amended herein.

Ill

III

III

PAGE 3 OF 6

The purpose of this ordinance is to:

(i)	amend Chapter 5.24 of the Pittsburg Municipal Code to prohibit the
issuance of a license for a new cardroom, unless the electors of the City have first
approved a ballot measure authorizing the issuance of the license for a site specific
location that must appear on the ballot; and revising the regulatory requirements, tax
rate structure, fees and reporting requirements for cardroom licenses;

(ii)	authorize the issuance of a cardroom license for the San Marco Casino
Project located on the south side of Highway 4 just east of the Bay Point interchange,
at the northeast comer of the extensions of West Leland Road and Willow Pass Road
(San Marco Boulevard), Pittsburg, California, APN 097-150-009 and 097 150-011,
pursuant to the provisions of Pittsburg Municipal Code Chapter 5.24 and the
amendments thereto contained in this ballot measure in effect on the effective date of
this ordinance;

(iii)	approve a tax rate structure for cardroom licenses that requires the
licensee to pay the City (a) a monthly tax on gaming revenues of ten percent (10%) of
the total monthly gross revenue of the first $0 to $1,000,000; (b) a monthly tax of
12.5% of the total monthly gross revenue for the next $1,000,001 to $2,000,000; (c)

a monthly tax of 15.0% for revenues over $2,000,000; and an application fee of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) for a cardroom license; and (d) a minimum monthly
payment of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) by the licensee following
the first twelve (12) months of operation regardless of the licensee’s total monthly
gross revenue;

(iv)	approve an amendment to the Pittsburg General Plan Land Use Map
from the land use classification Residential Medium Density to Community
Commercial for the 32.2 acre Site to accommodate the San Marco Convention
Center/Casino Project;

(v)	approve an amendment to the Planned Development Plan (PD-1057) for
the San Marco Subdivision to allow the San Marco Convention Center/Casino Project
on the 32.2 acre Site; and

(vi)	approve an amendment to the development agreement between the City
of Pittsburg and Seecon Financial & Construction Co., Inc. allowing for the
construction of the San Marco Convention Center/Casino Project.

PAGE 4 OF 6

SECTION 4. AMENDMENTS TO THE CITY’S CARDROOM ORDINANCE.
MUNICIPAL CODE CHAPTER 5.24.

Pittsburg Municipal Code Chapter 5.24 is amended as described in Exhibit "A".

SECTION 5. APPROVAL OF A CARDROOM LICENSE FOR THE SAN MARCO
CASINO.

Pursuant to Chapter 5.24 of the Pittsburg Municipal Code and those amendments
contained in Section 4 of this ordinance, the electors of the City of Pittsburg authorize the
issuance of a cardroom license for the San Marco Casino, located on the south side of State
Highway 4 just east of the Bay Point interchange at the northeast comer of the extension of
West Leland Road and Willow Pass Road (San Marco Boulevard), Pittsburg, California,
APN 097-150-009 and 097-150-011.

SECTION 6. APPROVAL OF AN AMENDMENT TO THE PITTSBURG GENERAL
PLAN TO ALLOW FOR THE SAN MARCO CONVENTION
CENTER/CASINO PROJECT ON THE SITE.

Pursuant to Government Code Section 65358(a), the People hereby determine that
amendment of the General Plan as contained herein is in the public interest. The Pittsburg
General Plan Land Use designation for the San Marco Convention Center/Casino Site, is
changed from Residential Medium Density to Community Commercial as indicated on the
attached Exhibit "B" and incorporated here by reference.

SECTION 7. AMENDMENT TO THE PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PLAN (PD-1057)
FOR THE SAN MARCO SUBDIVISION TO ALLOW FOR THE
CONVENTION CENTER/CASINO PROJECT.

The San Marco Subdivision Planned Development Plan (Ordinance No. 93-1057) is
amended to allow for the construction of a 56,750 square foot convention center/casino on
the Site, as fully described in the attached Exhibit "C" and incorporated here by this
reference.

SECTION 8. AMENDMENT TO THE SAN MARCO DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
TO ALLOW FOR THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE SAN MARCO
CONVENTION CENTER/CASINO PROJECT.

An amendment to the Development Agreement between the City of Pittsburg and
Seecon Financial & Construction Co. to accommodate the San Marco Convention
Center/Casino Project on the Site is approved as set forth in Exhibit "D".

PAGE 5 OF 6

The Project and each and every approval contained herein are consistent with the
City’s General Plan as amended and the Amendment to the Planned Development Plan for
the Site as contained in this Ordinance 97-1124.

SECTION 10.	EFFECTIVE DATE.

This Ordinance shall be considered as adopted upon the date that the vote is declared
by the City Council and shall go into effect 10 days after that date.

SECTION 11.	SEVERABILITY.

If any section or provision of this ordinance is held invalid or unenforceable by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining sections or provisions shall not be affected.

PITTSBUR\CASIN0\0CASINO. REV (CNL 113)

ORDINANCE NO. 97-1124

PAGE 6 OF 6

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PITTSBURG REVISING
CHAPTER 5.24 OF THE PITTSBURG MUNICIPAL CODE
REGARDING CARDROOMS.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF PITTSBURG DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

That Chapter 5.24 of the Pittsburg Municipal Code, entitled "Cardrooms", be and
hereby is amended as follows:

Section 1. License Fees: Taxes.

Section 5.24.070 is amended to read:

"5.24.070 License Fees; Taxes.

A.	Each applicant for a license shall pay to the City, contemporaneously with the
filing of an application for a license pursuant to this Chapter, a filing and processing fee of
Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00), which shall be utilized by City to defray the cost of
processing and investigating the application. No part of the fee shall be refundable.

B.	Commencing on the first day of operation, the Licensee shall pay to the City a
monthly business license tax as follows: (a) Total monthly gross revenue of the first $0 to
$1,000,000 shall pay a monthly tax of 10.0%; (b) Total monthly gross revenue of the next
$1,000,001 to $2,000,000 shall pay a monthly tax of 12.5%; (c) Total monthly gross
revenues over $2,000,000 shall pay a monthly tax of 15.0%. For a license of an existing
and operational cardroom in effect before August 1, 1995, the annual cardroom license fee
shall be limited to: one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for the first card table in a cardroom;
fifty dollars ($50.00) for the second cardroom; and twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for three (3)
or more card tables in a cardroom provided there is no increase in the number of tables or
other units played, employed or used in an existing cardroom.

C.	In the case of a new applicant, a deposit for the first six (6) months license fee
in the amount of Sixty Thousand Dollars ($60,000.00) shall be paid in advance to the City
upon issuance of the license. The sum of Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00) shall be
credited each month against the payment due under subsection (B) of this section. The
advance license fees shall become the absolute property of the City and shall not be refunded
to any such applicant when such license is issued, and such fees shall not be prorated in any
manner whatsoever, and in the event of the cessation of such business, whether voluntary or
involuntary, no refund of the advance fees shall be made.

-1-

EXHIBIT

Ord. No. 9 7-1 1 24

D.	Following the first twelve (12) months of operation, regardless of the total
monthly gross revenue, the minimum monthly amount paid by Licensee to the City shall be
at least One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00).

E.	In the event any tournament is held at the cardroom, Licensee shall pay to City
ten percent (10%) of the total entry fees in addition to the total monthly fee specified herein.

F.	For any non-card club business operation on the premises, to which a license
relates including, not limited to, food and beverage service or rental of facilities. Licensee
shall pay to City a monthly business license tax as set forth in Municipal Code Chapter 5.04,
as may adjusted or amended, for fixed places of business, or as set forth in any other
applicable section, as determined by the City’s Finance Director. All procedures set forth in
Chapter 5.04 of the Pittsburg Municipal Code relating to business licenses shall be applicable
to such non-card club operations.

G.	Each Licensee shall file with the City, before the 10th day of each calendar
month, a reporting form under penalty of perjury showing the true and correct amount of
gross revenue derived from the card club business licensed for the preceding calendar month.
Such statement shall be in a form approved by the City Manager and shall be accompanied
by payment of the correct amount of license fee due and owing in accordance with this
section. Such sums correctly reflecting the fees payable for the preceding month shall be
accepted by the City, subject, however, to the future right of the City to audit the matters
referred to in any such statement and to determine the correctness of the figures and the
amounts payable to the City pursuant to the provisions of subsections (H) and (I), below.

H.	Each Licensee shall arrange, at its own expense, on an annual basis, for a
certified public accountant approved by the City Manager to audit the books, documents,
records and accounts relating to the gross revenue of the Licensee at the end of the
Licensee’s fiscal year. The report of such accountant and all work papers utilized in the
preparation of such audit shall be submitted to the City Manager. The City Manager shall
review the report and work papers and may require any further information from the
Licensee. The City Manager may submit such documents and information to a second
certified public accountant for review. The expense of such second review shall be shared
equally between the City and Licensee.

I.	In addition to the required annual audit of the books, records and accounts of
any card club may be audited by the City at any time. Upon request of the City Manager,
the Licensee shall provide to the City Manager copies of Licensee’s state tax returns, which
shall be kept confidential and shall not be disclosed other than as necessary to carry out the
purposes of this section. In the event a City conducted audit discloses an underpayment to
the City in excess of two percent (2%) in any one month, the full cost of such audit shall be
borne by the Licensee. Any information obtained pursuant to the provisions of this section
or any statement filed by the Licensee shall be deemed confidential and shall not be subject
to public inspection unless otherwise required.

J.	Any failure or refusal of Licensee to timely make and file any required
statements, or to pay any such fees or tax when the same are due and payable in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, or to permit inspections of such books, records and
accounts of such Licensee, shall constitute full and sufficient grounds to revoke or suspend
the license as provided in this chapter. Penalties for a late payment shall be assessed in
accordance with any provisions or regulations enacted under the Municipal Code, including
but not limited, to Chapter 5.04, or such other provisions governing business license
delinquencies.

K.	The amount of any business license tax or fee, penalties and interest imposed
by the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a civil debt to the City. The City may
pursue any available legal remedies against licensee for the collection of any delinquent
business license taxes or fees, penalties, interest and all administrative costs incurred in
connection therewith.

L.	In the event of the cessation of business by a Licensee, whether voluntary or
involuntary, no refund of any such fees or tax shall be made whatsoever.

M.	The City Council may by a 4/5ths vote adjust any and all fees and amounts
imposed under this chapter after a licensed Cardroom has been in effect for five (5) years.

N.	Where the City determines that litigation is required to enforce the provisions
of this Chapter, if the city prevails, in such litigation, civil or criminal, the City shall recover
its attorneys’ fees.

O.	The City Council may specify a different rate for any of the fees imposed
under this chapter if it finds that doing so is necessary to be competitive with other
jurisdictions or to be consistent with current practices in other jurisdictions where cardrooms
operate."

Section 2. Rules and Regulations.

Section 5.24.230 is amended to read:

"5.24.230 Adoption of Additional Rules and Regulations.

The City Council may adopt by resolution further rules and regulations for the
purpose of implementing this Chapter, including without limitation additional requirements
for the conduct of investigations related to the issuance of a license; and operational rules for
the conduct of a card club business, such as rules for employee work permits and the
regulation of cheating or other improper practices. Such rules and regulations shall have the
force of law, and any violation thereof shall be considered a violation of this Chapter, and a
ground for suspension and/or revocation of a License, permit or approval. The Council
further reserves the right to impose additional conditions on any permit or license issued

-3-

under this chapter where those conditions are necessary to protect public health, safety and
welfare."

Section 3. Voter Approval: Amendments.

Section 5.24.270 is added to read:

"5.24.270 Voter Approval; Amendments.

A.	No license shall be issued or renewed or have any effect under this Chapter
5.24 or any successor ordinance unless and until the electors of the city have authorized the
issuance of a license for a site specific location. Approval by the electorate of Ordinance 97-
1124 shall constitute the necessary approval under this section for the project described
therein.

B.	The issuance or renewal of a license for the ownership or operation of any
cardroom licensed in the City of Pittsburg as of August 1, 1995, is exempt from the
provisions of this section, provided that the license or renewal does not authorize a change in
the location or an increase in the number of authorized tables from that authorized as of
January 1, 1996.

C.	Section 5.24.270(A) may only be amended with the approval of the electorate.
Any other provision of Chapter 5.24 may be amended by a majority vote of the City
Council."

PITTSBUR\CASINO\ORD524.REV (CNL 113)

fffei ’	.



++ +

++++++
+++++++++
++++++++++++

+++++++++++++++

1 T i- 1-4- f-F

.................  +++++++-*H-++++^?

+++++++++++++-I™

++++++++++-M-+* *::

:::::: ::::::::”:::^ra:EHH:::::::| +++++++++++++■ it:
::::“ HHH::H:::R^^HHHHH:::!+++++++++++++-
::::::^:::::::::::::::J+++++++++++++^.
^'nHHHHH3+++++++++++++te

HHHH::::5+++++++++++++-SS
::::::::::::i+j++++++++++++ r

++++++++-M-
++++++++■

iiil ,

ssssifiit

V-.

• *j. > .wv •'U;.n£""

Pittsburg General Plan

^OjZBSszsJsas-*
* C

«inui> junmgwTtAL.

UZXDCMTU1. JSTATX
UBDCHTUL. LOV OCHSTT
usMKriAi. MCZ»u»«-oaKflrr
aBBWULWCM OCXOTT

coMMwmr commuqu.
nucmsokmooo oommz*clu^

UMHT3 tHtKJirnr . .
- CSXOUO. INDUSTRY
• •••j mustwjawvusncxs r*«x

iaj ~ ^	^

San Marco Convention Center/Casino

GENERAL PLAN" AMENDMENT

GP-96-04

Ord. No. 97-1124

orvw ®*a

AfiMCULTUKAl. mcanw

it /~) n

EXHIBIT "«

The People of the City of Pittsburg do Ordain as follows:

In the Matter of Approving an	)

Amendment to the Planned Development	)

Plan for the San Marco Subdivision	)

to Accommodate the San Marco Convention	)

Center\Casino Project	)

_____________________________________________)

SECTION I. BACKGROUND

A.	On February 1, 1993, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. 93-1057
rezoning the 639 acre San Marco property south of Highway 4 (the "Property") from a
zoning classification of Temporarily Unclassified ("S") to Planned Development ("PD") and
approved a PD Plan for the San Marco Subdivision Project (Z-90-04).

B.	On May 29, 1996, Seecon Financial & Construction Co., Inc. ("Seecon" or
the "Applicant") filed RZ-96-04 in accordance with Chapter 18.48 of the Pittsburg Municipal
Code requesting Planning approval to amend the PD Plan of the San Marco Subdivision (PD-
1057) to allow a 56,750 square foot convention center/casino on a portion of the 32.2 acre
site located on the south side of State Highway 4 just east of the Bay Point interchange and
shown as Village "A" on the previously approved San Marco Subdivision Project. The
proposed site is located at the northeast comer of the extensions of West Leland Road and
San Marco Boulevard (Willow Pass Road) Pittsburg, California, APN 097-150-009 and 097-
150-011. The rezoning application (RZ-96-04) required to accommodate the San Marco
convention center/casino and related commercial development is hereafter referred to as the
"Project".

C.	On November 12, 1996, the Planning Commission conducted a duly noticed
public hearing on the Draft Supplemental Environmental Impact Report for the

Project.

D.	On December 6, 1996, notice of the December 17, 1996, public hearing on
the Project to be held before the Planning Commission was mailed, published and posted.

E.	On December 17, 1996 the Planning Commission conducted a duly noticed
public hearing on RZ-96-04 and adopted Resolution No. 8956 recommending that the City
Council approve the Project.

F.	On December 23, 1996, notice of the January 13, 1997, public hearing to be
held before the City Council was mailed, published and posted.

G.	On January 13, 1997, the City Council held a duly noticed public hearing and
directed staff to prepare a ballot measure to submit to the electorate the amendment to the

1	EXHIBIT	--C—

Ord No. 97-1124

Planned Development Plan for the Site.

SECTION n. CONSISTENCY.

1.	The proposed Project will be consistent with the amendment to the Land Use
Element of the General Plan as adopted by Ordinance 97-1124 and specified policies
and guidelines of the General Plan.

2.	The proposed Project is consistent Chapter 5.24 (Cardrooms) of the Pittsburg
Municipal Code (the "Municipal Code"), as adopted by Ordinance 97-1124.

3.	The proposed casino operation is consistent with Chapter 5.24 of the
Municipal Code (Cardrooms) as adopted by Ordinance 97-1124.

4.	Amendment of the PD Plan (RZ-96-04) will not endanger the safety and
general welfare of the City.

5.	The public necessity, convenience and general welfare require that the PD
Plan be amended for this portion of the San Marco Subdivision Project and that the
zoning map be amended as indicated in the exhibit attached and incorporated here.

SECTION III. APPROVAL.

The People of the City of Pittsburg (the "People") hereby approve RZ-96-04
and the amendment to the San Marco Subdivision PD Plan (Ordinance No. 93-1057) subject
to the following conditions:

1.	The site shown as "Village A" on the plans approved by Ordinance No. 93-
1057 (PD-1057) shall be developed substantially as shown on the drawings dated May 28,
1996, except as may be hereinafter modified.

2.	Conditions of Ordinance No. 93-1057 referenced in this section are amended
as follows:

a)	The PD Plan shall consist of 1,336 single family detached dwelling
units and 1,526 multi-family and townhouse units with a maximum total of 2,862
dwelling units. (Condition No. 2)

b)	Single family detached lot sizes shall substantially conform with the
tables on the San Marco "Development Plan" except for Village "A."

(Condition No. 3)

c)	Condition No. 20 shall be eliminated.

2

d)	The Seecon financial & Construction Co., Inc. ("Seecon" or
"Applicant") shall request/petition to include the Project in the City-wide Lighting and
Landscape District (Condition No. 37), or in a separate lighting and landscape district
for the San Marco Subdivision, as determined by the City Engineer.

3.	The Applicant shall obtain design review approval from the Planning
Commission for all building, grading, sign programs, and landscaping development on the
Project site. The plans submitted by the Applicant to date are conceptual only and may be
modified by subsequent conditions and final design review approval.

4.	The proposed grading plan shall be revised to preserve some existing
topography and include contour rounding, as determined by the City Engineer. Parking
areas shall be stepped, where practical, around the convention center/casino building and
future development areas, as determined by the City Engineer.

5.	The Applicant shall design on-site building and parking lot lighting to focus
illumination on the site and/or building only and so that it shall not spill over to adjacent
sites. Light intensities shall be high enough only for safety/security purposes or to provide
subtle architectural enhancement.

6.	The Applicant shall modify the architectural design of the convention
center/casino building to break up the massive scale and height of the walls to be more
compatible with future residential scale development in the vicinity. The design, colors, and
siting shall also reflect an appropriate entryway feature to the City as viewed from Highway

4.

7.	The Applicant shall submit a sign program for the convention center/casino
with the design review application.

8.	The freestanding sign shall be reduced in height and size in order to provide
adequate visibility from Highway 4 at the Bay Point interchange off-ramps, but to also be in
scale with the surrounding San Marco neighborhood and to not overpower the western
gateway aspect of the site. The sign’s design shall be simplified in detail and its location
shall be reviewed to provide adequate off-site visibility without the necessity of it being too
massive in size.

9.	Electronic or other type readerboard, or any moving elements shall only be
allowed on any sign or building as approved by the Planning Commission.

10.	Building signs shall comply with the provisions of Title 19 (Sign Code) for
retail and service businesses.

11.	The service station/car wash shall comply with the use and development
regulations of the Community Commercial (CC) zoning district. All signage for the service 3

3

station/car wash shall comply with Title 19 regulations for service stations.

12.	The Applicant shall design Villages "B", "M" and the village immediately
southwest of the Project site (the "Adjacent Villages") so as to create a buffer between
residential units and the commercial uses in Village "A". Residential buildings in the
Adjacent Villages shall be setback at least 50 feet from the right-of-way of West Leland
Road to the face of a living area of a residential unit. Additional buffering shall be
considered by differences in vertical pad elevations from the adjacent street grade, sound
walls, architectural treatment and orientation, and/or extensive landscape screening and
mounding. The driveway entry to Village "M" from West Leland Road shall be located as
far to the east as practical to separate it from the nearest driveway to the convention
center/casino.

13.	The restaurant and other food service within the convention center/casino shall
be in operation prior to or commensurate with the cardroom operation. Food service shall be
open and available any time the cardroom/casino is open for business.

14.	The cardroom shall be limited to sixty-eight (68) tables.

15.	The cardroom shall comply with all regulations of Title 5.24 (Cardrooms) of
the Municipal Code.

16.	The "Standard Conditions of Development" as adopted by Pittsburg Planning
Commission Resolution No. 5087 shall apply as conditions of approval for the Project.

17.	The Applicant shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City of Pittsburg,
its agents, officers, and employees from any claim, action, or proceeding against the City or
its agents, officers, or employees to attack, set aside, or void or annul this approval, or any
other city approval of the proposed casino development, including without limitation,
environmental approval and general plan and development agreement amendments. In the
event the City becomes aware of any such claim, action, or proceeding, the City shall
promptly notify the Applicant and shall cooperate fully in the defense. If the City fails to
promptly notify the Applicant, or if the City fails to cooperate fully in the defense, the
Applicant shall not thereafter be responsible to defend, indemnify, or hold harmless the City.
The City may elect to tender defense of the litigation to the Applicant, or may elect to have
the matter defended by the City Attorney or special counsel. The Applicant shall reimburse
the City for all defense fees and costs. The Applicant shall not be required to pay or
perform any settlement unless the settlement is approved by the Applicant.

18.	The Applicant shall comply with all requirements of the City Building
Division, City Engineering Division, Contra Costa County Fire Protection District and all
local, state and federal agencies, as applicable to this Project.

19.	It is the responsibility of the Applicant to check with each local, state and

4

federal agency to determine any and all applicable requirements that may pertain to the
Project. All approvals by the Army Corps of Engineers, the Department of Fish and Game
and the Water Quality Control Board shall be obtained by the Applicant and copies shall be
provided to the City for filing.

20.	All site development shall comply with Title 12 (Streets, Sidewalks and
Utilities), Title 13 (Water and Sewers) and Chapter 15.88 (Grading, Erosion and Sediment
Control) of the Municipal Code as determined by the City Engineer. Issuance of a site
development permit shall be required and specific engineering requirements shall be imposed
as conditions of approval.

21.	The Applicant shall comply with all applicable requirements of Title 15
(Building and Construction), and Title 18 (Zoning) of the Municipal Code.

22.	All applicable fees, deposit and sureties in amounts approved by the City
Engineer shall be paid and deposited as required by the Municipal Code and as set forth in
all policies of the City.

23.	The Applicant shall reimburse the City for any and all staff time and legal fees
incurred by the City in connection with its approval of the Project, including without
limitation environmental approval, the amendment to the 1990 Development Agreement
between the Applicant and the City, and the General Plan amendment (GP-96-04).

24.	The Applicant shall minimize reliance on the proposed exaggerated Greco-
Roman architectural "theme" to provide visual interest by using an architectural style that is
more compatible with surrounding residential development, that draws from the distinctive
elements of existing architectural styles in the community, and that supports the desired
community image.

25.	The Applicant shall reconfigure the convention center and casino building to
provide a more visually interesting, less "boxy" building form by breaking up the massive
bulk of the building and the solid planes of the building walls and roof line, and by reducing
the degree of building mass exposed to Highway 4 and to the adjacent planned residential
uses in Village "M" of the San Marco Subdivision and on the adjacent Alves property.

26.	The Applicant shall avoid having extensive blank walls exposed to view from
Highway 4, West Leland Road and the anticipated residential subdivision on the adjacent
Alves property by creating architectural interest and reducing the perceived mass of the
convention center and casino building by incorporating additional relief and play of light and
shadow through the use of articulated facades, recesses, overhangs, bays and other features,
and the use of textured building materials.

27.	The Applicant shall minimize reliance on features that are "applied" to the
exterior of the building to achieve architectural interest and shall use forms and features that 5

5

are integral elements of the building itself.

28.	The Applicant shall select building exterior colors that are muted and
harmonious with the Project hillside and grassland surroundings and shall avoid harsh,
glaring bright white or primary colors on large building surfaces, including gas station
canopies.

29.	The Applicant shall screen any roof-top mechanical or electrical equipment.

30.	The Applicant shall prepare and submit a detailed landscape plan and
associated ongoing irrigation and maintenance provisions to the City for approval. The
landscape plan shall address landscaping of all components of the Project and all parts of the
Project site, including the proposed convention center and casino building, gas
station/convenience store/car wash, automobile and recreational vehicle parking areas,
service and delivery areas, future development areas, Project sign and perimeter slopes.

31.	The Applicant shall use landscaping to soften the artificial appearance of the
perimeter slopes of the property after grading of the site and shall specify a planting palette
which is integrated with the overall San Marco Subdivision landscape plan and provides a
cohesive and unified future community.

32.	The Applicant shall use consistent plant materials throughout the Project to
define the site boundaries and roadway frontages, principal building entries, parking areas,
pedestrian routes, etc.

33.	The Applicant shall use harmonious landscape treatments to effectively screen,
shade, articulate and add visual interest to the expansive Project parking areas.

34.	The Applicant shall use drought tolerant, native vegetation for landscaped
areas, minimize the use of turf and shall use drip irrigation to the greatest extent possible.

35.	The Applicant shall provide a separate water meter for publicly landscaped
areas on the Project site.

36.	The Applicant shall minimize the use of non-plant materials (e.g., crushed
rock, pavers, etc.) in lieu of live plant material and shall use native species that enhance the
on-site habitat values of the reconstructed Shore Acres creek corridor and the future
development areas.

37.	The Applicant shall select plant species that tend to complement the
architectural character of the Project.

38.	The Applicant shall use taller trees to break the single, consistent roof line of
the proposed convention center and casino building and lend greater scale to the proposed

6

main Project sign.

39.	The Applicant shall prepare and submit a detailed signage plan to the City for
review and approval.

40.	The Applicant shall modify the design of the main Project sign to the
satisfaction of the Planning Commission by providing a smaller, more simplified, less
extravagant design style that is more consistent with the predominately single-family
residential character specified in the City’s General Plan, and that provides a more
appropriate element to mark this entry to the San Marco Community and the western
"gateway" to Pittsburg. The Applicant shall use a design style that is more compatible with
surrounding residential development, that draws from the distinctive elements of existing
architectural styles in the community, and that supports the desired community image.

41.	The Applicant shall make appropriate use of vegetation to complement, lessen
the imposing scale, and soften the visual incongruity of the main Project sign.

42.	The Applicant shall consider the signage needs of the proposed gas
station/convenience store/car wash and of planned future commercial development on the
Project site in the design of Project signs, particularly the main sign.

43.	The Applicant shall provide consolidated and harmonious signage designs for
multiple commercial uses on the site and shall avoid the use of freestanding signs on the
Project site.

44.	The Applicant shall provide only the lighting necessary for safety and security
within the parking areas and other areas of the site, reasonably similar to the lighting at other
commercial centers in Pittsburg and shall provide complementary lighting of the building’s
landscaping and architectural features.

45.	The Applicant shall equip lighting fixtures with shrouds which direct light
away from adjacent freeway and residential areas and the riparian corridor along the
reconstructed Shore Acres creek.

46.	The Applicant shall contribute fair share funding towards the City’s
establishment of a separate police beat for the San Marco Subdivision and other future
development (with adequate staffing and facility levels) to serve the Project and cumulative
development and up to one (1) additional sworn police officer and two (2) additional clerical
workers to service the convention center/casino, as deemed necessary by the City.

47.	The Applicant shall include crime deterrent features in the Project design, as
deemed necessary by the Chief of Police.

48.	The Applicant shall provide an on-site spill-over parking area for at least 250

7

vehicles during periods of peak parking demand. The Applicant shall also use valet parking
to increase on-site vehicle storage during convention center events when more than 600
attendees are expected.

49.	The Applicant shall increase by one foot (1’) the height of the sound barrier
along San Marco Boulevard adjacent to "Village B" and along West Leland Road adjacent to
"Village M."

50.	The Applicant shall implement all Bay Area Air Quality Management District
("BAAQMD") dust control measures for the Project.

51.	The Applicant shall emphasize achievement of development designs which are
sensitive to existing and planned adjacent and surrounding residential uses (e.g., incorporate
adequate setbacks, building height and scale transitions, signage and exterior lighting
controls, parking area screening, noise buffering, etc.) in the additional design and
environmental review required prior to City approval of any future use of the future
development areas.

52.	The Applicant shall install a second left turn lane to the southbound San Marco
Boulevard/West Leland Road intersection approach and construct an exclusive right turn lane
to the westbound West Leland intersection approach.

53.	The Applicant shall contribute fair share funding in the reasonable judgment of
the City Engineer (currently estimated at five to ten percent) to implement a second left turn
lane to the westbound West Leland Road/Bailey Road intersection approach and restriping of
the existing westbound approach lanes to provide an exclusive right turn lane and a shared
through/right turn lane.

54.	The Applicant shall signalize the Project access driveway as determined by the
City Engineer.

55.	The Applicant shall prepare and submit to the City for approval, detailed
acoustical studies as part of any future Project-specific environmental evaluation for any
noise-sensitive commercial lodging uses proposed for the future development sufficient to
achieve the City and state interior noise standard of 45 dBA Community Noise Equivalent
Level.

56.	The Applicant shall provide shuttle service on a "will call" basis between
BART and the Project site.

57.	The Applicant shall provide transit amenities; provide secure bicycle parking
for employees; and shall implement a car pool matching program for employees; all to the
satisfaction of the Community Development Director.

8

58.	The Applicant shall submit all remaining documentation for the Project
required by The United States Bureau of Reclamation ("USBR") and shall obtain approval
from USBR for use of CVP water in this Project.

59.	The Applicant shall pay for this Project’s fair share contribution toward
construction of improvements listed on page 4 of the City's Water Master Plan Update. as
reasonably necessary to provide adequate water service for the Project. All final water
system design specifications and constructed improvements will be subject to review and
approval by the City. The specifications shall include adequate provisions for maintenance
access to these facilities. Improvements deemed necessary by the City Engineer shall be
constructed prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the Project.

60.	The Applicant shall revise the overall San Marco landscape plan and refine it
to include drought-tolerant plant species whenever possible. Future subarea landscape plans
and guidelines for Villages "C", "D" and "M" shall include similar provisions.

61.	The Applicant shall comply with Delta Diablo Sanitation District’s ("DDSD")
pretreatment requirements, including obtaining and maintaining a Waste Water Discharge
Permit; payment of any and all applicable DDSD annexation fees; and payment of any and
all applicable DDSD connection and development fees before building permits are issued.

62.	The Applicant shall not be allowed to obtain a certificate of occupancy from
the City until the City and DDSD have established: (i) a sewer extension construction
schedule consistent with Project timing; and (ii) an agreement for operation and maintenance
responsibilities for the waste water collection system.

63.	The Applicant shall pay any and all applicable sewer development fees for
DDSD Zone 1 as per the DDSD "Schedule of Fees" identified in the West Pittsburg Sewer
Model Update.

64.	The Applicant shall complete a sewen capacity study to determine the size of
the Project sewer extension lines and the points of connection to the DDSD main facilities.

65.	The Applicant shall enter into a Fire Protection Mitigation Agreement with the
City and the Contra Costa County Fire Protection District (the "Fire District") prior to
issuance of building permits that establishes special developer fees that may be warranted to
meet the special equipment and training needs of the Project occupancy and structural type.

66.	The Applicant shall comply with the site design requirements established by
the 1995 California Fire Code.

67.	The Applicant shall construct a fire station at a location to be established by
the Fire District that will meet conventional response time standards. This location may be
on the San Marco site or elsewhere within the response time standard. The Project’s

9

contribution toward the construction of this fire station shall be collected via established Fire
Facilities Reserve Fees and any additional charges as determined in consultation with the Fire
District.

68.	The Applicant shall provide to the satisfaction of the Fire District its fair share
of those local fire capital improvement and operating expenses that would not adequately be
covered by Fire Facilities Element Fees or Benefit Assessment Fees from the Project.

69.	The City and Contra Costa County have recently approved agreements
providing for the construction of Station 87 on West Leland Road. That station will provide
adequate fire protection service to the Project, and is anticipated to be in service before the
Project is operational. If Station 87 is in service before a certificate of occupancy is issued
for the Project, then compliance with Condition Nos. 67 and 68 shall not be required, except
for payment of the existing Fire Facilities Fee. If Station 87 is not in service by that time,
then the Applicant, City and Fire District officials shall meet and confer on the feasibility of
interim measures pending the opening of Station 87. If such measures are feasible in the
reasonable

discretion of the Fire District, the Applicant shall implement them under the City’s and Fire
District’s supervision.

70.	The Applicant shall provide water storage and pressure for the Project as
required by the 1995 Uniform Fire Code, Appendix Chapter 111.

71.	The Applicant shall install fire sprinkler protection in all Project structures,
use fire retardant roofing, and provide adequate emergency vehicle access as required by the
1995 Uniform Fire Code and the Fire District.

72.	The Applicant shall ensure that the storm drainage system downstream of the
Project site has adequate capacity to convey the peak discharge from the proposed Project.

If the Project does not discharge more storm water than is currently discharged from the
Project site, this condition and Condition No. 73 shall be deemed satisfied.

73.	The Applicant shall prepare and submit to the City and CCCFCWCD for
approval, a hydrology report which confirms, to the written satisfaction of CCCFCWCD,
that the Project storm drainage system on-site and at the Highway 4 crossing meets their
criteria.

74.	The mitigation, monitoring and reporting plan for the "San Marco
Convention Center/Casino Project," as approved by the City Council shall be incorporated
with this Project and included as conditions of approval as though fully set forth herein.

75.	All new utility lines including, but not limited to, PG&E, cable TV, telephone,
cables and transformers shall be undergrounded by the Applicant in accordance with Title 18
of the Municipal Code.

10

76.	Prior to the issuance of building permits, the Applicant shall pay to the
Community Development Department the City’s traffic mitigation fee (Chapter 15.90 of the
Municipal Code) and the City’s regional traffic mitigation fee (Chapter 15.100 of the
Municipal Code) in the amount established by City Council Resolution.

77.	Noise-generation activities, including truck traffic to and from the site, are
allowed only during the daytime, weekday (non-holiday) hours of 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and
8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on Saturday.

78.	The Applicant shall comply with any and all conditions of approval imposed
on this Project including, but not limited to, those conditions contained in City Council
Resolution No. 97-8399 and Ordinance No. 97-1124.

79.	In the event of any inconsistency in any term or condition of approval in the
PD rezoning ordinance, amendment to Development Agreement, or other approval document
for the Project and related entitlement, the more restrictive provision shall control.

SECTION IV.	AMENDMENT.

The Planned Development Plan for the San Marco Casino Site, as approved herein,
may be amended by a vote of the City Council, after a public hearing and recommendation
of the Planning Commission, and upon the request or with the concurrence of the Applicant.

PITTSBUR/CASINO/OPD.EXH (CNL 113)

11

•• y

SYM30E,	DISTRICT
0*0 jnJif. inDtffjL 		
	
C"0	c-rerf - pivtiv
T£5	
	“>CT - rrxsrrr «rorstvrAl. 	
ps	CTMXTinr-a. dfFIR
	*ce«*>»{$<re OXUlTCUI.
	CXMfMTT rwx«RCW.
	iwjtuaNy? *tui		
C? 3 c-^crtsu'- ^nac	
	L^fT3B VSKtTSU5,
	•5 nnn:*?atAS
	P*TN ‘V7A£;
	COVTXXHCNT^L 153 at.'A3lKftue 	
CriO	»'XT*?3 wnflPvrvr
	MjlSXO £SVTLPr*«*-<7
	7rxr*cRn.r 	
—	U*ffSJ *rnr_»r 	
—s$ ■■	pi^t ycrzur
	r>Tilgu j-rnr
	



San Marco Conyention Center/Casino

PD PLAN ZONING AMENDMENT
RZ-96-04

AMENDMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

BETWEEN THE CITY OF PITTSBURG

AND

SEECON FINANCIAL AND CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.

This Amendment to the Development Agreement ("Amendment")/
dated for reference purposes only as April 22, 1997, is made and
entered into by the City of Pittsburg, a municipal corporation
organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State
of California ("City") and Seecon Financial and Construction Co.,
Inc., a California corporation, ("Seecon") (collectively the
"Parties").

THE PARTIES HERETO AGREE AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1.	Recitals. This Amendment is based upon the

following facts:

a.	On April 3, 1990, the Pittsburg City Council pursuant to
Government Code Sections 65864 et seq., adopted Ordinance Number
90-990, which approved a Development Agreement ("Agreement")
between the Parties that allowed Seecon to develop approximately
639 acres within Contra Costa County now located within the City
generally known as the San Marco project, in accordance with those
uses designated in the Land Use Element of the City's General Plan,
adopted September 26, 1988.

b.	Section 15 of that Agreement provides for the amendment
of that Agreement, in whole or in part, by mutual consent of the
Parties, provided the City complies with the notice provisions of

1

EXHIBIT

Ord. No. 97-1124

Government Code Section 65867. Any amendment to the Agreement
shall be first approved by ordinance of the City Council, in
accordance with Government Code Section 65867.5.

c.	The Parties have reached an accord on and desire to

express the terms of an amendment to the Agreement that will permit
Seecon to develop that portion of the site described in Exhibit "1"
("Site") , in accordance with the General Plan Amendment approved by
the voters on April 22,	1997	and	the	concurrent	revision	to	the

Planned Development Zoning Ordinance. By this Amendment, the City
intends to grant Seecon certain development rights in the Site that
vary from those originally allowed by the Agreement, and to
obligate Seecon to provide certain public benefits in the form of
environmental mitigation, community benefit, monetary payments,
fees and on-site and off-site public improvements.

d.	Currently, the property subject to the Agreement is zoned
Planned Development ("PD"). The PD zoning allows for the
construction of two thousand nine hundred and thirty-eight (2,938)
units of residential housing in 13 Villages in the San Marco
Subdivision. Village "A" (the Site) was expected to accommodate 76
single-family homes.

e.	Seecon submitted a proposal to the City for the
development of the San Marco Convention Center/Casino Project
("Project") as an alternative to the "Village A" proposal for the
Site.

f.	The Project will be located at the northeast corner of
the extensions of West Leland Road and Willow Pass Road.

2

The

building on the Site will contain a 68-table cardroom, conference
facilities for 850 people, a restaurant, sports lounge, and
beauty/barber and gift shops. A parking area for approximately 800
vehicles and a service station/car wash are also proposed for the
Site.

g.	Seecon has applied for various land use and building
approvals in connection with this Amendment to the Agreement,
including a General Plan Amendment and a revision to the Planned
Development Zoning Ordinance for the San Marco Subdivision (PD-
1057).

h.	Development of the Project Site in a comprehensive
fashion, as contemplated by the Agreement and this Amendment, will
result in substantial public benefits to the City, its residents,
and surrounding communities. Among other public benefits, the
Project will expand the City's employment base by creating
temporary jobs during Project construction and approximately 525
new employment opportunities when the Project is operational,
generate significant tax assessments and revenues, create a
landmark facility for the City by providing a premier entertainment
center and conference/reception facilities for local and regional
events and result in the installation of both off-site and on-site
public improvements. Those benefits would not be available for
the foreseeable future, except through a development agreement.

i.	The Planning Commission, on December 17,	1996,	held	a

duly-noticed public hearing to consider Seecon's request for an
amendment to the Agreement. The Planning Commission recommended 3

3

approval of the Amendment.

j . At that same meeting, the Planning Commission also
considered making recommendations to the City Council concerning
(1) Seecon's requests for a General Plan Amendment and a revision
to the Planned Development Zoning Ordinance for the San Marco
Subdivision (PD-1057), and (2) the adoption of a resolution of
findings certifying review and consideration of the San Marco
Convention Center/Casino Project Final Supplemental Environmental
Impact Report. The Commission recommended approval of the Project.

k.	Following a duly-noticed public hearing held on January

13,	1997, the City Council directed staff to prepare a ballot

measure for submission to the electorate, after reviewing and
considering all of the following documents:

(1)	Seecon's application for an amendment to the
Agreement and its requests for a General Plan Amendment
and a revision to the Planned Development Zoning
Ordinance for the San Marco Subdivision (PD-1057);

(2)	The Planning Commission's recommendations for the

*

Proj ect;

(3)	The staff report and presentation; and

(4)	All other testimony and evidence heard and submitted
at the public hearing.

l.	Also on January 13, 1997, the City Council certified the
adequacy of the Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Report for
the Project pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act
("CEQA") and adopted Resolution Number 97-8399, on file with the 4

4

City Clerk.

m.	The City, through the adoption of Ordinance 97-1124, has
adopted a General Plan Amendment which designates the Site for
commercial uses, and approved the PD zoning revisions to the Site.
Ordinance 97-1124 is on file with the City Clerk and incorporated
here by reference.

n.	The City hereby finds that this Amendment furthers the
public health, safety and general welfare and is consistent with
the City's General Plan as well as the land use designations
contained in the City's Planned Development Zoning Ordinance for
the Site. In addition, the City further finds that the City has
undertaken all necessary proceedings in accordance with the City's
ordinances, rules and regulations for the approval of this
Amendment.

o.	Except as otherwise provided herein, this Amendment
relates only to the Project Site.

Section 2.	Amendment .

In consideration for this Amendment, the Parties agree that:

a. .	Development of the Project Site: Seecon shall have the
vested right to develop the Project on the Site and the City shall
have the right to regulate development and use of the Site in
accordance with the provisions of this Amendment. The total number
of units allowed for residential development under the Agreement is
reduced to 2,862.

b.	Applicable Rules:	The	ordinances, resolutions, rules,

regulations, codes, including but not limited to, Chapter 5.24 of 5

5

the Pittsburg Municipal Code, and policies governing the permitted
uses of land, the density and intensity of such uses, design,
improvement and construction standards and specifications
applicable to the Project Site (the "Rules") shall be those in
effect at the time of the effective date of this Amendment
("Existing Rules"). This Amendment, the Existing Rules and the
approved development plans shall govern the permitted uses of the
Project Site, the density and intensity of such uses, the maximum
height and size of the proposed buildings and the requirements of
the installation of improvements.

Except as otherwise provided in the Amendment, to the extent
that any Existing Rules or ordinances, resolutions, rules,
regulations, codes and policies adopted after the effective date of
this Amendment ("Future Rules"), whether adopted by the City
Council or by initiative, purport to be applicable to the Project
Site, but are in conflict with this Amendment, the Amendment and
Existing Rules shall govern, unless the Parties mutually agree to
amend or modify this Amendment, pursuant to Section 15 of the
Agreement. To the extent that any Future Rules are not in conflict
with the Amendment, the Future Rules shall be applicable to the
Project Site.

This Amendment shall not prevent the City from denying or
conditionally approving any application for a subsequent
discretionary or ministerial approval of the Project on the basis
of Existing Rules or Future Rules that do not conflict with the
applicable Rules, as set forth in this Section (2)(b).

6

c.	Limitation on Development and Processing Fees:	All City

approvals, permits and entitlement relating to the Project shall be
subject to the processing and inspection fees of general
application, and to those fees imposed specifically on this Project
through the various approval documents as set forth in the Exhibits
hereto, that are in effect at the time of the effective date of
this Amendment. Seecon hereby agrees to pay each and every fee
imposed in the various approval documents set forth in the Exhibits
hereto in the amount established at the time building permits are
pulled and expressly waives the notice and protest rights contained
in Government Code section 66020. As consideration for this
Amendment, Seecon further agrees to pay each and every license fee,
tax, and/or amount required under Municipal Code Chapter 5.24
regardless of and independent of the City's authority under
Municipal Code Chapter 5.24 to impose any such license fee, tax
and/or amount on Seecon or the Project.

All City approvals, permits and entitlements relating to the
Project shall be subject only to those City development fees that
are in effect as of the effective date of this Amendment. As used
in this Section 2 (c) , the term "Development Fee" shall mean
monetary exactions that are charged by the City to Seecon in
connection with any approval, permit or entitlement relating to the
Project, for the purpose of defraying all or a portion of the cost
of public facilities, programs or services related to the Project
or imposed for a public purpose to mitigate the impacts of the
Project.

7

Construction Codes:

e.	Construction Codes:	Rules	establishing construction

requirements and specifications, including, but not limited to, the
Uniform Building Code, Uniform Fire Code, Uniform Mechanical Code
and Uniform Plumbing Code, which are adopted or revised during the
term of this Amendment shall apply as of the time construction and
building permits are granted for the development of the project.

f.	Compliance with Conditions: Seecon shall comply with all
of the conditions of approval of the amended PD Zoning Ordinance
for the Property as fully set forth in Ordinance 97-1124 and all
conditions imposed by the City.

g.	Environmental Mitigation Implementation:	Seecon shall

implement all environmental mitigation measures for the Property,
approved by the City Council and based upon the Final Supplemental
Environmental Impact Report for the Project, as identified in
Resolution Number 97-8399.

h.	Licensure Requirement:	Notwithstanding any other

provision of this Amendment, if for any reason a license under
Pittsburg Municipal Code Chapter 5.24 is not obtained within one
year from the effective date of this Amendment, this Amendment is
null and void. This City Council may, upon application, extend
that period in its sole discretion.

i.	Future San Marco Development:	Seecon anticipates future

development in other San Marco Villages, including three Villages
adjacent to and located to the south, southwest and west of the
Site (the "Adjacent Villages"). Seecon agrees that any
applications for development approvals for the Adjacent Villages

9

shall include a request for design review, shall provide for a
minimum buffer area of 50 feet from the nearest public right of way
boundary and any living area on the Adjacent Villages. For
example, the Adjacent Village to the south of the Site is across
West Leland. There shall be at least 50 feet from the nearest
public right of way on West Leland to the face of a living area of
a residential unit and any structure on that Adjacent Village.
Buffering from the south, southwest and west Villages may be
accomplished by the use of design elements such as elevation
differences between the Villages, mounding, landscaping, walls,
fences, parking areas, car ports, enclosed garages, the additional
set back of living areas of the affected Villages from Village A,
or a combination of these treatments. The design of that buffering
shall be subject to Planning Commission review and approval.

j.	Submittal of Applications: Seecon shall submit a Design

Review application and a final set of plans for the Project to the

Community Development Department ("Department") within 180 days of

City approval of this Amendment. That time period may be extended

\

at the City Manager's discretion.

k.	Commencement of Construction:	Seecon	shall	commence

construction of the Project within one year after approval hereof.
The City Council may, upon application by Seecon, extend this
period in its sole discretion.

l.	Application for Annual Review: The Agreement provides for
an annual review upon application of the Developer. Within 90 days
of the City's approval of this Amendment, Seecon shall provide the

10

Community Development Director with a written request for a
comprehensive review of the Agreement. Nothing in this Amendment
shall be interpreted in any way that would limit, control or
otherwise affect the City's review of the Agreement. Approval of
this Amendment does not constitute any position by the City on the
status of the Agreement.

m. Hold Harmless: Seecon shall hold harmless, indemnify and
defend the City and its elected and appointed officers, agents
employees and representatives from and against liability for
personal injury, including death and property damage arising from
Seecon's direct or indirect action or those of its contractors,
subcontractors, agents, employees or other persons acting on its
behalf, which relate to Seecon's development of the Project Site,
pursuant to this Amendment; the foregoing does not extend to
willful acts or sole negligence of the City, its officers, agents
or employees.

Section 3.	Adoption of	Amendment.

a.	The City hereby adopts this Amendment and authorizes its
execution.

Section 4.	Compliance.

Seecon shall comply with every term and condition of this
Amendment and each Council and Planning Commission action approving
any aspect of the Project, including but not limited to the various
resolutions and ordinances referenced herein. Failure to so comply
shall constitute a default hereunder, which shall warrant
termination of this Amendment unless such default is cured within

11

a reasonable time as specified by the City Council.

Section 5,	Miscellaneous.

a.	Consistency. This Amendment is consistent with the
City's General Plan Amendment and the amendment to the Planned
Development Plan for the Site, both as adopted by Ordinance 97-
1124.

b.	Effective Date. This Amendment shall be effective ten
days after the City Council declares the vote on Ordinance 97-1124.

c.	Conflicts. Those provisions of the Agreement that do
not conflict with this Amendment, shall remain in full force and
effect and shall be applicable to the development of the Project
Site.

d.	Amendment or Cancellation.

(1)	Pursuant to the provisions of Section 15 of the Agreement,
this Amendment may be amended or canceled in whole or in part, by
mutual consent by the parties or their successors in interest.
Notice of intention to amend or cancel any portion of this
Amendment shall be given in the manner provided by section 56867 of
the Government Code. All amendments to this Amendment shall be
first approved by ordinance of the City Council in accordance with
Section 65867.5 of the Government Code.

(2)	Notwithstanding the foregoing, an amendment to this
Amendment which does not relate to the term, permitted uses,
density or intensity of use, height or size of buildings,
provisions for reservations of land, conditions, fees for public
facilities, terms, restrictions and requirements regarding

12

covenants relating to the use of the property does not require a
public hearing before the parties may execute an amendment to this
Amendment.

(3) Any non-substantive deviation form the development plan
for the Project, as determined by the Director of the Community
Development Department, with respect to the location of buildings,
streets and other physical facilities, shall not require an
amendment to this Amendment.

e.	Recordation. Not	later than ten (10) days after

execution of this Amendment by all Parties, the City Clerk shall
record a copy of this Amendment with the Contra Costa County
Recorder.

CITY OF PITTSBURG

SEECON FINANCIAL & CONSTRUCTION

By:

BY:

ROBERT T. LEWIS, MAYOR

DATE:

DATE:

ATTEST:

LILLIAN J. PRIDE, CITY CLERK

13

PITTSBUR\CASIN0\ADEVAGRE.AM1