ORDINANCE NO. 97-04

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LEMOORE
CALLING A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION IN THE CITY OF LEMOORE
TO SUBMIT TO THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF SAID CITY A MEASURE
TO ESTABLISH A UTILITY USERS TAX IN SAID CITY; FIXING THE
DATE OF SAID ELECTION, THE MANNER OF HOLDING THE SAME,
PROVIDING FOR NOTICE THEREOF, CONSOLIDATING SAID MUNICIPAL
ELECTION WITH THE ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 4, 1997,
AND ESTABLISHING THE AMOUNT, LIMIT, EXTENT AND COLLECTION
AND ADMINISTRATION PROCEDURES FOR THE SAID TAX

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LEMOORE DOES ORDAIN
AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1A:	Description	and Purpose. A special

municipal election is hereby called to be held in the City of
Lemoore (hereinafter called "the City") on Tuesday, November 4,
1997, at which election there shall be submitted to the
qualified electors of the City a measure to establish a utility
user's tax in said City, to be used to finance the cost of
constructing necessary police and fire facilities in the City,
as follows:

PROPOSED UTILITY USER'S TAX
MEASURE ( s )

UTILITY USER'S TAX	YES

Shall the City of Lemoore impose a

2.9 percent special utility user's tax

of the charges made for telephone, gas,

electricity, water, sewer, refuse and

cable tv use, to be used to finance the

cost of constructing necessary police and

fire facilities in the City?	NO

SECTION IB. The Council does hereby submit to the

lem\uutord

7/14/97

1

qualified electors of the City at said special municipal
election said measure set forth in Section 1A of this
Ordinance, and designates and refers to said measure as the
measure to be set forth in the ballots hereinafter prescribed
for use in said election. If a two-third (2/3) majority of
the qualified electors voting on such measure shall vote in
favor thereof at said special municipal election, said measure
and this Ordinance No. 97-04 shall be deemed adopted.

(a)	Said special municipal election shall be held
and conducted, and the votes thereof canvassed, and the returns
thereof made, and the result thereof ascertained and
determined, as herein provided; and in all particulars not
prescribed by this Ordinance, said election shall be held as
provided by law.

(b)	All persons qualified to vote at the general
election in the City upon the date of the election herein
provided for shall be qualified to vote upon the measure
submitted at said special municipal election.

(c)	The polls at the polling places hereinafter
designated shall be opened at 7:00 o'clock a.m. of said day of
election and shall be kept open continuously thereafter until
8:00 o'clock p.m. of said day of election, when the polls shall
be closed and the election officers shall thereupon proceed to
canvass the ballots cast thereat.

(d)	Said special municipal election hereby called
shall be and is hereby consolidated with the election to be
held in the City on November 4, 1997, all as required by and
pursuant to law; and the election precincts, polling places and
officers of election with the City for said special municipal
election hereby called shall be the same as those selected and
designated by law for said election and set forth or to be set
forth in the notice of election officers and polling places for

lem\uutord

7/14/97

2

said election published or to be published by the County Clerk
of Kings County, as required by law, to which notice reference
is hereby specifically made for a designation of the precincts,
polling places, and election officers of the election hereby
called. Only qualified voters of the City shall be permitted
to vote at said special municipal election. The County Clerk
of said County is requested and authorized to canvass, or
cause to be canvassed, the returns of said special municipal
election with respect to the votes cast in the City and to
certify the results to the Council.

(e)	On the ballots to be used at said election and
said special municipal election hereby consolidated therewith,
in addition to all other matters required by law to be printed
thereon, shall appear the measure set forth in Section 1A
hereof. Each voter to vote for said measure hereby submitted
shall stamp a cross (x) in the blank space opposite, or punch
the ballot card in the hole after, the word "YES" on the ballot
to the right of said measure, and to vote against said measure
shall stamp a cross (x) in the blank space opposite, or punch
the ballot card in the hole after, the word "NO" on the ballot
to the right of said measure.

SECTION 2:	Definitions. The following words

and phrases whenever used in this ordinance shall be construed
as defined in this section.

(a)	"Person" shall mean any domestic or foreign
corporation, firm, association, syndicate, joint stock company,
partnership of any kind, joint venture, club, Massachusetts
business or common law trust, society, or individuals.

(b)	"City" shall mean the City of Lemoore.

(c)	"Telephone corporation," "electrical
corporation," "gas corporation," "water corporation," and
"cable television corporation" shall have the same meanings as

lerrAuutord

7/14/97	3

defined in Sections 234, 218, 222, 241 and 215.5, respectively,
of the California Public Utilities Code except, " telephone
corporation," "electrical corporation," "gas corporation,"
"water corporation" and "cable television corporation" shall
also be construed to include any municipality or public agency
engaged in the selling or supplying of telecommunications,
electrical power or gas or water or cable television to a
service user.

(d)	"Tax Administrator" shall mean the Finance
Director of the City of Lemoore

(e)	"Service supplier" shall mean any entity
required to collect or self-impose and remit a tax as imposed
by this ordinance.

(f)	"Service user" shall mean a person required to
pay a tax imposed by this ordinance.

(g)	"Cogenerator" shall mean any person employing
cogeneration technology (as defined in section 218.5 of the
California Public Utilities Code) for producing power from
other than a conventional power source for the generation of
electricity for self use or sale to others.

(h)	"Gas" shall mean natural or manufactured gas
or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel which may be substituted
therefor.

(i)	"Fuel Cell" shall mean a power-production
system using an electrochemical process to produce electricity
and heat for its own use or sale to others.

(j)	"Month" shall mean a calendar month.

(k)	"Non-utility supplier" shall mean:	(a) a

service supplier, other than an electrical corporation
franchised to serve the city, which generates electrical energy
in capacities of at least 50 kilowatts for its own use or for
sale to others, including those using cogeneration or fuel cell

lem\uutord

7/14/97	4

technologies; or (b) a	gas	supplier,	other than a gas

corporation franchised to serve the City, that sells or
supplies gas to other users within the City.

(1)	"Refuse" or "Refuse Collection" shall have the
same meaning as that contained in Title 4, Chapter 1 of the
Lemoore Municipal Code.

SECTION 3:	Exemptions

(a)	Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed
as imposing a tax upon any person when imposition of such tax
upon that person would be in violation of the Constitution of
the United States or that of the State of California.

(b)	Entities	defined under	Section	2c of this

ordinance and other public authorities, as defined by the Tax
Administrator, shall be exempt from this tax.

(c)	The City Council may, by order or resolution,

establish one or more classes of persons or one or more classes
of utility service otherwise subject to payment of a tax
imposed by this chapter	and	provide that such	classes of

persons or service shall be exempt, in whole or in part from
such tax.

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall prepare a list of

the persons exempt from	the	provisions	of this	chapter by

virtue of this section and furnish a copy thereof to each
service supplier.

(e)	The tax imposed by this ordinance shall not
apply to the sale or transfer of any product or service which
is subject to the California sales or use tax.

(f)	The tax imposed by this ordinance shall not
apply to charges related to late payments, returned checks and
collection charges.

SECTION 4:	Telephone Users Tax

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax on the amounts

lem\uutord

7/14/97	5

paid for any intrastate telephone services by every person in
the city using such services. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate of two and nine-tenths percent (2.9%) of
the charges made for such services and shall be paid by the
person paying for such services.

(b)	As used in this section, the term "charges"
shall not include charges for services paid for by inserting
coins in coin-operated telephones except that where such coin-
operated service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the
amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or
other periodic charge . shall be included in the base for
computing the amount of tax due; nor shall the term "charges"
include charges for any type of service or equipment furnished
by a service supplied subject to Public Utility regulations
during any period in which the same or similar services or
equipment are also available for sale or lease from persons
other than a service supplier subject to Public Utility
regulation; nor shall the words "telephone communication
services" include land mobile service or maritime mobile
services as defined in Section 2.1 of Title 47 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, as said section existed on January 1,
1970. The term "telephone communication services" refers to
that service which provides access to a telephone system and
the privilege of telephone quality communication with
substantially all persons having telephone stations which are
part of such telephone system. The Telephone Users Tax is
intended to, and does, apply to all charges billed to a
telephone account having a situs in the city, irrespective of
whether a particular communication service originates and/or
terminates within the City.

(c)	The tax imposed by this section shall be
collected from the service user by the person providing the

lem\uutord

7/14/97	6

intrastate telephone communication services, or the person
receiving payment for such services. The amount of the tax
collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator on or before the last day of the following month;
or at the option of the person required to collect and remit
the tax, an estimated amount of tax collected, measured by the
tax bill in the previous month, shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator on or before the last day of each month.

(d)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection

(a)	, the tax imposed under this section shall not be imposed
upon any person for using intrastate telephone communication
services to the extent that the amounts paid for such services
are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed under
Division 2, Part 20 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code, or the tax imposed under Section 4251 of the Internal
Revenue Code.

(e)	No service user shall be required to pay more
than Seven Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($7,250.00) in
any calendar year in taxes imposed by this Section 4. The Tax
Administrator shall implement and administer this limit on the
tax imposed by this section.

SECTION 5:	Electricity	Users	Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every
person using electrical energy in the City. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of two and nine-tenths
percent (2.9%) of the charges made for such energy by an
electrical corporation franchised to serve the city and shall
be paid by the person using the energy. The tax applicable to
electrical energy provided by a non-utility supplier shall be
determined by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges
the service user would have incurred if the energy used had
been provided by the electrical corporation franchised by the

lem\uutord

7/14/97	7

City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from
the City. Non-utility suppliers shall install and maintain an
appropriate utility-type metering system which will enable
compliance with this section. "Charges," as used in this
section, shall include charges made for:	(1)	metered	energy,

(2)	wheeling transportation or conveyance charges, and (3)
other charges for service, including customer charges, service
charges, billing or collection charges, demand charges, standby
charges and all other annual and monthly charges, fuel or other
cost adjustments.

(b)	As used in this	section,	the term	"using

electrical energy" shall not be construed to mean the use of
electric energy stored in a battery owned or possessed by a
person	for use	in an automobile	or other	machinery	device

provided, however, that the term shall include the receiving of
such energy for the purpose of charging such batteries.

(c)	The tax imposed	in this	section shall be

collected from the service user by any energy service supplier
or non-utility supplier. The tax on energy provided by self-
production or by a non-utility supplier shall be collected and
remitted in the manner set forth in Section 9. The amount of
tax collected in one month shall be remitted by U.S. Mail, to
the Tax Administrator, postmarked on or before the last day of
the following month; or, at the option of the person required
to	collect or	remit the tax, an estimated amount	of tax

measured by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the
payment pattern of the customers of the service supplier, shall
be remitted.

(d)	No service user shall be required to pay more
than Seven Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($7,250.00) in
any calendar year in taxes imposed by this Section 5. The Tax
Administrator shall implement and administer this limit on the

lem\uutord

7/14/97

8

tax imposed by this section.

SECTION 6:	Tax	on	Cocrenerated	Electricity.

(a)	Notwithstanding the provisions in Section 5 of
this ordinance, the tax imposed on every person using
cogenerated electrical energy in the City shall be at the rate
of two and nine-tenths percent (2.9%) of the value of the
cogenerated electrical energy consumed in the City. The tax
applicable to the use of cogenerated electrical energy used on
site shall be determined by applying the tax rate to the
equivalent charges the cogenerator would have incurred if the
energy used had been provided by the electrical corporation
franchised by the City.

(b)	The cogenerator shall install and maintain an
appropriate metering system which will enable compliance with
this section.

(c)	The tax shall be collected and paid by the
cogenerator under Section 9 if the cogenerator consumes the
energy. If the cogenerator sells the energy for consumption in
the City, the tax will be imposed on the equivalent

charges made for such service, referenced in (a) above, and
shall be collected and paid by the person to whom the energy is
sold.

(d)	The amount of the tax collected in one month
shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the
last day of the following month.

(e)	No service user shall be required to pay more
than Seven Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($7,250.00) in
any calendar year in taxes imposed by this Section 6. The Tax
Administrator shall implement and administer this limit on the
tax imposed by this section.

Section 7:	Exemption	for	Energy	Produced	bv

lem\uutord

7/14/97	9

Fuel Cells.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this
ordinance, no tax shall be imposed on the use of energy
produced through the use of fuel cell technology for a period
of five years commencing with the date of enactment of the
ordinance adding this section and ending five years thereafter.

Section 8	Gas	Users	Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every
person using gas in the City, gas which is transported through
a pipeline distribution system or by mobile transport. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two and nine-
tenths percent (2.9%) of the charges made for such gas and
shall be paid by the person using the gas. The tax applicable
to gas provided by non-utility suppliers shall be determined by
applying the tax rate to the actual charges the service user
incurred. "Charges" as used in this section shall include:
(1) the charge for gas which is delivered through a gas
pipeline distribution system or by mobile transport; (2) gas
wheeling, conveyance and transportation charges; and (3) demand
charges, service charges, billing or collection charges,
customer charges, minimum charges, annual and monthly charges,
fuel or other cost adjustments.

(b)	There shall be excluded from the tax imposed

in this section:	(1)	charges	made	for	gas which is to be

resold and delivered through a gas pipeline distribution system
or mobile transport; (2) charges made for gas used by a
cogenerator or as the primary fuel in a fuel cell; and (3)
charges made for natural gas used in the propulsion of a motor
vehicle, as that phrase is defined in the Vehicle Code of the
State of California, utilizing natural gas, and other natural
gas clean-air technologies.

(c)	Tax imposed in this section shall be collected

lcm\uutord

7/14/97	10

from the service user by the energy service supplier. An
energy supplier providing transportation services for delivery
of gas through a pipeline distribution system shall collect the
tax from the service user based upon the cost of transporting
the gas. The tax on energy provided by self-production or by a
non-utility supplier shall be collected and remitted in the
manner set forth in Section 9. The amount of tax collected in
one month shall be remitted by U.S. Mail, to the Tax
Administrator, postmarked on or before the last day of the
following month; or, at the option of the person required to
collect or remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax measured
by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment
pattern of the customers of the service supplier, shall be
remitted.

(d)	No service user shall be required to pay more
than Seven Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($7,250.00) in
any calendar year in taxes imposed by this Section 8. The Tax
Administrator shall implement and administer this limit on the
tax imposed by this section.

Section 9	Collection of Tax From Service

Users Receiving Direct Purchase
of Gas or Electricity.

(a)	Any service user subject to the tax imposed by
Sections 4, 5, 6 or 8 hereof, who produces electricity or gas
for self-use or who receives electricity or gas directly from a
non-utility supplier, shall report said fact to the Tax
Administrator and remit the tax due directly to the City within
thirty days of such use.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may require said service
user to identify its non-utility supplier and provide, subject
to audit, filed tax returns or other satisfactory evidence
documenting the quantity of electricity or gas used and the

lem\uutord

7/14/97	11

price thereof.

SECTION 10:	Water.	Sewer	and Refuse Collection

Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every
person in the City using water, sewer or refuse collection
service which is either delivered or provided by the City or by
a private provider under contract with, approval of, or
franchise issued by the City. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate of two and nine-tenths percent (2.9%) of
each of the charges made for such water, sewer and refuse
services and shall be paid by the person paying for such
services.

(b)	The tax imposed in this section shall be
collected from the service user by the City as part of the
monthly municipal utility billing issued by the City or by said
private provider. The amount collected in one month shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of
the following month.

(c)	No service user shall be required to pay more
than Seven Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($7,250.00) in
any calendar year in water tax imposed by this Section 10. The
Tax Administrator shall implement and administer this limit on
the water tax imposed by this section.

(d)	No service user shall be required to pay more
than Seven Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($7,250.00) in
any calendar year in sewer tax imposed by this Section 10. The
Tax Administrator shall implement and administer this limit on
the sewer tax imposed by this section.

(e)	No service user shall be required to pay more
than Seven Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($7,250.00) in
any calendar year in refuse tax imposed by this Section 10.

lem\uutord

7/14/97	12

The Tax Administrator shall implement and administer this limit
on the refuse tax imposed by this section.

SECTION 11:	Cable Television Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every
person in the City using cable television service. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two and nine-
tenths percent (2.9%) of the charges made for such service and
shall be paid by the person paying for such service.

(b)	The tax imposed in this section shall be
collected from the service user by the person furnishing the
cable television service. The amount collected in one month
shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the
last day of the following month.

(c)	No service user shall be required to pay more
than Seven Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($7,250.00) in
any calendar year in taxes imposed by this Section 11. The Tax
Administrator shall implement and administer this limit on the
tax imposed by this section.

SECTION 12:	Interest and Penalty.

(a)	Taxes collected from a service user which are
not remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the due
dates provided in this ordinance are delinquent. Should the
due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return may be
postmarked on the first regular working day following a
Saturday/Sunday, or legal holiday.

(b)	The Council may establish interest and penalty
charges by Resolution.

SECTION 13:	Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under
the provisions of this ordinance shall be deemed a debt owed by
the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from a

lem\uutord

7/14/97

13

service user which has willfully been withheld from the Tax
Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the
person required to collect and remit. Any person owing money
to the City under the provisions of this ordinance shall be
liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the
recovery of such amount.

SECTION 14:	Duty to Collect - Procedures.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by
this ordinance shall be performed as follows:

(a)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9,
the tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same
time as and along with the charges made in accordance with the
regular billing practices of the service supplier. Where the
amount paid by a service user to a service supplier is less
than the full amount of the energy charge and tax which has
accrued for the billing period, such amount and any subsequent
payments by a service user shall be applied to the utility
charge first until such charge has been fully satisfied. Any
remaining balance shall be applied to taxes due. In those
cases where a service user has notified the service supplier of
refusal to pay the tax imposed on said energy charges Section
16 (c) will apply.

(b)	The duty to collect tax from a service user
shall commence with the beginning of the first full regular
billing period applicable to the service user where all
charges normally included in such regular billing are subject
to the provisions of this ordinance. Where a person receives
more than one billing, one or more being for different periods
than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for
each billing.

SECTION 15:	Additional	Power and Duties of Tax

Administrator

lem\uutord

7/14/97	14

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and
duty, and is hereby directed to enforce each and all of the
provisions of this ordinance.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to
adopt rules and regulations not inconsistent with provisions of
this ordinance for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing
the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein
imposed. A copy of such rules and regulations shall be on file
in the Tax Administrator's office.

(c)	The Tax Administrator may make administrative
agreements to vary the strict requirements of this ordinance so
that collection of any tax imposed herein may be made in
conformance with the billing procedures of a particular service
supplier so long as said agreements result in collection of the
tax in conformance with the general purpose and scope of this
ordinance. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in
the Tax Administrator's office.

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the
eligibility of any person who asserts a right to exemption from
the tax imposed by this ordinance. The Tax Administrator shall
provide the service supplier with the name of any person whom
the Tax Administrator determines is exempt from the tax imposed
hereby, together with the address to which service is supplied
to any such exempt person. The Tax Administrator shall notify
the service supplier of termination of any person's right to
exemption hereunder, or the change of any address to which
service is supplied to any exempt person.

(e)	The Tax Administrator shall provide written
notice to all service suppliers of any change in the City's
boundaries at least 90 days prior to any annexation or other
change in the City's boundaries. Said notice shall set forth
the revised boundaries by street and address along with a copy

lem\uutord

7/14/97	15

of the final annexation order from Local Agency Formation
Commission.

SECTION 16:	Assessment	-	Administrative

Remedy.

(a)	The Tax Administrator may make an assessment
for taxes not remitted by a person required to remit.

(b)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that
a service user has deliberately withheld the amount of the tax
owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to a person
required to collect the tax, or that a service user has refused
to pay the amount of tax to such person, or whenever the Tax
Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, the
Tax Administrator may relieve such person of the obligation to
collect taxes due under this ordinance from certain named
service users for specified billing periods.

(c)	The service supplier shall provide the City
with amounts refused and/or unpaid with the names and addresses
of the service users neglecting to pay the tax imposed under
provisions of this ordinance. Whenever the service user has
failed to pay the amount of tax for a period of two or more
billing periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the
obligation to collect taxes due.

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the service
user that the Tax Administrator has assumed responsibility to
collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment
of such taxes. The notice shall be served on the service user
by personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in the United
States Mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the service
user at the address to which billing was made by the person
required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have
changed addresses, to the last known address. If a service

lemVuutord

7/14/97	16

user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within
fifteen days from the date of the service of the notice, which
shall be the date of mailing if service is not accomplished in
person, a penalty of twenty-five percent of the amount of the
tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less
than $5.00. The penalty shall become part of the tax herein
required to be paid.

SECTION 17:	Records.

(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required
to collect and remit to the City any tax imposed by this
ordinance to keep and preserve, for a period of three years,
all records as may be necessary to determine liability for the
remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax
Administrator shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable
times.

(b)	A person providing transportation services of

natural gas to a user for delivery through a gas pipeline
distribution system shall make available	to	the	Tax

Administrator records of the names and addresses of service
users for whom only transportation services are provided by
such persons.	All information provided	to	the	Tax

Administrator pursuant to this section shall be used	solely	for

the purposes of this ordinance.

SECTION 18;	Refunds.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any	tax	has	been

overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or
illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under
this ordinance, it may be refunded by the Tax Administrator.

(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
(a) of this section, a service supplier may claim a refund; or
take as credit against taxes remitted the amount overpaid, paid
more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or

lem\uutord

7/14/97

17

received when it is established that the service user from whom
the tax has been collected did not owe the tax; provided
however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed
unless the amount of the tax erroneously or illegally collected
has either been refunded to the service user or credited to
charges subsequently payable by the service user to the person
required to collect and remit. A service supplier that has
collected any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax
imposed by this ordinance and actually due from a service user,
may refund such amount to the service user and claim credit for
such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due upon
any other monthly returns, provided such credit is claimed in a
return dated no later than three years from the date of
overpayment.

(c)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions
of this section unless the claimant establishes the right
thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

(d)	Notwithstanding other provisions of this
section, whenever a service supplier, pursuant to an order of
the California Public Utilities Commission or a court of
competent jurisdiction, makes a refund to service users of
charges for past utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to
this ordinance on the amount of such refunded charges shall
also be refunded to service users, and the service supplier
shall be entitled to claim a credit for such refunded taxes
against the amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly
returns. In the event this ordinance is repealed, the amounts
of any refundable taxes will be borne by the City.

(e)	A service supplier may refund the taxes
collected to the service user in accordance with this section
or by the service supplier's customary practice.

SECTION 19:	Severability.

lem\uutord

7/14/97	18

If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance or any part
thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion
of this ordinance or any part thereof. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrases
be declared unconstitutional.

SECTION 20:	Termination or Suspension of

Utility Users Tax.

The service supplier shall, upon notification,
terminate or suspend any utility users tax commencing with the
first full billing period which occurs after the effective date
of such action by the City Council.

SECTION 21:	Effective Date.

This ordinance shall become effective the 15th day
of November, 1997 following voter approval required by law.
The tax imposed under this ordinance shall apply to charges
appearing on bills rendered on or after January 1, 1998 or as
soon thereafter as the respective utilities are physically and
mechanically able to get "on line" for the imposition of
charges (within 60 days but not more than 90 days after the
effective date).

THE FOREGOING ORDINANCE WAS INTRODUCED at a regular
meeting of the City Council of the City of Lemoore on July 1 ,
1997, and was passed and adopted at a regular meeting of the
City Council on July 15, 1997, by the following vote:

AYES:	LAHODNY,	SILVIERA, LUIS, LEE, MARTIN

NOES:	NONE

lem\uutord

7/14/97

19

ABSENT:

NONE

ABSTAINING:	NONE

APPROVED:

By.

ED MARTIN, MAYOR

ATTEST:

* * * * *

lem\uutord

7/14/97

20

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF KINGS
CITY OF LEMOORE

CERTIFICATE

)

)

)

I, HELEN M. MURRAY, City Clerk of the City of
Lemoore, hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was duly
introduced at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City
of Lemoore held on July 1 , 1997, and was passed and adopted at
a regular meeting of the City Council held on July 15, 1997.

DATED:	July	16,	1997



Helen M. Murray, City Clerk

lem\uutord

7/14/97

21