r

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS



INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:	USE	ONLY THE MARKING-DEVICE PROVIDED TO FILL IN THE

SMALL RECTANGLE IN THE SQUARE. DO NOT FILL IN THE WHOLE SQUARE OR YOUR VOTE MAY
NOT BE COUNTED.

To vote on any measure, FILL IN THE RECTANGLE in the square after the word “YES” or after the
word “NO.”

All distinguishing marks or erasures are forbidden and make the ballot void.

If you wrongly mark, tear or deface any portion of your ballot card, replace the card in the Secrecy
Holder and return it to the precinct board member and obtain another ballot.

MAKE SURE YOU VOTE BOTH SIDES OF YOUR BALLOT CARD.

AFTER YOU HAVE COMPLETED VOTING, PUCE YOUR BALLOT CARD IN THE SECRECY HOLDER
WITH THE NUMBERED STUB AT THE TOP AND HAND IT, ALONG WITH THE MARKING PEN, TO
THE PRECINCT BOARD MEMBER WHO SHALL, IN THE PRESENCE OF THE VOTER, REMOVE
THE NUMBERED STUB, HAND SAME TO THE VOTER AND DEPOSIT THE VOTED BALLOT IN THE
BALLOT BOX.

V

r

HOW TO VOTE YOUR BALLOT CARD

STEP 1

Remove ballot card from secrecy holder.

STEP 2

Fill in the small rectangle in the square to
the right of each of your measure choices.

DO NOT FILL IN THE WHOLE SQUARE,
JUST THE SMALL RECTANGLE, OR YOUR
VOTE MAY NOT BE COUNTED. Use only
the marking pen provided to mark your
ballot.

STEP 3

After you have completed voting, place
your ballot card, with the stub at the
top, in the secrecy holder and hand it,
along with the marking pen, to the pre-
cinct officer.

J

J

V

MV-11E-85

MV11E85

Sample Ballot

--BALLOT CARD—

A

OFFICIAL BALLOT

SPECIAL ELECTION

SONOMA COUNTY

March 4, 1997

This ballot stub shall be removed
and retained by the voter.

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S)
IN THIS MANNER ONLY:

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

SCHOOL

KENWOOD SCHOOL DISTRICT

Shall Kenwood School District, serving the
A children of Kenwood, provide funds for the
M preservation of small class size and the
enhancement of academic and educational pro-
grams by continuing a special tax assessment' on each
assessor’s parcel of $48.00 per year ($24.00 per semi-
annual payment) .for a period of. five years,' beginning
July 1,1997 and increase its appropriations limit .by the.
amount of revenue generated by that special tax, with
certain specific exemptions as set forth in the full measure?

Yes	
No	

DISTRICT

KENWOOD FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

Yes	
No	

Shall Ordinance No. 96-97-1 -R of the Kenwood
C . Fire Protection District authorizing imposition of a
r ■■ special tax having a maximum rate of $10.00
per unit of risk for providing authorized services
and exercising the other rights and powers of the District,
increasing the District’s appropriations limit to permit spend-
ing of the revenue raised by the tax, and repealing the existing
benefit assessment of $10.00 per unit of benefit levied by the
District be approved?

49-SB4

49SB4

VOTER’S PAMPHLET--------------------

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

KENWOOD SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE A

A Shall Kenwood School District, serving the children of Kenwood,
provide funds for the preservation of small class size and the
enhancement of academic and educational programs by continu-
ing a special tax assessment on each assessor’s parcel of $48.00
per year ($24.00 per semi-annual payment) for a period of five years, beginning
July 1,1997 and increase its appropriations limit by the amount of revenue
generated by that special tax, with certain specific exemptions as set forth in the
full measure?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

State law requires voter approval before school districts can impose special taxes. The Kenwood School
District has called for such an election.

If two-thirds of the Kenwood School District electors voting on the measure vote for approval, the District
could continue its special tax of $48 per year per parcel for each parcel of land within the District’s
boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of using the parcel, and will remain in effect for
five years beginning July 1,1997.

Proceeds of the tax could only be used to preserve small class size and for the enhancement of
academic and educational programs of the District.

The tax would not apply to (1) parcels owned or partially owned by a person who will be over the age
of 65 on or before May 1 of the year for which the tax is assessed and who uses the parcel as his or
her principal place of residence (for example, if a husband and wife own a parcel, and one of them is
over 65, the parcel will be exempt); (2) parcels exempt from property tax because of low value; and (3)
contiguous parcels used as one economic unit under the same ownership (those parcels would be
taxed as one parcel). Persons claiming exemptions must apply to the District by May 1,1997, or,
subsequently, the May 1 preceding the fiscal year for which the exemption is first claimed.

The measure also provides that the spending limit of the District would be increased by the amount of
revenue generated by the tax. Voter approval of the change in the spending limit permits the District to
keep and spend money raised by the new tax.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Kenwood District who vote on this measure vote “yes,” the measure
will pass and the special tax will be levied. The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular
property taxes starting with the 1997-1998 fiscal year.

si James P. Botz
County Counsel

49-501

49501

-VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your tallot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

The Kenwood Elementary School, with a district including roughly half of Oakmont, has demonstrated
tremendous academic success. Of 42 county school districts, it’s #2 in math and #4 in writing on the
last statewide achievement tests. Its graduates have the #1 acceptance rate for junior' high advanced
placement classes.

These achievements were made possible by a $48 per parcel tax approved by voters in 1991 that is
now expiring. A “Yes” vote on Measure A will maintain your current taxes—not increase them. It
continues the same school funding, with no changes. The same tax exemptions will be offered.

The Kenwood School has earned your support. Here’s why.

The school promised that the proceeds from the original tax would be spent only on student programs,
not on administration, pay raises, or facilities. The top priority would be to reduce class sizes. Our
community responded: 76.4% voted “yes.”

Since then, approximately $92,000 was collected each year. Every dime was spent to hire two teachers
and to operate two new classrooms. These are “multi-grade” classrooms where children of different
ages learn together. These classes are showing positive results, and they enable the school to reduce
every classroom to about 20 students.

Now, the school again promises to spend the money only on student programs. The first priority is
maintaining small class sizes in all grades; the second, funding enrichment programs like music, PE
and technology. Despite recent headlines, California educational spending still ranks in the bottom
quartile of the fifty states. The lottery remains a disappointment. In this era, a quality education depends
upon a community contribution.

The Kenwood School has kept its promises, can show proven results, and is spending our money
wisely. Remember, this is not a tax increase—please vote “Yes” to maintain the school’scurrent funding.

s/ Spencer Flournoy	s/ Douglas D. Murray

Sonoma County Taxpayers’Association	President,	Oakmont	Tennis	Assoc.;

Former School Administrator

s/ Robert Uboldi	s/J.	Michael	Mullins

Chief, Kenwood Fire Protection District	District	Attorney,	Sonoma	County

s/Ann Quenon Peters
Publisher, Kenwood Press;

Mother of 3 Kenwood Students

49502

VOTER’S PAMPHLET--------------------

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

RESOLUTION NO. 644,1996/97
BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
KENWOOD SCHOOL DISTRICT
SONOMA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of a	) RESOLUTION AND	ORDER

Special Tax Election )	OF	ELECTION

WHEREAS, the Kenwood School District is committed to quality education for every student and
high standards of academic achievement and performance, and

WHEREAS, a high-quality public education is vital to the community’s well-being and fosters the
growth of society’s greatest natural resource - the minds of children; and

WHEREAS, the investment in children’s education is beneficial to the well-being of our community
and our country; and

WHEREAS, the Kenwood community has previously approved a parcel tax for the benefit of the
students of Kenwood School District; however, such parcel tax is scheduled to end on June 30,1997; and

WHEREAS, the promises and commitments made in the previous parcel tax election of 1991 were
honored and led to continued excellence at Kenwood School; and

WHEREAS, all proceeds from this proposed parcel tax shall be spent solely on programs that
directly benefit our students, with the preservation of small class size as the highest priority. These
programs also include classroom aides, music, computers, library, instructional material, and basic
reading instruction with phonics; and

WHEREAS, the Class Size Reduction funding from the State of California is insufficient in that it
is not guaranteed to continue beyond the current school year, and it only contributes to improving class
size in three grades out of our seven K-6 grade levels; and

WHEREAS, we desire to maintain reduced class sizes in Kindergarten, fourth, fifth, and sixth
grades - and this is currently funded by the parcel tax; and

WHEREAS, local property values are enhanced by the presence of a high quality public school; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government Code sections
50075,50076,50077,50079 and 53720 et seq. authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise
funds for the purpose of conducting its business upon the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by
voters voting upon such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution allows the appropriations limit
of school districts to be increased by the electors. Such approval is required for the District to use the
revenues generated by the tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Governing Board of the Kenwood School District
resolves to conduct a special election on March 4,1997, at which time will be submitted to the qualified
voters of the Kenwood School District a measure to authorize a special tax to preserve small class size,
to continue the enhancement of the Kenwood School District academic and educational programs and
to increase its appropriations limit by the amount of revenue generated by the special tax.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries of the Kenwood
School District at which election shall be submitted to the qualified voters within the Kenwood School
District the following measure, to wit:

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-503



49503

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS .

(whichever is applicable to your'ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

MEASURE A

Shall the Kenwood School District, serving the children of Kenwood, provide funds to preserve
small class size and enhance the academic and educational programs of the Kenwood School District
by continuing its current special tax based upon the use or right of use on each assessor’s parcel within
the boundaries of the Kenwood School District for a period of five (5) years beginning July 1,1997 and
increasing its appropriations limit for the maximum time allowed by law by the amount of revenue
generated by that special tax?

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of $48.00 per year for each assessor’s parcel.
The proceeds of the tax shall be deposited in a special fund to be used for the purpose of preserving
small class size, and enhancing the academic and educational programs of the Kenwood School
District. Exemptions from the assessment will be-made available as follows:

a.	To each individual in the District who will attain 65 yearson, or before May 1 ofthe

assessment year, and who owns a'benefieial interest in the parcel, or a divided or
undivided portion of such parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place
of residence.	\ i

b....For the owner of a parcel which has been determined to be unusable or to have no
.....value by the Sonoma County Assessor’s Office.

c.	,,For multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part of one economic unit underthe • , .

. .^'sairie name andowne'rshipv.Such .multiple.parcels may be charged a^enepareeLf.■

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before May 1,1997 or May 1 of any-
succeeding assessment year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption
for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to qualify
for the exemption. The District shall establish an administrative review process to grant such exemptions.

SMmii The text ofthe measure as displayed on eachindividual ballot shall be abbreviatdd
and shall read as follows:

KENWOOD SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX
ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS ■ ;

Shall Kenwood School District, serving the children of Kenwood, provide funds for the ,,
preservation of small class size and the enhancement of academic and educational
programs by continuing a special tax assessment on each assessor’s parcel of $48.00 :
per year ($24.00 per semi-annual payment) for a period of five‘years, beginning July \

1,1997 and increase its appropriations limit by the amount of revenue generated by .:
that special tax, with certain specific exemptions as set forth in the full measure?

__________YES	 NO

Section 3. Commencing On July 1,1997, the special tax collected annually on all assessor’s
parcels at the rate specified above, shall be collected and administered in the same manner as ad valorem
property taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Sonoma County is hereby requested to call a
. special election of the said special tax to be held on March 4,1997 and to consolidate this election with
any elections to be held on this same date. The Sonoma County Board of Supervisors is hereby
requested and authorized to consolidate this election with any elections to be held on this same date:
The County Clerk is hereby requested and authorized to: 1) set forth all sample ballots relating to said
election to be mailed to the qualified electors of the Kenwood School District; and 2) to provide absent
voter ballots for said special tax election for use by qualified electors of the Kenwood School District
who are entitled thereto in the manner provided by Law.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

49-504

49504

VOTER’S PAMPHLET -

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

Section s. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this resolution is for any reason held
to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this resolution. The
Governing Board declares that it would have adopted this resolution and each section, subsection,
phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
phrases or clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6. The clerk of the Kenwood School District Governing Board is hereby authorized
and directed to certify to the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified
to the Superintendent of Schools of Sonoma County, the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors, and
to file a copy hereof so certified with the County Clerk of Sonoma County,

The foregoing resolution was introduced by Board Member Phillips who moved its adoption,
second by Board Member Friedman, and adopted on roll call on October22,1996 by the following vote:

Member Atkin	aye	
Member Murray	aye	
Member Friedman	aye	
Member Locke	aye	
Member Phillips	aye	
AYES: 5  CERTIFIED  si Sarah J. Phillips Clerk, Board of Trustees	NOES:Q	ABSENT OR NOT VOTING: Q SO ORDERED,  s/ Douglas D. Murray President

49-505



49505

An Important Message from
The Sonoma County Office of Emergency Services

During the recent floods, the Sonoma County Office of Emergency Services used the
Community Alert Network (CAN) to notify residents of the Russian River Area of rising river
levels and to recommend evacuation.

CAN is a computer assisted telephone notification system designed to deliver an emergency
message to residents in specific localized areas. The information provided in the emer-
gency message is essential to the health and well-being of residents in threatened areas.

The CAN database contains all Sonoma County telephone numbers with the exception
of unlisted numbers. Telephone numbers listed in the telephone directory with no street
numbers are in the database; however, they cannot be identified within specific geographical
areas of the county, and therefore cannot be notified. CAN does have the capability of
delivering messages to TDD’s and will leave messages on answering machines.

Sonoma County residents who have unlisted telephone numbers, (or whose street address
is not listed in the telephone directory), who would like to be added to the CAN database
should complete the form below and mail it to:

The Sonoma County Office of Emergency Services
Attn: Community Alert Network
2300 County Center Dr., Suite 221A
Santa Rosa, CA 95403

CAN REQUEST FORM

Please add me to the Community Alert Network:

Date:_________________Phone:

Name:,

Street Address:

City/Town:________________________________________Zip:.

All information provided will be used for emergency purposes only
and will not be released for commercial purposes.

49-F85.2

49F852