COUNTY OF ALAMEDA MEASURE	
MEASURE C: DISTRICT WIDE EMERGENCY M MEDICAL SERVICE. To comply with the Right to Vote on Taxes Act, adopted November 1996, shall a special tax be approved to continue emergency medical ser- vices including paramedic, ambulance and trauma services at a rate of $21.14 per benefit unit, to be adjusted according to the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco Bay Area, as proposed in Ordinance 0-97-52, described in the Voter Information Pamphlet?	YES
	NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

ORDINANCE NO. 0-97-52
AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 2.20 TO TITLE 2 OF THE
ORDINANCE CODE OF THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA PROVIDING
FOR AN EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX
The Board of Supervisors of the County of Alameda ordains as follows:

SECTION I

Chapter 2.20 is added to Title 2 of the Ordinance Code of the County of
Alameda to read:

Chapter 2.20

EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX

2.20.10	Findings.

It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Alameda in
adopting this Chapter to provide for the continued funding of ambulance, para-
medic, trauma care, and related services being provided by the Emergency
Medical Services District, County Service Area EM-1983-1, presently being
funded with benefit assessments that will cease to be collected July 1, 1997 as
a result of the passage of Proposition 218 in November 1996 (California
Constitution, Articles XIIIC and XIIID). The Board of Supervisors proposes to
replace the current benefit assessment of $21.14 per benefit unit with a special
tax of $21.14 per benefit unit. Voter approval of the $21.14 per benefit unit spe-
cial tax would raise approximately $11 million in revenue which is needed to
continue to fund the basic Emergency Medical Services District services.

2.20.20	Authority to Adopt Measure.

This Chapter and the tax authorized herein is adopted pursuant to the pro-
visions of the County Services Area Law (Government Code Sections 25210.1
et seep), Proposition 62 (Government Code Sections 53720 et seep), and the
California Constitution, Article XIIIA, Section 4, Article XIIIC, Section 2, and
Article XIIID, Section 3. The tax authorized herein is based on the use and occu-
pancy of improved real property.

2.20.30	Title and Purpose

This Chapter may be cited as the “Emergency Medical Services District
Special Tax.” The special tax imposed under this Chapter is solely for the pur-

CM-1

poses of raising revenue for the operation of Emergency Medical Services
District, County Services Area EM-1983-1, for providing ambulance, para-
medic, trauma center, and related services.

2.20.40 Maximum Tax Rate and Method of Assessment.

The rate of the Emergency Medical Services Special Tax shall be in the
amount of $21.14 per “benefit unit” per year and shall be assessed against each
parcel of real property within County Services Area EM-1983-1, which includes
all the cities and unincorporated area within the County of Alameda with the
Exception of the City of Alameda. Once each year the Board of Supervisors is
hereby authorized to adjust by resolution the tax rate authorized by this Chapter
by the amount which the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco Bay Area
shall have increased during the immediately preceding year. The tax rate as so
adjusted is then the new base tax rate. The number of benefit units (BU) shall be
determined by the use to which the owner has put the property, as follows:

One living unit	1	BU

Two to five living units	3	BU

Six or more living units	60% of 1 BU per living unit

One-story store	2 BU
Store first floor w/office/apts. above	4 BU
Miscellaneous Commercial	2 BU
Department Store	5 BU
Discount House	5 BU
Restaurant	4 BU
Shopping Center	7 BU
Supermarket	4 BU
Comm./Indus. condominium	4 BU
Warehouse	2 BU
Light industry	4 BU
Heavy industry	6 BU
Miscellaneous Industrial	2 BU
Nurseries	2 BU
Quarries	2 BU
Wrecking yards	2 BU
Terminals, trucking	2 BU
Improved gov’t property	2 BU
Golf courses	2 BU
Schools	5 BU
Churches	4 BU
Other institution	3 BU
Lodge halls	7 BU
Clubhouses	4 BU
Car washes	2 BU
Commercial garage/auto repair	2 BU
Service station	2 BU
Funeral homes	2 BU
Nursing/Boarding homes	6 BU

CM-2

Hospitals	5 BU
Hotel	5 BU
Motel	5 BU
Mobile Home Parks	5 BU
Banks	4 BU
Medical-Dental	4 BU
One to three story office	4 BU
Over three story office	7 BU
Bowling alleys	4 BU
Theaters, walk-in	4 BU
Theaters, drive-in	4 BU
Other recreational	4 BU

Any tax levied under this Chapter shall become a lien upon the properties
against which it is assessed and shall be collected in conjunction with the
County’s collection of property tax revenues. The imposition of penalties, addi-
tional fees and interest upon persons who fail to remit any tax imposed by this
Chapter, or who fail to remit any delinquent remittance under this Chapter, shall
be subject to and governed by the rules, regulations and procedures utilized by
the County in its collection of property taxes.

Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of
this Chapter shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

2.20.50	Severability.

The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to any person, association, cor-
poration or to any property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the
Board of Supervisors to impose the tax herein provided. If any sentence, clause,
section or part of this Chapter, or any tax against any person is found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalid-
ity shall affect only such clause, sentence, section or part of this chapter and shall
not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections
or other parts of this Chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
Board of Supervisors that this Chapter would have been adopted had such
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section or part thereof not
been included herein.

2.20.60	Duration, Amendment or Repeal.

The authorization to levy a tax under this Chapter shall continue from year
to year. This Chapter or any provision thereof may be amended or repealed by
the Board of Supervisors. Any amendment increasing the tax rate, except as
provided herein with respect to the Consumer Price Index, must first be
approved by at least two-thirds of the voters voting on the increase before it
shall become effective.

SECTION II

This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force thirty (30) days from and after
the date of passage, and before the expiration of fifteen (15) days after its passage,
shall be published once with the names of the members voting for and against the
same in the Inter-City Express, a newspaper published in the said County of

CM-3

Alameda. However, this Ordinance shall only be implemented if approved by a
two-thirds majority of the voters voting on the proposition at an election to be
held on Tuesday, June 3, 1997 and would go into effect on July 1, 1997.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

Approval of this Measure would allow the County to continue to collect
$21.14 per benefit unit for emergency medical services.

In 1983 the Alameda County Emergency Medical Services District was cre-
ated to provide paramedic services throughout the county. It covers the unincor-
porated parts of the county and all the cities except Alameda. The EMS District
was formed as a County Service Area and was funded through benefit assess-
ments on the owners of improved real property.

The present benefit assessment is $21.14 per “benefit unit.” A single family
residence is one benefit unit. Other examples are a parcel of property with two
to five living units is three benefit units, a department store is five benefit units,
and an office building over three stories is seven benefit units. (There are over
forty benefit unit categories.) The benefit rate has not been increased since 1992.
The total amount collected last fiscal year (1995-96) was approximately $11 mil-
lion. This revenue is used by the EMS District to fund basic ambulance, para-
medic, trauma care, and related services. In addition, the fire districts and all of
the cities, with the exception of Hayward, supplement these basic services with
a supplemental benefit assessment ranging from $3.28 per benefit unit in Dublin
to $30.84 per benefit unit in Albany. The supplemental benefit assessments
totaled about $5.75 million last fiscal year.

With the passage last November of Proposition 218, The Right to Vote on
Taxes Act, the EMS District can no longer be funded with benefit assessments.
To continue the same $21.14 per benefit unit that now exists, the funding is being
put to a vote as a special tax.

If approved by the voters Measure C would authorize a special tax of $21.14
per benefit unit. It would also authorize the Board of Supervisors to increase the
tax rate per benefit unit each year but by not more than the amount of the increase
in the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco Bay Area for the immediate-
ly preceding year. The increased rate then becomes the new base tax rate.

If Measure C fails to pass, the special tax may not be collected, and the EMS
District will lose $11 million per year, which is its entire funding for basic EMS
services. The cutbacks this would cause to current services and the extent to
which the member agencies of the EMS District would be able to find alterna-
tive funding is not known.

s/KELVIN H. BOOTY, JR.

County Counsel

CM-4

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

PASSING MEASURE C MAY SAVE YOUR LIFE OR YOUR FAMILY
MEMBER’S. WHEN YOU CALL 9-1-1 MAKE SURE SOMEONE IS
ON THE OTHER END.

In 1982, the voters established a Paramedic Assessment District to provide a
system to save lives. Now due to a new state law, we have to reaffirm' com-
mitment fto high quality EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES (EMS) in
Alameda County.-. .

An advisory vote approved by 80% of the voters created the system and
it workst ~	-

•	During die past 14 years services have been upgraded through rigid train-
ing at all levels. "	_	-	■

•	Paramedics have been placed an all emergency ambulances.

•	Automatic defibrillators (for Heart attack victims) and Emergency Medical
- .'.Technicians (EMTs) .are now on fire trucks.

.. > Three trauma centers have been opened at Eden, Highland, and Children’s
Hospitals.	\	'

•	Your system responds annually to over .iP0,0()0 victims of sudden illness or

accidental.injury.	.	. . ..

•	Your system is a model Emergency Medical program for the nation.

When the next earthquake or firestorm hits, lives will be saved by the ability

to respond that you and your fellow voters have made possible.

•	Measure C is not a tax increase, but a continuance of an established assess-
. ment.

, « It can never increase more than the Bay Area Consumer Price Index.

•	The base assessment to provide this life saving service is only $21.14 per
household per year.

. Protect your, system. It is one of the premier programs in the United States.
Don’ t dose the trauma center or lengthen the response time for emergency
ambulances. The next time your family has an emergency, make sure they get
the. quality of care and speed of response they deserve.

VOTE YES! SAVE LIVES!

We urge you to support the companion EMS measure in your community.
This will "retain the current established emergency medical services system.

s/CHARLES C. PLUMMER, Sheriff, Alameda County
s/ARTHUR B. GEEN, Executive Vice President,

Alameda County Tax Payer Association
s/SHIRLEY WARE, Secretary Treasurer, SEIU Local 250
s/WILLIAM J. MCCAMMON, Fire Chief, Alameda County Fire Department
s/WILMA CHAN, Alameda County Supervisor, Third District

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C WAS SUBMITTED.

CM-5