

ORDINANCE NO. 6708

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF PASADENA EXTENDING AND
AMENDING CHAPTER 4.109 OF TITLE 4 OF THE PASADENA
MUNICIPAL CODE, THE LIBRARY SPECIAL TAX, SUBJECT TO THE
APPROVAL OF TWO-THIRDS OF THE VOTES CAST BY VOTERS
VOTING UPON THE PROPOSAL WITHIN THE CITY OF PASADENA

WHEREAS, in March 1993, the City Council of the City of
Pasadena adopted resolutions approving a proposed ordinance
enacting a Library Special Tax and calling a special municipal
election for the purpose of submitting such tax to the voters for
their approval, and

WHEREAS, on June 22, 1993, the Library Special Tax was
overwhelmingly approved by the voters, receiving 80% of the vote,
and

WHEREAS, the Library is currently in the fourth year of the
five year Library Special Tax which will expire On July 1, 1998,
and

WHEREAS, the ordinance enacting such tax provides that it
may only be extended beyond its five year term with the approval
of the voters with a two-thirds vote at a municipal election
called for that purpose, and

WHEREAS, in May, 1996, the City Council authorized the
Library Commission to appoint a Library Future Funding Task Force
("Task Force") to develop recommendations on future funding
options for the Library given the City's fiscal situation and the
scheduled expiration of the Library Special Tax on July 1, 1998,
and

JH 26563.3



WHEREAS, the Task Force examined the current level of
services provided by the Library, and thoroughly examined ways to
finance such level of service using the financing criteria
established by the Library Commission when it proposed the
current Library Special Tax, and

WHEREAS, Library staff at the request of the Task Force
conducted a customer survey to determine attitudes about the
level of service, and such survey concluded that the public is
extremely pleased with the level of service it receives, and

WHEREAS, the Task Force also reviewed a list of potential
service reductions to reflect General Fund revenue available for
the fiscal year 1998 and fiscal year 1999 operating budget, were
it not for the general fund commitment contained in the Library
Special Tax, and

WHEREAS, after examining in detail all other funding
mechanisms, the Task Force reviewed the existing Library Special
Tax and concluded that this approach continues to best meet the
established financing criteria, and

WHEREAS, the Task Force recommendation was presented to the
Library Commission at its November 13, 1996 meeting, which
unanimously endorsed such recommendation, and

WHEREAS, the Library Commission recommendation was presented
to the City Council at its November 18 and November 25, 1996
meetings, at which all interested persons were afforded an
opportunity to be heard, and

WHEREAS, at the conclusion of its deliberations, after

JH 26563.3

2

considering the report entitled "Recommendations of the Pasadena
Public Library Future Funding Task Force dated November 13, 1996,
and all of the testimony received by the Library Commission as
well as the testimony before the City Council, the City Council
resolved to call a special election for the purpose of submitting
to the voters this special tax for their two-thirds approval as
required by law,

NOW, THEREFORE, The People of the City of Pasadena ordain
as follows:

SECTION 1. Chapter 4.109 of the Pasadena Municipal Code is
amended to read as follows:

Chapter 4.109
LIBRARY SPECIAL TAX

SECTIONS:

4.109.110	Short title.
4.109.120	Definitions.
4.109.130	Exemptions.
4.109.140	Special Tax.
4.109.150	Legislative findings and declarations.
4.109.160	Purpose.
4.109.170	Special fund.
4.109.180	Tax rate.
4.109.190	Term.
4.109.200	Adjustments and refunds.
4.109.210	Amendments.
4.109.220	Severability.
4.109.230	Effective date.

4.109.110 Short title.

This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
"City of Pasadena Library Special Tax Ordinance"

4.109.120 Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this
chapter shall be construed as defined in this section:

JH 26563.3

3

A.	"Building" means any structure having a roof
supported by columns or walls, for the housing, shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind.

B.	"Condominium Project" means a condominium as
defined in Section 1350 of the Civil Code, a community apartment
project, as defined in Section 11004 of the Business and
Professions Code, or a stock cooperative as defined in Section
11003.2 of the Business and Professions Code.

C.	"Improvement to property" means a building or other
improvement erected on or affixed to a parcel, excluding parking
structures.

D.	"Library" means the Pasadena Public Library system
and each of the branches thereof as the same may exist from time
to time, together with any additions or betterments thereto, or
improvements, extensions or expansions thereof.

E.	"Maintenance and Operations Costs of the Library

means:	(1) all reasonable and necessary costs spent or incurred

by the City for maintaining and operating the Library, calculated
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
including, but not limited to, all amounts paid or payable from
time to time for books, periodicals, reference materials,
research materials, subscription services or other information
sources, in whatever form they may take, operated or utilized by
or through the Library, the reasonable expenses of management and
repair and other expenses necessary to maintain and preserve the
Library in good repair and working order, salaries and wages of

JH 26563 3

4

employees, payments to employees' retirement systems, taxes, if
any, fees of auditors, accountants, attorneys or engineers and
insurance premiums;

(2)	depreciation, replacement and obsolescence charges
or reserves therefor;

(3)	costs of capital additions, replacements,
betterments, extensions or improvements to the Library, which
under generally accepted accounting principles are chargeable to
a capital account or to a reserve for depreciation;

but shall not be construed to mean costs to provide
support services to the Library by any other Department of the
City.

F.	"Parcel" means a unit of real property as shown on
the last equalized assessment roll of Los Angeles County.

G.	"Required Amount" means the minimum amount which
must be budgeted in a fiscal year as Maintenance and Operating
Costs for the Library in order to levy a special tax in a fiscal
year.

4.109.130 Exemptions.

A.	Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
imposing a tax upon any person when imposition of such tax upon
that person would be in violation of either the Constitution of
the United States or the Constitution of the State of California.

B.	The tax imposed by this chapter shall not be levied
upon the federal government, the state government, any state
agency, or any local governmental agency.

JH 26563.3

5

C.	The tax imposed by this chapter shall not be levied
upon a parcel of property or improvement to property which is
owned by a house of worship or community service organization
which qualifies for an exemption from ad valorem taxation under
California law.

D.	The tax imposed by this chapter shall not be levied
upon any owner if such owner receives a senior citizen or
disability exemption from the utility user's tax imposed by
Chapter 4.56 of the Pasadena Municipal Code.

E.	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be

imposed upon any owner if such owner is a person who meets the
following qualifications:	The	claimant's	annual household income

shall not exceed the amount shown on the following table at the
start of the calendar year for which the exemption is claimed:

Household Size	Income

1	$13,000

2	$18,000

3	$23,000

4	$28,000

5	$33,000

6	$38,000

7	$43,000

4.109.140 Special tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a special tax on each
residential dwelling unit or non-residential parcel within the
City of Pasadena for the purposes set forth in this chapter at
the rate specified herein.

B. This tax is enacted under the authority of Section
301 of the Charter of the City of Pasadena, other authority held

JH 26563 3

6

as a charter city, and, independently thereof, under the
authority of California Government Code Sections 50075-50077.5.

4.109.150 Legislative findings and declarations.

The City Council and the people of the City of Pasadena
make the following findings with respect to the Library Special
Tax:

A. Importance of the Library to the quality of life for
Pasadena residents.

The Library of the City of Pasadena pre-dates the
incorporation of the City itself, and since 1926, Pasadena has
maintained an excellent library which has attained a unique
position as a very highly regarded educational and cultural
resource. The Library is an essential partner in the
educational, social and recreational well-being of Pasadena's
residents.

The Library has a strong connection to the maintenance of
healthy family community due to its tangible presence in
Pasadena's neighborhoods through the branch libraries, designed
and laid out in such a way that no Pasadenan is more than 1 mile
from a library, and residents can walk to their neighborhood
library. The presence of branch libraries adds a special quality
to the neighborhoods of Pasadena and makes a visible statement
regarding the importance of reading and learning. In addition to
fulfilling their traditional library role, they serve as meeting
places for community groups, gathering places for families and
provide valuable support to other community institutions such as

JH 26563.3

7

schools, business and cultural associations. The branch
libraries provide a unique perspective on the neighborhood in
which they are located. The languages spoken in the neighborhood
are reflected in the branch library collections, the needs of the
neighborhood are recognized in the special materials and
programming offered at the branch libraries, and the quality of
life in the neighborhood is enhanced because of the branch
library's presence. The branch libraries represent a safe haven
in our neighborhoods. The Library works steadfastly with
neighborhood schools to raise the level of literacy in the
community.

For these reasons, the City Council and the people of
the City of Pasadena find that the continuing vitality and
viability of the entire Library system, including all branch
libraries, must be assured through a funding mechanism which
provides a stable source of funding for the entire system.

In the first five years of the Library Special Tax, full
hours of operation have been restored to the entire library
system and a new collection and basic library services have been
established at the Villa-Parke Community Center, which serves a
predominately Hispanic community and outreach programs
throughout Pasadena.

The Customer Survey conducted at the request of the Task
Force indicates that the patrons of the Library overwhelmingly
believe that the Library is important to the quality of life in
Pasadena. Indeed, Pasadena has the second highest circulation

JH 26563.3

8

rate per capita in the state.

B. Validity of funding mechanism - background and

rationale.

The results of a management audit conducted in 1993 clearly
demonstrate that the Library is being managed very efficiently,
and the quality of services provided is high, particularly in
terms of the branch libraries. Each of these findings was
reconfirmed by the customer survey conducted by the Library Staff
at the request of the Task Force, as well as by previous citizen
surveys in the time since 1993. On the basis that the goal is a
funding program which would preserve the high level of service to
which Pasadena has been accustomed, the target level of service
for which funding is sought is that which was provided in 1989.

In terms of operations, the 1989 level of service can be
generally described as seven day-a-week service at Central
Library with morning hours on weekdays, five day-a-week service
at the branch libraries, restoration of budgets for acquisitions
and preservation of the Library collections, and restoration of
programs such as literacy, outreach services, children's story
hours and author series. The cost of providing this level of
service is $7.1 million the first year, indexed for cost of
living increases. In the time since the Library Special Tax has
been in place, the level of service has been restored as planned,
and the general fund commitment embodied in the provisions of
this chapter has been met.

Without a change in the uncertain and unstable process the

JH 26563.3

9

budget has become, the Library is at considerable risk of a
dramatic change in its ability to consistently offer the quality
and level of service which the citizens of Pasadena so highly
value, and the result is an unacceptable deterioration in the
quality of life for all Pasadena residents. These pressures on
the budget have not abated in the last five years. As a result
of the state of California's fiscal crisis, a significant amount
of the property tax which would have come to the city was
diverted to balance the state's budget. A steady downturn in the
economy in the region and locally has adversely affected the
growth of revenues. In November 1996, the voters approved
Proposition 218, a state constitutional amendment, which
eliminates the City's ability to raise the rate of any general
tax without incurring the expense of an election. Most
importantly, the Water and Power Department must deal with
utility deregulation. As a result, the transfer from the utility
to the general fund will be decreased by 3 million dollars
annually, according to the deregulation plan approved by the City
Council.

The Library is particularly suitable for a separate
dedicated source of funding due to the nature of its operations -
a clearly defined physical plant and a series of core programs
and services which are relatively stable and enduring from year
to year.

Before enacting this special tax, various alternative
sources of funding were explored including contracting for

JH 26563.3

10

Library services, joining the Los Angeles County library system,
and formation of a library special district. Selection of the
special tax came after examining fifteen separate funding
programs. These same programs were re-examined by the Task Force
and the Library Commission and additional examples in San
Francisco, Berkeley and Los Angeles County were analyzed.

The rationale for adopting the specific tax rates for
dwelling units and non-residential parcels contained in the
report of the Citizens Task Force on Alternative Financing is
well thought-out. Such rationale was critically examined by the
Task Force and the Library Commission and both ratified it. The
City Council and people of the City of Pasadena hereby ratify
such rationale, as refined by the public hearing process
conducted in connection therewith, and incorporate it herein as
if fully set forth herein. Such rationale provides a rational
basis for the tax rate classification system adopted in this
ordinance, and appropriately meets the objective of designing a
taxing scheme which relates the amount of the tax to the benefits
received from the Library by the person paying the tax, and
incorporates the element of ability to pay into the tax rates.

The Library Commission found, and the Council affirms, that
the Library Special Tax continues to best meet the needs of the
City for financing the library system.

4.109.160 Purpose.

A. The purpose of this special tax is to provide funds
to the City to pay:

JH 26563.3

11

1.	maintenance and operations costs of the

Library, and

2.	costs of enforcement and administration of the
special tax, including refunds.

B.	The City Council may provide for the collection of
the special tax in the same manner and subject to the same
penalties as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed and
collected by the City, or by the County of Los Angeles on behalf
of the City of Pasadena. If the special tax is collected by the
County on behalf of the City, the County may deduct its
reasonable costs incurred for such service.

C.	City costs of enforcement and administration of the
tax, including refunds, shall be paid from the special tax
revenue.

4.109.170 Special fund.

A.	There is hereby established a special fund entitled
"Library Special Tax Fund" (hereinafter the "special fund").

Money collected pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited into
said special fund and shall be used exclusively as provided in
this chapter for the purposes for which the tax is imposed, and
for no other purposes. Nothing in this section shall prevent
disbursements from this special fund to reimburse the general
fund if, and only if, money has been advanced from the general
fund to pay for the uses provided for in this chapter.

B.	Any money raised by the special tax, including any
interest accrued thereon, that remains unencumbered at the end of

JH 26563 3

12

any fiscal year may only be used in a succeeding fiscal year for
the purposes stated in this chapter. The availability of a
surplus for any succeeding year shall be considered by the City
Council when fixing the rates of tax for that year, pursuant to
Section 4.109.180 herein.

4.109.180 Tax rate.

A.	An annual special tax is hereby levied on the
following classifications of property in the city:

1.	$20	on	each	single	family	residence or

residential unit in a residential condominium project.

2.	$13	on	each	residential unit of a multi-unit

building which is not a condominium project.

3.	$147.00 on each parcel of non-residential
properties in the city which do not currently qualify for an
exemption from ad valorem taxation under California law.

B.	The annual special tax provided for herein shall
not be levied in any fiscal year for which the City Council shall
not have initially budgeted and appropriated, as Maintenance and
Operations Costs for the Library, a minimum amount calculated as
follows:

1.	in the first fiscal year in which the special
tax is levied, an amount which, when added to the amount
initially budgeted to be received from the special tax in such
fiscal year, shall equal $7.1 million;

2.	in the second fiscal year in which the special
tax is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount for the

JH 26563.3

13

prior fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in the next sentence,
but not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted
special tax receipts for such second fiscal year, shall equal
$7.1 million, indexed as prescribed in the next sentence for each
year commencing with the second fiscal year in which the special
tax is to be levied. Indexing shall be done for each of the
second through the fifth fiscal years in which the special tax is
levied using the consumer price index prepared by the Bureau of
Labor Statistics of the United States Government for all urban
consumers for the Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside statistical area,
or any successor index, to reflect changes in such index during
the 12 months which ended on the March 1 preceding each such
fiscal year;

3.	in the third fiscal year in which the special
tax is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount for the
prior fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above,
but not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted
special tax receipts for such third fiscal year, shall equal $7.1
million, indexed annually commencing with the second fiscal year
in which the special tax is to be levied, as prescribed in
subparagraph 2 above;

4.	in the fourth fiscal year in which the special
tax is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount for the
prior fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above,
but not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted
special tax receipts for such fourth fiscal year, shall equal

JH 26563.3

14

$7.1 million, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above, for
each year commencing in the second year in which the special tax
is to be levied, as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above;

5.	in the fifth fiscal year in which the special
tax is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount from the
prior fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above,
but not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted
special tax receipts for such fifth fiscal year, shall equal $7.1
million, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above, for each
year commencing in the second year in which the special tax is to
be levied, as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above.

6.	in the sixth fiscal year (the fiscal year ending
June 30, 1999) in which the special tax is levied, an amount
equal to the Required Amount for the prior fiscal year, indexed
as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budgeted special tax receipts for
such sixth fiscal year, shall equal $7.1 million, indexed
annually commencing with the second fiscal year in which the
special tax is to be levied, as prescribed in subparagraph 2
above;

7.	in the seventh fiscal year in which the special
tax is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount for the
prior fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above,
but not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted
special tax receipts for such seventh fiscal year, shall equal
$7.1 million, indexed annually commencing with the second fiscal

JH 26563.3

15

year in which the special tax is to be levied, as prescribed in
subparagraph 2 above;

8.	in the eighth fiscal year in which the special tax
is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount for the prior
fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above, but
not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted special
tax receipts for such eighth fiscal year, shall equal $7.1
million, indexed annually commencing with the second fiscal year
in which the special tax is to be levied, as prescribed in
subparagraph 2 above;

9.	in the ninth fiscal year in which the special tax
is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount for the prior
fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above, but
not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted special
tax receipts for such ninth fiscal year, shall equal $7.1
million, indexed annually commencing with the second fiscal year
in which the special tax is to be levied, as prescribed in
subparagraph 2 above;

10.	in the tenth fiscal year in which the special tax
is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount for the prior
fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above, but
not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted special
tax receipts for such tenth fiscal year, shall equal $7.1
million, indexed annually commencing with the second fiscal year
in which the special tax is to be levied, as prescribed in
subparagraph 2 above;

JH 26563.3

16

11.	in the eleventh fiscal year in which the special
tax is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount for the
prior fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above,
but not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted
special tax receipts for such eleventh fiscal year, shall equal
$7.1 million, indexed annually commencing with the second fiscal
year in which the special tax is to be levied, as prescribed in
subparagraph 2 above;

12.	in the twelfth fiscal year in which the special
tax is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount for the
prior fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above,
but not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted
special tax receipts for such twelfth fiscal year, shall equal
$7.1 million, indexed annually commencing with the second fiscal
year in which the special tax is to be levied, as prescribed in
subparagraph 2 above;

13.	in the thirteenth fiscal year in which the special
tax is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount for the
prior fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above,
but not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted
special tax receipts for such thirteenth fiscal year, shall equal
$7.1 million, indexed annually commencing with the second fiscal
year in which the special tax is to be levied, as prescribed in
subparagraph 2 above;

14. in the fourteenth fiscal year in which the special
tax is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount for the

JH 26563.3

17

prior fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above,
but not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted
special tax receipts for such fourteenth fiscal year, shall equal
$7.1 million, indexed annually commencing with the second fiscal
year in which the special tax is to be levied, as prescribed in
subparagraph 2 above;

15.	in the fifteenth fiscal year in which the special
tax is levied, an amount equal to the Required Amount for the
prior fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above,
but not less than an amount which, when added to the budgeted
special tax receipts for such fifteenth fiscal year, shall equal
$7.1 million, indexed annually commencing with the second fiscal
year in which the special tax is to be levied, as prescribed in
subparagraph 2 above.

C.	If at any time following the levy of a special tax
for a fiscal year, the amount finally budgeted and appropriated
as Maintenance and Operations Costs for the Library for such
fiscal year shall be less than the Required Amount for such
fiscal year, then no annual special tax shall be levied in the
immediately following fiscal year. In no event shall the
inability to levy the Library Special Tax extend the Library
Special Tax beyond the stated expiration date herein.

D.	The city council shall re-evaluate the Library
Special Tax no later than 2003 for the purpose of determining
whether the library can be fully funded by the general fund at
the level of service set forth in this ordinance.

JH 26563.3

18

E.	The tax established herein shall be indexed

annually on July 1st of each year in accordance with the increase
or decrease in the cost of living. Indexing shall be done on
July 1 of each of the fourteen fiscal years after the first
fiscal year using the consumer price index for all urban
consumers for the Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside statistical area
to reflect changes in such index during the 12 months which ended
the preceding March 1.

F.	For any fiscal year the City Council may, by
ordinance, adjust the tax rate below the maximum amount, provided
that all of the rates on each category are all adjusted
proportionately, so that the relationship between categories
remains constant. Such a reduction shall not prevent a
subsequent levy of taxes for any succeeding fiscal year up to the
limits set forth in this section. However, except as provided in
subsection (C) of this section, in no case shall the amount of
the tax rate to be levied exceed the maximum amount established
by this chapter without the approval of the voters by two-thirds
of the votes cast by voters voting upon such change in the tax
rate maximum.

4.109.190 Term. The annual special tax provided for
herein may be levied in each of fifteen consecutive fiscal
years, commencing with the first fiscal year in which there is a
levy pursuant to this ordinance. Such levy may only be extended
with the approval of the voters by two-thirds of the votes cast
by voters voting upon such a change at a municipal election

JH 26563.3

19

called for that purpose, unless the applicable law at the time of
such election authorizes a lesser number of votes.

4.109.200 Adjustments and refunds:

A.	Requests for adjustments involving imposition of
this tax may be filed with the director of finance. Upon
sufficient evidence of error in the computation of the tax, the
director of finance or his\her designee shall cause the tax to be
recalculated, and shall so advise the Los Angeles County Tax
Collector or other appropriate official.

B.	Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any tax
has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously
or illegally collected or received by the City under this chapter
the refund procedure shall be as follows:

1.	No claim for refund of tax payment shall be
allowed in whole or in part unless filed with the city clerk
within a period of three years from the date of the claimed
overpayment. All such claims for refund of the amount of the
overpayment must be filed on forms furnished, and in the manner
prescribed by the finance department. Refunds may be made solely
from the Library Special Tax Fund.

2.	In the event the director of finance denies
the claim, he/she shall notify the claimant pursuant to
California Government Code Section 913.

C.	The director of finance shall have the power to
settle claims involving the special tax, and the power to accept
and record underpayments or overpayments of such tax. The

JH 26563.3

20

director of finance shall have the authority to make refunds of
this tax.

D.	If the County of Los Angeles does not collect any
tax due under this chapter, then the director of finance shall
have the power and duty to enforce all of the provisions of this
chapter. In such cases an assessment may be made against the
owner of a parcel and improvements in the manner provided by law.
Any unpaid tax due under this Chapter shall be subject to all
remedies provided by law.

E.	The special tax shall be due in two equal
installments in accordance with the collection procedures of the
Los Angeles County Tax Collector with the first installment due
November 1, and the second installment due the next succeeding
February 1, in each fiscal year. The owner of the land, land and
improvements, at the time set forth in California Revenue and
Taxation Code Sections 405 and 2192 for each fiscal year shall
have a personal obligation to the City of Pasadena until the tax
is paid for each fiscal year.

F.	The director of finance may prepare a questionnaire
to be served on the owner of a parcel or improvements subject to
the tax imposed by this chapter. The questionnaire may request
information which would be useful to the director of finance in
the enforcement or administration of this article. The failure
by a an owner to provide the information requested within thirty
(30) days of receipt of the request, or the act of an owner in
knowingly providing false information, shall be a misdemeanor.

JH 26563.3

21

G.	In determining the gross square footage of
improvements, the director of finance may use County Assessor's
records, city records, questionnaires and any other records
deemed reliable.

4.109.210 Amendments:

Procedural provisions of this chapter may be
amended by ordinance duly enacted by the City Council.

4.109.220 Severability:

If any section, subsection, part, clause, sentence
or phrase of this article or the application thereof is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of
any court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the
remaining portions of the article, the application thereof, and
the tax imposed shall not be affected thereby but shall remain in
full force and effect, it being the intention of the City Council
and the voters to adopt each and every section, subsection, part,
clause, sentence or phrase regardless of whether any other
section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase or the
application thereof is held to be invalid or unconstitutional.

4.109.230 Effective date.

This ordinance as amended, which amends and
extends the Library Special Tax (P.M.C. Chapter 4.109) and levies
the special tax described therein shall be submitted to the
voters of the City of Pasadena at a Special Election to be held
on March 4, 1997. The taxes determined and proposed by
amendments to this ordinance for levy in fiscal years ending on

JH 26563.3

22

and after June 30, 1999, shall be levied only if the amendments
to this ordinance are approved by a vote of not less than two-
thirds of the votes cast by the voters voting on the special tax
proposal set forth in the ordinance. If the amendments to the
ordinance are approved by the requisite number of votes. Chapter
4.109 as amended, shall thereafter be considered a part of the
Pasadena Municipal Code.

/ / /
/ / /
/ / /
/ / /
/ / /
/ / /
/ / /
/ / /
/ / /

JH 26563.3

23

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing ordinance was approved by a vote of the people
at the Special Municipal Election, which was consolidated with the Primary Nominating
election, held on March 4, 1997, and said ordinance received over two-thirds approval of the
votes cast on the special tax proposal set forth in the ordinance as follows:

YES VOTES:	11,247 (86.5%)
NO VOTES:	1,761 (13.5%)

^	yso?6'-

Jane L. Rodriguez,
City Clerk



7)

o

Dated: April 18,1997
Publish: April 25, 1997
Pasadena Weekly

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Clu'WUt‘l2.\x

Nicholas G. Rodriguez
Assistant City Attorney

OnsA'ivr&ne^ Y\o ■ Lei

Agenda Report



To:	CITY COUNCIL	Date:	November 25, 1996

From:	LIBRARY COMMISSION

Subject:	LIBRARY SPECIAL TAX

It is recommended that the City Council:

1.	Approve the Library Commission's recommendation for funding the Library's maintenance
and operating costs through the extension of the Library Special Tax. The Library Special
Tax may be collected only if certain General Fund commitments to the Library are met
and would extend over the next ten years past the current expiration date of July 1, 1998.

2.	Acknowledge that this action is categorically exempt pursuant to California Code of
Regulations Section 15061 (b) (3), and direct the City Clerk to file the Notice of Exemption
with the County Clerk.

3.	Adopt a Resolution of the City Council of the City of Pasadena, calling a special municipal
election to be held in said City on Tuesday, March 4,1997, in conjunction with the primary
municipal election to be held on such date, for the purpose of submitting to the voters of
said City an ordinance amending Chapter 4.109 to Title 4 the "Library Special Tax",
subject to the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting on the proposal
within the City of Pasadena (contains actual language of the ballot measure by the City
Attorney).

4.	Adopt a resolution of the City Council of the City of Pasadena proposing amendments to
and extension of the Library Special Tax Chapter 4.109 of Title 4 of the Pasadena
Municipal Code (text of actual ordinance imposing the special tax).

5.	Approve a Journal Voucher transferring $6,000 from the City Manager’s Discretionary
reserve to budget account number 262014 for the election.

BACKGROUND:

Overview of Current Special Tax

On March 23, 1993 the City Council approved a proposed ordinance for a Library Special Tax
and called for a special municipal election for the purpose of submitting to the voters an ordinance
imposing a special tax. On June 22, 1993 citizens through a special election approved the
Library Special Tax to supplement General Fund support of the library insuring an appropriate
level of funding for a five year period.

AGENDA ITEM NO.

MEETING OF 1 1 / 7 S / Q A

7.C.1.

The approval of this ordinance allowed the establishment of the Library Special Tax Fund into
which all proceeds of the Library Special Tax are deposited. Both Library Special Tax Fund
revenue and General Fund revenue are transferred into the Library Services Fund to be used
exclusively for the purpose of supporting the Library. Any monies, including any interest accrued,
that remain unencumbered at the end of the fiscal year, automatically carry forward to the
succeeding fiscal year, thereby insuring that the revenue collected from the Library Special Tax
is used exclusively for the ongoing support of the Library. The proposed measure also contains
a prohibition on levying the Library Special Tax if the required General Fund amount to the library
is not made. The proposed amendment which strengthens this provision is attached hereto.
Additionally, both the tax and the General Fund allocation are adjusted each year by the
Consumer Price Index.

The Library is currently in the fourth year of the five year Library Special Tax. The Library Special
Tax revenue of approximately $1.35 million supplements a committed General Fund allocation
of more than $6.0 million. The Library Special Tax may only be extended with the approval of
two-thirds of those voting on the measure.

Library Future Funding Task Force

In May 1996, with City Council authorization, the Library Commission appointed the Library Future
Funding Task Force to review the impact of the current Library Special Tax measure and develop
recommendations on future funding options for the library given the City’s current fiscal situation
and the scheduled expiration of the Library Special Tax on July 1,1998.

The Task Force examined the current level of services provided by the Library and citizen
attitudes about the service and determined how to finance a particular level of service. In the
course of their deliberations, the Task Force also reviewed a list of potential service reductions.
These reductions take into account the loss of revenue represented by the Library Special Tax
and an additional 20% reduction scenario presented by the Finance Department in anticipation
of General Fund revenue available for the FY 1998 and FY 1999 Operating Budget.

The Task Force carefully examined a number of different financing methods using a set of
specific criteria and guidelines. A more thorough discussion of the Task Force approach and
financing criteria can be found in the Recommendations of Pasadena Public Library Future
Funding Task Force Report, attached hereto. After examining all other funding mechanisms, the
Task Force reviewed the current Library Special Tax method of funding and concluded that this
approach continues to best meet the established financing criteria.

RECOMMENDATION:

The Task Force presented its report to the Library Commission on November 13. 1996. After
careful deliberation, the Library Commission unanimously approved the Task Force
recommendation to extend the Library Special Tax as outlined below:

I. General Fund Required Amount

A. In initial year of the extension, the General Fund Required Amount will be equal
to the General Fund Required Amount in the last year of the current Special Tax
adjusted for the Consumer Price Index.

B. The General Fund Required Amount will continue to be adjusted annually by the
Consumer Price Index.

II.	Special Tax Amount

A.	The Special Tax can not be levied unless

1.	the Required Amount is annually appropriated from the General Fund, and

2.	if the Required Amount was initially appropriated in the prior year and the
Special Tax levied, that the appropriation level was not subsequently
reduced during that year to an amount less than the Required Amount.

B.	Individual rates for single family detached homes, condominiums, apartments, and
non-residential parcels in the initial year will be equal to the rates in the last year
of the current Special Tax adjusted for the Consumer Price Index.

C.	The tax rates will continue to be adjusted annually by the Consumer Price Index.

III.	The Special Tax will have a new ten-year term (10 years beyond July 1,1998).

IV.	The same economic hardship exemptions in the current Special Tax will be continued.

V.	The City will continue to provide administrative support (e.g. personnel, finance and
accounting) outside of the Library Services Fund.

Election Timeline

Implementation of this recommendation will require the extension of the Special Tax by two-thirds
of those voting in an election. The passage of Proposition 218 impacts the timing of an election
for an extension of the Library Special Tax. Proposition 218 provides "that no local government
may impose, extend or increase any general tax unless and until that tax is submitted to the
electorate and approved by a majority vote." Importantly, the section dealing with general taxes
provides that "the election required by this subdivision shall be consolidated with a regularly
scheduled general election for members of the governing body of the local government, except
in cases of emergency declared by a unanimous vote of the governing body." While this
language does not appear in the section dealing with special taxes, such as the Library Special
Tax, the City Attorney’s opinion is "that any ballot measure which asks the voters to extend the
Library Special Tax should be placed on a primary election ballot, as that is the best way to
assure a successful defense to any court challenge."

Based on this scenario, the primary election scheduled for March 4, 1997 offers the best
alternative for placing the measure on the ballot. The deadline for filing for that election is
December 6, 1996. The March 4, 1997 primary election is also a citywide election because it is
consolidated with the election for members of the Board of Directors of the Pasadena Unified
School District. Until the results of the March election are known, we will not know if there will
be an election in April. The next primary municipal election would be in March 1999 which occurs
after the expiration date of the current special tax. Additionally, the estimated cost of more than
$180,000 for a Special Municipal election provides further cause for the election to be held on
March 4, 1997. The cost of putting the measure on the March 4, 1997 ballot is $6,000.

FISCAL IMPACT:

Approving the extension of the Library Special Tax will have an impact on the General Fund. As
part of the requirements for collecting the Library Special Tax, a minimum General Fund required
amount must be met. In the FY 1997 Operating Budget, the General Fund appropriated $6.0
million to the Information Services Department. The minimum required General Fund amount
would also impact the amount of discretionary General Fund that the Council is able to
recommend for reduction through the budget process should a reduction be determined for FY
1998. The cost of adding this measure to the March 1997 ballot is expected to be approximately
$6,000. The $6,000 cost will be funded from the City Manager's Discretionary reserve.

Brenda Jones, Chair
Library Commission

Prepared by:

PROOF OF PUBLICATION

(2015.5 C.C.P.)

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

CITY OF PASADENA

I am a citizen of the United States and a
resident of the County aforesaid; I am over
the age of eighteen years, and not a party
to or interested in the above-entitled
matter. I am the principal clerk of the printer
of the

PASADENA WEEKLY

a newspaper of general circulation, printed
and published in the City of PASADENA
County of Los Angeles, and which
newspaper has been adjudged a newspaper
of general circulation by the Superior Court
of the County of Los Angeles, State of
California, under the date of July 3, 1952.

Proof of Publication of

ORDINANCE NO.6708

Case Number 601 555: that the notice, of
which the annexed is a printed copy (set in
type not smaller than nonpareil), has been
published in each regular and entire issue
of said newspaper and not in any
supplement thereof on the
following dates, to-wit:

April 25, 1997

all in the year 1997
I certify (or declare) under penalty of
perjury that the foregoing is true and
correct.

Dated at PASADENA

California, this 25day of April , 1997.

1 __________________________

Signature

E®S/EE)E®E\ WEEKLY
50 S. DeLacey Ave.

Suite 200
Pasadena CA 91105

Phone: (818)584-1500
FAX: (818)795-0149

ORDINANCE NO. 6708

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
PASADENA EXTENDING AND
AMENDING CHAPTER 4.109 OF
TITLE 4 OF THE PASADENA MUNIC-
IPAL CODE, THE LIBRARY SPECIAL
TAX. SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL
OF TWO-THIRDS OF THE VOTES
CAST BY VOTERS VOTING UPON
THE PROPOSAL WITHIN THE CITY
OF PASADENA

WHEREAS, in March 1993, ihe City
Council of the City of Pasadena adopted
resolutions approving a proposed ordi-
nance enacting a Library Special Tax and
calling a special municipal election for
the purpose of submitting such tax to the
vote'' their approval, and
Wh*. j\S, on June 22, 1993, the
Library Special Tax was overwhelmingly
approved by the voters, receiving 80% of
the vote, and

WHEREAS, the Library is currently In
the fourth year of the five year Library
Special Tax which will expire on July 1,
1998, and

WHEREAS, the ordinance enacting such
tax provides that it may only be extended
beyond its five year term with the
approval of the voters with a two-thirds
vote at a municipal election called for
that purpose, and

WHEREAS, in May, 19%. the City
Council authorized the Library
Commission to appoint a Library Future
Funding Task Force (‘Task Force”) to
develop recommendations on future
fur-ling options for the Library given the
City’s fiscal situation and the scheduled
expiration of the Library Special Tax on
July 1, 1998, and

WHEREAS, the Task Force examined
the current level of services provided by
the Library, and thoroughly examined
ways to finance such level of service
usi' ‘'e financing criteriu established by
the L, j Commission when it pro-
posed the current Library Special Tax,
and

WHEREAS, Library staff at the request
of ine Task Force conducted a customer
survey to determine attitudes about the
level of service, and such survey conclud-
ed that the public is extremely pleased
with the level of service it receives, and
WHEREAS, the Task Force also
reviewed a list of potential service reduc-
tions to reflect Genera] Fund revenue
available for the fiscal year 1998 and fis-
cal year 1999 operating budget, were it
not for the general fund commitment con-
tained in the Library Special Tax, and
WHEREAS, after examining in detail all
other funding mechanisms, the Task
Force reviewed the existing Library
Special Tax and concluded that this
approach continues to best meet the
established financing criteria, and
WHEREAS, the Task Force recommen-
dation was presented to the Library
Commission at its November 13,1996
meeting, which unanimously endorsed
such recommendation, and
WHEKEAS, the Library Commission
recommendation was presented to the
City Council at its November 18 and
November 25. 1996 meetings, at which
all interested persons were nfforded an
opportunity to be heard, and
WHEREAS, at the conclusion of its
deliberations, after considering the report
entitled “Recommendations of the
Pasadena Public Library Future Funding
Task Force dated November 13.1996,
and all of the testimony received by the
Library Commission as well as the testi-
mony before the City Council, the City
Council resolved to call a special election
for the purpose of submitting to the vot-
ers this special tax for their two-thirds
approval as required by law,

NOW. THEREFORE, The People of the
CitV of Pasadena ordain as follows:
SECTION I. Chapter 4.109 of the
Pasadena Municipal Code is amended to
read as follows:

Chapter 4.109
LIBRARY SPECIAL TAX
SECTIONS:

4.109.110 Short title.

4.109.120 Definitions.

4.109.130 Exemptions.

4.109.140 Special Tax.

4.109.150 Legislative findings
and declarations.

4.109.160 Purpose.

4.109.170 Special fund.

4.109.180 Tax rate.__________

4.109.190 Term.

4.109.200 Adjustments and
refunds.

4.109.210 Amendments.

4.109.220 Severability.

4.109.230 Effective date.

4.109.110 Short title.

-rhis chapter shall be known and may be
cited as the "City of Pasadena Library
Special Tax Ordinance"

4. Ip9.120 Definitions.
frhe following words and phrases when-
ever used in this chapter shall be con-
strued as defined in this section:

A ‘‘Building” means any structure hav-
ing a roof supported by columns or walls,
for the housing, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of
any kind.

B.	“Condominium Project” means a con-
dominium as defined in Section 1350 of
the Civil Code, a community apartment
project, as defined in Section 11004 of
the Business and Professions Code, or a
slock cooperative as defined in Section

11003.2 of the Business and Professions
Code.

C.	“Improvement to property" means a
building or other improvement erected on
or affixed to a parcel, excluding parking
structures.

D.	“Library” means the Pasadena Public
Library system and each of the branches
thereof as the same may exist from time
to time, together with any additions or
betterments thereto, or improvements,
extensions or expansions thereof.

E.	“Maintenance and Operations Costs
of the Library “means: (1) all reasonable
and necessary costs spent or incurred by
the City for maintaining and operating
the Library, calculated in accordance
with generally accepted accounting prin-
ciples including, but not limited to, all
amounts paid or payable from time to
time for books, periodicals, reference

materials, research materials, subscription
services or other information sources, in
whatever form they may take, operated or
utilized by or through the Library, the
reasonable expenses of management and
repair and other expenses necessary to
maintain and preserve the Library in
good repair and working order, salaries
and wages of employees, payments to
employees’ retirement systems, taxes, If
any, fees of auditors, accountants, attor-
neys or engineers nnd insurance premi-
ums;

(2)	depreciation, replacement and obso-
lescence charges or reserves therefor;

(3)	costs of capital additions, replace-
ments, betterments, extensions or
improvements to the Library, which
under generally accepted accounting
principles are chargeable to a capital
account or to a reserve for depreciation;
but shall not be construed to mean costs
to provide support services to the Library
by any other Department of the City.

F.	“Parcel” means a unit of real property
as shown on the last equalized assess-
ment roll of Los Angeles County.

G.	"Required Amount” means the mini-
mum amount which must be budgeted in
a fiscal year as Maintenance and
Operating Costs for the Library in order
to levy a special tax in a fiscal year.
4.109.130 Exemptions.

A.	Nothing in this chapter shall be con-
strued as imposing a tax upon any person
when imposition of such tax upon

that person would be in violation of either
the Constitution of the United States or
the Constitution of the State of
California.

B.	The tax imposed by this chapter shall
not be levied upon the federal govern-
ment, the state government, any state
agency, or any local governmental
agency.

C.	The tax imposed by this chapter shall
not be levied upon a parcel of property or
improvement to property which is owned
by a house of worship or community ser-
vice organization which qualifies for an
exemption from ad valorem taxation
under California law.

D.	The tax imposed by this chapter shall
not be levied upon any owner if such
owner receives a senior citizen or disabil-
ity exemption from the utility user’s tax
imposed by Chapter 4.56 of the Pasadena
Municipal Code.

E.	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall
not be imposed upon any owner if such
owner is a person who meets the follow-
ing qualifications: The claimant's annua]
household income shall not exceed the
amount shown on the following table at
the start of the calendar year for which
the exemption is claimed:

Household Size Income

1	$13,000

2	$18,000

3	$23,000

4	$28,000

5	$33,000

6	$38,000

7	$43,000

4.109.140 Special tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a special tax
on each residential dwelling unit or non-
residemial parcel within the City of’
Pasadena for the purposes set forth in this
chapter at the rate specified herein.

B.	This tax is enacted under the authority
of Section 301 of the Charter of the City
of Pasadena, other authority held as a
charter city, and, independently thereof,
under the authority of California
Government Code Sections 50075-
50077.5.

4.109.150 Legislative findings and
declarations.

The City Council and the
people of the City of Pasadena make the
following findings with respect to the
Library Special Tax:

A. Importance of the Library to the quali-
ty of life for Pasadena residents.

The Library of the City of
Pasadena pre-dates the incorporation of
the City itself, and since 1926, Pasadena
has maintained an excellent library which
has attained a unique position as a very
highly regarded educational and cultural
resource. The Library is an essential
partner in the educational, social and
recreational well-being of Pasadena’s res-
idents.

The Library has a strong connection to
the maintenance of healthy family com-
munity due to its tangible presence in
Pasadena's neighborhoods through the
branch libraries, designed and laid out in
such a way that no Pasadenan is more
than 1 mile from a library, and residents
can walk to their neighborhood library.
The presence of branch libraries adds a
special quality to the neighborhoods of
Pasadena and makes a visible statement
regarding the importance of reading and
learning. In addition to fulfilling their
traditional library role, they serve as
meeting places for community groups,
gathering places for families and provide
valuable support to other community
institutions such as schools, business and
cultural associations. The branch
libraries provide a unique perspective on
the neighborhood in which they are locat-
ed. The languages spoken in the neigh-
borhood are reflected in the branch
library collections, the needs of the
neighborhood are recognized in the spe-
cial materials and programming offered
at the branch libraries, and the quality of
life in the neighborhood is enhanced
because of the branch library’s presence.
The branch libraries represent a safe
haven in our neighborhoods. The Library
works steadfastly with neighborhood
schools to raise the level of literacy in the
community.

For these reasons, the City
Council and the people of the City of
Pasadena find that the continuing vitality
and viability of the entire Library system,
including all branch libraries, must be
assured through a funding mechanism
which provides a stable source of funding
for the entire system.

In the first five years of
the Library Special Tax, full hours of
operation have been restored to the entire
library system and a new collection and
basic library services have been estab-
lished at the Villa-Parke Community
Center, which serves a predominately
Hispanic community and outreach pro-
grams throughout Pasadena.

The Customer Survey con-
ducted at the request of the Task Force
indicates that the patrons of the Library
overwhelmingly believe that the Library
is important to the quality of life in
Pasadena. Indeed, Pasadena has the sec-
ond highest circulation rate per capita in
the state.

B. Validity of funding mechanism-
background and rationale.

The results of a manage-
ment audit conducted in 1993 clearly
demonstrate that the Library is being
managed very efficiently, and the quality
of services provided is high, particularly
in terms of the branch libraries. Each of
these findings was reconfirmed by the
customer survey conducted by the
Library Staff at the request of the Task
Force, as well as by previous citizen sur-
veys in the time since 1993. On the basis
that the goal is a funding program which
would preserve the high level of service
to which Pasadena has been accustomed,
the target level of service for which fund-
ing is sought is that which was provided
in 1989. In terms of operations, the 1989
level of service can be generally
described as seven day-a-week service at
Central Library with morning hours on
weekdays, five day-a-week service at the
branch libraries, restoration of budgets for
acquisitions and preservation of the
Library collections, and restoration of
programs such as literacy, outreach ser-
vices, children’s story hours and author
series. The cost of providing this level of
service is $7.1 million the first year,
indexed for cost of living increases. In
the time since the Library Special Tax has
been in place, the level of service has
been restored as planned, and the general
fund commitment embodied in the provi-
sions of this chapter has been met.

Without a change in the
uncertain and unstable process the budget
has become, the Library is at considerable
risk of a dramatic change in its ability to
consistently offer the quality and level of
service which the citizens of Pasadena so
highly value, and the result is an unac-
ceptable deterioration in the quality of life
for all Pasadena residents. These pres-
sures on the budget have not abated in the
last five years. As a result of the state of
California's fiscal crisis, a significant
amount of the property tax which would
have come to the city was diverted to bal-
ance the state’s budget. A steady down-
turn in the economy in the region and
locally has adversely affected the growth
of revenues. In November 1996, the vot-
ers approved Proposition 218, a state con-
stitutional amendment, which eliminates
the City’s ability to raise the rate of any
general tax without incurring the expense
of an election. Most importantly, the
Water and Power Department must deal
with utility deregulation. As a result, the
transfer from the utility to the general
fund will be decreased by 3 million dol-
lars annually, according to the deregula-
tion plan approved by the City Council.

The Library is particularly
suitable for a separate dedicated source of
funding due to the nature of its operations
-a clearly defined physical plant and a
series of core programs and sen-ices
which are relatively stable and enduring
from year to year.

Before enacting this spe-
cial tax, various alternative sources of
funding were explored including contract-
ing for Library services, joining the Los
Angeles County library system, and for-
mation of a library special district.

Selection of the special tax came after
examining fifteen separate funding pro-
grams. These same programs were re-
examined by the Task Force and the
Library Commission and additional
examples in San Francisco, Berkeley and
Los Angeles County were analyzed.

The rationale for adopting
the specific tax rates for dwelling units
and non-residential parcels contained in
the report of the Citizens Task Force on
Alternative Financing is well thought-out.
Such rationale was critically examined by
the Task Force and the Library
Commission and both ratified it. The
City Council and people of the City of
Pasadena hereby ratify such rationale, as
refined by the public hearing process con-
ducted in connection therewith, and
incorporate it herein as if fully set forth
herein. Such rationale provides a rational
basis for the tax rate classification system
adopted in this ordinance, and appropri-
ately meets the objective of designing a
taxing scheme which relates the amount
of the tax to the benefits received from
the Library by the person paying the tax,
and incorporates the element of ability to
pay into the tax rates.

The Library Commission
found, and the Council affirms, that the
Library Special Tax continues to best
meet the needs of the City for financing
the library system.

4.109.160 Purpose.

A.	The purpose of this special tax is to
provide funds to the City to pay:

1.	maintenance and operations
costs of the Library, and

2.	costs of enforcement and
administration of the special tax, includ-
ing refunds.

B.	The City Council may provide for the
collection of the special tax in the same
manner and subject to the same penalties
as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed
and collected by the City, or by the
County of Los Angeles on behalf of the
City- of Pasadena. If the special tax is col-
lected by the County on behalf of the
City, the County may deduct its reason-
able costs incurred for such service.

C.	City costs of enforcement and admin-
istration of the tax, including refunds,
shall be paid from the special tax revenue.
4.109.170 Special fund.

A.	There is hereby established a special
fund entitled “Library Special Tax Fund”
(hereinafter the “special fund”). Money
collected pursuant to this chapter shall be
deposited into said special fund and shall

be used exclusively as provided in this ;
chapter for the purposes for which the tax
is imposed, and for no other purposes.
Nothing in this section shall prevent dis-
bursements from this special fund to
reimburse the general fund if, and only if,
money has been advanced from the gen-
eral fund to pay for the uses provided for
in this chapter.

B.	Any money raised by the special tax,
including any interest accrued thereon,
that remains unencumbered at the end of
any fiscal year may only be used in a suc-
ceeding fiscal year for the purposes stated
in this chapter. The availability of a sur-
plus for any succeeding year shall be con-
sidered by the City Council when fixing

the rates of tax for that year, pursuant to
Section 4.109.180 herein.

4.109.180 Tax rate.

A.	An annual special tax is hereby levied
on the following classifications of proper-
ty in the city:

1.	$20 on each single fam-
ily residence or residential unit in a resi-
dential condominium project.

2.	$13 on each residential
unit of a multi-unit building which is not
a condominium project.

3.	$147.00 on each parcel
of non-residential properties in the city
which do not currently qualify for an
exemption from ad valorem taxation
under California law.

B.	The annual special tax provided for
herein shall not be levied in any fiscal
year for which the City Council shall not
have initially budgeted and appropriated,
as Maintenance and Operations Costs for
the Library, a minimum amount calculat-
ed as follows:

1.	in the first fiscal year in which the spe-
cial tax is levied, an amount which, when
added to the amount initially budgeted to
be received from the special tax in such
fiscal year, shall equal $7.1 million;

2.	in the second fiscal year in which the
special tax is levied, an amount equal to
the Required Amount for the prior fiscal
year, indexed as prescribed in the next
sentence, but not less than an amount
which, when added to the budgeted spe-
cial tax receipts for such second fiscal
year, shall equal $7.1 million, indexed as
prescribed in the next sentence for each
year commencing with the second fiscal
year in which the special tax is to be
levied. Indexing shall be done for each of
the second through the fifth fiscal years in
which the special tax is levied using the
consumer price index prepared by the
Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United
States Government for all urban con-
sumers for the Los Angeles-Anaheim-
Riverside statistical area, or any successor
index, to reflect changes in such index
during the 12 months which ended on the
March 1 preceding each such fiscal year;

3.	in the third fiscal year in which the
special tax is levied, an amount equal to
the Required Amount for the prior fiscal
year, indexed as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such third fiscal
year, shall equal $7.1 million, indexed
annually commencing with the second
fiscal year in which the special tax is to
be levied, as prescribed in subparagraph 2
above;

4.	in the fourth fiscal year in which the
special tax is levied, on amount equal to
the Required Amount for the prior fiscal
year, indexed as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such fourth fis-
cal year, shall equal $7.1 million, indexed
as prescribed in subparagraph 2 above,
for each year commencing in the second
year in which the special tax is to be
levied, as prescribed in subparagraph 2
above;

5.	in the fifth fiscal year in which the
special tax is levied, an amount equal to
the Required Amount from the prior fis-
cal year, indexed as prescribed in sub-
paragraph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such fifth fiscal
year,'shall equal $7.1 million, indexed as
prescribed in subparagraph 2 above, for
each year commencing in the second year
In which ihe special to;; is to be levied, as
prescribed in subparagraph 2 above.

6.	in the sixth fiscal year (the fiscal year
ending June 30,1999) in which the spe-
cial tax is levied, an amount equal to the
Required Amount for the prior fiscal
year, indexed as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such sixth fis-
cal year, shall equal $7.1 million, indexed
annually commencing with the second
fiscal year in which the special tax is to
be levied, as prescribed in subparagraph 2
above;

7.	in the seventh fiscal year in which the
special tax is levied, an amount equal to
the Required .Amount for the prior fiscal
year, indexed as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such seventh
fiscal year, shall equal $7.1 million,
indexed annually commencing with the
second fiscal year in which the special tax
is to be levied, as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above;

8.	in the eighth fiscal year in which the
special tax is levied, an amount equal to
the Required Amount for the prior fiscal
year, indexed as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such eighth fis-
cal year, shall equal $7.1 million, indexed
annually commencing with the second
fiscal year in which the special tax is to
be levied, as prescribed in subparagraph 2
above;

9.	in the ninth fiscal year in which the
special tax is levied, an amount equal to
the Required Amount for the prior fiscal
year, indexed as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such ninth fis-
cal year, shall equal $7.1 million, indexed
annually commencing with the second
fiscal year in which the special tax is to
be levied, as prescribed in subparagraph 2
above;

10.	in the tenth fiscal year in which the
special tax is levied, an amount equal to
the Required Amount for the prior Fiscal
year, indexed as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such tenth fis-
cal year, shall equal S7.1 million, indexed
annually commencing with the second
fiscal year in which the special tax is to
be levied, as prescribed in subparagraph 2
above;

11.	in the eleventh fiscal year in which
the special tax is levied, an amount equal
to the Required Amount for the prior fis-
cal year, indexed as prescribed in sub-
paragraph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such eleventh
fiscal year, shall equal $7.1 million,
indexed annually commencing with the
second fiscal year in which the special tax
is to be levied, as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above;

12.	in the twelfth fiscal year in which the
special tax is levied, an amount equal to
the Required Amount for the prior fiscal

year, indexed as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such twelfth
fiscal year, shall equal $7.1 million,
indexed annually commencing with the
second fiscal year in which the special tax
is to be levied, as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above;

13.	In the thirteenth fiscal year in which
the special tax is levied, an amount equal
to the Required Amount for the prior fis-
cal year, indexed as prescribed in sub-
paragraph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such thirteenth
fiscal year, shall equal $7.1 million,
indexed annually commencing with the
second fiscal year in which the special tax
is to be levied, as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above;

14.	in the fourteenth fiscal year in which
the special tax is levied, an amount equal
to the Required Amount for the prior fis-
cal year, indexed as prescribed in sub-
paragraph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such fourteenth
fiscal year, shall equal $7.1 million,
indexed annually commencing with the
second fiscal year in which the special tax
is to be levied, as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above;

15.	in the fifteenth fiscal year in which
the special tax is levied, an amount equal
to the Required Amount for the prior fis-
cal year, indexed as prescribed in sub-
paragraph 2 above, but not less than an
amount which, when added to the budget-
ed special tax receipts for such fifteenth
fiscal year, shall equal $7.1 million,
indexed annually commencing with the
second fiscal year in which the special tax
is to be levied, as prescribed in subpara-
graph 2 above.

C.	If at any time following the levy of a
special tax for a fiscal year, the amount
finally budgeted and appropriated as
Maintenance and Operations Costs for the
Library for such fiscal year shall be less
than the Required Amount for such fiscal
year, then no annual special tax shall be
levied in the immediately following fiscal
year. In no event shall the inability to
levy the Library Special Tax extend the
Library Special Tax beyond the stated
expiration date herein.

D.	The city council shall re-evaluate the
Library Special Tax no later than 2003
for the purpose of determining whether
the library can be fully funded by the gen-
eral fund at the level of service set forth
in this ordinance.

E.	The tax established herein shall be
indexed annually on July 1st of each year
in accordance with the increase or
decrease in the cost of living. Indexing
shall be done on July 1 of each of the
fourteen fiscal years after the first fiscal
year using the consumer price index for
all urban consumers for the Los Angeles-
Anaheim-Riverside statistical area to
reflect changes in such index during the
12 months which ended the preceding
March 1.

F.	For any fiscal year the City Council
may, by ordinance, adjust the tax rate
below the maximum amount, provided
thnt all of the rates on each category ore
all adjusted proportionately, so that the
relationship between categories remains
constant. Such a reduction shall not pre-
vent a subsequent levy of taxes for any
succeeding fiscal year up to the limits set
forth in this section. However, except as
provided in subsection (C) of this section,
in no case shall the amount of the tax rate
to be levied exceed the maximum amount
established by this chapter without the
approval of the voters by two-thirds of
the votes cast by voters voting upon such
change in the tax rate maximum.
4.109.190 Term.

The annual special tax provided for here-
in may be levied in each of fifteen con-
secutive fiscal years, commencing with
the first fiscal year in which there is a
levy pursuant to this ordinance. Such
levy may only be extended with the
approval of the voters by two-thirds of
the votes cast by voters voting upon such
a change at a municipal election called
for that purpose, unless the applicable law
at the time of such election authorizes a
lesser number of votes.

4.109.200 Adjustments and refunds:

A.	Requests for adjustments involving
imposition of this tax may be filed with
the director of finance. Upon sufficient
evidence of error in the computation of
the tax, the director of finance or hisNher
designee shall cause the tax to be recalcu-
lated, and shall so advise the Los Angeles
County Tax Collector or other appropri-
ate official.

B.	Whenever it is alleged that the amount
of any tax has been overpaid or paid more
than once or has been erroneously or ille-
gally collected or received by the City
under this chapter the refund procedure
shall be as follows:

1.	No claim for refund of tax payment
shall be allowed in whole or in part unless
filed with the city clerk within a period of
three years from the date of the claimed
overpayment. All such claims for refund
of the amount of die overpayment must
be filed on forms furnished, and in the
manner prescribed by the finance depart-
ment. Refunds may be made solely from
the Library Special Tax Fund.

2.	In the event the director of finance
denies the claim, he/she shall notify the
claimant pursuant to California
Government Code Section 913.

C.	The director of finance shall have the
power to settle claims involving the spe-
cial tax, and the power to accept and
record underpayments or overpayments
of such tax. The director of finance shall
have the authority to make refunds of this
tax.

D.	If the County of Los Angeles does not
collect any tax due under this chapter,
then the director of finance shall have the
power and duty to enforce all of the pro-
visions of this chapter. In such cases an
assessment may be made against the
owner of a parcel and improvements in
the manner provided by law. Any unpaid
tax due under this Chapter shall be sub-
ject to all remedies provided by law.

E.	The special tax shall be due in two
equal installments in accordance with the
collection procedures of die Los Angeles
County Tax Collector with the first
installment due November 1, and the sec-
ond installment due the next succeeding
February 1, in each fiscal year. The
owner of the land, land and improve-
ments. at the time set forth in California
Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 405
and 2192 for each fiscal year shall have a
personal obligation to the City’ of

Pasadena until the tax is paid for each fis-
cal year,

F.	The director of finance may prepare a
questionnaire to be served on the owner
of a parcel or improvements subject to the
tax imposed by this chapter. The ques-
tionnaire may request information which
would be useful to the director of finance
in the enforcement or administration of
this article. The failure by a an owner to
provide the information requested within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the request,
or the act of an owner in knowingly pro-
viding false information, shall be a mis-
demeanor.

G.	lit determining the gross square
footage of improvements, the director of
finance may use County Assessor’s
records, city records, questionnaires and
any other records deemed reliable.
4.109.210 Amendments:

Procedural provisions of
this chapter may be amended by ordi-
nance duly enacted by the City Council.
4.109.220 Severability:

If any section, subsection,
part, clause, sentence or phrase of this
article or the application thereof is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitu-
tional by the decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction, the validity of the
remaining portions of the article, the
application thereof, and the tax imposed
shall not be affected thereby but shall
remain in full force and effect, it being
the intention of the City Council and die
voters to adopt each and every section,
subsection, part, clause, sentence or
phrase regardless of whether any other
section, subsection, part, clause, sentence
or phrase or the application thereof is
held to be invalid or unconstitutional.

4.109.230 Effective date.

This ordinance as amended, which
amends and extends the Library Special
Tax (P.M.C. Chapter 4.109) and levies
the special tax described therein shall be
submined to the voters of the City of
Pasadena at a Special Election to be held
on March 4. 1997. The taxes determined
and proposed by amendments to this ordi-
nance for levy in fiscal years ending on
and after June 30,1999, shall be levied
only if the amendments to this ordinance
are approved by a vote of not less than
two-thirds of the votes cast by the voters
voting on the special tax proposal set
forth in the ordinance. If the amendments
to the ordinance are approved by the req-
uisite number of votes, Chapter 4.109 as
amended, shall thereafter be considered a
part of the Pasadena Municipal Code,
indexed as prescribed in subparagraph 2
above, but not less than an amount which,
when added to the budgeted special tax
receipts for such fifteenth fiscal year,
shall equal S7.1 million
1 HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing
ordinance was approved by a vote of the
people at the Special Municipal Election,
which was consolidated with die Primary
Nominating Election, held on March 4,
1997, and said ordinance received over
two-thirds approved of the votes cast on
the special tax proposal set forth in the
ordinance as follows:

YES VOTES: 11.247 (86.5%)

NO VOTES: 1,761 (13.5%)

Jane L Rodriguez
City Clerk

DATED: April 18,1997
Publish: April 25,1997
Pasadena Weekly