5/k/<? -7

^ U

P

M M

/ IZwampa-L*- ft

23

■BtBKIHBHOHMMHi

mm

OFFICIAL

SAMPLE

BALLOT

AND

VOTER

INFORMATION

SPECIAL ELECTIONS
JUNE 3, 1997

CONNY B. McCORMACK
LOS ANGELES COUNTY REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK
12400 IMPERIAL HIGHWAY, NORWALK, CA 90650

(562) 462-2749 OR (5621 462-2748
INTERNET - http:llwww.co.la.ca.us OR httpiliwww.co.la.ca.usfregrecimain.htm

VOTER ALERT!!!

YOUR POLLING PLACE MAY HAVE CHANGED;
LOCATION IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER * •

•	POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.IV!, AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

•	MARK AND TAKE THIS PAMPHLET TO YOUR

POLLING PLACE

OFFICIAL BALLOT

SPECIAL ELECTIONS

CONSOLIDATED FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY
IRWINDALE CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL
JUNE 3, 1997

County of Los Angeles

I HAVE VOTED - HAVE YOU?

	SPECIAL ELECTIONS JUNE 3,1997		
	Consolidated Fire Protection District of Los Angeles County  Proposition E		
	REPLACEMENT FUNDING FOR FIRE AND PARAMEDIC	YES	©
fill	EMERGENCY SERVICES. To prevent life-threatening delays in emergency	NO	©
viffiS*	paramedic and tiretightmg response and closures of neighborhood fire stations, shall the existing annual property assessment which expires by law on 7/1/97 be replaced by an equivalent special tax, dedicated exclusively to the Los Angeles County Fire Department and reviewed by an Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee, thus maintaining a full strength Fire Department that ensures rapid emergency response, protection of lives and property and prevention of drastic firefighter/paramedic cutbacks?		
	Irwindale City Special Municipal		
	Measure A		
	Shall a charter amendment be adopted which permits the City, to the	YES	©
	extent consistent with state law, to (1) levy taxes on mining operations,	NO	©
	Dusinesses, ana on operators ot public events, and (2) establish regulations and impose fees on mining, quarrying, and processing to reduce the effects on residents and businesses, including dust, noise, land subsidence, erosion, slope stability, water quality, road deterioration, traffic, hours, duration, reclamation, financial security and enforcement, and similar matters.		

ANALYSIS OF PROPOSITION E
By DeWitt W. Clinton, County Counsel

This measure seeks approval of a funding proposal for the County Fire
Department, as set forth in a resolution adopted by the Board of
Supervisors on March 4, 1997, acting as the governing board of the
Consolidated Fire Protection District of Los Angeles County.

Since 1991, a portion of the Fire District's annual budget has been
funded through a fire suppression benefit assessment. In the most
recent fiscal year, the assessment raised approximately $51.7 million
for fire protection, emergency paramedic rescue, and related services.

In November 1996, the voters approved Proposition 218, which
invalidated the existing assessment but permits future assessments
approved by property owners, or special taxes approved by the voters.
To provide a continued source of funding to replace the lost
assessment revenue and preserve current levels of emergency
paramedic and fire services, the Board of Supervisors has determined
to seek voter approval of a special tax. This proposal:

(1)	provides for a special tax on real property which must be

dedicated exclusively for emergency paramedic rescue, fire protection,
fire fighting, search and rescue, disaster response, hazardous material,
and emergency medical services; and

(2)	specifies that the special tax shall be levied in such manner as to
replace lost assessment revenue only, and prevent double taxation.

In order to assure public accountability, the Board of Supervisors has
ordered formation of an Independent Citizens Oversight Committee to
monitor the expenditure of the special tax revenues.

The measure requires two-thirds (2/3) voter approval for passage.

AMENDED AND RESTATED RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES AS THE
GOVERNING BODY OF THE CONSOLIDATED FIRE PROTECTION
DISTRICT OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY PROVIDING FOR A SPECIAL
TAX ELECTION TO BE HELD IN THE DISTRICT ON JUNE 3, 1997,
AND CONSOLIDATING THE SPECIAL TAX ELECTION WITH THE
OTHER ELECTIONS TO BE HELD ON JUNE 3, 1997.

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors recognizes that it is necessary and
desirable that the Consolidated Fire Protection District of Los Angeles County levy a
special tax to enable the District to maintain its current level of services for fire
protection, fire prevention, paramedic rescue and other lawful activities of the District;
and

WHEREAS, the revenue collected by the special tax will be used in lieu of other
revenue losses which have been or will be suffered by the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors deems it necessary and essential to
submit the question of a special tax to be levied by the District to the qualified voters
within the District at a special tax election to be held on June 3, 1997, and to
consolidate such election with the other elections to be held on that date;

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Los Angeles as the governing body of the Consolidated Fire Protection
District of Los Angeles County as follows:

Section 1. A special tax election shall be held and the same is hereby called
and ordered to be held in the District on the 3rd day of June, 1997, for the purpose of
submitting to the voters of the District the question of a special tax to be levied by the
District in the amounts and for the purposes hereinafter set forth.

Section 2. Commencing with District Fiscal Year 1997-1998, an annual
special tax to raise revenue to fund the lawful activities of the District is hereby imposed
upon parcels located within the cities of Agoura Hills, Artesia, Azusa, Baldwin Park,

Bell, Bellflower, Bell Gardens, Bradbury, Calabasas, Carson, Cerritos, Claremont,
Cudahy, Diamond Bar, Duarte, Glendora, Hawaiian Gardens, Hidden Hills, Huntington
Park, Industry, Irwindaie, La Canada Flintridge, Lakewood, La Mirada, Lancaster, La
Puente, Lawndale, Lomita, Malibu, Maywood, Norwalk, Palmdale, Paramount, Pico
Rivera, Rancho Palos Verdes, Rolling Hills, Rolling Hills Estates, Rosemead, San
Dimas, Santa Clarita, Signal Hill, South El Monte, South Gate, Temple City, Walnut,
West Hollywood, Westlake Village, and Whittier, and within the unincorporated area of
the County of Los Angeles. The amount of the special tax per parcel for the initial fiscal
year, July 1, 1997 to June 30,1998, and thereafter, is set forth in Exhibit A, Rate and
Method of Special Tax, which is incorporated herein by this reference. For any fiscal
year, the Board of Supervisors may levy the special tax at an amount which is lower
than the maximum amount of the special tax per parcel set forth in Exhibit A which
action may be taken without notice or public hearing.

Section 3. The Treasurer and Tax Collector of the County of Los Angeles
shall collect the special tax authorized herein, for the initial Fiscal Year 1997-98 and for
subsequent fiscal years, on the tax roll at the same time and in the same manner, and
subject to the same penalties as the ad valorem property taxes fixed and collected by
or on behalf of the County of Los Angeles. The County may deduct its reasonable

2

costs incurred in collecting the special tax before remittance of the balance to the
District,

Section 4. Insofar as feasible, the times and procedures regarding
exemptions, due dates, installment payments, corrections, cancellations, refunds, late
payments, penalties, liens and collections for secured roll ad valorem property taxes
shall be applicable to the collection of this special tax. The secured roll tax bills shall
be the only notices required for any special tax levied.

Section 5. The Fire Chief of the District shall establish and administer an

appeals process to address and correct potential inequities in the levy of the special
tax authorized herein.

Section 6. The Proposition for the District to levy a special tax shall appear on
the ballot substantially as follows:

CONSOLIDATED FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT OF LOS ANGELES COUNTY -
SPECIAL ELECTION.

PROPOSITION___. REPLACEMENT FUNDING FOR FIRE AND PARAMEDIC

EMERGENCY SERVICES

To prevent life-threatening delays in emergency
paramedic and firefighting response and closures of
neighborhood fire stations, shall the existing annual
property assessment which expires by law on 7/1/97
be replaced by an equivalent special tax, dedicated
exclusively to the Los Angeles County Fire
Department and reviewed by an Independent Citizens’
Oversight Committee, thus maintaining a full strength
Fire Department that ensures rapid emergency
response, protection of lives and property and
prevention of drastic firefighter/paramedic cutbacks?

YES

NO

□

□

3

Section 7. The votes cast for and against the Proposition shall be separately
counted and if the Proposition receives the required number of votes, to wit: two-thirds
of the votes of the qualified electors voting on the Proposition, the special tax in the
amounts and for the purposes stated herein shall be effective and levied by the District.
In any fiscal year, the amount of the special tax levied against any parcel shall be
reduced by an amount equal to the amount of the benefit assessment, if any, levied
against such parcel in such fiscal year pursuant to Ordinance 91-0108 (codified as
Chapter 4.92 of the Los Angeles County Code).

Section 8. All qualified voters of the District residing within the cities and the
unincorporated area of the County specified in Section 2 shall be permitted to vote in
the election and in all particulars not recited in this resolution the election shall be held
as nearly as practicable in conformity with the Elections Code of the State of California.

Section 9. The special election called by this resolution shall be consolidated
with the other elections conducted by the Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk to be held
in the County of Los Angeles on June 3, 1997, and the Proposition shall be placed on
the same ballot to the extent the elections are concurrent, and the same precincts,
polling places, election officers and facilities shall be used for the elections.

Section 10. There is hereby established an advisory body designated the
“Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee" (hereinafter referred to as the “ICOC”), to
be effective upon approval of the special tax as provided in Section 7. The
membership of the ICOC shall consist of seven persons, selected as follows: one
member of the ICOC shall be appointed by each of the five members of County Board

4

of Supervisors, and each Board appointee shall be a person with demonstrated
expertise in finance and community leadership; the Chair of the Los Angeles County
Economy and Efficiency Commission shall be ex officio a member of the ICOC; and one
ICOC member shall be a member of the City Council of a city located within the District
and subject to the special tax provided for herein, to be appointed by the Los Angeles
County City Selection Committee. The duties of the ICOC shall be to meet at least
once during each fiscal year to review expenditures of the revenues generated by the
special tax, to assure that such revenue is expended for fire protection or paramedic
rescue services, to report the findings of its review to the Board of Supervisors and to
the public, and to perform such other or additional duties as may be specified by the
Board of Supervisors.

Section 11. The resolution of the Board of Supervisors adopted on March 4,

1997 (the “Original Resolution”), with respect to the subject matter hereof is hereby
amended and restated in its entirety, and the Original Resolution is hereby superseded
to the extent of any inconsistency with this resolution; provided that in all other respects
the Original Resolution shall remain in full force and effect.

/ I /

/ / /

/ / /

/ / /

I I f

5

The foregoing resolution was on the llth day of March, 1997, adopted by the
Board of Supervisors of the County of Los Angeles and ex-officio the governing body of
all other special assessment and taxing districts, agencies and authorities for which
said Board so acts.

JOANNE STURGES, Executive Officer-
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

DE WITT W. CLINTON

County Counsel

/-•

By



Jj.

Principaj Deputy

amended.res

03/10/97

16:54

6

RECEIVED

APPENDIX A

*97 HAR 12 All :04
CONSOLIDATED FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
RATE AND METHOD OF SPECIAL TAX
FOR THE

PARAMEDIC AND FIRE EMERGENCY PROTECTION MEASURE

California Health and Safety Code Section 13911 and California Government Code Section 50075, et
seq., provide that a special tax may be established by any reasonable formula or method that distributes
the budgeted tax amount among taxable parcels within the Consolidated Fire Protection District, and
is approved by a two-thirds vote of registered voters voting on the measure. This Rate and Method of
Special Tax sets forth the manner in which the special tax, if approved, will be applied to properties
within the District’s boundaries, excluding fee-for-services cities which currently consist of the Cities
of Commerce, Hawthorne, Palos Verdes Estates, and Pomona. The areas that would be subject to the
special tax are depicted on the attached boundary map.

The special tax proceeds will be used to fund operation of the District’s emergency paramedic rescue,
fire protection, fire fighting, search and rescue, disaster response, hazardous material, and emergency
medical services. The funds raised through the special tax will preserve life saving emergency
paramedic rescue, prevent closure of neighborhood fire stations, and replace the existing Fire
Suppression Assessment District, thereby reducing the annual cost to home owners for fire and
paramedic protection by the Los Angeles County Fire Department.

It is intended that all Special Taxes applicable to Parcels be collected in the same manner and at the
same time as ordinary ad valorem property taxes, and that Special Taxes so levied will be subject to
the same ad valorem property tax procedures for annual increases or decreases in the case of annual
adjustments in the levy amount; and penalties, procedures, sale and lien priority in case of delinquency.

A special tax methodology does not necessarily need to reflect an immediate benefit to those parcels
taxed. However, this Rate and Method of Special Tax equitably relates the cost of providing paramedic
and fire services to the properties within the boundaries of the District. The Special Tax will be
distributed to each Taxable Parcel based on the standard equipment and personnel response the District
sends to each type of property. The District’s response varies depending on the land use, the relative
size of the land, and the relative size of the structure on the land.

Furthermore, the Special Tax distribution takes into consideration those properties that pose a significant
fire hazard by applying a surcharge on properties in the District’s designated Fire Zone 4 (or Very High
Fire Hazard Severity. Zone), high-rise buildings, and those land uses associated with extraordinary
response requirements, such as refineries and chemical plants. Finally, a Parcel's Special Tax may be
credited when the propern owner certifies that the Parcel has a fire department approved fire sprinkler
system, other fire extinguishing system, or fire detection system. A summary of the Special Tax rates
by land use category is shown below, followed by the methodology supporting the derivation of the
rates.

SYN# 6 2 OF MAR 4	1997

Consolidated Fire Protection District Special Tax

Table 1 -- Summary of Special Tax Rates for Fiscal Year 97/98

Land Use	Special Tax Rate	Special Tax Rate w/Sprinkler Credit
Single Family Residential	$48.00	$48.00
Mobile Home in Park	$24.00	$24.00
Multiple Family Residential - 1,555 sq. ft. or less	$60.63	$60.63
Multiple Family Residential - more than 1,555 sq. ft.	$60.63+ .0063/sq. ft. over 1,555 sq. ft.	$60.63+ .0060/sq. ft. over 1,555 sq. ft.
Non-Residential - 1,555 sq. ft. or less	$58.10	$58.10
Non-Residential - more than 1,555 sq. ft. and less than 100,000 sq. ft.	$58.10+.0392/sq. ft. over 1,555 sq. ft.	$58.10-F.0375/sq. ft. over 1,555 sq. ft.
High Rise - 1,555 sq. ft. or less	$70.74	$70.74
High Rise - more than 1,555 sq. ft. and less than 100,000 sq. ft.	$70.74+.0477/sq. ft. over 1,555 sq. ft.	$58.10-F.0456/sq. ft. over 1,555 sq. ft.
Special Use - 1,555 sq. ft. or  less	$88.42	$88.42
Special Use - more than 1.555 sq. ft. and less than 100.000 sq. ft.	$88.42+ .0596/sq. ft. over 1,555 sq. ft.	$88.42 + .0570/sq. ft. over 1,555 sq. ft.
Vacant - 2 acres or less	$12.00	not applicable
Vacant - more than 2 acres and less than or equal to 10 acres	$15.84	not applicable
Vacant - more than 10 acres and less than or equal to 50 acres	$31.68	not applicable
Vacant - more than 50 acres	S48 00	not applicable

Severity Zone" may be charged a surcharge of an additional 10 percent on their total computed tax.

Single Family Residential Parcels providing certification of a working fire sprinkler system will not
receive this additional surcharge.

Appendix A - Page 2

Consolidated Tire Protection District Special Tax

Definitions

The following definitions below are used to establish the special tax methodology.

1.	“Annual Special Tax Adjustment” shall mean the special tax applied to a parcel shall be
adjusted annually based on provisions established under Article 13A, Section 2 of the California
State Constitution.

2.	“Assessor’s Parcel Number” shall mean the numbers assigned by the County of Los
Angeles Assessor’s Office for purposes of property tax identification.

3.	“Average SFR Square Footage” shall mean the average square footage of improvements
for the Single Family Residential Parcels as calculated from the County of Los Angeles Assessor’s
records available in Fiscal Year 1996/97, or 1,555 square feet.

4.	“Base Tax” shall mean the Special Tax rate that is applied to all Single Family Residential
Parcels in the District at $48 per Parcel for Fiscal Year 1997/98, and shall be the basis from which
all other Special Tax rates in the District are derived.

5.	“District” shall mean the Consolidated Fire Protection District of Los Angeles County.

6.	"Exempt" shall mean all Parcels that are exempt from ad valorem taxes as allowed by
current law and certain Parcels designated by the Assessor as Use Codes 71 (those Parcels or those
portions of Parcels qualifying for a religious property exemption), 77 (those Parcels or those
portions of Parcels qualifying for a cemetery exemption), 81 (utility transmission), 84 to 87
(pipelines and canals, rights-of-way, water rights, and rivers and lakes), 88 (government owned
property) and 89 (government owned dump sites).

7.	“Fire Protection Services" shall mean critical life and property saving services, including
emergency paramedic rescue, fire fighting, search and rescue, and hazardous materials and disaster
response, as defined by the Fire Protection District Law of 1987.

8.	“High Rise Structure" shall mean those Multiple Family or Non-Residential Parcels with
four or more stories or as designated on the Assessor’s records as having four or more stories. If
the number of stories associated with a Parcel is unavailable, Parcels will be classified as either
Multiple Family Residential or Non-Residential, as inferred from the Use Code for the Parcel.

9. “High Risk" shall mean those Parcels within Fire Zone 4 as designated in the County of
Los Angeles Code. Title 26. Chapter 26 150 and shown on the District’s map entitled. "Very High
Fire Hazard Severity Zone" dated March 12, 1996, or as amended thereafter. These Parcels are
generally found in portions of the areas of Malibu. Antelope Valley, Diamond Bar, Hacienda
Heights, Whittier, Rolling Hills Estates. Chino Hills, and neighboring areas, and have been
determined to be at a higher risk to fire as a result of their proximity to highly flammable brush
areas, therefore requiring a greater commitment of fire protection resources.

Appendix A - Page 3

Consolidated fire Protection District Special Tax

10.	“Improvement Tax” shall mean the portion of the Non-Residential, High Rise, Special
Use, and Multiple Family Residential Special Tax rates associated with the structural Square Footage
of Improvements.

11.	“Mobile Homes” shall mean those mobile homes in mobile home parks and designated
by the Assessor as Use Code 07.

12.	“Multiple Family Residential” or “MF” shall mean residential Parcels other than Single
Family Residential including duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes, mobile home parks, and apartment
houses; or designated by the Assessor as Use Codes 02 through 06, 08, and 09 excluding those
properties that are designated as Vacant.

13.	“Non-Residential” shall mean those Parcels that are commercial, industrial, institutional,
or recreational; or designated by the Assessor as Use Codes 10 to 26, 28 to 37, 40 to 80, 82, and
83 excluding those Parcels that are designated as Exempt or Vacant.

14.	“Parcel” shall mean a designated lot or parcel as shown on the Los Angeles County
Assessor’s parcel maps or within the Assessor’s database for which an individual Assessor’s Parcel
Number has been assigned.

15.	“Single Family Residential” or “SFR” shall mean those Parcels that are single family
dwellings including detached homes, town homes, a mobile home on an individual parcel and
condominiums; or designated by the Assessor as Use Code 01 and 07 excluding those Parcels that
are Exempt or Vacant.

16.	“Special Use" shall mean those Non-Residential Parcels designated by the County of Los
Angeles in the “Hazardous Materials and Acutely Hazardous Materials Program” section 12.64.030
as Major Handler - Complex (Fee Group V) that require a level of fire protection services of
significantly different magnitude than other properties in the Non-Residential Parcels category, and
further defined as follows:

Refineries: a plant in which flammable or combustible liquids are produced on a
commercial scale from crude petroleum, natural gasoline, or other hydrocarbon
sources; or designated as Use Codes 37— Mineral Processing or 83—Petroleum and

Gas.

Chemical plant: a large integrated plant or that portion of such a plant other than a
refinery or distillery where liquids are produced by chemical reactions or used in
chemical reactions; or designated as Use Code 37— Mineral Processing.

Distillery: a plant or that portion of a plant where liquids produced by fermentation
are concentrated, and where the concentrated products may also be mixed, stored,
or packaged, or designated as Use Code 34— Food Processing Plants.

Appendix A - Page 4

Consolidated Fire Protection District Special Tax

Bulk plant or terminal: that portion of a property where liquids are received by tank
vessel, pipelines, tank car, or tank vehicle, and are stored or blended in bulk for the
purpose of distributing such liquids by tank vessel, pipeline, tank car, tank vehicle,
portable tank, or container; or designated as Use Codes 34— Food Processing Plants,
37— Mineral Processing, or 83—Petroleum and Gas.

17.	“Special Tax” shall mean the tax applied to Taxable Parcels within the District for Fire
Protection Services as set forth below, and that may be adjusted each year as allowed by the Annual
Special Tax Adjustment, however, in no event will the Special Tax increase more than 2 percent
annually. In any year the Special Tax may be decreased at the direction of the Board of Supervisors,
however this will not change the basis of the Annual Special Tax Adjustment in subsequent years.

18.	“Sprinkler Credit” shall mean a credit applied to Parcels with a fire department approved
fire sprinkler system, other fire extinguishing system, or fire detection system. Credits as discussed
herein, may be applied to Multiple Family Residential, Non-Residential, High Rise, or Special Use
Parcels over 1,555 square feet, or Single Family Residential Parcels charged the High Risk
surcharge. Property owners may apply for the credit by certifying under penalty of perjury that the
Parcel has an approved system. The District may request supporting documentation at any time.

19.	“Square Footage of Improvement” or “SF” shall mean the square footage as shown on
the Assessor’s records for the structure on Multiple-Family Residential, Non-Residential, High
Rise, or Special Use Parcels less the Average SFR Square Feet.

20.	“Standard Response” shall mean the standardized response profiles used by the District’s
Command and Control Division, Dispatch Services Section to dispatch resources to emergencies,
including first alarm and second alarm responses.

21.	“Taxable Parcel" shall mean a Parcel that is not Exempt.

22.	“Use Code" shall mean the system of land use codes that are used by the County of Los
Angeles Assessor's Office as of Fiscal Year 1996/97.

23.	“Vacant" shall mean those Parcels designated by the Assessor as having no structural
improvement on the property, including paved parking lots (Use Codes 27 and 38), open storage
lots (Use Code 39). and those Use Codes 01 to 83 with a "v" in the fourth digit.

Special Tax Methodology

The Special Tax proceeds will be used to fund Fire Protection Services. The Special Tax will be
distributed to each Taxable Parcel based on the Standard Response associated with the type of use
of the land, the relative size of the land, and the relative size of the structure on the land.
Specifically, the special tax to each Parcel will reflect:

Appendix A - Page 5

SYN# 6 2 OF MAR 4	1997

Consolidated Fire Protection district Special Tax

1.	The number of personnel and equipment required to respond to an alarm because of the specific
use of the property, based on the Standard Response established by the District.

2.	The historic frequency of second alarm responses required for the specific use of the property.

3.	The size of Vacant Parcels as a result of the likelihood for a need to dispatch additional
personnel as the size of the property increases.

4.	The size of the improvements on Multiple Family Residential, Non-Residential, High Rise, and
Special Use Parcels as a result of the relative fire fighting personnel that may be required to address
an emergency that affects a larger structure.

5.	The height of the Parcel to reflect the more extensive equipment requirements associated with
Multiple Family Residential, Non-Residential, High Rise, and Special Use Parcels that are higher
than four stories.

6.	The location of a Parcel within Fire Zone 4 and the resulting need to have extensive equipment
available to fight fires in these high risk areas.

7.	The need for more specialized equipment to protect Special Use Parcels.

Single Family Residential Special Tax

The Special Tax rate to be applied to Single Family Residential Parcels is based on the Standard
Response dispatched to a structural Single Family Residential emergency. The SFR Standard
Response is to send out three engines, one truck, one emergency services truck, one paramedic
squad, and one Battalion Chief, totaling nineteen (19) personnel. The Special Tax rate to SFR is
the base to which the Special Tax rates for all of the other land uses are determined. This Base Tax
rate is $48.00 for Fiscal Year 1997/98 for every Single Family Residential Parcel. However, an
exception is made for those parcels that have a single residential structure on more than one Parcel
where the Assessor will not allow the Parcels to be combined. These Parcels will be assigned a
single Base Tax for the structure, not a Base Tax per Parcel.

Mobile Home Parcels Special Tax

The Mobile Homes within the District benefit from Fire Protection Services. The Mobile Homes
within the District will receive a Special Tax in two components: first to the Mobile Home Parcel,
and second to the Mobile Home Park Parcel. As a result, the Special Tax rate to the Mobile Home
Parcel will be half of the Base Tax assigned to a Single Family Residential Parcel, or $24 per
Mobile Home Parcel, The Mobile Home Park Parcel will be assigned a Special Tax in accordance
with the provisions for the Multiple Family Residential Special Tax computation described below.

Appendix A - Page 6

Consolidated Fire Protection District Special Tax

Multiple Family Residential, Non-Residential, High Rise, and Special Use Parcels Special Tax

The Special Tax rate for each Multiple Family Residential, Non-Residential, High Rise, and Special
Use Parcel is established based on the Standard Response that the District sends out to fight a fire
for each type of property, the individual Square Footage of Improvements for a Parcel, and the
frequency of a second alarm fire based on land use. The Special Tax rates for these land use
categories shall be the sum of two components: an adjusted per Parcel Base Tax and an
Improvement Tax applied to the Square Footage of Improvements for each Parcel.

Base Tax

The Base Tax for Multiple Family Residential (MF), Non-Residential (Non-Res), High Rise,
and Special Use Parcels is adjusted upward from the Single Family Residential Base Tax for
the incremental personnel required to be dispatched for these land uses. The Base Tax is
applied to the first 1,555 square feet of these Parcels improved square footage as shown on
the Assessor’s Records. This amount represents the Average SFR Square Footage assigned
to the Base Tax of Single Family Residential Parcels. The Base Tax for all of the Parcels
in these land uses is adjusted upward to reflect the increased personnel and equipment
required in a first alarm Standard Response. The SFR Standard Response for a first alarm
fire is three engines, one truck, one emergency services truck, one paramedic squad, and one
Battalion Chief, totaling nineteen (19) personnel. The Base Tax per Parcel for Multiple
Family Residential, Non-Residential, High Rise and Special Use Parcels adjusted for first
alarm response personnel is shown below.

Table 2 — Base Tax by Land Use for Fiscal Year 1997/98

Land Use	Base Tax by Land Use
SFR	$48.00 (19/19 fire fighters) = $48.00
Mobile Home	$48.00 (1/2) (19/19 fire fighters) = $24.00
MF	$48.00 (24 / 19 fire fighters) = $60.63
Non-Res	$48 00 (23 / 19 fire fighters) = $58.10
High Rise	$48 00 (28/19 fire fighters) = $70.74
Special Use	$48 (X) (35 /19 fire fighters) = $88.42

Improvement Tax

The Improvement Tax rate is applied to that portion of the structural square footage of
Multiple Family. Non Residential. High Rise, and Special Use Parcels more than the
Average SFR Square l-i*otage of 1.555 The Improvement Tax rate applied to these Parcels
is adjusted to reflect the relative Standard Response for a first alarm fire for each land use

^ _ page 7

SYN# 6 2 OF MAR 4	1997

Consolidated Fire Protection District Special Tax

In considering the benefit to these Parcels, it is appropriate to take into consideration the
increased frequency in fires for these land uses that require a second alarm response. On
average, only thiee-tendis of a percent (0.3%) of Single Family Residential structural fires
are upgraded to require a second alarm response, or double the personnel and equipment of
a first alarm fire. In comparison, two and three-tenths of a percent (2.3%) of Multiple
Family, Non-Residential, High Rise, and Special Use Parcels escalate into second alarm
fires. Therefore, the Improvement Tax rates per square foot for these Parcels are adjusted
to include a second alarm component as shown below.

In addition, the Non-Residential, High Rise, and Special Use Parcels are adjusted to reflect
the increased frequency of second alarm fires when compared to the Single Family
Residential Parcels and the need to maintain an extra level of fire protection services on hand
at all times in readiness for the larger required Standard Response. The maximum Square
Footage of Improvements to be applied to these Parcels is 100,000 square feet.

The Improvement Tax for Fiscal Year 1997/98 per Square Footage of Improvement (SF) for
Multiple Family Residential. Non-Residential, High Rise and Special Use Parcels adjusted
for first and second alarm response personnel is shown below.

Table 3 - Improvement Tax by Land Use for Fiscal Year 1997/98

Land Use	First Alarm	Second Alarm	2nd Alarm Frequency	Per SF Special Tax
MF	(SF)($.00476)(24/1 9 fire fighters) -I-	(2.3%)(SF)($.00476)(48/ 19 fire fighters)	Not applied.	$0.0063
Non-Res	(SF)(S.00476)(23/1 9 fire fighters) +	(2.3% )(Sf )($ .00476)(46/ 19 fire fighters)	6.5 times	$0.0392
High Rise	(SF)(S.00476)(28/l 9 fire fighters) +	(2.3%XSF)($.00476)(56/ 19 fire fighters)	6.5 times	$0.0477
Special Use	(SFkS .00476X35/1 9 fire fighters) +	(2.3%)(SF)($.00476)(70/ 19 fire fighters)	6.5 times	$0.0596

Summary of Base Tax and Improvement Tax

The Special Tax for Multiple Family Residential, Non-Residential, Special Use, and High
Rise Parcels combining the Base Tax and Improvement Tax is as follows.

SYN# 6 2

OF MAR 4	1997

Appendix A - Page 8

—	'	‘ ^ Consolidated Fire Protection District Special Tax

Table 4 — Base Tax and Improvement Tax for Fiscal Year 1997/98

Land Use	Base Tax	Improvement Tax on Parcels	Improvement Tax on Parcels With Sprinkler Credit
MF	$60.63	$0.0063 per SF	$0.0060 per SF
Non-Res	$58.10	$0.0392 per SF	$0.0375 per SF
High Rise	$70.74	$0.0477 per SF	$0.0456 per SF
Special Use	$88.42	$0.0596 per SF	$0.0570 per SF

Vacant Property Special Tax Computation

The benefit that Vacant Parcels in the District receive from Fire Protection Services increases as the
Parcel size increases. However, the increase in benefit is not directly proportional to property size.
The Vacant Parcels are equated to the Single Family Residential Parcels based on the minimum
Standard Response dispatched to a grass fire. A graduated rate structure accurately reflects the
benefit larger Vacant Parcels receive as compared with smaller Vacant Parcels as shown below.

Table 5 - Vacant Parcel Special Tax for Fiscal Year 1997/98

Parcel Size	Benefit Units	Rate Per Parcel
Less than 2 acres	0.25 unit	$12.00
2 to 10 acres	0.33 unit	$15.84
Greater than 10 to 50 acres	0.66 unit	$31.68
Greater than 50 acres	1.00 unit	$48.00

Notwithstanding any other provision of this document, a vacant parcel subject to the special tax
which is subdivided, will not thereby incur a tax which is cumulatively higher than the amount
charged prior to the subdivision until such time as a building permit has been issued for the
construction of a building on one or more of the newly created parcels, or until ownership of any
of the newly created parcels is transferred, at which time the transferred parcel(s) shall be taxed
separately. Therefore, for contiguous vacant parcels owned by the same person or entity, the tax

Appendix A - Page 9

—■I ——    ........................... .....——» n-nri mil	| 1 w--	--	■	■

Consolidated Fire Protection District Special Tax

shall be based on a per acre amount rather than a per parcel amount, until a building permit has
been issued. The special tax may be levied against the newly created parcel while the remaining
vacant parcel will continue to be charged at a rate which is not cumulatively higher than the per acre
rate charged prior to the subdivision nor lower than the per acre charge based on the remaining

vacant parcel.

High Risk Parcels Special Tax Surcharge

Those parcels identified within "Fire Zone 4" or the "Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone" as
designated in the County of Los Angeles Code, Title 26, Chapter 26.150 and shown on the
District’s map entitled, "Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone" dated March 12, 1996 or as
amended thereafter, have been determined to be at a higher risk to fire as a result of their proximity
to highly flammable brush areas. The Parcels within this area require a greater commitment of fire
protection resources, therefore, every Taxable Parcel may be charged a surcharge of 10 percent of
their total computed Base Tax and Improvement Tax, as applicable.

Sprinkler Credit

Parcels within the District may receive a credit against their Special Tax if the property owner can
demonstrate that the Parcel has a fire department approved fire sprinkler system, other fire
extinguishing system, or fire detection system. Credits may be applied to Multiple Family
Residential, Non-Residential, Special Use, and High Rise Parcels over 1,555 square feet, or Single
Family Residential Parcels charged the High Risk surcharge.

Property owners may apply for the credit for the current year and forward by certifying under
penalty of perjury that the Parcel has an approved system. The District may request supporting
documentation at the time the Sprinkler Credit is requested, and from time to time as the Special
Tax is annually administered. The Sprinkler Credit to the Single Family Residential Parcels would
negate the High Risk Surcharge discussed above. The Sprinkler Credit to Multiple Family
Residential, Non-Residential. Special Use, and High Rise Parcels would reduce each demonstrating
Parcel’s Special Tax rates by eliminating the charge associated with the second alarm response as
shown above in Table 1 - Summary of Special Tax Rates for Fiscal Year 1997/98.

Annual Levy of Special Tax

The Special Tax may be levied each year on or about July 1, or in sufficient time to include the levy
on the County's secured tax roll, in an amount not to exceed the amounts set forth herein. The
District shall assign a Special Tax classification to each Parcel using the County of Los Angeles
Assessor’s data for the current Fiscal Year’s Tax Roll. The Special Tax rates will be adjusted each
Fiscal Year in the same manner and according to the same procedures as the County of Los Angeles
Assessor adjusts the normal ad valorem property taxes. This Annual Special Tax Adjustment

Appendix A - Page 10

Consolidated Fire Protection ttistrict Special Tax

inflationary rate will not exceed two percent for any given year. The annually adjusted Special Tax
rates will be assigned to each Parcel in the District based on the Special Tax classification
determined for each Parcel.

Appeals Process

The Special Tax charged against any Parcel may be appealed to the District. A property owner
appeal will result in a review of the factors upon which the Special Tax for the Parcel is based. The
function of the appeals process will be to recommend corrections or adjustments that are consistent
with the concept, intent, and parameters of the programs set forth herein. If the District finds that
the factors are incorrect after review or after proof from the property owner has been supplied, the
Special Tax for the Parcel will be adjusted for the current fiscal year and forward. Unless such
proposed changes are appealed to the Board of Supervisors, they will be incorporated into the
Special Tax Roll.

F:218:METHOD

Appendix A - Page 11

Areas of Special Tax Levy

AQOURA HILLS

ARTESIA

AZUSA

BALDWIN PARK
BELL

BELLFLOWER

BELL HARDENS

BRADBURY

CALABASAS

CARSON

CERRITOS

CLAREMONT

CUDAHY
DIAMOND BAR
DUARTE
OLENDORA
HAWAIIAN DARDENS
HIDDEN HILLS
HUNTINGTON PARK
INDUSTRY
IRWINOALE

LA CANADA FLINTRIOOE
LAKEWOOD
LA MIRADA

LANCASTER

LA PUENTE

LAWNDALE

LOMITA

MALIBU

MAYWOOD

NORWALK

PALMDALE

PARAMOUNT

PICO RIVERA

RANCHO PALOS VERDES

ROLLING HILLS

ROLLING HILLS ESTATES

ROSEMEAD

BAN DIMAS

SANTA CLARITA

SIQNAL HILL

SOUTH EL MONTE

SOUTH GATE

TEMPLE CITY

UNINCORPORATED AREA

WALNUT

WEST HOLLYWOOD
WESTLAKE VILLAGE
WHITTIER

Fee for Service Cities

IM«< bulijMInlpMld T mx Lmnr A>u|

COMMERCE

HAWTHORNE

PALOS VERDES ESTATES

POMONA

Consolidated Fire Protection District
County of Los Angeles
Special Tax Levy Areas