HOrr>m mnjs>w

SIDE 1

OFFICIAL BALLOT

CARD D

D

GENERAL ELECTION

LAKE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3,1998

THIS BALLOT STUB SHALL BE REMOVED
ANO RETAINED BY THE VOTER

SIDE 2

mark your choice(S) rjrri

IN THIS MANNER ONLY I M I

Vote 4-

SCHOOL	1
Superintendent o< Public Instruction  Vote for ONE	in
GLORIA MATTA TUCHMAN .  Parenl/School Teacher	a
DELAINE EASTIN .  Superintendent of Public Instruction	a
—+	a
	|
COUNTY	Q
County Clerk-Auditor  Vote for ONE	1
HARRY ZIELSKI  Accountant	a
PAM COCHRANE  Chief Deputy Auditor	o
-	a

17/411 BT: 8 VOTE BOTH SIDES	D/11

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S) rrZTI
IN THIS MANNER ONLY IMI

Vote!

OITY j|		■HO—
CITY OF LAKEPORT |		MM|  s
City Council Member j Full Term Vote for no more than TWO !!		g  iTTTT
WILLIAM (BILL) KNOLL  Retired Businessman	-* I	=3
HOWARD (BUD) VAN LENTE  Retired Businessman	-4 |	=3
SHIRLEEN L. CLAICHE  Publicity Assistant	-*	=3
DICK LAMKIN  Retired Utility Supervisor	-*•	=3
-*•		Z3
->		=3
MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		:I
R Shall the Office of City Clerk be	YES	n
appointive?	NO	Z3
^ Shall an ordinance be adopted (1) to 1 ^ impose a Transactions (Sales) and Use Tax at a maximum rate of three quarters (3/4) of one percent to be used exclusively for the repair, replacement, construction or reconstruction of the City's streets and roads systems; (2) to increase the City's spending limit so that monies collected can be used for the repair, replacement, construction or reconstruction of the City's streets		
and roads systems; (3) which automatically expires ten years from adoption?	YES	C3
	NO	a
CONTINUE VOTING ,	N.  ON NEXT CARD 1	1/		MU.

17/404 BT: 8 VOTE BOTH SIDES	D

17SB11

s

A

M

P

L

E

B

A

L

L

O

T

I

I

F

f.

%

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

CITY OF LAKEPORT

pR0p0SED TAX ORDINANCE
MEASURE S

Shall an ordinance be adopted (1) to impose a Transactions (Sales) and Use Tax at a maximum rate
of three quarters (3/4) of one percent to be used exclusively for the repair, replacement, construction or
reconstruction of the City’s streets and roads systems; (2) to increase the City’s spending limit so that
monies collected can be used for the repair, replacement, construction or reconstruction of the City’s
streets and roads systems; (3) which automatically expires ten years from adoption?

Yes No

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
MEASURE S

Ballot Measure S is a proposal to impose a 3/4
percent transaction and use tax on gross receipts of
retailers within the incorporated territory of the City of
Lakeport for repair, replacement, construction or recon-
struction of the City’s streets and road systems and for
an increase in the City’s spending limit so that the
monies collected can be used for such purposes.

The ordinance is adopted pursuant to Revenue
and Taxation Code Section 7286.40 and shall not
become operative unless approved by 2/3 of the elec-
tors voting on the measure on Tuesday, November 3,
1998.

If adopted, the operative date shall be the first day
of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after adoption of the transaction and use tax ordi-
nance.

If adopted, the City will enter into a contract with
the State Board of Equalization for administration of the
tax collection so as to minimize the cost of collection.

Upon collection, the proceeds shall be deposited
into a special restricted fund to be used only for the
repair, replacement, construction or reconstruction of
the City of Lakeport’s streets and road systems.

The tax will end ten years from the date on which it
receives voter approval.

Additionally, if adopted the appropriations limit for
the City would be increased by the amount of the maxi-
mum projected aggregate collection amount authorized
by the imposition of this tax.

s/ Steven J. Brookes
City Attorney
City of Lakeport

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Voting YES on Measure S will improve the poor
condition of City streets which continue to deteriorate
due to age, weather and traffic.

After budgeting for essential services the City only
has limited funds to do temporary road patching and not
more costly road repair and construction. Placing the
total burden of road repairs solely on City residents,
through parcel or utility taxes, is an unfair method to pay
for road repairs.

Since the majority of our sales tax is generated by
shoppers from outside the City limits, sales taxes more
fairly distribute road repair and construction costs to aH
who use our roads. Measure S will reduce the burden
on Lakeport citizens, and result in safer streets, less
vehicle wear and tear and enhance property values.

By law, funds generated through Measure S can
be only used for road repairs and construction, and will
end in ten years. Groceries and medicine are not sub-
ject to sales tax.

Measure S is a balanced and sensible solution.
Measure S will begin to solve problems now, before
road and street damages worsen.

This is our best chance to address the poor road
and street conditions throughout our City. Let’s take
advantage of this opportunity and vote Yes on Measure
S and provide a safe, friendly and healthy environment
for people and their families to enjoy.
s/Shari Kilker
s/William H. Knoll
s/Tom Engstrom
s/John Norcio
s/Joanne Ruddock

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S
WAS SUBMITTED

ORDINANCE NO. 794 (98)

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LAKEPORT
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
FOR REPAIR, REPLACEMENT, CONSTRUCTION OR RECONSTRUCTION
OF THE CITY’S STREETS AND ROADS SYSTEMS
AND INCREASING THE CITY’S SPENDING LIMIT

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LAKEPORT DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

There is hereby added to the Municipal Code of the City of Lakeport, Chapter 3.25
which is to read as follows:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Lakeport Road
Maintenance and Repair Transactions and Use Tax ordinance. The City of Lakeport shall be
called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City of
Lakeport, which shall be referred to herein as “City.”

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date
of such adoption being set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish
those purposes.

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
and Section 7286.40 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part

1.6	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the
State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

////	HU

HU	HU

Page 2

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be
administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden or record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the
City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date,
it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
territory if the City at a rate of three-fourths (3/4) of one percent of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold
is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in
the state or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory
at the rate of three-fourths (3/4) of one percent of the sales price of the property. The sales
price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. PROCEEDS OF TAX. The proceeds of the tax shall be deposited into a
special fund to be used only for the purposes of the repair, replacement, construction, or
reconstruction of the City's streets and road system.

Section 9. ANNUAL BUDGET ACTION. The City Council shall identify and
approve how the estimated proceeds of the tax will be spent for the repair, replacement,
construction, or reconstruction of the City's streets and road system each fiscal year in the
City’s annual budget.

HU	lilt

mi	mi

Page 3

Section 10. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby
adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 11. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION
OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall
not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation
of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of substitution
would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the state under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797, or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase
in Section 6203.

////
fill

////

////

Page 4

Section 12. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s
permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 13. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city,
city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property other than fuel or petroleum
products to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the City in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a
point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer
or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840 of the Vehicle Code) by registration to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact,
his principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place
of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

////	////

////	HU

Page 5

5.	For the purpose of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate
of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States,
or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which in a continuing purchase of such property
for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage,
use or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the
City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the
City under the authority of the retailer.

////

////

////

////

Ordinance No. 794 (98)

Page 6

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property, the storage, use or the
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 14. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 15. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the City to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.

Section 16. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT ADJUSTMENT. Pursuant to California
Constitution, Article XIHB, Section 4, the appropriations limit for the City of Lakeport will be
increased by the amount of the maximum projected aggregate collection authorized by the
imposition of this transactions and use tax from the election to be held pursuant to Section 19.

Section 17. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 18. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting
of the City transactions and use taxes and pursuant to Government Code Section 36937 shall
take effect immediately. The City Council finds that:

A.	Over the last five years the State Legislature has reduced the amount of
property tax revenues and other local general fund revenues available to provide the level of
streets and road system repair, replacement and construction, or reconstruction deemed
necessary in the future for the preservation of the public health, welfare and safety of the City;
and

B.	An increase in tourism and anticipated growth in the future will negatively
impact the already substandard and deteriorated streets and road system.

Page 7

C. The tax imposed pursuant to this ordinance is necessary not only to obtain
the revenues to meet the usual and current expenses required to provide the level of streets and
road system services needed as tourism increases, but is also necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public health, welfare and safety of the City.

Section 19. ELECTION REQUIRED - DURATION OF TAX. Once effective, this
ordinance shall not become operative unless and until two-thirds of the electors voting on the
measure, vote to approve the imposition of the tax and adjustment of the appropriations limit at
an election called for that purpose to be held on November 3, 1998. This ordinance shall
automatically expire ten (10) years from the date on which it is approved by the voters.

Section 20. CERTIFY AND PUBLISH. The City Clerk or Deputy shall certify to the
passage and adoption of this ordinance and shall cause the same to be published as required by
law.

This ordinance was introduced before the City Council of the City of Lakeport at a
regular meeting thereof on the 6th day of July, 1998, and passed its first reading by the
following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAINING:

ABSENT:

Council Members, Knoll, Rumfelt and Mayor Parmentier

None

None

Council Members Ruffcorn and Van Lente

This ordinance was PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of
Lakeport at a regular meeting thereof on the 20th day of July, 1998, by the following vote:

Council Members, Van Lente, Knoll, Rumfelt, Ruffcorn
and Mayor Parmentier

None

ABSTAINING:

ABSENT:

None

None





ROY PARMENTIER, MAYOR

AYES:

NOES:

ATTEST:

FANEL M. CHAPMAN,
CITY CLERK

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

STEVEN J.vBROOKES,
CITY ATTORNEY