Measures 9/17/98 1:24 PM Page 3



CITY OF FREMONT MEASURE	
MEASURE O: “Shall the Hotel/Motel Tax rate be in- ■ I creased to ten percent (10%), effective December 15, 1998, and the ordinance amended?”	YES
	NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE 0

ORDINANCE NO.___________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FREMONT AMENDING SECTIONS
2-6300 (TITLE) 2-6301(a) (DEFINITION), 2-6302 (TAX IMPOSED) AND
2-6309 (APPEAL) OF ARTICLE 3 (UNIFORM TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY
TAX) OF CHAPTER 6 (TAXATION) OF TITLE H (ADMINISTRATION
AND FINANCE) OF THE FREMONT MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO
TAXATION OF THE TRANSIENTS STAYING IN HOTELS FOR A
PERIOD OF THIRTY (30 DAYS OR LESS)

The People of the City of Fremont do ordain as follows:

Section 1:

Section 2-6300 (Title) of Article 3 (Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax),
Chapter 6 (Taxation), Title II (Administration and Finance) of the Fremont
Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

Sec. 2-6300. Title

This article shall be known as the Uniform Transient Occupancy (Hotel/
Motel Tax') Tax Ordinance of the city.”

Section 2:

Section 2-6301 (Definitions) of Article 3 (Uniform Transient Occupancy
Tax), Chapter 6 (Taxation), Title II (Administration and Finance) of the
Fremont Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

Sec. 2-6301. Definitions

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this sec-
tion govern the construction of this article:

(a)	Person. “Person” shall mean any individual, -.firm;- partncrshiprjQlot

venture, association,.aoeial club,- fraternal organization,--joint-gtook

company,—corporation, estate, truatr-busineag- trust-feeeivor, trustee,
syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.-

Section 3:

Section 2-6302 (Tax imposed) of Article 3 (Uniform Transient Occupancy
Tax), Chapter 6 (Taxation), Title II (Administration and Finance) of the Fremont
Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

Sec. 2-6302. Tax imposed

(a)	For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to
and shall pay a tax in the amount of ten eight percent of the rent charged

FR-3

Measures

9/17/98 1:24 PM

Page

4

by the operator. Said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the
city which is extinguished only by payment to the operator of the hotel
at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a propor-
tionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment The unpaid
tax shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel.

Section 4:

Section 2-6309 (Appeal) of Article 3 (Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax),
Chapter 6 (Taxation), Title II (Administration and Finance) of the Fremont
Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

Sec. 2-6309. Appeal

(a) Any operator aggrieved by the decision of-the director of finance or the
director of finance’a designee, with respect to the amount of ouch tax-interest
and penoltiesr-if-any, may-Qppeal to the board of review-by-filing a notice of
appeal with the city clerk within ten days of the serving or mailing of the deter
mination of tax due. The bonrd-of review shall thereupon fix-a time andplacc for
hearing ouch appeal. The board of review-shall be composed-of-the city attor
ney, the city clerk and the city manager. The city -clerk shall give written notice
to 3uoh person of the time nnd-plaee-of hearing by-serving it personally or by
depositing it in the United-States Post Office at Fremont, California, postage pre
paid, addressed to such-person at his last known-address. The bonrd-of-review
shall have the nuthority-to determine all questions-raised-on such nppeal.-No such
determination shall conflict with any substantive provision of this article.

(a)	Any operator aggrieved by the decision of the director of finance or the
director of finance’s designee, with respect to the amount of such tax,
interest and penalties, if any, may seek review of such administrative
action within fifteen (15) days of the adverse determination by written
request to the city manager for a formal appeal hearing.

The board of review shall consider all evidence offered by the operator and by
the director of finance. It may continue the hearing-from time to-time-- It -shall
fflake-ita-finding3 in writing and serve a copy on the-operator inthe-same man
ner prescribed for giving notice of the hearing.

The board of review may increase-of-deercasc the amount of the assessment
as-the evidence introduced may require-but-the-amount of the assessment shall
not be increased unless the claim for the increase is asserted on behalf of the-eity
either-before or during the hearing.

The amount determined to bo due-by-the board of review1 shall-be payable
after-ten days of service of notice of the findings of-the board, unless an appeal
is taken to the city council as provided in -subsection (b).

(b)	Any operator aggrieved by a final deoision-ef the board of review made
pursuant to 3ubsectien-(a); may appeal-to the city council pursuant to Chapter 5,
-Title-I-of-this Coder The findings of the city couneil-on-appeal shall bo final and
conclusive-and shall-be-served upon the appellant-in-the manner preseribed-for
service of-notice of hearing. Any amount found to be duo shall be immediately
due and payable upon sendee of notiee.-

FR-4

Measures 9/17/98 1:24 PM Page 5

-e-

£b) The city manager shall appoint a hearing officer to hear the appeal with-
in fifteen (151 days of the written request The hearing officer shall set the
matter for hearing within forty-five (45) davs of receipt of the request
(cl All parties involved shall have the right to offer testimonial, documen-
tary and tangible evidence bearing on the issues, have discovery of rel-
evant evidence, may be represented by counsel, and shall have the right
to confront the cross-examine witnesses. Anv relevant evidence may be
admitted that is the sort of evidence upon which reasonable persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs.

(dl The hearing officer shall cause to be made an audio tape of the full hear-
ing and shall create and maintain a full record of the hearing.

(el Any hearing under the section may be continued for a reasonable time
for the convenience of either party.

(f)	The hearing officer shall render a written decision within fifteen (151
days of the close of the hearing affirming or rescinding the determina-
tion of the finance director. Remedies awarded by the hearing officer
shall be limited to increasing or decreasing the amount of the assessment
as the evidence introduced may require: but the assessment shall not be
increased unless the claim for the increase is asserted on behalf of the
city either before or during the hearing. The amount determined to be
due by the hearing officer shall be payable after ten davs of service of
the decision.

(g)	The decision of the hearing officer shall state all factual and legal rea-
sons for the decision and that any petition for review must be filed not
later than ninety (901 davs following the date the decision becomes final
as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.6.

(hi The decision of the hearing officer shall be final and subject to judicial
review pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1094.5.

£i) The City Council may from time to time amend this section, without
voter approval, to simplify the appeal process.

Section 5:

This ordinance shall become effective on December 15, 1998 if approved by
a majority of the registered voters voting in the November 3, 1998 election.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE O

The City’s Hotel/Motel Tax is. paid by guests staying 30 days of less at hotels,
motels, inns and similar lodging establishments in Fremont This general tax is
used to fund basic City services, including Police, Fire and Maintenance ser-
vices. This tax has been collected since 1964. A separate question on this ballot
asks the voters to affirm the existing rate of 8%. This ballot question asks voters
whether the rate should be increased to 10%.

The enactment of Proposition 218 (the “Right to Vote on Taxes Act”) in
November 1996 requires that any increase in a general tax be placed on a gen-
eral election ballot in which City Council seats are open, and that the increase be

FR-5

Measures 9/17/98 1:24 PM Page 6



approved by a simple majority of the voters. The next time such a measure can
be brought to the voters is November 2000.

Of the cities in the Bay Area that collect a Hotel/Motel Tax, excluding Fremont,
10 cities have a rate between 6.5% and 8.9%, 18 cities have a rate between 9%
and 10%, and 3 cities have a rate greater than 10%. Sixteen cities currently
impose a Hotel/Motel Tax at the rate of 10%. In evaluating the potential impact
of a Hotel/Motel Tax rate increase on lodging establishments and their cus-
tomers, an increase in the rate from 8% to 10% will increase the cost of a $100
hotel/motel room from $108 to $110, a $2 difference. The Hotel/Motel Tax for a
$150 room at the same rate would increase by $3.

In addition to increasing the tax rate, other changes are proposed to the ordi-
nance governing the Hotel/Motel Tax. One change would amend the ordinance
to more clearly define those subject to the tax to be individuals renting rooms
in lodging establishments. This change minimizes the risk that a company could
rent a hotel/motel room for more than 30 days and then allow different individ-
uals to stay in that room, thereby avoiding paying the Hotel/Motel Tax after the
first 30 days of the rental. Another change is in the appeals process. The ordi-
nance currently provides that a .board of review, composed of the City Manager,
City Clerk and City Attorney, consider the request for appeal and all relevant
evidence offered by the lodging establishment operator and the Finance
Director, and then grant or deny the appeal. The proposed change would direct
the City Manager to appoint a hearing officer to hear the appeal. The appointed
hearing officer would set a hearing date within 45 days of receipt of the request,
and the process and guidelines for the hearing are further defined in the ordi-
nance. This proposed appeals process is consistent with the appeals process
used for other City matters.

s/HARVEYC. LEVINE
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O

Between 1992 and 1994, the State of California took away almost $8,000,000 a
year from the City of Fremont to solve its own budget problems. This caused
the City to eliminate 150 positions and drastically cut back on planned capital
projects to balance its budget. The change has permanently reduced the City’s
share of property tax from 20% to 15% of each tax dollar. As a result, the City
faces difficult challenges ip providing adequate staffing for public safety and
maintenance, which make up nearly 80% of the General Fund budget In virtu-
ally every service category, Fremont has extremely low numbers of employees
relative to its size when compared to other cities.

The combination of cutbacks by the State and growing demands for service
makes it important to add new revenues to maintain important basic services
without significantly adding to the tax burden of our citizens. Travelers who
stay in hotel and motel rooms in Fremont receive and use City services. As tem-
porary, residents, they use City roads that require maintenance and improve-
ments, they enjoy the City’s well-groomed parks, and they are protected by City

FR-6

Measures 9/17/98 1:24 PM

page 7

police and fire services. Over the years, the cost of providing these services has
increased. Based on expected increases in the number of hotel rooms and room
rates, increasing the tax rate on hotel and motel room rentals to 10%, a level
charged by many of our neighboring cities, will increase annual revenue to the
General Fund by about $700,000 within five years. This will help preserve
existing services for citizens and travelers visiting the City for business and
tourism. We urge you to vote YES to increase the hotel/motel tax to 10% in
order to preserve basic services paid for by the City’s General Fund.
s/Gus Morrison, Mayor
s/Judith R. Zlatnik, Vice Mayor
s/Robert Wasserman, Councilmember
s/Bill Pease, Councilmember

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O

Fremont originally established this Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) to support
economic development efforts in the city. It was supported and presented as a
tax on business to support business development

During difficult economic times, the “revenues” from this tax were shifted
from economic development accounts to those supporting basic city services.
When the city budget scenario was more favorable, the TOT tax revenues were
to go back to their original purpose, that is, economic development It has
never happened.

Now, despite a booming economy, proponents want to raise the tax to further
support basic city services. The TOT tax revenues should be restored to their
original purpose before they are raised (if a justification can be found to raise
them at all). It is simply poor budgetary planning to raise a business tax
because it has become a convenient source of revenue.

Some may say that the tax doesn’t hurt Fremont residents so why all the worry.
The fact is, this tax affects all of us. Fremont should be a city which is known
for having the lowest taxes and fees in the region.

Keeping our fees and taxes low, especially in good economic times, will actu-
ally encourage more business activity here and increase sales tax revenues.
Let’s keep our local economy healthy. We don’t need this tax increase.

Vote No on Measure O.
s/JoNelle Zager, Councilmember

s/Matthew D. Edwards, Fremont Economic Development Commission

FR-7

Measures 9/17/98 1:24 PM

Page

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O

This proposed city tax increase is simply a bad idea in the wrong place at the
wrong time. Our local and regional economy is booming. Fremont’s budget,
fueled by soaring sales tax revenues, has increased by millions of dollars in
recent years. Why would we now want to take money out of the local economy,
and possibly hurt the very hotel/motel business we are trying to attract
When the City feels the need to start raising its taxes, it should also match those
proposed increases with proposed spending decreases. When spending increas-
es, taxes should be decreased in order to reduce the effect on the local residents
and businesses. If we are raising taxes during economic boom times, just to bal-
ance our budget, what are we going to do during the next recession. How will
we be able to meet our basic services needs when sales tax revenues decline in
the coming years.

Fremont should have the reputation of the city with the lowest business taxes,
not one whose taxes are comparable or higher than surrounding communities.
We should encourage business travelers to come to our hotels. The level of city
services they use pales in comparison to the amount of money they spend in our
community on meals, recreation, and local travel. We should encourage travel-
ers to stay here, and spend their money, rather than allow other cities to attract
their business.

Some proponents of increasing this tax imply that it is only business travelers
who would pay this tax. But what about visiting family members, relatives, and
yes, tourists who may come to enjoy our city. What kind of message does a high
hotel tax send to those who are already motivated to come visit Fremont
Please keep our economy healthy and vote No on this tax increase.
s/JoNelle Zager, Councilmember

s/Matt Edwards, Economic Development Advisory Commissioner
s/Steven Omellas
s/Kenneth D. Steadman

FR-8

Measures 9/17/98 1:24 PM Page 9



REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE O

There has been much rhetoric written about this measure. Let me present
some important facts for your consideration:

1.	Fremont has a lean, efficient government with fewer employees per resi-
dent than most cities its size in the country. More than half of our operat-
ing budget is spent for police and fire and another 20% for maintenance of
our streets, parks, and buildings.

2.	Over the last several years, we have been able to increase our police
department by 10% and this year to staff a new fire station at a cost of
$1,000,000 a year, without increasing taxes.

3.	Visitors create a demand for city services, police, fire, paramedics, streets,
parks, etc.

4.	The hotel tax is the primary method by which visitors contribute toward
the cost of those services.

5.	An increase in the hotel/motel tax of $2 on a $100 hotel room is competi-
tive with cities around us and is equivalent to what Fremont residents pay
as we travel to other cities.

6.	To continue to provide efficient and effective public service, it is impor-
tant that all users of the services contribute to the cost of providing those
services. Increasing the hotel tax, while remaining competitive within the
region, helps us continue to provide the high quality, professional public
safety and maintenance services Fremont residents have come to expect

Please help us serve you better. Vote yes on O.
s/Gus Morrison, Mayor of Fremont

FR-9