IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF FORTUNA
MEASURE G

Measure G asks the voters whether the City of Fortuna should
be allowed to raise the maximum tax rate for the transient
occupancy tax (bed tax for motels and RV parks) from the existing
eight (8%) percent to a maximum of ten (10%) percent. The tax is
based upon the nightly rental cost of the motel room or RV space,
and is paid by the guest.

If adopted, the actual tax rate as set forth in Fortuna Municipal
Code Section 3.12.030, or its successor would be established from
time-to-time by the City Council, and could fluctuate, but never
exceed ten (10%) percent.

The transient occupancy tax is a general tax and all revenue
generated by the tax would go to provide essential governmental
services. It is estimated that the tax presently generates $179,000
annually, and that the tax would generate an additional $21,000
for eacn one (1%) percent it is increased.

The measure must be approved by a majority of the voters.

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE G. IF YOU DESIRE A COPY OF THE FULL TRAN-
SIENT OCCUPANCY TAX ORDINANCE, PLEASE CALL THE
CITY CLERK’S OFFICE AT 725-7600 AND A COPY WILL BE
MAILED AT NO COST TO YOU.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

The Fortuna City Council seeks voter authorization to set the
maximum rate for the Transient Occupancy Tax at ten percent
(10%). The Transient Occupancy Tax, often referred to as “bed tax”,
is money paid as tax on rental of motel, rooms and recreation
vehicle (RV) park sites. Most bed tax money is collected from
business travelers, vacationers and other travelers to or through
the area.	?

The current bed tax rate in Fortuna is eight percent (8%).
Passage of Measure G would allow the City Council the flexibility, •
to increase this amount to a level comparable to the unincorporated
area of Humboldt county (10%) and other cities in the county.

Under Measure G, the City Council would have the option of
leaving the present bed tax rate at eight percent or increasing the
rate to nine or ten percent. The rate could also be decreased by
the Council should conditions warrant. One percent in bed tax
dollars equals approximately twenty one thousand dollars
($21,000) in revenue to the City.

The City Council is responsible for allocating the bed tax revenues
as part of the annual budget process. A percentage of the present
bed tax dollars are spent on tourism and promotion. The remainder
of the bed tax dollars are used to help fund police services, parks
and recreation for the citizens of Fortuna. In effect, the bed tax is
used to encourage more tourism, thereby increasing revenues, and
to offset the impacts of tourism on city facilities and services.

Passage of Measure G would allow the City Council the discretion
to increase revenues generated by bed tax and to use the monies
to improve tourism marketing efforts, community promotion and to
provide other services for the community. The Fortuna City Council
urges your support of this Measure.

Argument prepared by City of Fortuna, Mayor Pro Tern, Clifford

B.	Chapman Sr.

\

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

'(&0E