COUNTY SERVICE AREA 135 - ZONE J
Unincorporated Areas of San Diego County
Proposition D

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

Shall an Ordinance for funding police, fire, medical and
other emergency services be approved which estab-
lishes as a special tax the previously authorized charge
to continue paying unincorporated area’s costs of participating in the
Regional Communications System?

PROPD

ORDINANCE 8890 (NEW SERIES)

AN ORDINANCE DETERMINING AND PROPOSING FOR
ADOPTION WITHIN ZONE J - UNINCORPORATED 800 MHZ
OF COUNTY SERVICE AREA 135-REGIONAL 800 MHZ
RADIO SYSTEM AN ANNUAL SPECIAL TAX TO PAY LOCAL
EXPENSES OF THE 800 MHZ PUBLIC SAFETY
REGIONAL COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM

The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Diego ordains as follows:

Section 1. Purpose. County Service Area No. 135-Regional 800 MHZ Radio System is
authorized to provide the extended service of a regional communications system (“System”). Each
City or Fire Protection District that is participating in the System is responsible for the cost of certain
local expenses of the System. This ordinance, which shall apply within the boundaries of Zone J
- Unincorporated 800 MHZ of County Service Area 135, provides for adoption and collection of a
special tax to be used solely to pay for the local expenses of the System and for the costs incurred
in connection with the election at which the tax is adopted.

Section 2. Determination of Tax. The Board of Supervisors does hereby determine and
propose for adoption an annual special tax of $2.50 per "unit” as determined under section 3 of
this ordinance.

Section 3. Number of Units Determined. Units shall be assigned to each parcel and
calculated as follows:

Land Use

Single Family, Res. (incl. farm land)

Multi - Family and Condo

Mobile Homes (not in space rental parks)

Trailer Parks (with rental spaces)

Timeshare

Vacant Residential

Office and Industrial Condos

Vacant Commercial and Institutional

Parking Lots, Garages

Vacant Industrial

Improved Institutional

Offices and Stores

Meeting Hall, Gym, Marinas, and Docks
Other Improved Commercial and Industrial
Mining, Vacant Recreational, Golf Courses,
and Camps

Benefit Units

7	per dwelling unit
6 per dwelling unit
4 per dwelling unit
4 per pad

.5 per dwelling unit
4 per parcel
6 per parcel

8	per parcel

9	per parcel
12 per parcel
14 per parcel
16 per parcel
18 per parcel
20 per parcel

1	per parcel if less than 10 Ac;

2	per parcel if between 10 and 20 Ac;

3	per parcel if 20 Ac. or more

Section 4. Use of Revenue. Revenue raised by the special tax may be used solely for the
purpose of paying for local expenses of the System and to reimburse all reasonable costs incurred
in connection with the election,

N SO 020-03B

Section 5. Approval by Voters. The special tax proposed by this ordinance shall be
submitted to the voters within the boundaries of Zone J - Unincorporated 800 MHZ of County
Service Area 135-Regional 800 MHZ Radio System. The ballot proposition shall be worded as
provided in the resolution of the Board of Supervisors calling the election within the zone.

Section 6. Operative Date. This ordinance shall become operative as an ordinance of
County Service Area 135 - Zone J - Unincorporated 800 MHZ on July 1,1998, if prior to that date
the special tax proposed by this ordinance is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
question of the adoption of the special tax.

Section 7. Implementation of Tax. If the proposition is approved, the Board of Supervisors
shall prior to August 10th of each year place the tax on the tax roll for each class of property as set
forth in section 3. The special tax shall not exceed the amount set forth in section 2 hereof and shall
be in lieu of the previous benefit charge. It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors that the amount
of the special tax shall be reduced after the capital costs of the 800 MHZ Radio System have been
paid, and that the special tax will be reduced to a level to cover the ongoing costs associated with
the maintenance and operation of the System.

Section 8. Severability. If any portion of this ordinance be declared unconstitutional, invalid
or otherwise unenforceable, the other provisions of this ordinance shall remain in full force and
effect.

Section 9. Effective Date. Pursuant to Government Code section 25123, this ordinance is
effective upon adoption as an ordinance relating to an election.

PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED this 3rd day of March, 1998.

GREG COX

Chairman of the Board of
Supervisors of the County of San Diego,

State of California

The above Ordinance was adopted by the following vote:

Supervisor Greg Cox	"AYE”
Supervisor Dianne Jacob,	"AYE"
Supervisor Pam Slater	“AYE”
Supervisor Ron Roberts	"AYE”
Supervisor Bill Horn	“AYE”

ATTEST my hand and the seal of the Board of Supervisors this 3rd day of March, 1998.

THOMAS J. PASTUSZKA
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

By Patrick A. Hunter, Deputy

PR-9910-2

N SD 020-039

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

For the purpose of funding the unincorporated area's costs of participating in a Police, Fire and
Public Safety Regional Communications System (“System”), you are asked to vote on the
adoption of a special tax ordinance (“Ordinance") to apply within the boundaries of County Service
Area 135-Zone J, Unincorporated 800 MHZ. County Service Area 135 as a whole consists of the
unincorporated area plus the cities of Carlsbad, Del Mar, Encinitas, Solana Beach, San Marcos,
Vista, Imperial Beach, Santee, Lemon Grove and Poway. The Ordinance will become effective if
approved by a two-thirds "yes” vote.

Pursuant to the Regional Communications System Agreement the County, on behalf of the
unincorporated area, plus participating fire protection districts are required to fund certain costs
(“local costs") of the System. Zone J of CSA 135 was established to fund these local costs both
for the unincorporated area as a whole and for participating fire protection entities within the
unincorporated area including fire protection districts and volunteer fire departments. If approved
the special tax will be levied throughout the unincorporated area of the County and will replace
county service area zone charge levied within various fire protection districts in 1995-1997 and
which, due to the provisions of Proposition 218, may no longer be imposed.

Each year, the special tax will be limited to the amount actually needed (but not more than the
maximum amount permitted by the Ordinance) to pay for the unincorporated area’s costs of
participating in the System. As specified in the Ordinance, revenue raised by the tax may be used
solely to pay (1) local expenses of the System and (2) the reasonable costs of this election.

The maximum annual special tax under this Ordinance is $2.50 a benefit unit. Each tax parcel
is assessed a specified number of benefit units based on the use of the property. For example,
single family homes are assessed 7 benefit units, mobilehomes are assessed 4 benefit units,
developed industrial parcels are assessed 20 benefit units and timeshares are assessed one-half
a benefit unit.

The maximum annual tax to be levied by Zone J on a single family home will be $17.50 and on
a mobilehome will be $10.00.

The Ordinance provides that after capital costs of the System are paid for, it is the intent of the
Board of Supervisors to reduce the tax to the amount necessary to pay for ongoing operations and
maintenance costs.

A separate and distinct proposition (Proposition C) will also appear on your ballot requesting
voter approval from all residents of County Service Area 135, including those residing in
participating cities, of a separate special tax ordinance to pay countywide (backbone) costs of the
System. These costs are not included in this Ordinance.

A “yes" vote means that you are in favor of adopting the Ordinance.

A “no" vote means that you are opposed to adopting the Ordinance.

N SD 020-040

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION D

VOTE YES on Proposition C and Proposition D to complete the county-wide emergency
800MHz Regional Communications System.

Public Safety First

When your family or property are threatened by earthquake, flooding, or a fast-moving
wildfire, you know that seconds count. Firefighters and law enforcement know that, too. That’s
why they ask you to vote “YES” on Propositions C & D. Passing Propositions C & D will cut
emergency response times and improve public safety by establishing a regional communications
system linking law enforcement, firefighters, and other public safety personnel. Proposition C
funds the “backbone”, such as transmission towers, that creates the system. Proposition D
provides the equipment, for example radios, which allows each jurisdiction to actually use the
system. Time and again, California has learned one overriding lesson from its natural disasters -
communication and regional coordination of resources Is absolutely essential,

Saving Lives, Saving Property

Today, when several agencies respond to a public safety crisis, like the Harmony Grove fires,
they are forced to communicate through a patchwork of different radio frequencies. Precious
seconds are lost. A “YES” vote on Proposition C and Proposition D will change that.
Proposition C and Proposition D were written by police officers and firefighters; they know
firsthand of San Diego County’s vital need for a single, reliable and secure radio system.

Enhance your family’s safety for less than 7 cents a day.

The maximum combined cost for a homeowner will be $24.50 a year - less than 7 cents a day.
In many areas, the cost will be even less. Propositions C & D will fund ONE public safety
communications system, replacing the inadequate, outdated radio systems now in use.

Please join police and fire safety leaders throughout the county in voting “YES” on
Propositions C and D.

BILL KOLENDER	JAMES B. HARDIMAN

San Diego County Police Chiefs’	President

and Sheriff’s Association	San Diego Fire Chiefs’ Association

RUSSELL C. BURKETT
President

Deputy Sheriffs' Association San Diego County

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION D

No argument against the proposition was filed in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-9910-4

N SD 020-041