
<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASUREB

Seeking Voter Approval of an Ordinance Imposing a
Transaction and Use Tax for County-Wide Library
Programs and Operations

Background:

Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7286.59 authorizes
the Board of Supervisors to place a measure before the
voters to impose a one-eighth of one percent retail
transactions and use tax with revenues generated therefrom
to be used exclusively for funding public library programs
and operations. Currently, the Nevada County Library is
funded by revenue received through the general fund
(approximately $496,000 in fiscal year 1997-1998), and
various State and outside funding sources (approximately
$62,000 in fiscal year 1997-1998). Pursuant to the
requirements of Revenue and Taxation Code Section
7286.59, revenue generated by an approved transactions
and use tax may be used only to supplement the existing
general fund expenditures for Nevada County public
libraries.

Measure B:

If adopted, this measure will approve an ordinance imposing
a one-eighth of one percent (0.125%) retail transactions and
use tax in Nevada County to provide funding of County-wide
library programs and operations. Revenues generated from
the transaction and use tax shall only be expended for
purposes identified in the expenditure plan. These purposes
include: increase by a minimum of 100% the books and
materials at the Grass Valley, Nevada City, Madeiyn Helling
and Truckee libraries; extension of hours at the Grass
Valley, Nevada City, Madeiyn Helling, and Truckee libraries;
increase children and young adult services; increase adult
career enhancement and literacy programs; hire up to five
librarians; increase library service points; and increase
information access.

By ordinance, the transaction and use tax shall be imposed
and collected until October 1, 2003, at which time it shall
lapse unless otherwise extended by vote of the electors.

If this measure is adopted, the County of Nevada will
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and collection of the
transactions and use tax consistent with the provisions of
State law.

Requirement for Adoption:

A “yes” vote on this measure means that the voter is in favor
of imposing a one-eighth of one percent increase to the
retail transactions and use tax for purposes of providing
funding for Nevada County Libraries. A “no” vote on this
measure means that the voter is not in favor of increasing
the retail transactions and use tax for this purpose.

This measure shall be adopted if approved by a two-thirds
vote of those voting on the measure and no further
legislative action shall be required by the Board of
Supervisors in order to make this measure effective. By
ordinance, if approved, this measure shall become effective
October 1, 1998.

Dated: March 18, 1998 <impartialend>












<impartialsigs> JAMES G. FLAGEOLLET, County Counsel <impartialsigsend>










<resolution> RESOLUTION NO. 98-51

OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
OF THE COUNTY OF NEVADA

A RESOLUTION PLACING AN ORDINANCE, ADDING
ARTICLE 7 TO CHAPTER V OF THE GENERAL CODE OF
THE COUNTY OF NEVADA IMPOSING A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR COUNTY-WIDE
LIBRARY PROGRAMS AND OPERATIONS TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION, ON THE JUNE 2, 1998 BALLOT

WHEREAS, the Nevada County Board of Supervisors
finds that the Nevada County Public Library system provides
unique and valued cultural and educational services to its
residents; and

WHEREAS, State funding shifts in available
discretionary revenue have resulted in the permanent loss
of 24% of the ongoing revenue for the Nevada County
Library which serves the cities of Grass Valley, Nevada City,
Truckee and the unincorporated areas of the County; and

WHEREAS, over the past five years this revenue loss
cut the book and materials budget from $65,200 to $7,000
resulting in over 4,300 fewer items purchased for the
collection; and

WHEREAS, the Nevada County Library needs to
increase and diversify its revenue stream to offset these
reductions in operational funding and to restore services to
County residents;

WHEREAS, the Nevada County Board of Supervisors
recognizes the importance and supports a strong library for
the enhancement of business, information and recreational
reading opportunities for Nevada County residents and
businesses; and

WHEREAS, Revenue and Taxation Code section

7286.59	authorizes this Board to place a measure on the
ballot to impose a transactions and sales tax at a rate of

0.125% in the County for five (5) years with revenues
dedicated only for funding public library operations,
programs, and acquisitions within the County.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the
Nevada County Board of Supervisors authorizes the
placement of a measure before the voters on the June 2,
1998 ballot to impose a one-eighth of 1 percent (0.125%)
retail transactions and use tax in the county for five (5) years
as specifically authorized by California Revenue and
Taxation Code section 7286.59; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that under Revenue and
Taxation Code section 7286.59, the revenues collected from
the tax shall be used only for those purposes set forth in the
expenditure plan, such as funding public library operations,
programs and acquisitions. The revenues shall be used only
to supplement existing expenditures for public libraries and
will not be used to supplant existing funding for the support
of public libraries within the County; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that staff shall return to
the Board of Supervisors with suggested ballot language no
later than February 24,1998.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors
of the County of Nevada at a regular meeting of said Board,
held on the 3rd day of February, 1998, by the following vote

I of said Board:

AYES: Supervisors, Peter Van Zant, Karen Knecht, Fran
Grattan, Rene Antonson, Sam Dardick.

NOES; None.

ABSENTS: None
ABSTAIN: None

SAM DARDICK
Chairman

ATTCOT 

CATHY R. THOMPSON
Clerk of the Board of Supervisors <resolutionend>









<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B:

Your YES vote on Measure B guarantees that all libraries in
Nevada County will remain open.

The state's tax shift has decimated our libraries. They are
closed more than open. The annual book budget has been
cut 89%, from $65,000 to $7,000.

Measure B guarantees the revenues go directly to library
resources. Your YES vote on Measure B will:

•	Create after school and summer children's reading
programs

•	Provide a full time children's librarian at each branch
[presently none exist]

“Measure B is good for our youth”

Dr. Terence K. McAteer, Nevada County
Superintendent of Schools

•	Nearly double the hours the library is open

•	Guarantee that Measure B funds can only be spent on
library operations while the local funds already provided
cannot be reduced

“Measure B is good for our senior community”

Larry Lutz, Senior Advocate

•	Increase the book budget by 1500% so that more
updated reference and pleasure reading materials are
available

•	Enhance library technology to allow businesses and
community members access to a wider pool of
information

“Measure B is good for the business community”

Anita Daniels, Chair, Grass Valley/Nevada County
Chamber of Commerce

•	Measure B ends in five years!

“Measure B is good for all Truckee residents”

Kathleen Eagan, former Mayor, Town of Truckee

•	Provides a low cost means [1/8 of a cent] to ensure that
Nevada County maintains a healthy economic climate for
businesses, homeowners and families.

“Measure B is good for a healthy economic future for
Nevada County”

Larry Burkhardt, President, Nevada County
Economic Resources Council

Measure B guarantees local control. We set the priorities
and decide how to spend our money - not Sacramento!

Please vote YES on Measure B. It's a small price to pay for
our County’s economic vitality and our children's future. <favorend>










<favorsigs> Mark Johnson, Mayor, City of Grass Valley

Marguerite Leipzig, Lake Wildwood community liaison

Ralph Schaffarzick, M.D., Bear River Recreation and Parks
District Board

Sue Peterson, President, Nevada County Business
Association

Steve Casper, Truckee community leader <favorsigsend>










ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

(None Filed)