■&&.:.	'>lf§§ M^mgsm

SAMPLE
BALLOT

and

Voter Information Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED GENERAL ELECTION

COUNTY OF VENTURA

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3,1998

RICHARD D. DEAN, COUNTY CLERK

WARNING

Your polling place may have been
changed! See back cover for
polling place location.

• POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M. •

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

* SAVE THIS SAMPLE BALLOT TO HELP YOU LOCATE YOUR POLLING PLACE ON ELECTION DAY *

SAMPLE BALLOT

F

OFFICIAL BALLOT

GUBERNATORIAL GENERAL ELECTION
COUNTY OF VENTURA

November3, 1998

This ballot stub shall be torn off by precinct board member and handed to the voter.

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS		
CITY		
CITY OF SANTA PAULA		
AN ORDINANCE ADDING SECTIONS 37.90 1 THROUGH 37.98 TO THE CITY OF SANTA •- PAULA MUNICIPAL CODE TO ESTABLISH A 4.5% UTILITY TAX. Shall the voters adopt the proposed Ordinance to establish a utility tax of 4 charges for telephone, electricity, gas, water, wastewate and cable television, to be used exclusively to hire addit and Fire personnel and to increase Police and Fire servic and equipment?	Yes	
	No	+
	.5% of the treatment, onal Police ss, salaries	
Shall an ordinance be adopted which amends lyi the Santa Paula General Plan in a manner v which restricts urban services and urban devel- opment to an area within a "City Urban Restric- tion Boundary" that includes all of the area within the Ci of Influence as it existed on April 13,1998, as well as G "Expansion Areas" known as "East Area 1", "East A "Fagan Canyon".	Yes	+
	No	+
	y’s Sphere eneral Plan rea 2" and	
Shall an ordinance be adopted which amends M the Santa Paula General Plan in a manner which restricts urban services and "urbanized uses of land" to an area within an urban growth boundary consisting of (he City boundaries as existed 1,1998?	Yes	+
	No	+
	on January	
DISTRICT		
UNITED WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT		
For Director, Division 1 Vole for One		
CLIFF FINLEY  Civil Engineer		+
F. W. (DICK) RICHARDSON  Incumbent		+
		+



56-671F	F

VOTE BOTH SIDES

CITY OF SANTA PAULA
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS*

MEASURE "L"

The City Council of the City of Santa Paula has proposed to impose a
utility users' tax of 4.5% of the charges for telephone, electricity, gas, water,
wastewater transport and treatment, and cable television to be used exclusively
to hire additional police and fire personnel and to increase police and fire
services, salaries and equipment above the amount of the general fund
budget for the 1998/1999 fiscal year.

The tax is to be implemented through an ordinance to be adopted by
the City Council, and to be effective should the measure pass by a two-thirds
(2/3) vote of the electorate.

The telephone tax applies to intrastate telephone services. It does not
include charges for pay phones, except when a coin-operated service is sup-
plied for a fixed amount, nor to land and maritime mobile services.

The electricity tax applies to electrical service provided in the City. It
does not apply to battery storage, but does apply to battery charging for vehi-
cles or machinery. Also, exempted is the receipt of energy for resale or to en-
ergy used in the production or distribution of water by a water utility or
governmental entity.

The gas tax is on all gas delivered through mains or pipes or mobile
transport. It does not apply to charges made for gas delivered through mains
or pipes for resale, gas used and consumed by a gas public utility or
governmental agency in the conduct of business, gas used by an electrical
corporation to generate energy, or gas used to propel a motor vehicle.

The water tax is assessed for water usage in the City. Excluded from
the water tax is water delivered through mains or pipes for resale and water
consumed by a municipal water department, public utility or municipal water
district for water consumed by it.

The wastewater transport and treatment users tax is assessed for
wastewater transport and treatment in the City.

The cable television users tax applies to all persons using cable television
services and includes wireless subscription services.

Penalties may be assessed against the service supplier for failure to
timely remit the amount of the tax collected to the City, and against the serv-
ice user for failure to pay the tax.

It is estimated that, in the first year, approximately $881,000 will be raised
from the tax.

Appropriations for personnel, salaries, benefits, equipment and other
expenses are to be made only to the extent the actual utility tax revenue col-
lected is adequate to fund those expenditures, and if it is less than adequate, re-
ductions may be made.

If utility tax revenues exceed the actual costs of providing the increased
Police and Rre services, salaries and equipment the City Council must
spend the excess revenue on other Police and Fire services and equipment.

If in future budget years overall City general fund revenues decline be-
low fiscal year 1998/1999, Police and Fire Department budgets will be sub-
ject to reductions in a proportion equal to, or less than, all other City general
fund departments.

"The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure "L". If you desire a
copy of the measure, please call the elections official's office at (805)
933-4208 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you."

'Section 9260 of the California Elections Code allows the City Attorney to prepare an Impartial Analysis for each
city measure appearing on the ballot.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "L"

Revenue to Santa Paula’s General Fund has not kept pace with the
safety service demands of our growing population. The Utility Tax will be
accounted for separately and will only be used to: add four police officers,
one emergency 911 dispatcher and three firefighters; begin a police car and
fire engine replacement fund and an investigations fund; replace old safety
equipment such as the jaws of life; form a narcotics and gang unit; as well
as improve general investigations and uniform patrol. A one-time 10% salary
increase for safety employees would bring their pay closer to, but still behind,
their counterparts countywide. A salary increase will help retain experienced fire-
fighters and police officers. Without added funding, the City cannot deliver
the services demanded by the public.

We have the same number of police officers authorized in 1972 when
the population was a third smaller. The City cannot replace high mileage
police cars or purchase a needed fire truck and emergency equipment. The
98/99 police budget is set at about the 92/93 levels. Narcotic, gang and
traffic units have been disbanded making enforcement difficult.

Santa Paula has the only two firefighters per fire engine operation left
in the County. We must soon comply with a Federal rule requiring firefighters to
wait until four firefighters are on scene before effectively attacking a fire. The
firefighters provided by this tax will ensure we have immediate and effective
fire fighting. The Fire Department’s newest engine is 10 years old. One engine
is 44 years old. Funding to Police and Fire can only be reduced if General
Fund revenue falls below the 98/99 revenues, and then only in an equal or
less proportion to the reduction of all other City Departments.

s/Walter H. Adair, Police Chief
s/Richard C. Araiza, Assistant Fire Chief

s/Daniel C. Campos, President of Santa Paula Professional Firefighters Assoc.

s/Jerry C. Byrum, Jr., Fire Engineer

s/Michael Saviers, President of Santa Paula Police Officers Assn.

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

56-66