rm

Sample Ballot

& Voter’s Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3,1998

Last day to register to vote in this election:

OCTOBER 5,1998

If you moved on or before the above date, you are eligible to vote in
your new precinct. If you moved after this date, you are eligible to vote
in your old or new precinct. For details and locations, call the Fresno
County Clerk/Registrar of Voters Office at 488-3246.

MARK YOUR VOTES AND USE THIS AT THE POLLS

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M. >""

I

VOTED ABSENT VOTER BALLOTS MUST BE RECEIVED
BY FRESNO COUNTY ELECTION OFFICIALS
NO LATER THAN 8:00 P.M. ON ELECTION DAY.

For Voting information Call 488-3246

Compiled by Fresno County Clerk/Registrar of Voters

INTERNET - http://www.fresno.ca.gov

Boleta de Muestra

y Folleto del Elector

ELECCION GENERAL CONSOLIDADA
MARTES, 3 DE NOVIEMBRE DE 1998

El plazo para empadronarse a votar en esta eleccion vence:

EL 01A 5 DE OCTUBRE DE 1998

Si usted cambio de direccion en la fecha de vencimiento indicada arriba o antes de la misma,
queda habilitado para votar en su nuevo sitio de votacion. Si usted cambio de direccion
despues de esta fecha, queda habilitado para votar o en su sitio de votacion actual o en su
sitio anterior. Para detalles y sitios de votacion favor de llamar a la Agencia de ia Oficiala del
Registro Civil/Empadronadora de Electores del Condado de Fresno al telefono 488-3246.

MARQUE SUS VOTOS EN ESTA BOLETA DE MUESTRA Y USELA EN SU SITIO
DE VOTACION.

EL SITIO DE VOTACION DONDE DEBE USTED ECHAR SU VOTO SEINDICA AL DORSO.
LAS URNAS ELECTORALES SE ABREN A LAS 7:00 DE LA MANANA Y
SE CIERRAN A LAS 8:00 DE LA NOCHE.

LAS BOLETAS DE ELECTOR AUSENTE YA VOTADAS DEBEN LLEGAR A MANOS
DE LOS OFICIALES DE LAS ELECCIONES DEL CONDADO. DP FRESNO A MAS
TARDAR PARA LAS 8:00 DE LA NOCHE DEL DIA DE LA ELECCION.

Boleta compilada por la Oficiala del Registro Civil/Empadronadora de
Electores del Condado de Fresno.

Para informes tocantes al proceso de votacion,
favor de llamar al telefono 488-3246.

NOTICE

Your polling place may have
been changed. See back cover.

AVISO

Puede haberse efectuado l

cambio en el sitio de>"'
de uc*'



10FC 10FC

8-13-98

10FC

CITY OF FOWLER UTILITY USERS TAX MEASURE D

t

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

ORDINANCE NO. 98-2

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF^THE CITY OF FOWLER
ADDING CHAPTER 7, OF TITLE 3, OFTHE'FOWLER MUNICIPAL CODE
PERTAINING TO UTILITY USERS TAX

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FOWLER DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. The City Council finds and determines as follows:

A)	The City is presently confronted with a fiscal crisis that threatens the continued operation and
viability of the City as a governmental organization. The City has operated in a deficit for the past three
fiscal years and anticipates another budget shortfall. There is a minimal level of administrative and staff
personnel in every department of the City and further cutbacks will be required within the immediate
future unless general revenues are increased beyond existing levels.

B)	The fiscal crisis will seriously impair the ability of the City to deliver basic and essential
governmental services, including, but not limited to, police protection, code enforcement to abate public
nuisances, and public works programs to maintain, repair and replace streets, sidewalks, light fixtures
and other public facilities. The lack of these services will result in a general deterioration of the physical
and social condition of the City, a depression of property values, a serious threat to the health, safety
and welfare of residents and visitors and significant decline in the quality of life experienced by those
who live or work within the City. These services directly affect every owner or occupant of real property
within the City and must be provided by any municipal government as a matter of necessity and not
individual choice.

Section 2. Chapter 7, of Title 3, is hereby added to the Fowler Municipal Code to read as follows:

CHAPTER 7. UTILITY USERS TAX

& - ...

Sections:

3-7.01	Short titles'
3-7.02	Purpose.
3-7.03	Definitions.
3-7.04	Exemptions.
3-7.05	Future Amendments Subject to Voter Approval: Supplemental Rules and Regulations.
3-7.06	Telephone Users Tax.
3-7.07	Electricity Users Tax.
3-7.08	Gas Users Tax.
3-7.09	Collection of Tax from Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Gas or Electricity.
3-7.10	Interest and Penalties.
3-7.11	Actions to Collect.
3-7.12	Duty to Collect: Procedures.
3-7.13	Tax Administrator: Powers and Duties.
3-7.14	Tax Administrator: Assessment; Payment; Penalty.
3-7.15	Records.
3-7.16	Refunds.
3-7.17	Penalty.

(Measure D Continued)

3-7.18	Termination or	Suspension of Tax.

3-7.19	Effective Date.

3-7.20	Sunset.

3-7.01 Short Title. This chapter shall be known as the “Utility Users Tax Ordinance.”

3-7.02 Purpose. The Utility Users Tax codified in this Chapter is enacted to raise revenue for
general governmental purposes of the City of Fowler. All of the proceeds of the tax imposed by this
Chapter shall be placed in the City’s general fund and used for the current expenses of the City as
determined by the City Council in making budgetary decisions.

3-7.03 Definitions. The following terms whenever used in this Chapter shall have the meanings
assigned to them in this section.

A.	“City” means the City of Fowler.

B.	“Commercial, industrial, and agricultural service" means electric or gas service provided by
a service supplier to commercial, industrial, and agricultural users and which does not otherwise fall
within the definition of “residential service.”

C.	“Month” means a calendar month.

D.	“Person” means any natural person, domestic or foreign corporation, company, firm,
association, organization, society, syndicate, joint stock company, partnership of any kind, joint venture,'
club, Massachusetts business or common law trust, business trust of any kind, or the manager, lessee,
agent, servant, officer or employee of any of these.

E.	“Residential service” means electric or gas service provided by a service supplier to
residential users and includes service to single family dwellings, apartments, condominiums and
cooperatives separately metered by the service supplier, service to common areas in a multi-family
complex, and farm premises operated by the person whose residence is supplied through the same
meter by the service supplier.

F.	“Service supplier” means any person required to collect or self-collect and remit a tax
imposed by this Chapter.

G.	“Service user” means a person required to pay a tax imposed by this Chapter.

H.	“Tax administrator” means the City Manager or such other person designated by the City
Council to administer the provisions of this Chapter.

I.	“Telephone corporation,” “electrical corporation," and “gas corporation” shall have the same
meanings as defined in Sections 234,218, and 222, respectively, of the California Public Utilities Code.
“Electrical corporation” shall be construed to include any municipality or franchised agency engaged in
the selling or supplying of electrical power to a service user.

3-7.04 Exemptions. Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person
when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of the Constitution of the United
States, the Constitution of the State of California, or any Federal or California State statute. Nor shall a
tax created by this Chapter be imposed upon the City or any of its departments, agencies, boards, or
commissions, or upon the Fowler Unified School District.

3-7.05 Future Amendments Subject to Voter Approval: Supplemental Rules and Regulations.

A.	No amendment to this Chapter that increases the rate of tax or extends the tax to a utility
service not covered by this Chapter may be made without a vote of the people. However, the City Council
may, by ordinance and without a vote of the people, amend this Chapter:

1.	To establish a utility tax rate lower than that approved by the voters;

2.	To alter the procedural and administrative provisions of this Chapter, including, but not limited
to, the tax collection obligations of utility providers, utility marketers, and utility customers;

3.	To reflect changes in the technology of the telecommunications, gas, or electric industry,
including, but not limited to, addressing the unbundling of service components and the
opening of the market to multiple service providers; or

4.	In any manner which does not increase the tax burden on any rate payer imposed by this

10VP29	8-30-98	1/5

1

10VP29

voter-approved tax.

B.	The City Council may also adopt, by resolution, supplemental rules and regulations consistent
with the purposes of this Chapter for the carrying out and enforcement of this Chapter. Such
supplemental rules and regulations shall have the same force and effect as if part of this Chapter, and a
violation of the supplemental rules and regulations shall be deemed a violation of this Chapter. .

3-7.06 Telephone Users Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person, other than a telephone corporation, using
intrastate telephone communication services in the City. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate of five percent (5%) of all charges made for such services and shall be paid by the person paying
for such services.

B.	As used in this section, “telephone communication services” means that service which
provides access to a telephone system for the privilege of telephone quality communications with
substantially ail persons having telephone stations which are part of such telephone system. “Telephone
communication services” do not include land mobile services or maritime mobile services as defined in
section 2.1 of title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall also include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange
for the telecommunication services.

I

D.	As used in this section, the term “charges” does not include charges for long distance or local
toll services provided by the service user’s long distance carrier, or charges for cellular
telecommunications; nor does the term charges include charges for services paid for by inserting coins
in coin-operated telephones except that where such coin-operated telephone service is furnished for a
guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly other periodic
charge shall be included in the base for computing the amount of tax due.

E.	The telephone users' tax is intended to, and does, apply to all charges billed to a telephone
account having a situs in the City, irrespective of whether a particular communication service originates
or terminates within the City. The situs shall be the service address, if known; otherwise, the billing
address.

F.	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the person whp
collects payment for the telephone communication services provided. The amount of tax collected in
one month shall be remitted by U.S. mail, to the Tax Administrator, postmarked on or before the last day
of the following month; or at the option of the person required to collect and remit the tax, an estimated
amount of tax, measured by the tax billed in the previous month, shall be remitted by U.S. mail, to the
Tax Administrator, postmarked on or before the last day of each month. Remittance of tax may be

. predicted on a formula based upon the payment pattern of the supplier's customers.	1

G.	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections A and B of this section, the tax imposed unde'r
this section shall not be imposed upon any person for using intrastate telephone communication
services to the extent that the amount paid for such services are exempt from or not subject to the tap
imposed under Section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code or Division 2, part 20, of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.

3-7.07 Electricity Users Tax.

A.	There is imposed a tax upon every person in the City using electrical energy in the City. For
residential service, the tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of five percent (5%) of all charges
made for such energy and shall be paid by the person paying for such energy. For commercial,
industrial, and agricultural service, the tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three percent
(3%) of all charges made for such energy and shall be paid by the person paying for such energy.
“Charges,” as used in this section, shall include:

1.	Commodity charges for purchased electricity, including charges for metered energy;

2.	Transportation charges not included in commodity charges;

3.	Capacity or demand charges, service charges, customer charges, standby charges, minimum
charges, and all other annual and monthly charges, fuel, or other cost adjustments authorize^

by the State Public Utilities Commissioner or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission; and

4.	Supplemental services related to the provision of electricity, including charges for wheeling,
transmission, or distribution; and standby, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support,
regulation, emergency, or other similar services.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges" shall also include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange
for the electricity or services related to the provision of such electricity.

C.	As used in this section, the term “using electrical energy” shall not be construed to mean the
storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned or possessed by him for such use in an
automobile or other machinery or device apart from the premises upon which the energy was received;
provided, however, that the term shall include the receiving of such energy for the purpose of using it in
the charging of batteries; nor shall the term include electricity used and consumed by an electric utility
supplier in the conduct of its business as an electric public utility; nor shall the term include the mere
receiving of such energy by an electric public utility or governmental agency at a point within the City
for resale; or the use of such energy in the production or distribution of water by a public utility or a
governmental agency.

D.	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the person who
collects payment for the electric services provided. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be
remitted by U.S. mail, to the Tax Administrator, postmarked on or before the last day of the following
month; or at the option of the person required to collect and remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax,
measured by the tax billed in the previous month, shall be remitted by U.S. mail, to the Tax Administrator,
postmarked on or before the last day of each month. Remittance of tax may be predicted on a formula
based upon the payment pattern of the supplier’s customers.

3-7.08 Gas Users Tax.	^

A.	There is imposed a tax upon every person in the City using gas in the City which is delivered
through mains or pipes. For residential service, the tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of
five percent (5%) of all charges made for such gas and shall be paid by the person paying for such gas.
For commercial, industrial, and agricultural service, the tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate
of three percent (3%) of all charges made for such energy and shall be paid by the person paying for
such energy. “Charges,” as used in this section shall include:

1.	Commodity charges for purchased gas which is delivered through mains or pipes, including
metered energy;

2.	Transportation charges not included in commodity charges; and

3.	Capacity or demand charges, service charges, customer charges, standby charges, minimum
charges, and all other annual and monthly charges, fuel, or other cost adjustments authorized
by the State Public Utilities Commissioner or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall also include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in exchange
for the gas or services related to the delivery of such gas.

C.	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this section is computed:

1.	Charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through mains or pipes;

2.	Charges made for gas sold for use in the generation of electrical energy or for the production
or distribution of water by a public utility or governmental agency;

3.	Charges made by a gas public utility for gas used and consumed in the conduct of business
of gas public utilities; and

4.	Charges made for gas useful in-the propulsion of a motor vehicle, as the phrase is defined in
the Vehicle Code of the stale, utilizing natural gas.

D.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by the person who
collects payment for the gas services provided. The amount of tax collected in one month shall be
remitted by U.S. mail, to the Tax Administrator, postmarked on or before the last day of the following
month; or at the option of the person required to collect and remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax,

10VP30	8-30-98	2/5

10VP30

(Measure D Continued)

measured by the tax billed in the previous month shall be remitted by U.S. mail, to the Tax Administrator,
postmarked on or before the last day of each month. Remittance of tax may be predicted on a formula
based upon the payment pattern of the supplier’s customers.

3-7.09 Collection of Tax from Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Gas or Electricity.

A.	Any service user subject to the tax imposed by Sections 3-7.07 and 3-7.08 which receives
gas or electricity directly from a non-utility supplier (Energy Service Provider or ESP) not under the
jurisdiction of this Chapter, or which otherwise is not having the full tax due on the use of gas or
electricity in the City that is directly billed and collected by the person who collects payment for the gas
or electricity or the service supplier, shall report that fact to the Tax Administrator and shall remit the tax
due directly to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use. In lieu of paying such actual
tax, the service user may, at its option, remit to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use
an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month, or upon the pattern
payment of similar customers of the service supplier using similar amounts of gas or electricity provided
that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty
(60) days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be
applied against any subsequent tax that becomes due.

B.	The Tax Administrator may require the service user to identify its non-utility supplier and
provide, subject to audit, invoices, books of account, or other satisfactory evidence documenting the
quantity of gas or electricity used and the cost or price thereof. If the service user is unable to provide
such satisfactory evidence, or, if the administrative cost of calculating the tax, in the opinion of the Tax
Administrator, is excessive, the Tax Administrator may determine the tax by applying a tax rate to the
equivalent charges the service user would have incurred if the gas or electricity used had been provided
by the service supplier, which is the primary provider of gas or electricity within the City. Rate schedules
for this purpose shall be available from the Tax Administrator.

3-7.10 Interest and Penalties.

A.	Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the City on or before the due
dates provided in this Chapter are delinquent and are subject to penalties and interest as set forth in this
section.

B.	Penalties for delinquency in, remittance of any tax collected or any deficiency determination,
shall attach and be paid by the service supplier at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax
collected or imposed by the provisions of this Chapter.

C.	Every penalty imposed under the provisions of this subsection shall become a part of the tax
required to be remitted.

D.	When fraud or gross negligence in reporting and remitting tax collections is discovered, the
Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties of up to twenty percent (20%) of
the taxes owed upon the service supplier under the provisions of this Chapter.

E.	Any service supplier required to remit to the Tax Administrator delinquent taxes as required
in this section, shall pay interest at the rate of one and one-half percent (1 fi%) per month or portion
thereof, on the amount of tax owed exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the tax first became
delinquent until paid.

F.	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections B and E of this section, no penalty or interest
shall be applied if the delinquencies are the result of natural disasters or other phenomena beyond the
control of the service supplier, provided the service supplier notifies the Tax Administrator as soon as
normal communications permit.

3-7.11 Actions to Collect. Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of
this Chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from
a service user which has wilfully been withheld from the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed
to the City by the person required to collect and remit. Any person owing money to the City under the
provisions of this Chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for recovery of such
amount.

3-7.12 Duty to Collect: Procedures. The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this
Chapter shall be performed as follows:

(Measure D Continued)

A.	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and along with the
charges made in accordance with the regular billing practices of the service supplier. Where the amount
paid by a service user to a service supplier is less than the full amount of the charge and tax which has
accrued for the billing period, such amount and any subsequent payments by a service user may be
applied to the charge first until such charge has been fully satisfied. Any remaining balance shall be
applied to the taxes due, except in those cases where a service user pays the full amount of the charges
but notifies the service supplier of his refusal to pay the tax imposed on the charges.

i B. The duty to collect tax from a service user shall commence with the beginning of the first full
regular billing period applicable to the service user where all charges normally included in such regular
billing are subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Where a person receives more than one billing, one
or more being for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing
period.

'	3-7.13 Tax Administrator: Powers and Duties.

A.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is directed to enforce each and all
of the provisions of this Chapter.

, B. The Tax Administrator may make administrative agreements to vary the strict requirements
of this Chapter so that collection of any tax imposed herein may be made in conformance with the billing
procedures of a particular service supplier so long as the agreements result in collection of the tax in
conformance with the general purpose and scope of this Chapter. A copy of each such agreement shall*
be on file in the Tax Administrator’s office.

, C. The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a right to
exemption from the tax imposed by this Chapter. The Tax Administrator shall provide the service
supplier with the name of any person who the Tax Administrator determines is exempt from the tax
imposed hereby, together with the address and account number to which service is supplied to any such
exempt person. The Tax Administrator shall notify the service supplier of the termination of any person’s
right to exemption hereunder, or the change of any address to which service is supplied to any exempt
person.

!	3-7.14 Tax Administrator: Assessment: Payment: Penalty.

1 A. The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes not remitted by a person required
to remit.

i B. Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has deliberately withheld the
amount of the tax owed by such user from the amounts remitted to a service supplier, or that a service
user has refused to pay the amount of the tax for a period of two (2) or more billing periods, or whenever
the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, the Tax Administrator shall relieve the
service supplier of the obligation to collect taxes due under this Chapter from certain named service
users for specified billing periods.

i C. The service supplier shall provide the City with amounts refused along with the names,
addresses and reasons of the service users refusing to pay the tax imposed under the provisions of this
Chapter.

D.	The Tax Administrator shall notify the service user that the Tax Administrator has assumed
responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes. The
notice shall be served on the service user by handing it to him personally or by deposit of the notice in
the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user at the address to which
pilling was made by the person required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have changed his
address, to his last known address. If a service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within
fifteen (15) days from the date of the service of the notice upon him, which shall be the date of mailing
if service is not accomplished in person, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax
set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than five dollars ($5.00). The penalty shall become
part of the tax herein required to be paid.

3-7.15 Records.

1 A. It shall be the duty of the service supplier to keep and preserve, for a period of not less than
three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of tax as the service supplier

I

i10VP31	8-30-98	3/5

10VP31

(Measure D Continued)

may have been liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax
Administrator shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

B.	The Tax Administrator may request from a person providing transportation services of gas or
electricity to service users within the City a list of the names and addresses of its transportation
customers within the City pursuant to Section 6354(e) of Chapter 2.5 of Division 3 of the California
Public Utilities Code.

3-7.16 Refunds.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter it may be
refunded as provided in this section provided that a claim is filed as set forth in this section.

B.	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant files a claim
with the City of Fowler and establishes his or her right thereto by written records showing entitlement
thereto within one (1) year of the date of the accrual of the cause of action. A cause of action shall be
considered to have accrued as of the date of the alleged overpayment or the date of the second payment
if the claim is that it was paid more than once, or on the date of the erroneous or illegal collection if the
claim is that it has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator. The claim
shall be filed in accordance with Section 1-6.01 of this Code and in accordance with California
Government Code sections 910 through 915.2. If the City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim
within the time prescribed by Government Code section 912.4, the claim shall be deemed to have been
rejected by the City Council on the last day of the period within which the City Council was required to
act upon the claim as provided in Government Code section 912.4. Such claims shall further be subject
to the provisions of Government Code sections 945 through 946 relating to the prohibition of suits in
the absence of presentation of claims and action thereon by the City Council.

C.	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A, a service supplier may claim a refund or take
as credit against taxes collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously
or illegally collected or received when it is established that the service user from whom the tax has been
collected did not owe the tax, provided however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless
the amount of the tax so collected has either been refunded to the service user or credited to charges
subsequently payable by the service user to the person required to collect and remit.

D.	A service supplier that has collected any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax
imposed by this Chapter and actually due from a service user, may refund such amount to the service
user and claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due upon any other
monthly returns, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than six (6) months from the
date of overpayment.

E.	Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, whenever a service supplier, pursuant to an
order of the California Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, makes a refund
to service users of charges for past utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to this Chapter on the
amount of such refunded charges shall also be refunded to service users, and the service supplier shall
be entitled to claim a credit for such refunded taxes against the amount of tax which is due upon the
next monthly return, in the event this Chapter is repealed, the amounts of any refundable taxes will be
borne by the City.

F.	A service supplier may refund the taxes collected to the service user in accordance with this
section or by the service supplier’s customary practice.

3-7.17 Penalty. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable pursuant to Section 1.2.01 through 1.2.07 of the Fowler Municipal
Code.

3-7.18 Termination or Suspension of Tax. The service supplier shall, upon notification, terminate
or suspend any utility users tax commencing with the first full billing period which occurs after the
effective date of such action by the City council.

3-7.19 Effective Date. The Utility Users Tax codified in this Chapter shall go into effect on January
1,1999.

3-7.20 Sunset. The Utility Users Tax codified in this Chapter shall expire on January 1, 2006,

(Measure D Continued)
unless sooner terminated.

Section 3. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this Ordinance is for any
reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The City Council of the
City of Fowler declares that it would have adopted this Ordinance and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase or portion thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 4. This Ordinance shall be subject to ratification by the voters at the November 3,1998, election
and the Council hereby calls for an election of this Ordinance as set forth in a separate resolution, said
election to be consolidated with the next regularly scheduled local election on November 3,1998. If a
majority of the voters approve of this Ordinance at the election, this Ordinance shall become effective
November 4,1998, and the Utility Users Tax shall go into effect January 1,1999.

APPROVED:

s/Joe Manis
MAYOR

s/ Jeannie Davis
CITY CLERK

The foregoing ordinance was introduced and read at a special meeting of the City Council of the City of
Fowler held on the 8th day of July 1998, and passed and adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council
of the City of Fowler held on the 21st day of July, 1998, by the following vote:

AYES: MONIS, SERRATO, FERNANDEZ & SIMONIAN
NOES: NONE
ABSTAIN: NONE
ABSENT: NONE

The foregoing ordinance is hereby approved this 21st day of July, 1998
DATED: 7-21-98

s/Jeannie Davis
CITY CLERK

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY

There currently does not exist within the City of Fowler a City imposed tax upon utilities. This
proposition, if approved by a majority of the voters voting on it, will authorize the City of Fowler to
impose taxes upon users of electricity, gas, and telephone service within the City of Fowler. The tax rate
will be as follows:

•	Five percent (5%) upon residential users of electricity and gas based upon monthly charges for the
electricity and gas service.

•	Three percent (3%) upon commercial, industrial, and agricultural users of electricity and gas based
upon monthly charges for the electricity and gas service.

•	Five percent (5%) upon ail users of telephones based upon monthly charges for the local telephone
service. The telephone tax will not be imposed upon long distance services provided by the
telephone user’s long distance carrier or upon cellular services.

The tax will be effective January 1,1999 and automatically terminates on January 1, 2006. The City
Council may elect to terminate the tax sooner.

The tax will be implemented through Srdinance 98-2 approved by the City Council on July 21,1998. The
revenue collected from the Utility User's Tax will be placed into the City’s general fund which can be used
for general municipal purposes.

s/ Thomas J. Riggs
Fowler City Attorney

10VP32	8-30-98	4/5

10VP32

(Measure D Continued)

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

YOUR YES VOTE ON THE CITY OF FOWLER'S UTILITY TAX INITIATIVE ENABLES THE CITY TO
CONTINUE PROVIDING CITIZENS THE CURRENT LEVEL OF MUNICIPAL SERVICES.

The City faces a fiscal crisis that threatens the ability of the City to fund the operating expenses of various
departments. A reduction or elimination of basic and essential services impairs the overall quality of
life for those who live and work in Fowler. Without an adequate level of governmental services, property
values, and the health, welfare and safety of the City’s residents could be jeopardized.

Several factors have contributed to this problem. The major cause is that no major development has
occurred within the City limits, and revenue from sales and property taxes have not increased
proportionately in relation to inflation.

For the City to continue its current level of services, a temporary 5 percent utility tax is being proposed.
If approved by the voters it would become effective January 1,1999 and would automatically expire on
December 31, 2006. No extension will be permitted without approval by the voters of Fowler via the
election process. The tax would be applicable to gas, electric and telephone services.

The City has taken strong measures to alleviate this fiscal crisis. Without further impairing the level of
services, the City has consolidated the City Manager and Chief of Police positions, consolidated some
services with the City of Selma and revised the budgeting procedures for all departments. The City has
also obtained two $ 500,000 grants for economic development and, the Redevelopment Agency was
successful in negotiating a larger share of property tax dollars for the City.

THE CHOICE TO MAINTAIN THE CURRENT LEVELS OF SERVICE IS YOURS. PLEASE JOIN THE FOWLER
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE IN VOTING “YES” ON THE CITY OF FOWLER USERS UTILITY TAX
ORDINANCE.

s/ Cruz W Ramos
President

Fowler Chamber of Commerce

NO ARGUMENT WAS FILED AGAINST THIS MEASURE



4

%

'.A

CD

10VP33	8-30-98

J

5/5

10VP33