COUNTY MEASURE B

Shall the County impose a retail sales tax of one-quarter percent for a period of ten years, effective July 1, 1998, in order to raise revenue for
essential county public services?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

MEASURE B is a local ballot measure which proposes to raise the retail sales tax charged in Del Norte County by one-quarter of one-percent
(1/4%). A YES vote on this measure is a vote in favor of imposing this increase in the retail sales tax. A NO vote is a vote against the imposition
of this increase in the retail sales tax.

The increase in the sales tax will take place only if a majority of the voters approve of MEASURE B on June 2,1998. If approved, MEASURE
B will impose the additional sales tax for a period of ten (10) years and no longer. MEASURE B imposes the sales tax increase in both the
incorporated and unincorporated areas of Del Norte County.

The money generated by the passage of MEASURE B will become general fund revenue of the County of Del Norte. The Board of
Supervisors in a recent resolution have stated that the increased general fund revenue will be used to fund essential county services such as the
need for at-risk youth prevention programs and a new juvenile hall facility.

si Robert N. Black
Del Norte County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

In 1992, the voters of Del Norte County approved a one half of one percent sales tax measure to assist in the funding of vital County services.
The County Board of Supervisors made a commitment to utilize these monies for costs related to the State mandated closure of the County
landfill. This half-cent sales tax will go away, effective June 30,1998, having successfully funded a most pressing need in our community.

The community was successful in its efforts to deal with the landfill problem, but we still have other needs. The youth of Del Norte County are our
most valuable resource and our community needs to ensure they are given every opportunity to achieve success and happiness. A one-quarter
of one cent sales tax would enable our community to realize many of the programs and facilities our children and families need and deserve. It
would enable the youth/community center to become a reality. It would allow us to build needed youth recreation and sports facilities. It would
provide alternatives to those “at risk” youth who need activities and direction for their future and the Community’s. It would enrich our children’s
lives through cultural programs and events. Simply, It would allow us to invest in our children and youth.

In 1992, the residents of Del Norte County approved a measure to fund the closing of a “dump”. In 1998, we are requesting your support in
approving another measure, which will support needed programs, activities and facilities for our children. The Del Norte County Board of
Supervisors has pledged their commitment to our youth by placing this issue on the ballot, so please show your support for our community’s future
and vote “Yes" on Measure “B”.

s/ Martha McClure, Member

Del Norte County Board of Supervisors
si Tim Goodman
County Administrative Officer
si Dwayne Reichlin, Member
Parks and Recreation Commission
President, Hambro Forest Products/Snoozie Shavings

s/ Kathy Stephens, Chair
Del Norte Youth/Community Center Task Force

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

08-507

08507