RESOLUTION NO. 3285

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ARROYO
GRANDE, CALIFORNIA, CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF THE
HOLDING OF A GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD IN
THE CITY ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1998, FOR THE ELECTION
OF CERTAIN OFFICERS OF THE CITY AND FOR SUBMISSION OF
PROPOSED MEASURES

WHEREAS, under the provisions of the laws relating to General Law Cities in the State
of California, a General Municipal Election shall be held on November 3, 1998, for the
election of a Mayor and two members of the City Council; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Arroyo Grande, California, desires to submit
to the voters of the City at a General Municipal Election proposed measures relating to
an increase in the Transient Occupancy Tax, making the offices of City Clerk and City
Treasurer appointive, and continuing to collect a Utility Users Tax; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized and directed by statute to submit the
proposed measures to the voters.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ARROYO GRANDE,
CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE, AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California
relating to General Law cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the City of
Arroyo Grande, California, on Tuesday, November 3, 1998, a General Municipal
Election for the purpose of electing a Mayor of the City for a full term of two years and
two members of the City Council for full terms of four years. In addition, the election will
be held for the purpose of submitting the following measures:

CITY OF ARROYO GRANDE		
MEASURE	YES	
Shall the City increase the		
Transient Occupancy Tax (hotel/motel bed tax) from 6% to 10%, effective January 1,1999?	NO	

CITY OF ARROYO GRANDE		
MEASURE	YES	
Beginning January 1, 2001, shall		
the offices of City Clerk and City		
Treasurer be appointive?	NO	

CITY OF ARROYO GRANDE		
MEASURE	YES	
Shall the City continue to collect		
a Utility Users Tax, currently at 2.4%?	NO	

SECTION 2. That the ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content as
required by law.

SECTION 3. That the City Clerk is authorized, instructed, and directed to procure and
furnish any and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and all supplies, equipment
and paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to properly and lawfully conduct the
election.

SECTION 4. That the polls shall be open at seven o’clock a.m. on the day of the
election and shall remain open continuously from that time until eight o’clock p.m. of the
same day when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section 14401 of the
Elections Code of the State of California.

SECTION 5. That in all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 6. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the
City Clerk is authorized, instructed, and directed to give further or additional notice of
the election, in the time, form, and manner as required by law.

SECTION 7. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

On motion of Council Member Tolley	,	seconded by Council

Member Fuller	,	and	on	the following roll call vote, to wit:

AYES:Council Member Tolley, Fuller, Lady, Runels, and Mayor Dougall
NOES: None
ABSENT: None

the foregoing Resolution was passed and adopted this 12th day of May, 1998.

ATTEST:

'i\(UAfXL fl' OtUHM^

NANCY A. 9AVIS, CITY CLERK
APPROVED AS TO CONTENT:

IAqsL fillip ___________

ROBERT L HUNT, CITY MANAGER
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

, CITY ATTORNEY

I, NANCY A. DAVIS, City Clerk of the City of Arroyo Grande, County of San Luis
Obispo, State of California, do hereby certify under penalty of perjury that the foregoing
Resolution No. 3285 is a true, full, and correct copy of said Resolution passed
and adopted this 12th day of May, 1998.

WITNESS my hand and Seal of the City of Arroyo Grande, affixed this 19 th day of May,
1998.

7? gA&' QiXJrtsLs

NANCY A. D^VIS, CITY CLERK

ORDINANCE NO. 468 C.S.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ARROYO GRANDE
AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 454 C.S.

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ARROYO GRANDE DOES ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: Arroyo Grande Municipal Code Section 3-3.604(a) is hereby amended to
read in its entirety as follows:

Sec. 3-3.604 Telephone Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax on the amounts paid for any intrastate,
interstate or international telephone services by every person in the City using
such services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three and
eight-tenths percent (3.8%) of the charges made for such services and shall be
paid by the person paying for such services.

SECTION 2: Arroyo Grande Municipal Code Section 3-3.605(a) is hereby amended to
read in its entirety as follows:

Sec. 3-3.605 Electricity Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person other than an electric or gas
corporation using electrical energy in the City. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate of three and eight-tenths percent (3.8%) of the charges made
for such energy by an electrical corporation providing service in the City and
shall be billed to and paid by the person using the energy. The tax applicable to
electrical energy provided by a non-utility supplier shall be determined by
applying the tax rate to the equivalent charge the service user would have incurred
if the energy used had been provided by the electrical corporation franchised by
the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from the City. Non-
utility suppliers shall install, maintain and use an appropriate utility-type metering
system which will enable compliance with this section. "Charges," as used in this
section, shall include charges made for: (1) metered energy and (2) minimum
charges for service, including customer charges, service charges, demand charges,
standby charges and all other annual and monthly charges, fuel or other cost
adjustments, authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission or the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

SECTION 3: Arroyo Grande Municipal Code Section 3-3.606(a) is hereby amended to
read in its entirety as follows:

Sec. 3-3.606 Gas Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City other than a gas
corporation or electrical corporation, using, in the City, gas which is transported
through mains or pipes or by mobile transport. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate of three and eight-tenths percent (3.8%) of the charges made
for the gas and shall be billed to and paid by the person using the gas. The tax
applicable to gas or gas transportation provided by non-utility suppliers shall be
determined by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service user
would have incurred if the gas or gas transportation has been provided by the gas
corporation franchised by the City. "Charges," as used in this section, shall
include: (1) that billed for gas which is delivered through mains or pipes; (2) gas
transportation charges; and (3) demand charges, service charges, customer
charges, minimum charges, annual and monthly charges, and any other charge
authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission.

SECTION 4: Arroyo Grande Municipal Code Section 3-3.608(a) is hereby amended to
read in its entirety as follows:

Sec. 3-3.608 Water Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using water
which is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section shall
be at the rate of three and eight-tenths percent (3.8%) of the charges made for
such water and shall be paid by the person paying for such water.

SECTION 5: Arroyo Grande Municipal Code Section 3-3.609(a) is hereby amended to
read in its entirety as follows:

Sec. 3-3.609 Sewer Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using sewer
service by which wastewater is carried through pipe or conduit. The tax imposed
by this section shall be at the rate of three and eight-tenths percent (3.8%) of the
charges made for such sewer service and shall be paid by the person paying for
such sewer service.

-2-

SECTION 6: Arroyo Grande Municipal Code Section 3-3.610(a) is hereby amended to
read in its entirety as follows:

Sec. 3-3.610 Cable Television Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using cable
television service. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of three
and eight-tenths percent (3.8%) of the charges made for such service and shall be
paid by the person paying for such service.

SECTION 7: Arroyo Grande Municipal Code Section 3-3.611 is hereby amended to read
in its entirety as follows:

Sec. 3-3.611 Hardship Exemptions.

(a)	The taxes imposed by this article shall not apply to any individual who
uses telephone, electric, gas, water sewer or cable services in or upon any
residential premises occupied by such individual, if the combined gross income
of all members of the household in which such individual resided was at or below
California Department of Housing and Community Development Block Grant
income limits for lowest targeted households in San Luis Obispo County for the
calendar year prior to the fiscal year (July 1 through June 30) for which the
exemption provided in this section is applied for.

The exemption available under this section shall not eliminate the duty of
the service supplier to collect taxes from any service user, nor eliminate the duty
of any service user to pay such taxes to the service supplier, unless and until an
exemption is applied for by the service user and granted in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (c) hereof.

(b)	Any individual subject to the taxes imposed by this article upon any
residential premises occupied by such individual and separately subject to such
taxes upon any business premises owned or leased and occupied by such
individual, or by a business entity owned or controlled by such individual, shall
be entitled to apply for an exemption from those taxes imposed by this article
upon said residential premises or said business premises.

The exemption available under this subsection shall only apply to the lower
amount of those taxes imposed upon utility services used at both the individual’s
residential premises and business premises. Additionally, the exemption available
under this section shall not eliminate the duty of the service supplier to collect
taxes from any service user, nor eliminate the duty of any service user to pay

-3-

such taxes to the service supplier, unless and until an exemption is applied for by
the service user and granted in accordance with the provisions of subsection (c)
hereof.

(c)	Any service user who is eligible for an exemption from the taxes imposed
by this article may file an application with the Tax Administrator for an
exemption. Such application shall be made upon forms supplied by the Tax
Administrator and shall, under penalty of perjury, recite facts which qualify the
applicant for an exemption. The Tax Administrator shall review all such
applications and certify as exempt those applications determined to qualify
therefor under subsections (a) or (b) and shall notify all service suppliers affected
that such exemption has been approved, stating the name of the applicant, the
address to which such exempt service is being supplied, the account number, if
any, and such other information as may be necessary for the service supplier to
remove the exempt service user from its tax billing procedure. Upon receipt of
such notice, the service supplier shall not be required to continue billing the
exempt service user for taxes imposed by this article until further notice is given
by the Tax Administrator. The service supplier shall eliminate such exempt
service user from its tax billing procedure no later than sixty (60) days after
receipt of such notice from the Tax Administrator.

All exemptions certified by the Tax Administrator shall be effective for a
period of two (2) years and may thereafter be renewed upon application to the
Tax Administrator if the prerequisite facts supporting the previous qualification
for exemption shall continue; provided, however, that the exemption shall
automatically terminate with any change in the service address or residence of the
exempt individual. Such exempt individual may, however, apply for a new
exemption with each change of service address or residence. Any service user
exempt from the tax shall notify the Tax Administrator within ten (10) days of
any change in fact or circumstance which might disqualify said service user from
receiving such exemption. It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to knowingly
receive the benefits of any exemption provided by this section when the basis for
such exemption either does not exist or ceases to exist.

Every service supplier is authorized to bill the tax imposed by this article
to any new service user or to any account on which the service user’s name has
been changed (excluding changes attributable to spelling errors or other clerical
errors) until such time as the service supplier receives notification from the Tax
Administrator that an exemption has been granted pursuant to this section.
Following receipt of such notification, the service supplier shall eliminate such
exempt service user from its tax billing procedure no later than sixty (60) days
thereafter.

SECTION 8: Arroyo Grande Municipal Code Section 3-3.622 is hereby amended to read
in its entirety as follows:

Sec. 3-3.622 De-escalation.

(a)	The tax rate imposed in sections 3-3.604 through 3-3.610, inclusive, of
this article shall, each fiscal year, automatically decrease by one-tenth of one
percent (.1%) for each increase of eighteen thousand dollars ($18,000) in City
utility users tax revenue over utility users tax revenue for the prior fiscal year.

(b)	The tax rate imposed in sections 3-3.604 through 3-3.610, inclusive, of this article
shall, each fiscal year, automatically decrease by one-tenth of one percent (. 1 %) for each
increase of $18,000 in actual revenues received by City less actual expenditures paid by
City over actual revenues received by the City less actual expenditures paid by the City
for the prior fiscal year.

(c)	As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, the Tax
Administrator shall obtain all information and documentation necessary to
determine the tax rate under subsections (a) and (b) hereof. The Tax Administra-
tor shall promptly notify all affected service suppliers of said tax rate.

SECTION 9: Except as modified and amended herein, Ordinance No. 454 C.S. as
amended shall remain valid and in full force and effect.

SECTION 10:	If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause

or phrase of this Ordinance or any part thereof is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this Ordinance or any part thereof. The
City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase be declared invalid.

SECTION-11:	This	Ordinance	shall	become	effective	immediately	upon	its

adoption.

SECTION 12:	Within fifteen (15) days after passage of this Ordinance, it shall be

published once, together with the names of the Council Members voting thereon, in a newspaper
of general circulation within the City.

On motion of Council Member Souza________________________________,	seconded	by	Council

Member Lady_______________________,	and	on	the	following	roll	call	vote,	to	wit:

AYES: Council Members Souza, Lady, Fuller, Brandy and Mayor Dougall
NOES: None
ABSENT: None

the foregoing Ordinance was passed and adopted the 24thday of October 1995.

A.K. "Pete" DOUGALL, MAYOR

ATTEST:

V7 fXAA^CJLL- Q**

NANCY DAV/S, CITY CLERK

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

LYON & CARMEL

ROGEI£LY<
CITY ATTORI

APPROVED AS TO CONTENT:



ROBERT L. HUNT
CITY MANAGER

ORDINANCE NO. 468 C.S.

*

I, NANCY A. DAVIS, City Clerk of the city of Arroyo Grande, County
of San Luis Obispo, State of California, do hereby certify under
penalty of perjury that the foregoing Ordinance No. 468 C.S. is a
true, full and correct copy of said Ordinance passed and adopted at
a regular meeting of the.City Council of the City of Arroyo Grande
on the 24th day of October, 1995.

WITNESS my hand and the Seal of the City of Arroyo Grande
affixed this 25th day of October / 1995.

a-

, CITY CLERK
CITY OF ARROYO GRANDE

ORDINANCE NO. 454 C.S.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ARROYO GRANDE
AMENDING CHAPTER 3 OF TITLE 3 OF THE
ARROYO GRANDE MUNICIPAL CODE BY ADDING THERETO
ARTICLE 6 ESTABLISHING A UTILITY USERS TAX

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ARROYO GRANDE DOES ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1:	Chapter	3	of	Title	3	of	the	Arroyo	Grande	Municipal	Code	is

hereby amended by adding Article 6 which shall read as follows:

ARTICLE 6

UTILITY USERS TAX

Sscikrn:

3-3.601

3-3.602

3-3.603

3-3.604

3-3.605

3-3.606

3-3.607

3-3.608

3-3.609

3-3.610

3-3.611

3-3.612

3-3.613

3-3.614

3-3.615

3-3.616

3-3.617

3-3.618

3.-3.619

3-3.620

3-3.621 '

3-3.622

Description and Purpose.

Definitions.

Exemptions.

Telephone Users Tax.

Electricity Users Tax.

Gas Users Tax.

Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Gas Or
Electricity.

Water Users Tax.

Sewer Users Tax.

Cable Television Users Tax.

Exemption Based on Combined Gross Income.

Remittance of Tax.

Actions to Collect.

Duty to Collect - Procedures.

Additional Power and Duties of Tax Administrator.
Assessment - Service User Administrative Remedy.
Records.

Refunds.

Termination or Suspension of Utility Users Tax.
Severability.

Operative Date.

Sunset Clause.

Sec, 3-3.601 Description and Purpose. This article shall impose a tax
upon the use of utility services in the City of Arroyo Grande. The purpose of this
(ax is to provide additional general revenue necessary to pay the usual and current
expenses of conducting the municfpai government of the City.

Sec. 3-3.602 Definitions. The following words and phrases whenever used
in this article shall be construed as defined in this section.

(a)	"Person" shall mean any domestic or foreign corporation, firm,
association, syndicate, joint stock company, partnership of any kind, joint
venture, club, Massachusetts business or common law trust, society, or individu-
als.

(b)	"City" shall mean the City of Arroyo Grande.

(c)	"Gas" shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternate
hydrocarbon fuel which may be substituted therefor.

(d)	"Telephone corporation," "electrical corporation," "gas corporation,"
"water corporation," and "cable television corporation" shall have the same
meanings as defined in Sections 234, 218, 222, 241, and 215-5, respectively, of

2 /pfl^INANCE no. 4 54 c.s.

the California Public Utilities Code except, "electrical corporation," "gas
corporation" and "water corporation", shall also be construed to include any
municipality, public agency or person engaged in the selling or supplying of
electrical power or gas or water to a service user.

(e)	"Tax Administrator" shall mean the Finance Director of the City of
Arroyo Grande.

(f)	"Service supplier" shall mean any entity required to collect or
self-impose and remit a tax as imposed by this article.

(g)	"Service user" shall mean a person required to pay a lax imposed by
this article.

(h)	"Mouth" shall mean a calendar month.

(i)	"Non-utility Supplier" shall mean: (a) a service supplier, other
than an electrical corporation serving within the City, which generates electrical
energy in capacities of at least 50 kilowatts for its own use or for sale to others;
or (b) a gas supplier other than a gas corporation, that sells or supplies gas to
users within the City.

Sec. 3-3.603 Exemptions.

(a)	Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of the
Constitution of the United States or that of the Slate of California.

(b)	The City Council may, by order or resolution, establish one or more
classes of persons or one or more classes of utility service otherwise subject to
payment of a tax imposed by this article and provide that such classes of persons
or service shall be exempt, in whole or in part from such tax.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall prepare a list of the persons exempt from
the provisions of this article by virtue of this section and furnish a copy thereof
to each service supplier.

• See,, 3-3.<pQ4Telcpb^ne ,Users Tax-

(a)	There is hereby imposed a lax on the amounts paid for any intrastate,
interstate or international telephone services by every person in the City using
such services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of five percent
(5 %) of the charges made for such services and shall be paid by the person paying
for such services.

(b)	As used in this section, the term "charges" shall not include charges
for services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones except that
where such coin-operated service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the ,
amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other periodic
charge shall be included in the base for computing the amount of lax due; nor
shall the term "charges" include charges for any type of service or equipment
furnished by a service supplied subject to public utility regulations during any
period in winch the same or similar services or equipment are also available for
sale or lease from persons other than a service supplier subject to public utility
regulation; nor shall the words "telephone communication services" include land
mobile service or maritime mobile services as defined in Section 2.1 of Title 47
of the Code of Federal Regulations, as said Section existed on January 1, 1970.
The term "telephone communication services" refers to that service which
provides access to a telephone system and the privilege of telephone quality
communication with substantially all persons having telephone stations which are
part of such telephone system. The Telephone Users Tax is intended to, and

-2-

249

>l<t)1 i-JARC 1:1 No .' 4 54 ‘C.S.

does, apply to all charges billed to a telephone account having a situs in the City,
irrespective of whether a particular,communication service originates and/or
terminates within the City.

(c)	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service
user by the person providing the intrastate, interstate or international telephone
communication services, or the person receiving payment for such services. The
amount of the tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator on or before the last day of the following month; or at the option
of the person required to collect and remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax
collected, measured by the tax bill in the previous month, shall be remitted to the
Tax Administrator on or before the last day of each month.

(d)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), the tax imposed
under this section shall not be imposed upon any person for using intrastate,
interstate or international telephone communication services to the extent that the
amounts paid for such services are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed
under Division 2, Part 20 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, or the
tax imposed under Section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code.

Sss. 3-3.6P.1 fileglricjiy-Ussra-TM.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person other than an
electric or gas corporation using electrical energy in the City. The tax imposed
by this section shall be at the rate of five percent (5 %) of the charges made for
such energy by an electrical corporation providing service in the City and shall
be billed to and paid by the person using the energy. The tax applicable to
electrical energy provided by a non-utility supplier shall be determined by
applying the tax rate to the equivalent charge the service user would have incurred
if the energy used had been provided by the electrical corporation franchised by
the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from the City.
Non-utility suppliers shall install, maintain and use an appropriate utility-type
metering system which will enable compliance with this section. "Charges," as
used in this section, shall include charges made for: (1) metered energy and (2)
minimum charges for service, including customer charges, service charges,
demand charges, standby charges and ail other annual and monthly charges, fuel
or other cost adjustments, authorized by the California Public Utilities Commis-
sion or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

(b)	As used in this section, the term "using electrical energy" shall not be
construed to mean the storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned or
possessed by him for use in an automobile or other machinery device apart from
the premises upon which the energy was received; provided, however, that the
term shall include the receiving of such energy for the purpose of using it in the
charging of batteries; nor shall the term include electricity used and consumed by
an electric utility supplier in the copduct of its business; nor shall the term include
the mere receiving of such energy by an electric corporation or governmental
agency at a point within the City of Arroyo Grande for resale; nor shall the term
include the use of such energy in the production or distribution of water by a
water utility or a governmental agency.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user
by the service supplier or non-utility supplier. The tax imposed in this section on
use supplied by self-generation or from a non-utility supplier not subject to the
jurisdiction of this article, shall be collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator
in the manner set forth in Section 3-3.607. The amount of tax collected by a
service supplier or a non-utility supplier in one month shall be remitted by U.S.
mail to the Tax Administrator, postmarked on or before the last day of the
following month; or at the option of the person required to collect and remit the
tax, an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month,

-3-

INANCIi NU. 4b'l C.S.

shall be remitted by U.S. mail, to the Tax Administrator, postmarked on or
before the last day of each month. t .

Sss, 3J-.6Q.6 -CfosJJ ssrsJfaa •

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City other
than a gas corporation or electrical corporation, using, in the City, gas which is
transported through mains or pipes or by mobile transport. The tax imposed by
this section shall be at the rate of five percent (5%) of the charges made for the
gas and shall be billed to and paid by the person using the gas. The tax
applicable to gas or gas transportation provided by non-utility suppliers shall be
determined by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service user
would have incurred if the gas or gas transportation has been provided by the gas
corporation franchised by the City. "Charges," as used in this section, shall
include: (1) that billed for gas which is delivered through mains or pipes; (2) gas
transportation charges; and (3) demand charges, service charges, customer
charges, minimum charges, annual and monthly charges, and any other charge
authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission.

(b)	The tax otherwise imposed by this section is not applicable to: (1)
charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through mains and
pipes; (2) charges made for gas used and consumed by a public utility or
governmental agency in the conduct of its business; or (3) charges made by a gas
public utility for gas used and consumed in the course of its public utility
business; and (4) charges made for gas used in the propulsion of a motor vehicle,
as authorized in the Vehicle Code of the Stale of California.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user
by the person selling or transporting the gas. A person selling only transportation
services to a user for delivery of gas through mains or pipes shall collect the tax
from the service user based on the transportation charges. The person selling or
transporting the gas shall, on or before the 20lh day of each calendar month,
commencing on the 20th day of the calendar month after the effective dale of this
article, make a return to the Tax Administrator stating the amount of taxes billed
during the preceding calendar month. At the time such returns are filed, the
person selling or transporting the gas shall remit tax payments to the Tax
Administrator in accordance with schedules established or approved by the Tax
Administrator. The lax imposed in this section on use supplied by self-production
or a non-utility supplier not subject to the jurisdiction of this article, shall be
collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator in the manner set forth in Section
3-3.607. ‘

Sec. 3-3.607 Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase Of Gas Or
Electricity.

#

(a)	Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, a service user
receiving gas or electricity directly from a non-utility supplier not under the
jurisdiction of this article, or otherwise not having the full tax due on the use of
gas or electricity in the City directly billed and collected by the service supplier,
shall report said fact to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of said use
and shall directly remit to the City the amount of tax due.

(b)	The Tax Administrator may require said service user to provide,
subject to audit, filed tax returns or other satisfactory evidence documenting the
quantity of gas or electricity used and the price thereof.

Sec. 3-3.608 Water Users Tax.

(a) There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using
water which is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section

251

'OKU l N/\NCJ£ NO. 4M C.S.

shall be at the rale of five percent (5%) of (lie charges made for such water and
shall be paid by the person paying for, such water.

r

(b) There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in
this section is computed, charges made for water which is to be resold and
delivered through mains or pipes; and charges made by a municipal water
department, public utility or a city or municipal water district for water used and
consumed by such department, utility or district.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user
by (he person supplying the water. The amount collected in one (1) month shall
be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following
month.

£ect 3:3,6Q9 Sgwer. Users. Ja&.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using
sewer service by which wastewater is carried through pipe or conduit. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rale of five percent (5%) of the charges
made for such sewer service and shall be paid by the person paying for such
sewer service.

(b)	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed
in this section is computed, charges made by a governmental entity for sewer
service used by such governmental entity.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service
user by the person supplying the sewer service. The amount collected in one (1)
month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the
following month.

Sec*. Cal2lg.X^l£yisiflti.llser£.Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using
cable television service. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of
five percent (5%) of the charges made for such service and shall be paid by the
person paying for such service.

(b)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user
by the person furnishing the cable television service. The amount collected in one
(1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of
the following month.

Sec. 3-3.61 i Exemption Based on Combined Gross Income.

(a) The taxes imposed by this article shall not apply to any individual
who uses telephone, electric, gas, water, sewer or cable services in or upon any
residential premises occupied by such individual, if the combined gross income
of all members of the household in which such individual resided was at or below
California Department of Housing and Community Development Block Grant
income limits for lowest targeted households in San Luis Obispo County for the
calendar year prior to the fiscal year (July 1 through June 30) for which the
exemption provided in this section is applied for.

The exemption available under this section shall not eliminate the
duty of the service supplier to collect taxes from any service user, nor eliminate
the duty of any service user to pay such taxes to the service supplier, unless and
until an exemption is applied for by the service user and granted in accordance
with the provisions of subsection (b) hereof.

-5-

2 ^ NU' ** ^ *y *

(b)	Any service user who is eligible for an exemption from the taxes
imposed by this article may file an application with the Tax Administrator for an
exemption. Such application shall'be made upon forms supplied by the Tax
Administrator and shall, under penally of perjury, recite facts which qualify the
applicant for an exemption. The Tax Administrator shall review all such
applications and certify as exempt those applications determined to qualify
therefor under subsection (a) and shall notify all service suppliers affected that
such exemption has been approved, stating the name of the applicant, the address
to which such exempt service is being supplied, the account number, if any, and
such other information as may be necessary for the service supplier to remove the
exempt service user from its tax billing procedure. Upon receipt of such notice,
the service supplier shall not be required to continue billing the exempt service
user for taxes imposed by this article until further notice is given by the Tax
Administrator. The service supplier shall eliminate such exempt service user
from its tax billing procedure no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of such
notice from the Tax Administrator.

All exemptions certified by the Tax Administrator shall be effective
for a period of two (2) years and may thereafter be renewed upon application to
the Tax Administrator if the prerequisite facts supporting the previous qualifica-
tion for exemption shall continue; provided, however, that the exemption shall
automatically terminate with any change in the service address or residence of the
exempt individual. Such exempt individual may, however, apply for a new
exemption with each change of service address or residence. Any service user
exempt from the tax shall notify the Tax Administrator within ten (10) days of
any change in fact or circumstance which might disqualify said service user from
receiving such exemption. It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to knowingly
receive the benefits of any exemption provided by this section when the basis for
such exemption either does not exist or ceases to exist.

Every service supplier is authorized to bill the tax imposed by this
article to any new service user or to any account on which the service user’s
name has been changed (excluding changes attributable to spelling errors or other
clerical errors) until such time as the service supplier receives notification from
the Tax Administrator that an exemption has been granted pursuant to this section.
Following receipt of such notification, the service supplier shall eliminate such
exempt service user from its tax billing procedure no later than sixty (60) days
thereafter.

Sec. 3-3.612 Remittance of Tax.

Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the Tax
Administrator on or before the due dates provided in this article are delinquent.
Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return may be
postmarked on the first regular working day following a Saturday, Sunday, or
legal holiday.

Sec. 3-3.613 Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this
article shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such lax
collected from a service user which has willfully been withheld from the Tax
Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the person required to
collect and remit. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of
this article shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the
recovery of such amount.

Sec. 3-3.614 Puty to Collect - Procedures.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this article shall be
performed as follows:

-6-

253

UKvilNANCI:; IK). *1 b4 C.b.

(a)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3-3.606(c), the tax shall be
collected insofar as practicable at the,same time as and along with the charges
made in accordance with the regular billing practices of the service supplier.
Where the amount paid by a service user to a service supplier is less than the full
amount of the service charge and tax which has accrued for the billing period,
such amount and any subsequent payments by a service user shall be applied to
the utility charge first until such charge has been fully satisfied. Any remaining
balance shall be applied to taxes due. In those cases where a service user has
notified the service supplier of his refusal to pay the tax imposed on said energy
charges, Section 3-3.616(c) will apply.

(b)	The duty to collect tax from a service user shall commence with the
beginning of the first full regular billing period applicable to the service user
where all charges normally included in such regular billing are subject to (he
provisions of this article. Where a person receives more than one billing, one or
more being for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise
separately for each billing.

Sec. .3-.3,fill AddiliQiiaLEflW6C.and-Biities.i2f.Tflx Atiminislralflf.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duly, and is hereby
directed, to enforce each and all of the provisions of this article.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to adopt rules and
regulations not inconsistent with provisions of this article for the purpose of
carrying out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes
herein imposed.

A copy of such rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Admini-
strator’s office.

(c)	The Tax Administrator may make administrative agreements to vary
the strict requirements of this article so that collection of any tax imposed hereby
may be made in conformance with the billing procedures of particular service
suppliers so long as said agreements result in collection of the tax in conformance
with the general purpose and scope of this article. A copy of each such
agreement shall be on file in the Tax Administrator’s office.

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person
who asserts a right to exemption from the tax imposed by this article. The Tax
Administrator shall provide the service supplier with the name of any person who
the Tax Administrator determines is exempt from the (ax imposed hereby,
together with the address and account number to which service is supplied to any
such exempt person. The Tax Administrator shall notify the service supplier of
termination of any person’s right to exemption hereunder, or the change of any
address to which service is supplied to any exempt person.

(e)	The Tax Administrator shall provide notice to all service suppliers, at
least ninety (90) days prior to any annexation or other change in the City’s
boundaries. Said notice shall set forth the revised boundaries by street and
address, along with a copy of the final annexation order from the Local Agency
Formation Commission.

Ses, 3-3,614,A§s^smsnL:..,Adinmis(fally£_R£]ii£dy.

(a) Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by him from the amounts
remitted to a person required to collect the lax, or that a service user has refused
to pay the amount of tax, such person may be relieved of the obligation to collect
taxes due under this article from certain named service users for specified billing
periods as set forth below.

2c$ijlNANCE NO. 454 C.S.	*	'	'	  ’*

(b) The service supplier shall provide the City with amounts refused
and/or unpaid along with the names at)d.addresses of the service users neglecting
to pay the tax imposed under provisions of this article. Whenever the service
user has failed to pay the amount of tax for a period of two (2) or more billing
periods, the service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect taxes
due.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the service user that the Tax
Administrator assumed responsibility to collect the taxes due for the staled periods
and demand payment of such taxes. The notice shall be served on the service
user by handing it to him personally or by deposit of the notice in the United
Stales mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user at the address
to which billing was made by the person required to collect the lax, or, should the
service user's address change, to the last known address. If a service user fails
to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within fifteen (15) days from the date
of the service of the notice upon him, which shall be the date of mailing if service
is not accomplished in person, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the
amount of the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than $5.00.
The penalty shall become part of the lax herein required to be paid.

Sec. 3-3.617 Records.

It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and remit to the
City any lax imposed by this article to keep and preserve, for a period of three
(3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as
he may have been liable for the remittance to the Tax Administrator, which
records the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable
times.

Sec. 3-3.618 Refunds.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any lax has been overpaid or paid more than
once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax
Administrator under this article, it may be refunded as provided in this section.

(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, a
service supplier may claim a refund; or take as credit against taxes remitted the
amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or
received when it is established that the service user from whom the tax has been
collected did not owe the tax; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a
credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the lax erroneously or illegally
collected has either been refunded to the service user or credited to charges
subsequently payable by the service user to the person required to collect and
remit. A service supplier that has collected any amount of tax in excess of the
amount of tax imposed by this article and actually due from a service user, may
refund such amount to the service user and claim credit for such overpayment
against the amount of tax which is due upon any other monthly returns, provided
such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than three (3) years from the dale
of overpayment.

(c)	Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, whenever a service
supplier, pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities Commission or a
court of competent jurisdiction, makes a refund to service users of charges for
past utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to this article on the amount of such
refunded charges shall also be refunded to service users, and the service supplier
shall be entitled to claim a credit for such refunded taxes against the amount of
tax which is due upon the next monthly returns. In the event this article is
repealed, the amounts of any refundable taxes will be borne by the City.

(d)	A service supplier may refund the taxes collected to the service user
in accordance with this section or by the service supplier’s customary practice.

-8-

255

tmi.'iNANCti NO. 4 54 C.S.

Sec. 3-3.619 Termination or Suspension of Utility Users Tax.

The service supplier shall,'"upon notification, terminate or suspend any
utility users tax commencing with the first full billing period which occurs after
the effective date of such action by the City Council.

SfiSi. 3:3*620 Severability-

If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase of this article or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitu-
tional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this
article or any part thereof. The City Council hereby declares that it would have
passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrases be declared unconstitutional.

Sep, 3-3,621 Operative Pats.

This ordinance shall become effective the 14lh day of September, 1993.

The tax imposed under this ordinance shall apply to bills rendered on or after
September 15, 1993, for utility services rendered on or after the effective'date of
this Ordinance.

Sss,. 3:3.632 §»nset Clause.

This ordinance shall expire on June 30, 1995, unless it is further extended
by another ordinance adopted by the City Council.

SECTION 2: This Ordinance shall become effective and be in full force and effect
immediately upon passage and within fifteen (15) days thereof, a summary shall be published
at least once in a newspaper of general circulation published and circulated in the City.

On motion of Council Member Burke________________________,	seconded	by	Council

Member Souza_________________,	and	on	the following roll call vote, to wit:

AYES: Council Members Burke, Souza, Brandy and Mayor Gallagher
NOES: None

ABSENT:	Council	Member	Moots

the foregoing Ordinance was passed and adopted this 14th day of September, 1993.

Nancy A. D^is, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Roger Lyon, City Attorney

-9-

2<jH^>INANCE NO. 454 C.S.

>

I •

'V

OFFICIAL CERTIFICATION

I, NANCY A. DAVIS, City Clerk Of the City of Arroyo Grande,
County of San Luis Obispo, State of California, do hereby certify
under penalty of perjury that the foregoing Ordinance No. 454 C.S.
is a true, full and correct copy of said ordinance passed and
adopted at a regular meeting of said Council on the 14th day of
September, 1993.

WITNESS my hand and the Seal of the City of Arroyo Grande
affixed this 15th day of September, 1993.

NANCY A.^DAVIS, CITY CLERK
CITY OF ARROYO GRANDE