VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF COTATI
MEASUREG

Shall the ordinance increasing the Transient Occupancy
Tax from 8% to 10% be adopted?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

The City of Cotati currently charges a tax of 8% of the rent charged to any person
who stays at a hotel, as defined in the Cotati Municipal Code, within the Cotati City
limits. This tax is called the transient occupancy tax (“TOT’). The TOT constitutes
a debt owed by the occupant of a hotel room to the City which is extinguished only
by payment to the hotel operator or the City. All transient occupancy taxes collected
by hotel operators are held in trust for the account of the City until payment thereof
is made to the City’s tax administrator.

If this measure is approved by the electorate, an ordinance shall be adopted
which increases the TOT. The increase equals 2% of the rent paid by persons
staying at a hotel to the hotel operator. The entire increase shall be used for
City general fund purposes.

An ordinance proposed by this ballot measure would be adopted if approved
by a simple majority of those electors voting on the measure at the November
3,1998 election.

A “yes” vote would approve an increase in the City’s TOT by 2%. A “no” vote would
reject the proposed 2% increase in the City’s TOT.

si Jeffrey A. Walter
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

The Transient Occupancy Tax would be paid by visitors who rent hotel/motel rooms
in Cotati. It will not be paid by Cotati residents. Revenue generated from the Transient
Occupancy Tax would help to pay for our City’s police, street maintenance, recreation,
economic development, and other general government operations.

Cotati’s current Transient Occupancy Tax rate is 8 percent. While there are currently
no hotel/motel rooms located in Cotati, the City is anticipating the development of
at least one hotel. Other cities in Sonoma County have a 10 percent tax rate, so an
adjustment in the Transient Occupancy Tax rate to 10 percent will keep Cotati in
line with our neighboring communities.

Cotati has lost hundreds of thousands of dollars in the last few years due to the State
returning less and less of your property taxes to the cities. When Cotati has
hotels/motels within the city limits, the Transient Occupancy Tax increase will help
make up this budget shortfall without it coming out of your pocket. This is a fair tax
because it is simply charging visitors a fair share for the services they receive from
the community. If visitors do not pay their fair share, then Cotati residents have to
subsidize them.

The City Council wants to develop revenues to provide the services and programs
this community wants and deserves without levying taxes upon its citizens. The
Transient Occupancy Tax is a beneficial way to produce new revenue from tourists,
visitors, and business travelers who use City services, without Cotati taxpayers
having to expend their hard-earned money.

Help your community have safer streets and neighborhoods and more recreational
opportunities. Please vote Yes on Measure G.

si Richard M. Cullinen, Jr.	si	Harold	B. Berkemeier

Mayor, City of Cotati	Vice Mayor, City of Cotati

si John A. Dell’Osso	si	Sandra	Elies

Councilmember, City of Cotati Councilmember, City of Cotati

si Pia C. Jensen
Councilmember, City of Cotati

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE G

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G

The people of the City of Cotati do ordain as follows:

The first sentence of section 3.12.030 of the Cotati Municipal Code is amended to
read as follows:

“For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and
shall pay a tax in the amount of ten (10) percent of the rent charged by the
operator.”

49.-517