ORDINANCE NO. 98-04

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ORLAND
AMENDING CHAPTER 3.12 OF THE ORLAND MUNICIPAL CODE

Section 1. Certain provisions of Chapter 3.12 of the Orland Municipal Code are
amended to read as follows:

Chapter 3.12
HOTEL USERS TAX

Sections:

3.12.010	Definitions.
3.12.020	Tax imposed.
3.12.030	Exemptions.
3.12.040	Operator's duties.
3.12.050	Registration.
3.12.060	Reporting and remitting.
3.12.070	Penalties and interest.
3.12.080	Failure to collect and report tax-Determination of tax by tax administrator.
3.12.090	Appeal.
3.12.100	Records.
3.12.110	Refunds.
3.12.120	Actions to collect.
3.12.130	Violations-Misdemeanor.

3.12.010 Definitions. Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given
in this section govern the construction of this chapter.

"Hotel" means any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or
intended or designed for occupancy by hotel users for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, bed and breakfast,
studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house,
dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or other lodging including but not limited
to a camping site or a space at a campground or recreational vehicle park, or other
similar structure or portion thereof.

"Occupancy" means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any
room or rooms or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes.

"Operator" means the person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity of
owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee, in possession, licensee, or any other capacity.
Where the operator performs his functions through a managing agent of any type or
character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed an
operator for the purpose of this chapter and shall have the same duties and liabilities as
his principal. Compliance with the provisions of this chapter by either the principal or
the managing agent shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.

"Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club,
fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, trustee, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as a unit.

"Rent" means the consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy of
space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor or
otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and services of any kind or
nature without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.

"Hotel User" means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by
reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement for a period of
thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full
days. Any such person so occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed to be a hotel
user until the period of thirty (30) days has expired unless there is an agreement in
writing between the operator and the occupant providing for a longer period of
occupancy. In determining whether a person is a hotel user, uninterrupted periods of
time extending both prior and subsequent to the effective date of this chapter may be
considered.

“Tax administrator” means the city treasurer.

3.12.020	Tax imposed. For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel located in the
incorporated portion of the city, each hotel user is subject to and shall pay a tax in the
amount of eight percent of the rent charged by the operator. Such tax constitutes a
debt owned by the hotel user to the city, which is extinguished only by payment to the
operator or to the city. The hotel user shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at
the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the
tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the hotel user
ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the
operator of the hotel, the tax administrator shall require that such tax be paid directly to
the treasurer of the city.

3.12.030	Exemptions. Timeshare and specific campgrounds as stated in California
Revenue and Taxation Code 7280.

3.12.040 Operator's duties. Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter
to the same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from every hotel user.
The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent charged, and
each hotel user shall receive a receipt for payment from the operator. No operator of a
hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or
any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be
added to the rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded except in the manner
hereinafter provided.

3.12.050 Registration. Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this chapter, or
within thirty (30) days after commencing business, whichever is later, the operator of
any hotel shall register that fact with the tax administrator and obtain from the tax
administrator a “Hotel User Registration Certificate” to be at all times posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises. Said certificate shall, among other things, state
the following:

(a)	The name of the operator;

(b)	The address of the hotel;

(c)	The date upon which the certificate was issued;

(d)	“The Hotel Users Registration Certificate signifies that the person named
on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Uniform Hotel Users Tax
Ordinance by registering with the tax administrator for the purpose of collecting from
hotel users the hotel users tax and remitting said tax to the tax administrator. This
certificate does not authorize any person to conduct any unlawful business or to
conduct any lawful business in an unlawful manner, nor to operate a hotel without
strictly complying with all local applicable law, including but not limited to those requiring
a permit from any board, commission, department or office of this city. This certificate
does not constitute a permit.”

3.12.060 Reporting and remitting. Each operator shall on or before the last day of the
month following the close of each calendar quarter, or at the close of any shorter
reporting period which may be established by the tax administrator, make a return

to the tax administrator, on forms provided by him, of the total rents charged and
received and the amount of tax collected for hotel user occupancies. At the time the
return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the tax
administrator. The tax may establish shorter reporting periods for any certificate holder
in order to ensure collection of the tax and the tax administrator may require further
information in the return. Returns and payment are due immediately upon cessation of
business for any reason. All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this chapter shall
be held in trust for the account of the city until payment thereof is made to the tax
administrator.

3.12.070 Penalties and interest.

A.	Original Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this
chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty often (10) percent of the amount of
the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.

B.	Continued Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of thirty (30) days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty often (10)
percent of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the ten (10)
percent penalty first imposed.

C.	Fraud. If the tax administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five (25) percent
of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in
subsections A and B of this section.

D.	Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails to remit any
tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one-half of one percent per
month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax, exclusive of the penalties, from the
date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.

E.	Penalties Merged with Tax. Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues
under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required to be
paid.

3.12.080 Failure to collect and report tax-Determination of tax by tax administrator.

A.	If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax and to make, within the time
provided in this chapter, any report and remittance of said tax or any portion thereof

required by this chapter, the tax administrator shall proceed in such manner deemed
best to obtain facts and information on which to base an estimate of the tax due. As
soon as the tax administrator shall procure such facts and information upon which to
base the assessments of any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any operator
who has failed or refused to collect the same and to make such report and remittance,
the tax administrator shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the
tax, interest and penalties provided for by this chapter. In case such determination is
made, the tax administrator shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by serving it
personally or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to
the operator so assessed at his last known place of address.

B.	Such operator may within ten (10) days after the serving or mailing of such
notice make application in writing to the tax administrator for a hearing on the amount
assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing on the amount assessed is not
made within the time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by
the tax administrator shall become final and conclusive and immediately due and
payable. If such application is made, the tax administrator shall give not less than five
days written notice in the manner prescribed herein to the operator to show cause at a
time and place fixed in said notice why said amount specified therein should not be
fixed for such tax, interest and penalties.

C.	At such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why such specified
tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such hearing the tax
administrator shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall thereafter give
written notice to the person in the manner prescribed herein of such determination and
the amount of such tax, interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall
be payable after fifteen (15) days unless an appeal is taken as provided in Section
3.12.090.

3.12.090 Appeal. Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the tax administrator with
respect to the amounts of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the city
council by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within fifteen (15) days of the
serving or mailing of the determination of tax due. The city council shall fix a time and
place for hearing such appeal, and the city clerk shall give notice in writing to such
operator at the operator’s last known place of address. The findings of the council shall
be final and conclusive and shall be served upon the appellant in the manner
prescribed above for service of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due shall be
immediately due and payable upon the service of notice.

3.12.100 Records. It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and
payment to the city of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve for a
period of three years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such
tax as the operator may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the city,
which records the tax administrator shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable
times.

3.12.110 Refunds.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid or paid
more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city
under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in subsections B and C of this
section provided a claim in writing therefor, stating under penalty of perjury the specific
grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the tax administrator within ninety
(90) days of the date of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the tax
administrator.

B.	An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected and
remitted, the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected
or received, when it is established in a manner prescribed by the tax administrator that
the person from whom the tax has been collected was not a hotel user; provided,
however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax
so collected has either been refunded to the hotel user or credited to rent subsequently
payable by the hotel user to the operator.

C.	A hotel user may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than once or
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by filing a claim in the manner
provided in subsection A of this section, but only when the tax was paid by the hotel
user directly to the tax administrator or when the hotel user having paid the tax to the
operator, establishes to the satisfaction of the tax administrator that the hotel user has
been unable to obtain a refund from the operator who collected the tax.

D.	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant
establishes his right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

3.12.120 Actions to collect. Any tax required to be paid by any hotel user under the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the hotel user to the city.

Any such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the City shall be

deemed a debt owed by the operator to the City. Any person owing money to the city
under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of
the City of Orland for the recovery of such amount.

3.12.130 Violations-Misdemeanor.

A.	Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable therefor by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for a period of not more than six months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.

B.	Any operator or other person who fails or refuses to register as required herein,
or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a
supplemental return or other data required by the tax administrator, or who renders a
false or fraudulent return or claim, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and is punishable as
aforesaid. Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any report or claim who
makes any false or fraudulent report or claim with intent to defeat or evade the
determination of any amount due required by this chapter to be made, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and is punishable as aforesaid.

Section 2. Severability.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this ordinance is for
any reason held invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this ordinance.

The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed this and each section,
subsection, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, phrase or clauses be declared unconstitutional on their face or
as applied.

Section 3. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective 30 days after
adoption.

Section 4. Posting. The City Clerk shall cause this ordinance to be posted within
fifteen days after its adoption.

Ordinance No. 98-04
Page 8

The above ordinance was introduced at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City
of Orland held on the 11th day of May. 1998 and adopted at a regular meeting held on
the26th day of May . 1998 by the following vote to wit:

Ayes. Councilmembers Barr, Randall, Gee, Paschall, Coshow
Noes: None

Absent: None
Abstain: None

ATTEST: