CITY OF DAVIS
MEASURE M

ORDINANCE NO. 1927.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DAVIS ADDING
ARTICLE XIV OF CHAPTER 10 OF THE DAVIS CITY
v CODE ESTABLISHING A PARK MAINTENANCE i
.ibJ- SPECIAL TAX TO FUND MAINTENANCE OF PARK,

OPEN SPACE, SWIMMING FOOLS. PUBLIC . .	;

FACILITIES. LANDSCAPING AND PUBLIC LIGHTING
SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE VOTERS

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DAVIS,
as follows:	1.	.	.	.

Section 1. Article XIV is hereby added to Chapter 10 of the Davis
City Code to read as follows:

ARTICLE XIV PARK MAINTENANCE TAX

Section 10-200, Findings. ■■■■-.->-■

"The Landscaping and Lighting Assessment District currently provides
the majority of the funding for the maintenance of community parks,
greenbeits. open space, street lighting, swimming pools and related
public facilities As a result of the passage of Proposition 218, the
City Council s proposing to replace the Landscaping and Lighting
District .with this Park Maintenance Tax. This special tax will continue
funding the maintenance of these facilities and amenitites.

Our parks ar d greenbeits. reflect the very character of Davis and
are instrumental in making Davis the type of community that its citizens
appreciate and support. The City Council strongly believes that it is
in the public interest to continue funding maintenance of the parks,
greenbeits, open space, street lighting, swimming pools and public
facilities. The special tax levied herein, if approved by a two-thirds
vote of the voters, will replace the existing citywide Landscaping and
Lighting Assessment District, This tax, if approved, will also provide
for revenue which may be used to maintain and operate property
owned by the Davis Joint Unified School District or other public agen-
cies so long as the property is available, on a joint use basis, for
use by the residents of the City for park, open space and recreational
uses.

Section 10-201. Legal Authority.

This special tax is levied under each of the following legal authorities:
Government Code section 37100.5 which authorizes general law cities
to levy any tax that may be levied by charter cities, subject to voter
approval; Government Code section 50075 through section 50077
which authorizes cities to impose special taxes. This tax is a special
tax authorized under Article 13A, section 4 of the California Constitution
and Proposition 218. This tax is an excise tax and is based, to the
extent practicable, upon the use to which a property is put and the
benefit that the use of property receives from the public facilities
supported by this tax. This tax is based, among other things, on the
benefit that different land uses of property receive from the availability
of properly maintained parks, open space, greenbeits, medians, public
facilities and public lighting. This tax is not a property tax; it is not
based on the status of ownership of property; nor is it based on the
value of property.

Section 10-202. Sunset and Expiration of Citywide Landscaping and
Lighting Act Assessment District.

Because of Proposition 218, as of July 1, 1998, the Citywide Land-
scaping and Lighting Act assessments currently imposed on property
within the City pursuant to the Citywide Landscaping and Lighting
District shall sunset and expire. Therefore, this assessment will no
longer be collected.

Section 10-203. Definitions.

The following terms shall have the following definitions when used
in this article:

"Assessor’s Parcel" or "Parcel" means a lot or parcel shown in an
Assessor's Parcel Map with an assigned Assessor’s Parcel number.
“Assessor’s Parcel Map" means an official map of the County As-
sessor of the County of Yolo designating parcels by Assessor’s Parcel
Number.

"City" means the City of Davis as its jurisdictional boundaries exist
on July 1 of each year that this tax is in effect.

"Commercial Property" means all Parcels that are used for pon-resi-
dential land uses that do not classify the Parcel as Industrial Property
or Day Care Property, as defined below.

"Common Area" means a separate legal or Assessor’s Parcel owned
by a common interest development association or as tenants in com-
mon by the owners of separate interests in a common interest de-
veio me nt provided that the common area: (1) in the case of residential
property, cannot be used as an independent residential dwelling unit;
or (2) in the case of commercial or industrial property is not improved
building space.

"Day Care Property" means all property that is used as a commer-
cially-operated day care center and is not used as a residence.
"Developed Property" means, in any Fiscal Year, all Parcels of Taxable
Property with a structure that has been cleared for occupancy before
March 1 of the prior Fiscal Year. For purposes of levying the Special
Tax, each Parcel of Dev eloped Property shall be assigned to one of
the Land Use Classes identified in Table 1 below.

"Fiscal Year" means the period starting on July 1 and ending the
following June 30.

"Group Living Property" means all Parcels of Developed Property
that have been issued conditional use permits from the City’s Planning
Division for a group living use.

"Improved Building Space" means the greater of (i) gross building
area as shown on building permits issued for any property, or (ii)
gross building area as measured or determined by an engineer retained
by the City. .

“Industrial Property" shall generally include but not be limited to,
all Parcels of Developed Property with a building or structure that is
used for assembling, disassembling, fabricating, finishing, manufac-
turing, packaging, repair or processing operations, as classified by
the City’s Planning Division.

"Land Use Class” means any one of the six classes listed in Table
1 below.

"Maximum Special Tax" means the maximum Special Tax, determined
in accordance with Section 10-204, that can be levied by the City
Council in any Fiscal Year.

"Multi-Family Residential Property" means all Parcels of Developed
Property with a residential structure or structures consisting of five
or more residential units on a single Parcel.

"Public Improvements" means those facilities, improvements and
amenities that will be constructed, installed, operated, serviced, main-
tained and repaired from proceeds of the Special Tax and shall include,
but not be limited to the following; public lighting, landscaping, parks,
public areas, recreational facilities, open space, and bike trails.
"Public Property" means property owned by a public agency, public
rights-of-way, unoccupied public utility property and property encum-
bered with a public or utility easement that makes impractical utilization
of the property for other that the public or utility purpose set forth
in the easement.

"Single Family Residential Property" means all Parcels of Developed
Property with a residential structure or structures consisting of less
than five residential units on a single Parcel.

"Special Tax" means that tax levied pursuant to application of the
special tax formula set forth below to pay for the construction, in-
stallation, operation, servicing, maintenance, and repair of the Public
Improvements.

“Taxable Property" means all Assessor’s Parcels within the City of
Davis as the boundaries of the City exist on July 1 of each year
which are not exempt from the Special Tax pursuant to law or Section
10-208 below.

“Vacant Land" means all Parcels of Taxable Property that have either
no structures or a structure or structures that have not been cleared
for occupancy.

Section 10-204. Park Maintenance Tax.

A. If approved by the voters, commencing July 1, 1998 for fiscal
year 1998-1999, the City shall continue collecting funding for parks,
open space, public lighting and related public facilities in the form of
a special park tax in the manner and at the rates set forth herein.

57-807



IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF DAVIS MEASURE M

Measure M, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
measure, will adopt the Park Maintenance Tax, a special tax that will
replace existing Landscaping and Lighting assessments. The tax will
be imposed on real property within the City of Davis for four (4)
years beginning July 1,1998, This tax, as Set forth in Ordinance No.
1927, will provide funding for the maintenance and operation of public
landscaping, community parks, greenbelts, open space, medians,
swimming pools, recreational and public facilities, and public lighting,
including street lights. As a special tax, the tax revenue must be
placed in a special fund and can only be used for these purposes
and incidental expenses related to these purposes.

The Park Maintenance Tax will replace the city-wide Landscaping
and Lighting District assessments. These assessments currently pro-
vide the funding for the maintenance and improvements that would
be funded by the Park Maintenance Tax. The current Landscaping
and Lighting assessments will sunset and expire on June 30, 1998
because of the passage of Proposition 218 at the November, 1996
statewide election. The Park Maintenance Tax on a residential parcel
will be less than the parcel's current annual assessment. Current
assessments for single-family residential units range from Eighty Dol-
lars to One Hundred Forty-Nine Dollars ($80 to $149).

The Park Maintenance Tax will be imposed on parcels of property
within the City based on the use of the property. The maximum tax
per parcel per fiscal year (July 1 - June 30) is calculated as follows:

Single-family residential
Multi-family residential
Group Living
Commercial

Industrial

Commercial Day Care Facilities

Vacant Land

$49.00 per unit
$49.00 per unit
$20.00 per resident
$40.00 per 1,000 square feet of
Improved Building Space up to a
maximum of 10,000 square feet
$12.80 per employee up to a
maximum of 30 employees
$14.30 per 1,000 square feet of
Improved Building Space up to a
maximum of 10,000 square feet
$49.00 per Assessor’s Parcel

If approved by the voters, the tax would be imposed at the maximum
tax rate for the first two years of the tax. For the third and fourth
years of the tax, the City Council may set the tax at an amount not
to exceed the maximum tax rate.

The tax measure includes several exemptions to the tax including
an exemption for public property and the ability to adopt a low income
exemption.

The Park Maintenance Tax would be collected with the ad valorem
property taxes for each parcel, unless that City later decided to collect
the tax with other City taxes and charges.

This tax would sunset and be repealed on June 30, 2002 and could
not be collected after that time unless two-thirds of the voters voting
in an election approved an extension or re-authorization of the tax.

si Harriet A. Steiner
Davis City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance
1927, Measure M. if you desire a copy of the ordinance or
measure, please call the elections official’s office at (530) 756-
5602 and a copy will be mailed to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

Measure M replaces the Landscape and Lighting Assessment District
tax . It Is the result of a community process that brought together
both proponents and opponents of Measure I, the tax measure that
failed last November. It is the centerpiece of a package of financial
reforms that will improve the city’s financial condition for the long
term.

Passage of Measure M allows the city to continue basic park main-
tenance while continuing community programs and facilities such as
Pools, Senior Center activities, Veterans Memorial Building, and Rain-
bow Summer. It will also allow adequate funding to maintain the new
park facilities that are planned for the next four years. If Measure M
fails, the city will have to make significant program reductions, and
new parks and recreational facilities will be delayed for lack of money
to maintain them.

The city will lose about $2.5 million when the Davis Landscape and
Lighting Assessment District expires on June 30. Measure M will
reduce the per household cost to $49, significantly less than the tax
of $85 to $150 currently levied under the Landscape and Lighting
Assessment District. The tax will continue at this rate for two years,
At the end of two years the city council is authorized to lower the
tax if city finances permit. Regardless, the tax will expire at the end
of four years unless renewed by a two-thirds vote of the community.

The passage of Measure of M is vital if the city is to continue to
provide the quality of life Davis residents expect. We urge you to
vote Yes on Measure M on June 2.

si Bill Owen
President, Davis Aquadarts

s/ Shneor Sherman
No on Measure

Committee

s/ Vigfus Asmundson	s/	Robert Schelen

Former Mayor, City of Davis Yes on Measure Co-Chair
si Julie Partansky
Mayor Pro Tern

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF
THE AUTHORS AND HAVE NOT BEEN EDITED FOR CORRECTNESS BY ANY PUBLIC AGENCY.