<full> COUNTY OF FRESNO LIBRARY TAX MEASURE B

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

BEFORE THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
OF THE COUNTY OF FRESNO
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the matter of	Ordinance No. 98-011

AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER
4.20 OF TITLE 4 OF THE FRESNO
COUNTY ORDINANCE CODE.

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE ORDINANCE CODE OF THE COUNTY OF FRESNO BY ADDING
CHAPTER 4.20 OF TITLE 4 THEREOF, IMPOSING A COUNTYWIDE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO
SUPPLEMENT FUNDING FOR PUBLIC LIBRARIES, TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION.

The Fresno County Board of Supervisors ordains as follows:

Section 1. Title and Summary

This Ordinance shall be known as the “Fresno County Public Library Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance.” If approved by the voters, this Ordinance will impose a transactions and use tax to be'
applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County, the proceeds of which are to
be used exclusively for public library construction, acquisition, programs, and operations within the
County. Such revenues shall be used only to supplement existing expenditures for public libraries and
shall not be used to supplant existing funding for the support of public libraries.

Section 2. Submission to the Voters; Voter Approval; Operative Date.

Upon approval by two-thirds of this Board, the provisions of this Ordinance are to be submitted to the1
voters of the County for approval in order that the transactions and use tax can become operative, as-
provided by Revenue and Taxation Code section 7286.59. The tax submitted to the voters by this
Ordinance will therefore take effect only if at least two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure at the
November 3,1998 election approve. If approved, the provisions of this Ordinance authorizing the levy
of the one-eighth of one percent (0.125%) transactions and use tax will become operative on the later
of April 1,1999 or the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of the State Board of
Equalization contract in accordance with Section 5 of this Ordinance.

Section 3. Provisions of Fresno County Ordinance Code Regarding Public Library Transactions and
Use Tax.

The Fresno County Code is amended by adding Chapter 4.20 of Title 4 thereof, to read as follows:
CHAPTER 4.20. FRESNO COUNTY PUBLIC LIBRARY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
Section 4.20.010. Purpose.

This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other, purposes and directs that its
provisions are interpreted to accomplish those purposes:

a.	To impose a one-eighth of 1 percent (0.125%) retail transactions and use tax according
to the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, as specifically authorized by section 7286.59 of Chapter 2.98 of Part 1.7 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

b.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance which incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions
are consistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code;

c.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance which imposes a tax and provides
a measure for it that the State Board of Equalization can administer and collect in a manner that
adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing


statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California Sales and Use Taxes;

d.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance which can be administered in a
manner which, to the greatest degree possible, will be consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, will reduce the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes and simultaneously will reduce the burden of record keeping upon persons subject
to taxation under the provisions of this Ordinance.

e.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance that provides funding for public
library construction, acquisition, programs, and operations within this County. Such revenues
shall be used only to supplement existing expenditures for public libraries and shall not be used
to supplant existing funding for the support of public libraries. For the purposes of this Ordinance,
“existing funding” from the County of Fresno for the support of the Fresno County Free Library
shall be defined only as the contribution made from the County General Fund during the fiscal year
in which this Ordinance becomes operative.

Section 4.20.020. Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is imposed upon all retailers in
the incorporated and unincorporated territory of this County at the rate of one-eighth of one
percent (0.125%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of ail tangible personal property
sold at retail in the territory of this County on and after the operative date of this Ordinance.
Section 4.20.030. Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to
an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to
the state sales and use tax, despite the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has
no permanent place of business in the State, or has more than one place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 4.20.040. Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in this County of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this Ordinance for
storage, use or other consumption in the territory of this County at the rate of one-eighth of one
percent (0.125%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax despite the place to which delivery is made.
Section 4.20.050. Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and to the extent that they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part
1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are adopted
and incorporated by this reference.

Section 4.20.060. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

a.	In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing authority, the name of this
County will be substituted for it. However, the substitution will not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this County
or any agency, officer, or employee of it rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance;

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the substitution would be to:


(a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of that Code.

4.	in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in its last sentence), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

b.	The word “County” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

Section 4.20.070. Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, this Ordinance shall not require an additional transactor’s permit.

Section 4.20.080. Exemption and Exclusions.

a.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county
or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law (Part 1.5 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code) or the amount of any State administered transactions or use
tax.

b.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property other than fuel or petroleum products to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons
or property under the authority of the laws of California, the United States, or any foreign
government;

2.	Sales of property to be used outside this County which is shipped to a point
outside this County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such a point by the retailer
or his or her agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this subsection, delivery to a point outside this County will
be satisfied:

(a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration under Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed according to Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code, by registration to an out-of-County address and
by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such an
address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

(b)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-County and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price under a contract entered into before the operative date of this
Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property,
for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by the lease before the operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections 3 and 4 of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property will be deemed not to be obligated under a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

c.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage, use
or other consumption in this County of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a tax under
any state administered transactions and use tax ordinance;

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate
of public convenience and necessity issued under the laws of California, the United
States or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price under
a contract entered into before the operative date of this Ordinance;

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property
for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease entered into before the operative date of this Ordinance;

5.	For the purposes of subsections 3 and 4 of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property will be deemed not to be obligated under a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised;

6.	Except as provided in subsection 7, a retailer engaged in business in this
County will not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into this County or
participates within this County in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in this County or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in this County under the authority of the retailer;

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in this County” shall also include any retailer
of the following: vehicles subject to registration under Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed according to Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter
2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. Such a retailer
shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel or aircraft at an address in this County.

d.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or a retailer
liable for a transactions tax under Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property, the storage, use or other consumption
of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 4.20.090. Amendments to the Revenue and Taxation Code.

All amendments to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, effective after the date
of adoption of this Ordinance and relating to sales and use taxes, will automatically become a part
of this Ordinance to the extent consistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, but no such amendment will operate to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.
Section 4.20.100. Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process will issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State of California or this County, or against any officer of the <fullend>














<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

State law authorizes a county board of supervisors to propose a special sales tax (“transactions and use
tax”) for public library construction, acquisition, programs, and operations within the county. The tax
proposal may be at the rate of 0.125 or 0.25 percent for up to 16 years.

The Fresno County Board of Supervisors has adopted an ordinance which would allow a special library
sales tax to be imposed at the rate of 0.125 percent for 7 years, if two-thirds of the voters voting on the ordinance approve. If Measure B were approved by the voters, this tax would become operative on April
1, 1999 in the entire County. This tax would be in addition to other sales taxes currently imposed in the County.

The tax revenues would be shared by the two public library entities in Fresno County, according to their
proportions of County population. The Fresno County Free Library would receive approximately 98
percent of the revenues, and the Coallnga-Huron Library District would receive approximately 2 percent.
The ordinance provides that one adjustment for any change in population proportions would occur
approximately halfway through the 7-year term of the tax.

The proceeds from this tax could be used only for public library purposes, and could be used only to
supplement, not supplant, existing funding for the support of public libraries. The specific expenditure
plan in the ordinance calls for the following activities:

1.	Increasing open hours at branches operated by the County Library and the Library District;

2.	Replacing worn and out-of-date books and materials, and adding new books and other materials
as needed by the County Library and the Library District to serve their residents;

3.	Expanding programs and services for children, young adults and adults at the County Library and
the Library District;

4.	Reestablishing the locally funded literacy services at the County Library in support of the California
Literacy Campaign;

5.	Maintaining local public libraries throughout the County; and

6.	Constructing new libraries or remodeling and expanding existing libraries throughout the County.,
The tax revenues would also be used to reimburse the County for the cost of the election and for the fee
charged by the State Board of Equalization for preparing to administer the tax.

The Fresno County Board of Supervisors and the governing board of the Library District would be
responsible for the specific expenditures of their respective shares of the tax revenues, under general
law governing each type of entity. The Fresno County Board of Supervisors has approved the creation
of a review panel to advise it on the specific expenditures by the County Library, to ensure that the
expenditures of the County Library's 98 percent of the tax revenues meet the requirements of the
expenditure plan. The exact makeup of this review panel would be determined by the Fresno County}
Board of Supervisors after the election, if Measure B is approved by the voters. <impartialend>








<impartialsigs> s/ Phillip S. Cronin
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>









<fiscal> FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT

This ballot measure is to adopt a Retail Transactions and Use Tax in the incorporated and unincorporated
areas of Fresno County at the rate of one-eighth of one percent (0.125%). The State Board of
Equalization will administer this sales tax if approved by at least two-thirds of the electors voting on the
measure.

This ordinance will generate approximately eight million dollars annually ($8,000,000) with the growtH
of this revenue generally following the economic trends within the local community.	>

The revenue from this Public Library Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance will be used exclusively for
public library services within Fresno County. This tax will terminate on the later date of March 31,2006
or 7 years after the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of the State Board of
Equalization contract in accordance with the provisions of this Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. <fiscalend>








<fiscalsigs> s/ Gary W. Peterson
Auditor-ControllerTTreasurer-Tax Collector <fiscalsigsend>








<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

County libraries are critically under funded. With population soaring and the demand for library services
rising dramatically, the State has seized over $7.5 million in local property taxes and imposed $1 million in new fees since 1991.

THE IMPACT HAS BEEN DEVASTATING:

•	Literacy programs have been eliminated.

•	Hours have been reduced, some rural branches are open just eight hours weekly, and many libraries
are closed nights and weekends.

•	There is a shortage of books and materials; reference volumes are worn and outdated.

•	Children's programs, senior services and bookmobile routes have been severely reduced.

•	Leaky roofs, broken glass and cracked foundations are just some of the hazards facing library users.
Measure B - The Solution ... For just 1/8th of a Penny.

Restores Vital Services: Measure B is a one-eighth of a cent sales tax adjustment exclusively for local
libraries. It automatically expires after seven years and could only be renewed by another election. The
Board of Supervisors will appoint a Citizens Review Board to ensure the money is spent properly.
Restoring Literacy Programs: With Measure B, we can rejoin the California Literacy Campaign,
qualifying for state matching funds for books, additional tutors, and coordination with schools and other
local programs.

Longer, More Convenient Hours: Hours will double overall, with significant increases in each
community - that means more convenient access for children, students, adults and seniors. -
More Books and Materials: Books and materials budgets will sharply increase, bringing the equivalent
of 60,000 new books yearly!

Repair Libraries and Build Needed Facilities: Measure B provides funding for important repairs, such
as re-roofing and stabilizing foundations. It also opens the door for future state and federal construction
funds.

FOR LIBRARIES AND LITERACY
VOTE YES ON MEASURE B! <favorend> 









<favorsigs> s/ Harry Kubo
Past President
Nisei Farmers League

s/ Rosellen Kershaw
Past President

League of Women Voters of Fresno

s/ Betty Rodriquez
Past President

League of Mexican American Women

s/ George F. Gruner
Retired Executive Editor
The Fresno Bee <favorsigsend>







<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Voters Beware of FALSE Promises! The proponents of this library tax are masters of deception!
Proponents, state in their argument that “Literacy programs have been eliminated”. The state this year
has given millions of dollars to education that exceeded state requirements. Our schools are addressing
literacy as a number 1 priority.

Another Reason to Vote No

Proponents want you to believe this new tax will fix leaky roofs, foundations. Why should taxpayers pay
for this, when many of the buildings now used for libraries are being rented?

Another Reason to Vote No
The proponents can’t guarantee future funding from the state and federal government’s if you vote for this tax!

Another Reason to Vote Wo

Why haven’t the proponents made a deal with schools to share space at school sites 10 years ago? This
would have been more cost effective to the taxpayers!

Another Reason to Vote Wo

The Board of Supervisors are willing to loan 7.5 million dollars for a baseball stadium! Why isn’t 7.5
million dollars for going to the libraries? Simple let the taxpayers foot the bill!

Another Reason to Vote No

Proponents can’t guarantee that if this 8 million dollar tax passed the 5.6 million dollars that now’s goes
to the libraries won’t be taken away!

VOTE NO ON MEASURE B <rebutfavorend>








<rebutfavorsigs> s/ John Santoya
President SAN JOAQUIN TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION
s/ Elizabeth B. Derderian
Member SAN JOAQUIN TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION <rebutfavorsigsend>










<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST

Once again when there’s
WASTEFUL SPENDING
in Government it turns to you to
RAISE TAXES

Here we go again. Why, instead of finding methods to trim its extravagant ways when government wants
more money to spend, it raises our taxes?

Another reason to VOTE NO on this measure.

Why hasn’t the County Board of Supervisors lobbied the State Legislature to support our libraries
instead of the 80 million dollars they budgeted for horse racing?

Another reason to VOTE NO.

Why does the county library still choose to pay expensive rents for buildings it uses in various locations?
There has been very little cooperation sought by the Library from other public agencies like the Cities
and School Districts for shared space already paid for by the taxpayers.

Another reason to VOTE NO.

Why are huge pensions being hoarded away by the very Board Members who are now asking us to raise
taxes? For example, Supervisor Sharon Levy, an owner of the Gottschalks Department stores, has been
a Fresno County board member longer than anyone else - 26 years at the end her current term. If she
leaves the board at the end of this term, she will be eligible to receive a taxpayer-funded pension of
around $52,000 per year for life. Couldn’t this money be better spent to help fund the libraries? .

Another reason to VOTE NO.

Where is county’s leading businesses to help fund our library? Like Gottschalks and The Fresno Bee
which seems to have never seen a new tax that it did not fall in love with.

Why is the county lending 7fi million dollars to build a baseball stadium while avoiding every opportunity
to help the public library?

VOTE NO <againstend>









<againstsigs> s/ John Santoya
President

SAN JOAQUIN TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION

s/ Bette Derderian
Member

SAN JOAQUIN TAXPAYERS ASSOCIATION <againstsigsend>







<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO THE BALLOT ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

The opponents of the Libraries and Literacy Campaign attack everything but the facts in their
arguments against Measure B.

,The facts are clear and undisputed:

•	County libraries have lost over $7.5 million since 1991 due to state funding shifts.

Another $5 million was lost when the State imposed new taxes and fees on libraries.

•	Insufficient funding caused our library system to lose its literacy program.

•	Library hours were slashed to about half of what they should be.

•	Books and materials are outdated and worn. The overall collection is insufficient.

•	The bookmobile no longer services people properly because routes have been slashed.

Measure B: A Small Price To Pay For Libraries and Literacy
Measure B is a one-eighth of a cent sales tax adjustment exclusively for local libraries. It automatically
expires after seven years.

With this increased funding, we can rejoin the California Literacy Campaign and qualify for matching
funds for books, tutors, and coordination with schools and local programs.

Library hours will nearly double overall, with significant increases in each community.

Book and materials funding will increase to the equivalent of nearly 60.000 new volumes yearly.

leaky roofs, broken windows, and cracked foundations will be repaired, making our libraries safe and sound places to read, study, and learn.

•The Board of Supervisors will appoint a Citizens Review Board to ensure that funds are spent properly.
Measure B: For Fresno County’s Future
Please Join Us and Vote Yes on Measure B <rebutagainstend>








<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Yoshito Takahashi
Retired

Clovis Farmer/Businessman

s/ Anne Speake
President, Fresno	Chamber of Commerce

s/ Bill Stewart
Chancellor

State Center Community College District

s / Octavia Diener
Chair

Fresno Economic Development Corporation
s/ Dr. Pete Mehas
Superintendent

Fresno County Office of Education <rebutagainstsigsend>
