
<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

Measure C would authorize a 1/2 cent sales tax within the County of Sonoma.
The sales tax would be a general tax and not a special tax because it would be
imposed for general governmental purposes. That means that the revenue from
the tax could be spent by the County for any legal governmental purpose without
restriction. The County would not in any way be legally bound to use the revenue
from the tax for any special purpose or for any particular project or projects.

The measure contains four restrictions.

First, the tax must expire after twenty years. That is, voters approving Measure
C are approving the tax for a period starting April 1,1999 and ending March 31,
2019. Thereafter, the authority to collect the tax ends.

Second, an independent audit would be conducted to review any and all
spending of the revenue from the tax.

Third, the Auditor-Controller would audit all claims for spending the revenue
from the tax.

Fourth, the Auditor-Controller would annually prepare a report on how the
revenue from the tax was spent. The report would be a public record available
for public inspection.

These four restrictions do not in any way legally restrict the scope of the
County’s right to spend the revenue from the tax proceeds for general govern-
mental purposes. <impartialend>







<impartialsigs> s/ James P. Botz
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>







<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

The traffic mess in Sonoma County must be fixed. There is only one way to do it.
Vote Yes on Measures B and C.

Congestion is getting worse, travel times are rising, traffic safety is declining. Our
quality of life is suffering. Vote Yes on Measures B and C to tell our leaders how
you want your tax dollars spent on transportation improvements. Measure C will
provide funds that can be used for general county purposes.

Vote Yes on Measure C for the resources to repair potholes and rough roads, build
a passenger rail system, unlock gridlock plaguing Highway 101 and roadways, and
make the safety improvements bound to protect lives. Vote Yes on Measure C to
establish safeguards assuring our money will be spent efficiently and wisely,
including a 20-year limit on a 1/2-cent sales tax and yearly sales tax expenditure
audits that must be reported to the public.

Vote Yes on Measure C. Together Measures B and C will repair streets and fill
potholes throughout our community, widen Highway 101 from Windsor to the Marin
County line, and improve interchanges enhancing safety and traffic flow.

Vote Yes on Measure C to establish passenger rail service from Cloverdale to Marin.
County. If both B and C pass they will expand bus service, with connection to rail
stations and better service for elderly and disabled residents. Together they will
encourage sensible planning at rail stations.

Vote Yes on Measure C for safety improvements on congested stretches of Highway
116 between Cotati and Sebastopol and between Petaluma and Sonoma. Vote Yes
for bike and pedestrian paths throughout the county.

Vote Yes on Measures B and C for traffic relief with accountability, a Citizen’s
Watchdog Committee and local control of our tax dollars. Join community, business
and environmental groups in voting Yes on Measure C. <favorend> 








<favorsigs> s/ Mark Ihde	s/	George Ellman

Retired Sonoma County Sheriff Sonoma County Transportation Coalition

s/ Georgia Prescott	s/	Carrie	H.	Anabo

Council on Aging	League	of	Women	Voters

s/ Michael Menendez, President
Sonoma County Alliance <favorsigsend>







<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

The traffic mess in Sonoma County needs to be fixed but Measure C won’t fix it.
Instead it will saddle us with the 2nd highest sales tax in all of California and give
us no guarantees as to how the money will be spent.

Measure C is a $600 million sales tax increase that can be spent on anything. It gives
the Board of Supervisors a blank check for pay increases and pork-barrel projects
for special interests. Other counties in California tell voters with certainty how their money
will be spent when they propose new sales taxes. Sonoma County doesn't want to.

Measure B, the flawed transportation advisory measure that proponents call a
companion measure to Measure C, is just that - an advisory measure. It has no force
of law and will in no way restrict how the Supervisors spend our money.

Besides, sales taxes should not be used to build highways. General tax subsidies
encourage automobile travel, congestion, and sprawl. The county's own studies
show that express carpool lanes could be built at no cost to taxpayers and would
reduce congestion 40% more effectively than the proposed HOV lane. Meanwhile, the
plan leaves too little money for effective transit options that would give commuters
real choices. Even if it is implemented, Measure B just won’t work.

Measure C won’t relieve traffic congestion. Don’t vote to raise your taxes again until the
County Supervisors legally commit how they will spend them. Vote No on Measure C. <rebutfavorend>








<rebutfavorsigs> s/ Anne Magnie, Member

Sebastopol City Council

s/ Joan Vilms
Environmental Defense Fund

s/ Therese Shere, Co-chair
Russian River Task Force

s/John F. Kramer, Professor
Sonoma State University

s/ Al Merck
Farmer, Retired <rebutfavorsigsend>







	
<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C  The Sonoma County Taxpayers Association supports widening 101 and county road improvements, but opposes this unfair tax for the following reasons:  Passage of this measure could result in job losses in Sonoma County. If this measure passes, we will have one of the highest sales taxes in the State. Shoppers will be driven out of Sonoma County to buy big-ticket items.  The County says this tax will go into the general fund—and can be used for “general county purposes.” If that’s their position, future Supervisors could spend this tax on anything (besides transportation.) Orange County had a similar transportation sales tax, and the money is now being used for welfare! Have you ever been cheated by someone who wouldn’t put their promises in writing? Everyone has. Don’t fall for it again.  This measure is an end run around voter enacted Propositions 62 and 218. The county is trying to pass this tax by a simple majority instead of the two/thirds required by law. This may result in a law suit, adding to the taxpayers’ burden.  This sales tax hurts lower income people and is inherently unfair and regressive. $1.2 billion in gas taxes were generated in Sonoma County over the last 20 years. Why isn’t this being spent on local transportation.  We have better options—a toll lane (free for High Occupancy Vehicles) would widen 101, decrease congestion and costs taxpayers much .less. Those who use the toll lane pay, others use the regular freeway and don’t pay. It’s fair and feasible according to a recent Metropolitan Transit Commission study.  Don’t let bureaucrats push an unfair and enormous tax on you—especially when the other options haven’t been considered. Send the Supervisors a taxpayers message.  Vote No.  <againstend>







<againstsigs> s/ Spencer Flournoy, President s/ William W. Pisenti, President Sonoma County Taxpayers’ Association Redwood Empire TRIM Committee  <againstsigsend>








<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C  Traffic congestion and environmental damage are mounting every year in Sonoma County. Opponents would do nothing about it.  Measures B+C offer a balanced approach developed by a broad-based coalition of environmental, civic business and neighborhood representatives. They created a balanced plan for relieving traffic congestion, improving roadways, developing passenger rail, improving bus service and enhancing bike plans.  It’s a plan developed after an extensive study that considered, all other options. It’s a plan that balances transportation needs with environmental protections. It’s supported by Sonoma County’s leading local environmentalists, transportation planners and community leaders. It’s a plan that benefits all of us.  Vote Yes on Measures B+C for the resources to repair potholes and rough roads, unlock the gridlock that plagues our roadways, make safety improvements that protect lives and provide environmentally essential bus and transit services. Vote Yes on Measures B+C to include strong protections for taxpayers, including a 20-year limit on a 1/2 cent sales tax and yearly expenditure audits that must be reported to the public.  We can put our head in the sand and let traffic congestion get worse each year in Sonoma County. Or we can support Measures B+C to provide a balanced transportation and environmental approach to relieve the gridlock, repair local roads and increase safety.  The choice is clear. Vote Yes on Measures B+C.  <rebutagainstend>







<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Florence Griswold, Former President s/ Gene M. Benedetti, Chairman Taxpayers’ Association Clover Stornetta Farms  s/ Roy 0. Hurd, President s/ 1. A. “Ig" Vella, CEO Empire College Vella Cheese Co. of CA.  s/ Hal Beck Sonoma Valley Chamber of Commerce	<rebutagainstsigsend>








<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C  ORDINANCE N0.5111R AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SONOMA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, IMPOSING A GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX AT A RATE OF ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT FOR A PERIOD NOT TO EXCEED TWENTY YEARS PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORITY GRANTED BY REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE §7285 TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION
	Section 1. TITLE AND CHARACTER OF TAX. This ordinance shall be known as the County of Sonoma General Transactions and Use Tax. Ordinance. The County of Sonoma hereinafter shall be called “Sonoma County." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of Sonoma County. After submittal to and approval by a majority of the Sonoma County electorate pursuant to Article 13 C, §2(b) of the California Constitution, the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be a General Tax imposed for general governmental purposes as defined by Article 13 C, §1 (a) of the California Constitution and any other applicable laws:  Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.  Section 3. PURPOSE. Pursuant to Article 13 C. §2(b) of the California Constitution, the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be submitted to and approved by a majority vote of the.Sonoma County electorate. Once so approved by a majority vote of the Sonoma County electorate, this tax is a General Tax imposed for general governmental purposes as defined by Article 13 C, §1 (a) of the California Constitution and any other applicable laws. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that its provisions be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:  A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes Sonoma County to adopt this tax ordinance for general governmental purposes and which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose. This ordinance is not adopted pursuant the authority granted by Government Code §29561 and the appropriations of the revenue from the tax shall not be limited to the purposes set forth in Government Code §29654.  B.	To incorporate provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.  C.	To impose a general tax and provide a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the. California State Sales and Use Taxes:  D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be . administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent  with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.  Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date. Sonoma County shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if Sonoma County shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract  and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract. Provided, however, that the contract shall
not be entered into pursuant to Government Code §29530 and nothing in the contract
will limit, in any way, the availability of the revenue from the tax for appropriations
and expenditures for “general governmental purposes” as that term is used in Article
13 C, §1 (a) of the California Constitution and as provided in §14 of this ordinance.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a general tax, as defined by Article 13 C, §1 (a) of the
California Constitution and any other applicable laws, is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of Sonoma County at the
rate of one-half of one percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative
date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery
is.made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed
and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,
use or other consumption in Sonoma County of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use
or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent of the
sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery
is made. Such an excise tax shall be a general tax as defined by Article 13 C, §1 (a)
of the California Constitution and any other applicable laws.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as other-
wise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though
fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION
OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of Sonoma County shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made:

1.	When the word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	When the word result of that substitution would require action
to be taken by or against Sonoma County or any agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a. Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would
not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;_______________________________

b. Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject
to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711,6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation code.

B.	The words “Sonoma County” shall be substituted for the word “State”
in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued
to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor’s permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California.
or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions
or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws
of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside Sonoma County which is
shipped to a point outside Sonoma County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by
delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a
carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes.of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside Sonoma County shall be satisfied;

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411
of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter
2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-District Sonoma County address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal
place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-Sonoma County and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale
of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in Sonoma County of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to
a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum, products purchased by operators
of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compen-
sation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase
of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or
power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in Sonoma County shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the
property into Sonoma County or participates within Sonoma County in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in Sonoma County
or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
Sonoma County under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in Sonoma County" shall also
include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at
an address in Sonoma County.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue andTaxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property,
the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective
date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect
the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance or the term thereof, nor shall any such
amendments operate so as to affect the fact that the tax imposed by this ordinance
is a general tax, as defined by Article 13 C, §1 (a) of the California Constitution and
any other applicable laws.

Section 13. GENERAL TAX. The tax imposed by this ordinance is a general
tax within the meaning of Article 13 C, §1 (a) of the California Constitution. The
revenue generated by this general tax is available for general governmental pur-
poses. To that end, the Auditor-Controller is instructed to deposit the revenue from
the tax into the County General Fund and to include his estimate of the revenue
from this general tax, together with his estimates of other revenue sources, in the
tabulation that he is annually required to prepare by Government Code §29060. The
revenue from this general tax shall be available to the Board of Supervisors for

annual appropriations in the County’s budget for any lawful expenditure. Nothing in
this ordinance nor in any other ordinance, advisory measure, resolution, or policy
shall be construed as limiting, in any way, the amount or the objects of the
appropriations and expenditures that can be made from the revenue of the tax nor
be construed as creating a continuing appropriation.

Section 14. TFRMINATION OF TAXES. The taxes imposed by this ordinance
shall remain in effect for not longer than twenty (20) years unless extended by the
voters in the manner set forth in Revenue & Taxation Code §7285.

Section 15. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the appli-
cation thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the
ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.

Section 16. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the Sonoma County transactions and use taxes and shall take effect
immediately.

In regular session of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Sonoma
introduced on the 19th day of May, 1998, and finally passed and adopted this 2nd day
of June, 1998, on regular roll call of the members of said Board by the following vote:

SUPERVISORS:

CALE:_______HARBERSON:________SMITH:_______REILLY:_______KELLEY:____

AYES 5 NOES____________ABSTAIN________ABSENT________

ATTEST:

si Eeve T. Lewis, County Clerk and	si Paul L. Kelley

ex-officio Clerk of the Board of.	Chairman

Supervisors <fullend> 