

TAX RATE STATEMENT FOR MEASURE “BB

An election will be held in the City of Indio on November 3,1998, for the purpose of submitting to its electors the question of incurring bonded
indebtedness of the City in a principal amount not to exceed $50,000,000.

•	The City of Indio has no outstanding general obligation bonds.

•	The City Council is asking the registered voters to authorize the sale of general obligation bonds to pay for street improvements, includ-
ing improvement of curbs, gutters and pavements, community needs identified by the City Council.

•	The City is asking the voters to authorize the issuance of general obligation bonds which will be supported by an ad valorem property
tax, which is estimated not to exceed approximately twenty-six and three-tenths cents (26.3 cents) per $100 of assessed valuation,
beginning in fiscal year 1999/2000.

•	The current City Council is committed to setting a general obligation bond tax rate which is estimated not to exceed approximately
twenty-six and three-tenths cents (26.3 cents) per $100 of assessed valuation beginning in fiscal year 1999/2000.

•	If adopted by the voters, the ad valorem property tax would only apply to properties located within the boundaries of the City of Indio.

If the bonds are authorized, the bonds could be sold in one series to improve public streets, including improvement of curbs, gutters and
pavements, over the next two years. The bonds are projected to be paid off in semi-annual installments over a period of twenty-five (25) years at an
interest rate currently estimated at five and one-quarter percent (5.25%) per year. The tax rate, using the 1998/1999 assessed valuations of proper-
ties within the City of Indio, County of Riverside, California as the base year, is estimated to be twenty-six and three-tenths cents (26.3 cents) per
$100 of assessed valuation to fund the bond issue. If the City’s assessed valuation grows, the property tax rate may decline. If such bonds are autho-
rized and sold, the principal thereof and the interest thereon will be payable from the proceeds of tax levies made upon the taxable property within the
City.

The following information regarding the tax rates is given to comply with Sections 9401 and 9402 of the California Election Code. Such informa-
tion is based on the best estimates and projections currently available from official sources and the City’s experience.

Based on the foregoing, and on projections of the City’s assessed valuation, and assuming the entire debt service would be paid by property
taxation:

1.	The best estimate of the tax rate that would be required to be levied to fund the estimated debt service on the bonds starting in fiscal year
1999/2000, based on estimated assessed values available at the time of filing this statement, is twenty-six and three-tenths cents (26.3
cents) per $100 of assessed valuation.

2.	The best estimate of the tax rate that would be required to be levied to fund the estimated debt service during the first fiscal year after the
sale of the series of bonds and an estimate of the year in which that rate will apply, based on estimated assessed values available at the
time of filing this statement, is twenty-six and three-tenths cents (26.3 cents) per $100 of assessed valuation in fiscal year 1999/2000.

3.	The best estimate of the highest tax rate that would be required to be levied to fund debt service on the bonds based on estimated
assessed values available at the time of filing this statement is twenty-six and three-tenths cents (26.3 cents) per $100 of assessed valua-
tion for fiscal years 1999/2000 through 2023/2024.

The foregoing information is based only on projections and estimates, which are not binding on the City. The actual times of sales of bonds, the
amount sold at any given time, and the applicable tax rate will be governed by the needs of the City and other factors. The actual interest rates, which
in any event will not exceed eight percent (8%), at which the bonds will be sold will depend upon the bond market at the time of each bond sale. Actual
assessed valuation in future years will depend upon the value of the property within the City as determined in the assessment equalization process.
Hence, the actual tax rates and the years in which such rates are applicable may vary from those currently estimated and above stated.

Dated: August 20,1998

By: Michael H. Wilson, Mayor
City of Indio, California

3374

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OP MEASURE “SB"

This measure authorizes your City to issue general obligation bonds
for the purpose of funding the costs of improving public streets within the
City and to establish an annual ad valorem property tax needed to make
annual bond payments and to pay expenses of the General Obligation
Bond Issue.

If the bonds are authorized, the bonds could be sold in one series to
improve public streets over the next two to three years. The City projects
the bonds will be paid off in semi-annual installments over a period of
twenty-five (25) years at an interest rate estimated at five and one
quarter percent (5.25%) per year.

The tax rate, based on the 1998/1999 assessed valuations, is
estimated to be twenty-six and three-tenths cents (26.3 cents) per $100
of assessed valuation to make the annual payments due under the
bonds.

The bond interest rate and tax rate are based on projections and
estimates only. The actual interest rate at which the bonds are sold will
depend on the bond market at the actual time of the bond sale. Future
assessed values will depend on the assessed valuations as determined
by the County Assessor. Therefore, the actual tax rate applicable in any
given year may vary from the above estimates.

Funding the improvement of the City's streets is the only purpose of
the measure. Improving the City’s streets will help to meet the traffic
safety needs of the citizens and enhance the opportunities for future
economic development within the City. Future development within the
City may help increase the assessed value base and potentially lead to a
reduced annual levy on all existing properties.

The ad valorem property taxes will be the only source of revenue
available to repay the general obligation bonds. Other restricted revenue
sources which may become available to the City, such as development
impact fees, will be used for additional new streets, or for street mainte-
nance.

The foregoing Statement has been authorized by and is submitted
by order of the City Council of the City of Indio.

By: Samuel C. Alhadeff, City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure"BB". If
you desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the City
Clerk at (760) 342-6570 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “BB”

The City of Indio needs your YES vote on Measure “BB”.

The facts are clear:

•	We need to improve our streets. The current state of disrepair is
the result of years without sufficient funds for street mainte-
nance.

•	Improved streets would meet traffic and safety requirements,
reduce wear and tear on vehicles, give the City a new, vibrant
appearance, and entice visitors to shop, invest, and live in Indio.

•	Measure "BB” simply authorizes your City to issue general
obligation bonds solely to improve public streets, including
improvement of curbs, gutters and pavements.

•	Measure “BB” funds would only be used for public street
improvements. They cannot be used for general City operating

expenses.

•	Average cost to property owners is 26.3 cents per $100 of
assessed value of property, or less than $4 per week for the
average homeowner.

VOTER APPROVAL OF MEASURE “BB” WILL IMPROVE CITY
STREETS AND REVITALIZE OUR CITY.

INVEST IN OUR CITY’S FUTURE -
IMPROVE OUR STREETS AND OUR QUALITY OF LIFE TODAY
VOTE YES ON MEASURE “BB”

By: MICHAEL H. WILSON, Mayor,

City of Indio

DAVID V. HERNANDEZ, Former Councilmember,
City of Indio

MARY LOU G. MARRUJO, Partner,

Qua Nuevas Newspaper

REVEREND CARL McPETERS
Kyriakos Christian Center, Indio

DARWIN D. OAKLEY, Former Mayor,

City of Indio

NO ARGUMENT FILED AGAINST MEASURE “BB

33-75

3375

Sample Ballot

F

OFFICIAL BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED GENERAL ELECTION

RIVERSIDE COUNTY

November 3, 1998

This ballot stub shall be removed
and retained by the voter.

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S),----,

IN THIS MANNER ONLY: L5SH

I VOTING AREA

HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

MARK YOUR CHOICE(S) ■--,

IN THIS MANNER ONLY:

I VOTING AREA]—" ■ 1

MEASURE(S) SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

STATE

ELECTRIC UTILITIES. ASSESSMENTS.

Q BONDS. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Prohtxts
*	assessment ol taxes, bonds, surcharges to pay	No

costs ol nuclear power plants. Limits recovery L__
by etectriecompanreskx costs otnorwude* power plants
Prohibits issuance ot rate reduction bonds. Fiscal Impact:
State government net revenue reductions potenbaly In the
htqh tens ot millions ot dollars annualy through 900100
Local government net revenue reductions potentially m the
tens ot miions ot dollars annually through 2001-02.

E

I

STATE AND COUNTY EARLY CHILDHOOD Yes

1 n DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS. ADOfTtONAL --------

1 u TOBACCO SURTAX INITIATIVE CONSTV No
TUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. L_
Creates state and county commissions to estabfish early
chidhood development and smoiang prevention programs
Imposes additional taxes on ogarettes and tobacco products
Fiscal Impact: New revenues and expenditures ot $400
mi Hon ki 1996-99 and $750 m*on annually Reduced reve-
nues lor Proposition 99 programs ot $18 rrefcon in 1996-99
and $7 mtfion annualy. Other mmor revenue increases and
potential unknown savings

LOCAL SALES AND USE TAXES-REVENUE
•j -j SHARING. TNs measure would aulhona bed

Yes

No

g>ermerts to vofcrtariy enter into sales tax
revenue shanng agreements by a two-thirds
vote ot the local aty council or board ot supervisors ol each
participating lunsdcbon Fiscal Impact No net change in total
sales tax revenues going to cities and counties. Potential shitt
ol sales tax revenues among cities and counties

CITY

CITY OF MORENO VALLEY

u

Shall the Moreno VMey Comnsnty Services i <
District be authorized to increase the anauai ■

Yes

No I

Zone A pared tee ty $8 to pay tor exsfing youth
and adUt recreation programs parks martenance
and athletic Held preparation, with such tunds to be pro-
grammed speaficaly to eliminate the tndnj shorttal n the
Zone A krd where parcel tees have not been raised since
1992?

33-61 IF

VOTE BOTH SIDES

CITY OF MORENO VALLEY

No

Shan the Moreno Valley Community Services
U District be authorized to provide public Sxary
w programs and services through the creation
of Zone L with the clear understanding that
approval ot this measure will not impose lees since such
lees cannot be imposed without explicit voter approval
subject to the requirements ol Proposition 2IB?

Yes

lucTTBJj

ll

Shal the Irxbatrve Measure entitled. ‘An rvtiatrve Yes

UU measure to permit the sale ot "Sale and Sane' ---------

" Fireworks (as defined by state law) by non- No
profit and school affiliated organ?aborts organ
ized and aMMMtad withn the city finite lor at toast one year
and licensed by the oily tor such sales, and the possession,
use and tfischarge withn the City ot Moreno Valley ol such
fireworks, from June 28 through July 4 of each year, and
otherwise regiiafing the sate and usa of such fireworks' be
approved?

33-606F

VOTE BOTH SIDES

33-SB091

Sample Ballot

*

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “U"

LEGAL

Measure "IT affects the real property parcel fees that fund the City of
Moreno Valley Community Services District (“CSD”) Zone A. Zone A
provides parks and recreation facilities and programs for the City of
Moreno Valley.

A yes" vote on Measure “U” is a vote to increase the existing annual
parcel tee for parks and recreation by $8.00, from $87.50 to $05.50 per
parcel per year. If voters approve Measure U”, the additional $8.00 will
be collected on the property tax bill for each parcel of land in the City. The
funds collected will be placed into the Zone A account to be used only for
the purposes of Zone A.

A “no" vote on Measure “U" is a vote against increasing the existing
annual parcel fee for parks and recreation If voters do not approve
Measure “U", Zone A parcel fees would remain at the current $87.50 per
parcel per year.

Under Proposition 218, Measure “U” requires a two-thirds' majority vole
to pass. Even if Measure “IT is approved. Zone A parcel fees could not
be further increased without approval of two-thirds of the voters.

FISCAL

Facilities operated and maintained with Zone A funds include public
parks, the Senior Community Center and the Moreno Valley Recreation
Center. Recreation programs funded by Zone A include after-school
sports programs; weekend, after-school, and summer activity programs
for youth; Senior Citizen activity programs; Teen Night activities;

Concerts in the Park, and Fourth of July activities.

Under the adopted budget for Fiscal Year 1998-99, Zone A has a
projected deficit, of $417,005, including capital improvements. If current
service levels are maintained, but no further capital improvements are
made, the City Manager projects a deficit of $360,962 for Zone A in
1999-2000. He projects similar deficits for each year thereafter, increas-
ing by the amount of inflation.

If Measure "IT is approved, it will produce about $342,000 per year in
additional revenue.

If the voters choose not to approve Measure "IT the CSD Board (City
Council) would need to do one or more of the following to balance the
Zone A budget:

•	spend unreserved fund balance and contingency reserves until
exhausted. Zone A unreserved fund balance is projected to be
$372,218 at the end of fiscal year 1998-99. In addition, a 15%
contingency reserve is projected to be $867,752 at the end of
fiscal year 1998-99. The contingency reserve is programmed for
cash flow needs and emergencies

•	increase fees charged for the use of facilities and recreation
programs

•	decrease maintenance lor facilities

•	decrease recreation programs for the public.

•	transfer general funds of the City to Zone A. This would reduce
funds available for general City expenses, which include, among
others, police, fire, streets and administrative expenses.

By: CITY ATTORNEY

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “U". If you
desire a copy of the measure, please call the City Clerk's office at
(909) 413-3001 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

“	r	ilium

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE“U”

VOTE YES TO SUPPORT OUR EXCELLENT RECREATION
PROGRAMS AND FACILITIES.

A strong parks and recreation program is vital to improving the quality of
life of Moreno Valley. Tremendous progress has been made in providing
the recreation programs and facilities needed to serve this growing city of
137,000; 60,000 of whom are under the age of 19. Priority has been
placed upon youth and providing positive alternatives to drugs and
gangs. Other popular programs include the annual Fourth of July
Celebration and fireworks display, the Senior Community Center, and
adult sports leagues.

THE FEE FOR PARKS AND RECREATION HAS NOT BEEN
INCREASED SINCE 1992.

While the fee is unchanged, the city has added 110 acres of parks,
constructed 14 new ball fields and tripled recreation program participa-
tion. Under construction are Bethune Park, TownGate Park, and March
Athletic Facility. Costs for the Parks and Recreation Department have
increased due to the growth of recreation programs, added maintenance
costs of new facilities, and inflation. Many feel we need to do much, much
more. Unfortunately, we have reached the point where the fees collected
for parks and recreation are insufficient to even maintain existing service
levels.

Since the parks and recreation shortfall is $334,000, we would like to ask
voters to support a much larger tax increase; however, city officials also
want to remain sensitive to property owners’ ability and willingness to
pay for these important services. Therefore, the city is asking voters to
support a modest tax increase of only 67 cents per month, which will
barely cover the mandatory operating expenses. This measure requires
two-thirds voter approval."

MORENO VALLEY YOUTH SPORTS LEAGUES, SERVICE CLUBS
AND BUSINESS GROUPS URGE YOUR SUPPORT FOR MEASURE
“U”.

By: Laura A. Froehlich
Beverly J. Buckley
Harold A. Veum
Bonnie Flickinger
David L. Briggs

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “U”

ITS TIME TO DRAW THE LINE!

Once again the children of Moreno Valley are being used as the
pawns and excuse to raise taxes. DON’T LET THIS HAPPEN!

The voters have never approved any expenditure of taxpayers
money for the “March Athletic Facility."

The $334,000 “shortfall” is a classic example of wasteful overspend-
ing of more revenues than are available. They fail to mention that this
“shortfall” will be paid from the $1.656.975 Park and Recreation
Surplus. Who’s kidding who?

This year May 11th was Tax Freedom Day, the day we stopped
working for the government and started putting money in our own
pockets. Over 1/3 of our income goes to pay all the different kinds of
taxes.

Pennies, “only 67 cents,” add up to dollars. A few pennies here, a
few pennies there, and soon Freedom Tax Day will be May 12, and on,
and on, and on.

$87.50 + $8.00 = $95.50. We’re slowly getting to the $100.00 that
the Council wanted and this is our chance to say

ENOUGH IS ENOUGH! \TS TIME TO DRAW THE LINE!

It’s time to tell government that we won’t stand for any more tax
increases. We gave ourselves this right when we approved Proposition
218 in 1996 after years of abuse by local government.

We now have an opportunity to send a message to government.

Examine the facts, all documented from City records.

VOTE “NO” TO CURTAIL UNREASONABLE TAX INCREASES.
EXCESSIVE SPENDING AND MISMANAGEMENT.

VOTE “NO" on Tax Measure “U.”

Thank you.

By: John Hayes, Concerned Taxpayer
Raymond L. Hosman, Concerned Citizen
George Albanese, Management Consultant (Retired)

33-56

3356

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “U”

It’s time say to NO! to more tax increases.

When the City incorporated in 1984 the Parks and Recreation tax was
$20.00. In 1989 the Council increased the tax to $25.00.

in Agril 1990. the Council placed on the ballot, Measure I for a tax of
$100.00 on each dwelling unit, to be used to fund acquisition, construc-
tion and operation of park and recreation facilities. The voters rejected
this measure by over a 2 to 1 majority.

Three months later. July 1990. the Council, without voter approval,
increased the tax from $25.00 to $50.00.

in 1991 the Council, without voter approval, again increased the tax from
$50.00 to $85.00.

in 1992 the Council, without voter approval, again increased the tax from
$85.00 to $87.50.

From 1993 to 1996, there were no further increases even though the
Parks and Recreation Department wanted additional increases each
year, (1993, $3.50; 1994, $5.50; 1995, $10.00; 1996, $10.00)

From June 30; 1993 to June 30,1997, the Parks and Recreation Depart-
ment fiscal year-end fund balance increased from $1,004.961 tg

$2.932.790. The Parks and Recreation Department has a surplus of
over $1.000.000.

In November, 1996, the voters overwhelmingly approved Proposition
218, requiring voter approval for future tax increases. If the voters had
not approved Proposition 218, the Council would have automatically

increased this tax by at least $8.00 and possibly as high as $24.00, which
was one Council member’s recommendation.

If the Parks and Recreation taxes were used for the maintenance and
operation of the Parks and Recreation facilities as they were intended,
and not to fund capital projects, th§ present tax of $87.50 js more than

sufficient.

Sources for dates and figures mentioned are City records and
documents.

It’s time to say “NO” to further tax increases.

NO MORE TAXES!

By: George Aibanese
John Hayes
Raymond L. Hosman

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “U”

The opposition argument states, “From 1993 to 1996 there were no
further increases...” in the Parks and Recreation tax.

That’s true, but it isn’t quite accurate. In fact, from 1993 through and
including 1998, there have been no increases in the fee.

During that same period, 3 new parks were built (Adrienne Mitchell,
Bayside, and, this year, Bethune), and the construction costs were paid
for with the fee at the same 1992 ievei.

The cost of maintaining those parks increased the expenses covered by
the fee. In addition, the minimum wage increased 2 times, and the cost of
electricity and water also went up.

Belt-tightening by the Parks and Recreation Department staff allowed
the fee to remain unchanged for the entire 6-year period.

This year the additional increases in utility costs and the minimum wage
have made it impossible to tighten belts enough to maintain the parks
and provide the 1998 recreation programs with the 1992 fee.

That’s why .this measure is on your ballot. These programs and facilities
are important because they keep our kids away from gangs and drugs.

For the taxpayers’ protection, State law prohibits the transfer of the Parks
and Recreation fee to the City’s General Fund. All of the Parks and
Recreation fee revenue must be used for Parks and Recreation
purposes.

We support this very small increase because it really is for the kids.
Remember - Measure “U” is for You and Your Children!

By: Laura Froehlich
Bonnie Flickinger
David L. Briggs
Beverly Buckley



3357