SAMh’Lfc bALLU I

OFFICIAL BALLOT

GENERAL DISTRICT ELECTION
COUNTY OF ORANGE

November 2, 1999

This ballot stub shall be removed
and retained by the voter.

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

IRVINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

Stable Local Funding for Student Safety, Yes
p Science, Technology, Class Size Reduction —
u and Neighborhood Schools. Shall the Irvine No
Unified School District be authorized to enact
a special levy of $95 per assessor’s parcel, to be used exclusively
for student safety, science, technology, class size reduction and
neighborhood schools programs which are not fully funded by state
,K-12 budget allocations, and shall the District’s appropriations limit
be adjusted for four years from the effective date of the levy, subject
to four year extensions thereafter by voter approval, in an amount
equal to the revenue raised by the levy, and shall an annual public
audit be conducted to examine the uses of these earmarked funds?

30-A107

30-SB406

306!"06

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B
IRVINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

The California Constitution provides that a district may impose no
special taxes except by a two-thirds vote of the qualified electors of the
district voting at an election held for that purpose. The Irvine Unified
School District has proposed to the voters that a special levy within the
District in a sum not exceeding $95 per year for each parcel of taxable
land in the District be imposed.

The proceeds from the special levy will be used for student safety,
science, technology, class size reduction and neighborhood schools
programs. The Irvine Unified School District and the Orange County
Superintendent of Schools have called the election for the purpose of
submitting the measure to the voters within the School District for
adoption. If a two-thirds majority voting on the measure approve it, the
School District may proceed to impose the special levy.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Should we CUT the programs that distinguish Irvine schools from all
others? Or should we FtAISE $95 per parcel to provide stable LOCAL
funding for these programs?

We urge a YES vote on Measure B to provide stable local funding for
school safety; science, technology, class size reduction and neighbor-
hood school programs. Whether you are a parent or not you will be
repaid many times over through higher property values and a safer
community.

Irvine has the best schools in Orange County. But we receive far less
than our fair share of state and federal revenues, in 1997-98 Irvine
received $568 per student LESS state and federal revenue than the
average school district - a shortfall of $13,000,000! Our complaints to
state and federal officials have fallen on deaf ears.

Measure B helps make up for the huge shortfall in state and federal
funding by raising $3.7 million annually and EARMARKING it for specific
programs.

MEASUREMENTS OF EXCELLENCE
Irvine schools are the best in Orange County.

•	Highest Basic Skills Scores (Stanford 9)

•	Highest Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) Scores

•	Highest Percentage of National Merit Award Semi-Finalists

•	Most OC Science Fair Winners

Every citizen in Irvine benefits from excellent schools through HIGHER
PROPERTY VALUES and a safer community.

PROGRAM CUTS OR LOCAL REVENUE INCREASE?

The School Board has cut $12 million to maintain the fiscal health of the
District. But reserves are dangerously low and they’ll dip below the state
minimum next year.

This means significant CUTS in the programs listed above unless funds
can be found to maintain them.

Measure B provides a LOCAL solution to funding shortfalls. It makes
Irvine less dependent on the state and federal government and it
prevents program cuts that would decimate our schools.

Retain excellence in education and high property values - vote YES on
Measure B.

s/Edward E. Benoe, Chief Financial Officer, Irvine Chamber of Com-
merce

s/Doreen E. Benton, Irvine Realtor

s/Marilyn Jacks, Irvine Unified PTA Council President

s/Clarence F. Nedom, Chair, Irvine Senior Citizens Advisory Council

No argument against this measure was submitted.

30-3