MEASURE A

“Shall the Brisbane Elementary School District be authorized to levy a special tax of not more than $72 annually per parcel to provide (1) music, art and
reading teachers; and, if funds allow (2) lower class size and additional library and instructional resources; provided, however, that senior citizens be eligible
for an exemption. Shall the District’s appropriations limit be raised from July 1, 1999 to June 30,2005 in an amount equal to said tax for each year?”

(FULL TEXT)

Shall the Brisbane Elementary School District be authorized to levy a special
tax of not more than seventy-two dollars ($72) per year per parcel of land as of
July 1 of each year (with exemptions for parcels owned and occupied by a
person 65 years of age or older, upon application, and with a partial exemption
for resident homeowners living on multiple [up to 3] parcels for parcels addi-
tional to the one on which the house is placed, and for certain property
exempted by law) to facilitate (1) providing a reading teacher to assist primary
grade students with special reading help, (2) providing a music teacher and an
art teacher; and if funds allow, (3) providing extra reading help to upper
elementary and junior high students; (4) helping lower class size for junior
high classes: and (5) providing additional library and instructional resources
to schools: provided, however, that none of the proceeds from this measure
shall be used to pay for District administration; in connection therewith, shall
the appropriations limit of the District be raised each year beginning
July 1. 1999 and ending June 30, 2005. in an amount equal to the levy of said
tax for said year?

A parcel will be defined as any unit of land which now receives a separate tax
bill from the Assessor’s Office. All property which would otherwise be
exempt from the property tax will also be exempt from the imposition of this
tax. An exemption from this special tax shall be granted annually by the
District on any parcel owned by one or more persons aged sixty-five (65) or
over on July 1 of the tax year who occupy said parcel as a principal residence,
upon application for exemption supported by proof of age, ownership and
occupancy as the principal place of residence: In addition, upon application
for exemption supported by proof of ownership and occupancy, resident
homeowners whose lot includes up to three contiguous parcels will be eligible
for exemption from parcels additional to the one on which the residence house
is situated, in accordance with regulations adopted by the Board of Trustees.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district, upon
approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified special tax
for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the Brisbane Elementary School
District proposes to levy a special tax beginning July 1,1999. This tax shall be at a
rate not to exceed $72 per year on all taxable parcels in the District. A parcel shall
be defined as any unit of land in the District which now receives a separate tax bill
from the San Mateo County Assessor’s Office. Any person 65 years of age or older
who owns and occupies a parcel may qualify for an exemption from the special tax.
There is also a partial exemption for resident landowners living on multiple
[up to 3] parcels for the parcels that are in addition to the one on which the
house is placed. All property which would otherwise be exempt from
property taxes will also be exempt from imposition of this special tax.

The purposes of this special tax are to provide for: (1) a reading teacher
to assist primary grade students with special reading help; (2) a music teacher
and an art teacher; (3) extra reading help to upper elementary and junior high
students; (4) lower class sizes for junior high; and (5) additional library and
instructional resources. The measure specifically prohibits the use of the
special tax on District administration costs.

This measure would also increase the District’s appropriations limit per
fiscal year, in an amount equal to the levy of the special tax for that year, as

permitted by Article XIIIB, section 4 of the California Constitution. Any
increase of the appropriations limit after four years will require another elec-
tion and approval by the voters.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be
levied on property within the boundaries of the Brisbane
Elementary School District in an amount of up to $72 per
year per taxable parcels in the District. Tt would also allow
the appropriations (spending) limit of the District to be
raised each year for a period of four years in an amount
equal to the levy of the tax for that year.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special
tax to be levied and would not allow the appropriations
limit to be raised.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote “yes.”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Twenty years ago, California was one of the top 10 states in spending on
education. Now we are 40th. Despite vigorous local fund-raising, programs
and services in our School District have been eliminated or greatly reduced,
including music, art, librarians, grounds maintenance, and teachers' aides.

Panorama Elementary, Brisbane Elementary, and Lipman Middle Schools are
the schools that make up the Brisbane School District. Measure A would
restore programs to these schools by funding the hiring of an art teacher, a
music teacher, and a reading specialist.

In the past 10 years most communities in San Mateo County have passed
some type of ballot measure to financially support their public schools. The
Brisbane School District is one of the few districts in the county NOT
supported in this way.

Measure A would cost property owners $72 per year for 6 years, or 20c/day.
None of the money raised would be used for administration. RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY OWNERS WHO ARE SENIORS AND OCCUPY THEIR OWN
HOMES WILL BE EXEMPTED UPON REQUEST.

This measure has been put on the ballot at the urging of SUPPORT OUR
SCHOOLS, a group of residents from Brisbane and Southern Hills. We
believe good public schools strengthen our community and help prepare all
our children to be better citizens. We ask your vote so that our schools are able
to hire these 3 additional teachers.

/s/ Sue Fleming	December 13. 1998
Private Instrumental Music Teacher	
/s/ Thomas P. Ledda	December 12, 1998
President, Brisbane School District Board of Trustees	
/s/ Anna Lou Martin	December 12, 1998
Brisbane Resident	
Is! W. Clarke Conway	December 12. 1998
Brisbane City Council	
/s/ Camille Salmon	December 12, 1998
Director of Brisbane Dance Workshop	

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A SUBMITTED