THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
ORINDA UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
ORINDA, CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTION ORDERING SPECIAL TAX ELECTION
AND SETTING FORTH THE SPECIFICATIONS THEREOF

WHEREAS, for a period of years the Orinda Union School District has not been funded adequately
by the State Legislature to provide a quality educational program, and the District is committed to
eliminating all deficit spending and to maintaining a balanced budget; and

WHEREAS, the District has exhausted all feasible means of generating funds and cutting
expenditures using donations from the Educational Foundation of Orinda, the Parents’ Clubs, and
the current parcel tax to fund basic programs, and without a parcel tax the District would be forced
to significantly reduce basic educational services; and

WHEREAS, the District has been affected adversely by Serrano v. Priest equalization and

Proposition 13; and

WHEREAS, the District’s projected revenue for the foreseeable future will be inadequate without
continuation of the current parcel tax which expires in June, 1999, and will require further
elimination and reduction of educational programs; and

WHEREAS, the proceeds of a special tax will help the District to maintain its current level of
educational programs; and

WHEREAS, proceeds from the sale of surplus property by law may be spent on facilities only and
are not available to support educational programs; and

WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Board of Trustees of the Orinda Union School District to conduct
an election on March 2, 1999 for the purpose of submitting to the electors of this District a measure
to enact a special tax commencing on July 1, 1999, to raise revenue for a period of six (6) years to
fund programs critical to the quality of the educational process in the Orinda Union School District.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT:

1.	An election shall be held within the boundaries of the Orinda Union School District on
Tuesday, March 2, 1999, pursuant to section 4 of article XIH A of the California
Constitution, and Government Code section 50076.

2.	The form of the ballot measure shall read as follows:

In order to maintain a class size that maximizes learning by our community’s children, to
maintain programs critical to the quality of the educational process and to attract and retain
qualified and experienced employees, shall the Orinda Union School District be authorized

RESOLUTION ORDERING SPECIAL TAX ELECTION

Page 1 of 3

to levy a special tax of one hundred forty-two dollars ($142) per year per parcel (as defined
in the voter pamphlet) for a period of six (6) years?

3.	For the purposes-of this special tax, the definition of the term “parcel,” which is to be
included in the voter pamphlet, shall be as follows:

The term “parcel” shall mean any parcel of land, wholly or partially located within the
District, for which the Contra Costa County Assessor has assigned an assessor’s parcel
number.

4.	The Board of Trustees may reduce the special tax levy at any time from one hundred forty-
two dollars ($142) per year per parcel based on the Board’s determination of the adequacy
of total available revenues to meet total District obligations over the six (6) year duration of
the special tax levy.

5.	Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the qualified special tax shall be collected by
the Contra Costa County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be
subject to the same penalties as general and valorem taxes collected by said tax collector.
The tax and penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem
property taxes until paid.

6.	It is not intended that the collection of the special tax provided for herein decrease the funds
available from the State of California in any period from the effective date hereof. In the
event that it does, the District may reduce the special tax levy.

7.	If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase, or clause of this resolution is for any reason held
to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this
resolution. This Board declares that it would have adopted this resolution and each section,
subsection, sentence, phrase, or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, phrases, or clauses be declared invalid.

8.	The Clerk of Contra Costa County is hereby requested and authorized to consolidate the
District “special tax” election with any and all elections to be held on Tuesday, March 2,
1999.

9.	The Clerk of the Contra Costa County is hereby requested to carry out all necessary duties
in connection with the election, including the following: (1) printing and mailing sample
ballots, arguments and applications for absentee ballots to the qualified electors of the Orinda
Union School District; (3) providing the same polling places as those used in the regular
election of school board members; (3) canvassing returns and certifying the results to the
Board of Trustees of the Orinda Union School District; and (4) performing all other election
duties prescribed by law.

10.	The Secretary of the Board of Trustees of the Orinda Union School District is hereby
authorized and directed to certify the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy

RESOLUTION ORDERING SPECIAL TAX ELECTION

Page 2 of 3

hereof so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Contra Costa County and to file a
copy hereof so certified with both the County Clerk and the Elections Department of the
Contra Costa County.

11.	Upon qualification of this measure for the ballot, the County Clerk shall transmit a copy of
the measure to the County Counsel. The County Counsel is hereby requested to prepare an
analysis of the ballot measure in accordance with section 5321 of the Elections Code.

12.	The County Clerk and the County Superintendent are hereby requested to take all necessary
steps to cause notice of the holding of said election.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Trustees of the Orinda Union School District this 26th

day of October, 1998.

AYES’	Crovitz,	Howitt,	Kaible,	Landau,	Severson

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

Nancy Kaible ^

President, Board of Trustees of the Orinda Union School District

I	HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing Resolution was duly introduced; passed, and adopted by

the Board of Trustees at the meeting on said date.

yUiaJju-	Ca^rh__________________

ShalCe Cunningham, Ph.D.	7j

Secretary, Board of Trustees of the Orinda Union School District

E:\Wp\Clients\5461\10078\Resolution2.wpd

RESOLUTION ORDERING SPECIAL TAX ELECTION

Page 3 of 3