FULL TEXT OF DAVIS JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE S

Shall the Davis Joint Unified School District be authorized to
renew the special tax levy for an additional period of four years
from July 1, 2000 to June 30, 2004 at the annual rate of $57.18
per dwelling unit for all multi-dwelling unit parcels within the District
and $114.36 per parcel for all other parcels within the District?

The revenue derived from the special tax shall be expended solely
for the following: (i) enhancing reading programs in the elementary
grades and selected programs at the secondary level, (ii) reducing
class size at selected grade levels and in certain designated subject
areas, (iii) providing additional education program offerings for
students, (iv) providing school counselors, nurses and other support
staff positions, (v) providing supplemental staff training for classified
and certificated employees, and (vi) providing additional classroom
and library instructional materials; technological materials, equipment
and services; and other educational equipment for the schools.

The proposal includes procedures for annually reviewing the
programs supported by the tax.

The proposal also includes procedures for invoking a limiting definition
if more than one adjacent assessor parcels constitute a single Subdivision
Map Act parcel and if certain procedural conditions are met.

and

Shall the appropriations limit of the District be increased for a period
of four years from July 1, 2000 in an amount equal to the revenue
raised by the special tax?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE S

Prepared by County Counsel pursuant to Election Code section 9160.
Measure S would authorize the Davis Joint Unified School District
to renew fc^four years a special parcel tax within the District and
authorize afnncrease in the District’s appropriations limit by the amount
of revenue generated by the tax.

The special tax would be levied at the annual rate of $57.18 per
dwelling unit for all multi-dwelling unit parcels within the District and
$114.36 per parcel for all other parcels within the District. A
multi-dwelling unit parcel is one that contains more than one dwelling
unit, including a duplex or halfplex, or one that contains a mobile
home on a separate parcel, in a mobile home park, or in a mobile
home subdivision. The term “parcel” within the District means each
Assessor’s parcel within the District, as shown on the then-current
secured assessment rolls prepared by the Assessors of Solano and
Yolo Counties.

The four-year period would run from July 1, 2000 to June 30, 2004.
The tax would be levied subsequent to two public hearings conducted
by the Board of Education.

Tax revenue would be expended only for the following:

(i)	Enhancing reading programs in the elementary grades and
selected programs at the secondary level;

(ii)	Reducing class size at selected grade levels and in certain
designated subject areas;

(iii)	Providing additional education program offerings for students;

(iv)	Providing school counselors, nurses and other support staff
positions;

(v)	Providing supplemental staff training for classified and certificated
employees; and

(vi)	Providing additional classroom and library instructional materials;
technological materials, equipment and services; and other
educational equipment for the schools.

The District’s g overning board would annually review the expenditures
supported by the special tax. There would be annual public evaluation
and comment.

The measure would provide for procedures for invoking a limiting
definition of “parcel." Property would be deemed a single “parcel” if
more than one adjacent Assessor's parcel constitutes a single parcel
under the Subdivision Map Act. Those who fall within the limiting
definition of “parcel” would be allowed to file claims for the refund
of the special tax. Claims would be filed with the Superintendent, the
Board of Education would be required to act on timely claims, and
any suit must be brought within six months after the Board's action.

The measure would become effective only upon the affirmative vote
of at least two-thirds of those voting on the measure.

A “YES” VOTE favors the renewal for four years of a special school
tax within the Davis Joint Unified School District.

A “NO” VOTE opposes the renewal for four years of a special school
tax within the Davis Joint Unified School District.

Dated: August 6, 1999

si Charles R. Mack, County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

For 16 years Davis has given strong support to its public schools.
Today, student test scores place the Davis schools among the top
10% of California districts. Measure S continues this tradition of
commitment to students.

To meet the challenges of the next century, our students must be
prepared. This means teaching skills for life and encouraging students
to take responsibility. It means giving schools the resources they need
to maximize student achievement. It means teaching the basics, and
then building on them to provide a balanced approach that stresses
problem-solving and critical thinking.

Your YES vote on Measure S will give the schools the tools to
achieve these goals. Measure S funds are spent on programs and
services, not administration. A similar measure was first passed in
1984, and renewed in 1987, 1991, and again in 1995. Your YES vote
will continue this critical support for the schools in our community.

Measure S will provide necessary funding for:

•	Elementary class size reductions beyond state funding.

•	Seven periods, instead of six, at the junior highs.

•	Enhanced reading programs in the elementary grades.

•	Extended hours for junior and senior high libraries.

•	A wider range of high school courses, including vocational/technical
classes.

•	Additional training for teachers and staff.

•	Counseling, nursing, and instructional aide services.

•	Up-to-date technology, as well as classroom supplies, library
materials, and equipment.

Please vote YES on Measure S. Remember that our kids are in
each grade only once, so every day in class matters. Support our
schools in giving our children a solid foundation for the future and
for life.

s/ Jennifer Anderson, Davis Business Owner

s/ Jerry DeCamp, Teacher and President, Davis Teachers Association

s/ Ruth B. Griggs, Senior Citizen Advocate

si Larry N. Vanderhoef, Chancellor, University of California, Davis

si Mariko Yamada, Parent

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF
THE AUTHORS AND HAVE NOT BEEN EDITED FOR CORRECTNESS BY ANY PUBLIC AGENCY.

57-502