RESOLUTION NO. 99-15

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FONTANA, CALIFORNIA,
CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTION ON TUESDAY, APRIL 27,1999 FOR THE SUBMISSION TO THE VOTERS
OF A MEASURE TO RATIFY AND APPROVE A UTILITY USERS’ TAX OF 5% ON
RESIDENTIAL UTILITY USERS THAT ENDS AFTER 5 YEARS WITH AN EXEMPTION
FOR RESIDENTS 62 YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER AND 5% ON NONRESIDENTIAL
UTILITY USERS THAT ENDS AFTER 10 YEARS; SETTING THE PRIORITIES FOR
FILING WRITTEN ARGUMENTS REGARDING THE MEASURE; AND DIRECTING THE
CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF THE MEASURE.

WHEREAS, California Elections Code Section 9222 authorizes the City Council of
the City of Fontana to submit to the voters at a special election, without a petition therefor,
a proposition for the amendment or enactment of any ordinance; and

WHEREAS, Proposition 218 adopted by the California voters in November 1996
requires that all general taxes be approved by a majority of the voters at a regularly
scheduled general election, except in cases of emergency declared by a unanimous vote
of the governing body; and

WHEREAS, Fontana used to raise approximately $6 million in annual revenues
from its utility users tax or approximately nineteen percent (19%) of the City’s general
revenue, and that without this revenue source, the City must reduce the level of or
eliminate entirely important services to its citizens, including police protection, park
development, maintenance and renovation, ball field lighting, code enforcement, street
improvements, storm drains, recreation activities, planning and senior centers among other
services; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Fontana has declared, by unanimous
vote, that the circumstances summarized constitute an emergency which justifies
submission of the a utility users’ tax to the voters at a special election; and

WHEREAS, the Elections Code allows the City Council, or a member or members
of the City Council authorized by the City Council, to submit an argument in favor of the
utility users’ tax measure; and

WHEREAS, the Elections Code also authorizes the City Council to direct the City
Attorney to prepare an impartial analysis of any measure submitted to the voters;

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Fontana, California, does
resolve, declare, determine and order as follows:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of
California relating to general law cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the City

SDPUB\HEP\8226

1

RESOLUTION NO. 99-15

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of
California relating to general law cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the City
of Fontana, California, on Tuesday, April 27, 1999 a Special Municipal Election for the
purpose of submitting to the voters the following question:

MEASURE: ’Shall the voters of Fontana ratify and	YES

approve a Utility Users’Tax of 5% on residential utility

users that ends after 5 years with an exemption for	NO

residents 62 years of age or older and 5% on

nonresidential utility users that ends after 10 years.

SECTION 2. That the proposed ordinance, Ordinance No. 99-_____,	shall	be in the

form attached hereto as Exhibit “A” and is hereby incorporated by reference in this
Resolution.

SECTION 3. That the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to take all
action necessary relating to the calling of the Special Municipal Election and placing the
measure described herein on the special election ballot for the Special Municipalelection
to be held on Tuesday, April 27,1999.

SECTION 4. That this City Council, being the legislative body of the City of
Fontana, authorizes any and all members of the City Council to file a written argument in
favor of the utility users’ tax measure in accordance with Article IV, Chapter III, Division 9
of the California Elections Code and to change the argument until and including the date
fixed by the City Clerk after which no arguments for or against the measure may be
submitted to the City Clerk.

SECTION 5. That the City Council directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of the
utility users’ tax Measure to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial
analysis of the measure showing the effect of the measure on the existing law and the
operation of the measure. The impartial analysis shall be filed by the date set by the City
Clerk for the filing of primary arguments.

SECTION 6. That in all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall
be held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 7. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and
the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of
the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 28th day of January, 1999.

SDPUB\HEP\8226

2

RESOLUTION NO. 99-15

READ AND APPROVED AS TO LEGAL FORM:

I, Beatrice Watson, City Clerk of the City of Fontana, do hereby certify that the
foregoing Resolution was duly and regularly adopted by the City Council of the City of
Fontana, at its regular meeting, held on the 28th day of January 1999, by the following
vote, to wit:

AYES:	Mayor	Eshleman,	Council	Members	Gonzales,	Mancha,	Nuaimi	and	Roberts

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

City Clerk of the City of Fontana

Mayor of the City of Fontana

ATTEST:





City Clerk

SDPUB\HEFMt226

3

ORDINANCE NO.__________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FONTANA, CALIFORNIA, TO RATIFY

AND APPROVE A UTILITY USERS TAX OF FIVE PERCENT ON

RESIDENTIAL UTILITY USERS THAT ENDS AFTER FIVE YEARS WITH

AN EXEMPTION FOR RESIDENTS 62 YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER AND

FIVE PERCENT ON NON-RESIDENTIAL UTILITY USERS THAT ENDS

AFTER TEN YEARS.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF FONTANA DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1: Chapter 29 of the Code of the City of Fontana, California is hereby amended
by deleting Article VI in its entirety and replacing it with the following:

Section 29-56. Short Title.

This article shall be known as the Utility Users Tax Ordinance of the City of Fontana.

Section 29-57. Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this article shall be construed
as defined in this section.

(a)	“Person” shall mean any domestic or foreign corporation, firm, associate,
syndicate, joint stock company, partnership of any kind, joint venture, club, trust, society
or individual, but person shall not mean any federal, state or county governmental agency.

(b)	“City” shall mean the City of Fontana.

(c)	“Telephone corporation”, “electrical corporation”, “gas corporation”, “water
corporation” and “cable television corporation” shall have the same meanings as defined
in Sections 234, 218, 222, 241 and 215.5, respectively, of the California Public Utilities
Code except, "electrical corporation", “gas corporation” and “water corporation” shall also
be construed to include any municipality or public agency engaged in the selling or
supplying of electrical power or gas or water to a service user and “cable television
corporation” shall be construed to include every subscription television provider regardless
of the technology used to deliver the service.

(d)	“Non-utility service supplier” shall mean a service supplier, other than an
electrical corporation operating within the City, which generates electrical energy in
capacities of at least 50 kilowatts for its own use or for sale to others; or a gas supplier
other than a gas corporation, that sells, transports or supplies gas to users within the city.

(e)	“Tax Administrator” shall mean the Management Services Director of the City
of Fontana or his or her designee.

8231R.WPD

ORDINANCE NO._____________

(f)	“Service supplier" shall mean any entity required to collect or self-impose, and
remit, a tax imposed by this article.

(g)	“Service user" shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed by this

article.

(h)	“Cogenerator" shall mean any corporation or person employing cogeneration
technology (as defined in section 218.5 of the California Public Utilities Code) for producing
power from other than a conventional power source for the generation of electricity for self
use or sale to others.

(i)	"Gas” shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon
fuel which may be substituted therefor. It shall not include fuel intended for use in motor
vehicles and subject to taxation under the State of California’s motor vehicles fuels tax.

(j)	“Fuel cell" shall mean a power-production system using an electrochemical
process to produce electricity and heat for its own use or sale to others.

(k)	“Month” shall mean a calendar month.

(l)	“Non-utility supplier” shall mean (a) a service supplier, other than an electrical
corporation franchised to serve the City, which generates electrical energy in capacities of
at least 50 kilowatts for its own use or for sale to others, including those using cogeneration
or fuel call technologies; or (b) a gas supplier other than a gas corporation, that sells or
supplies gas to other users within the City.

(m)	“Residential utility user” shall mean each service user who contracts with a
service supplier to provide service to a residential dwelling unit(s).

(n)	"Non-residential utility user” shall mean each utility user who contracts with
a service supplier to provide service to a commercial, industrial, or other non-residential
facility or unit.

(o)	“Utility” shall be defined to include telephone, electrical, gas, water, and cable

television service and any same or substantially similar service.

Section 29-58. Utility Users Tax Rate.

(a)	Residential Utility Users Tax. The utility users tax rate shall be 5% for all
residential utility users. The residential utility users tax shall only be collected until and
shall be discontinued at the end of fiscal year 2003-2004, that is, on July 1,2004.

(b)	Non-residential Utility Users Tax. The utility users tax rate shall be 5% for all
non-residential utility users. The non-residential utility users tax shall only be collected until
and shall be discontinued at the end of fiscal year 2008-2009, that is, on July 1,2009.

8231R.WPD

ORDINANCE NO.____________

(c)	The tax shall be reviewed on an annual basis as a part of the budget process
where revenue growth, identification of possible new revenue sources and expenditure
containment will be evaluated.

Section 29-59. Constitutional and Statutory Exemptions.

Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person when
imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of the Constitution of the
United States or that of the State of California or in violation of any applicable state or
federal law.

Section 29-60. Exemption for Elderly Households.

(a)	The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to utilities supplied to the
separately metered or billed residence of a service user at least 62 years of age provided
the service user applies for the exemption and provides sufficient proof of age and proof
that the utilities are in the applicant's name to the Tax Administrator pursuant to Section
29-61.

Section 29-61. Application for Exei

III■!< L*il

La

(a)	Any service user meeting the exemption qualifications of Section 29-60 and
seeking an exemption must file an application with the Tax Administrator for an exemption.
Such application shall be made on forms supplied by the Tax Administrator and shall recite
under oath facts which qualify the applicant for an exemption.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall review all such applications, certify qualified
applicants as exempt, and notify all affected service suppliers when an exemption is
approved, stating the name of the applicant, the address to which exempt service is being
supplied, the account number, if any, and such other information as may be necessary for
the service supplier to remove the exempt service user from its tax billing procedure. The
service supplier shall remove the exempt service user from its tax billing procedure no later
than ninety (90) days after receipt of such notice from the Tax Administrator.

(c)	The exemption granted by this section shall not eliminate the duty of the
service supplier to collect and remit utility users taxes for exempt persons, or the duty of
exempt persons to pay such taxes, unless and until an exemption is applied for, granted
in accordance with this section and implemented by the service supplier.

(d)	Approved exemptions under this section shall not apply retroactively.

(e)	Exemptions shall be renewed by the Tax Administrator on an annual basis
provided the Tax Administrator receives sufficient proof by July 1 of each year that the
utilities remain in the name of the person receiving the exemption. An exemption granted

8231R.WPD

ORDINANCE NO.____________

shall automatically terminate with any change in the residence of the person exempted, but
such person may apply for a new exemption with each change of residence.

(f)	Any person exempt from the tax shall notify the Tax Administrator within ten
days of any change in fact or circumstance which might cause the person to become
ineligible for exemption.

(g)	Any person knowingly receiving the benefits of this exemption when the basis
for such exemption does not exist or ceases to exist shall be guilty of an infraction.

(h)	Any service supplier who determines that a new or nonexempt service user
is receiving exempt service through a meter or connection previously used by an exempt
service user shall immediately notify the Tax Administrator of such fact; and, the Tax
Administrator shall ascertain whether or not the provisions of this section have been
complied with and, where appropriate, order the service supplier to commence collecting
the tax from the nonexempt service user.

(I)	Service suppliers shall remove the exempt status automatically for all name
and/or ownership changes made on service accounts.

Section 29-62. Other Local Exemptions.

(a)	The City Council may, by ordinance, establish one or more additional classes
of persons or one or more classes of utility service otherwise subject to payment of a tax
imposed by this article and provide that such classes of persons or service shall be
exempt, in whole or in part, from such tax. Any exemption granted by such ordinance shall
not eliminate the duty of the service supplier from collecting fees from such exempt
individuals or the duty of such exempt individuals from paying such fees to the services
supplier unless an exemption is applied for by the service user and granted in accordance
with the provisions of this article.

(b)	The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to any utility franchised by the
City or to any school district.

Section 29r63, Telephone Users Tax,

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using telephone
communication services including services for intrastate, interstate (to include the District
of Columbia), or international calls, and using any teletypewriter exchange services in the
City on the amount paid for such services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate set forth in Section 29-58 of this article, applied to the charges made for such services,
and shall be paid by the person paying for such services.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall not include charges for
services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones, except that where such

S23IR.WPD

ORDINANCE NO.____________

coin-operated service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such
guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be included in the base for
computing the amount of tax due; nor shall the term “charges” include (1) charges for any
type of service or equipment furnished by a service supplied subject to Public Utility
regulations during any period in which the same or similar services or equipment are also
available for sale or use from persons other than a service supplier subject to Public Utility
regulations; (2) charges related to late payments and returned checks; and (3) charges
related to state or federal taxes separately billed to and payable by the service user; nor
shall the words “telephone communication services" include land mobile service or
maritime mobile services as defined in section 2.1 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal
Regulations, as said section existed on January 1, 1970. The term “telephone
communication services” as used in this Article 6 refers to that service which provides
access to any type of telephone system (including the public switched network) and the
privilege of telephone quality communication with substantially all persons having
telephone stations which are part of such telephone system. The Telephone Users Tax
is intended to, and does, apply to all charges billed to a telephone account having a situs
in the City including, but not limited to, cellular phones and digital or specialized mobile
rad to systems, irrespective of whether a particular communication service originates and/or
terminates within the City.

(c)	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person providing such telephone communication services referred to above in
subsection (a), or the person receiving payment for such services. The amount of the tax
collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day
of the following month, or at the option of the person required to collect and remit the tax,
an estimated amount of tax collected, measured by the tax bill in the previous month, shall
be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of each month.

(d)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), the tax imposed under this
section shall not be imposed upon any person for using such telephone communication
services, referred to above in subsection (a), to the extent that the amounts paid for such
services are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed under Division 2, Part 20 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code, or the tax imposed under Section 4251 of the
Internal Revenue Code.

Section 29-64. Electricity Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using electrical energy in
the City. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate set forth in Section 29-58 of
this article, applied to the charges made for such energy and shall be paid by the person
paying for such energy. The tax applicable to electrical energy provided by a non-utility
supplier shall be determined by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service
user would have incurred if the energy used had been provided by the electrical
corporation franchised by the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from

8231R.WPD

ORDINANCE NO.____________

the service supplier. Non-utility suppliers shall install and maintain an appropriate utility-
type metering system which will enable compliance with this section.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges," shall include charges made for:
(1) metered energy and (2) minimum charges for service, including customer charges,
transportation charges, service charges, demand charges, standby charges and all other
annual and monthly charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, etc. There shall be excluded
from the tax imposed in this section: (1) charges related to late payments and returned
checks; (2) charges related to state and federal taxes separately billed and payable by the
service user; and (3) any local franchise fee separately billed to and payable by the service
user and paid to the City by the service supplier, if any.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “using electrical energy" shall not be
construed to mean the storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned or
possessed by him for use in an automobile or other machinery device apart from the
premises upon which the energy was received, provided, however, that the term shall
include the receiving of such energy for the purpose of using it in the charging of batteries;
nor shall the terms include the mere receiving of such energy by an electric public utility
or government agency at a point within the City for resale; or the use of such energy in the
production or distribution of water by a public utility or a government agency.

(d)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person providing the electrical energy services and/or the person receiving payment
for such services. The tax imposed in this section on use supplied by self-generation or
from a non-utility supplier not subject to the jurisdiction of this article, shall be collected and
remitted to the Tax Administrator in the manner set forth in Section 29-67. The amount of
tax collected by a service supplier or non-utility supplier in one month shall be remitted to
the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

Section 29-65. Tax on Coqenerated Electricity.

(a)	The tax imposed on every person using cogenerated electrical energy in the
city shall be at the rate set forth in Section 29-58 of this article, applied to the equivalent
charges the cogenerator would have incurred if the electrical energy used had been
provided by the electrical corporation franchised by the City. Rate schedules for this
purpose shall be available from the service supplier.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges," shall not include: (1) amounts
related to late payments and returned checks; (2) amounts related to state and federal
taxes separately billed and payable by the service user; and (3) any local franchise fee
separately billed to and payable by the service user and paid to the City by the service
supplier, if any.

(c)	The cogenerator shall install and maintain an appropriate metering system
which will enable compliance with this section.

8231R.WPD

ORDINANCE NO._____________

(d)	The tax shall be collected and paid in the manner provided in Section 29-64

(d). Provided, if the electricity is consumed by the cogenerator itself, the tax shall be
collected and paid in the manner provided in Section 29-67.

Section 29-66. Gas Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using gas in the City which
is transported through a pipeline distribution system or by mobile transport. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate set forth in Section 29-58 of this article, applied
to the charges made for such gas, and shall be paid by the person using the gas. The tax
applicable to gas provided by non-utility suppliers shall be determined by applying the tax
rate to the actual charges the service user incurred.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include: (1) the charges for
gas which is delivered through a gas pipeline distribution system or by mobile transport;

(2)	gas transportation charges; and (3) demand charges, service charges, customer
charges, minimum charges, annual and monthly charges, and any other charges
authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission.

(c)	There shall be excluded from the tax imposed in this section: (1) charges
made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline distribution system or
mobile transport; (2) charges made for natural gas used in the propulsion of a motor
vehicle, as that phrase is defined in the Vehicle Code of the State of California, utilizing
natural gas, and other natural gas clean-air technologies; (3) charges related to late
payments and returned checks; (4) state or federal taxes separately billed to and payable
by the service user; (5) any local franchise fee separately billed to and payable by the
service user and paid to the City by the service supplier, if any; and (6) charges made for
gas which is used for the cogeneration of electricity which is itself subject to taxation under
Section 29-65 of this Article.

(d)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person selling and/or transporting the gas. A person selling only transportation
services to a service user for delivery of gas through a pipeline distribution system shall
collect the tax from the service user based on the cost of transporting the fuel. The amount
of tax collected shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator by the person selling and/or
transporting the gas, on or before the last day of the following calendar month.

Section 29-67. Collection of Tax on Energy Provided bv Self-Production or bv a
Non-Utilitv Supplier.

(a)	Any service user subject to the tax imposed by Section 29-64,29-65 or 29-66

which produces gas or electricity for self-use, or which receives gas or electricity directly
from a non-utility supplier not under the jurisdiction of this article, or which otherwise is not
having a full tax due on the use of gas or electricity when the city directly billed and

8231R.WPD

ORDINANCE NO.____________

collected by the service supplier, shall report said fact to the Tax Administrator and shall
remit the tax due directly to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use. In
lieu of paying said actual tax, the service user may, at its option, remit to the Tax
Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use an estimated amount of tax measured by
the tax billed in the previous month, or upon the pattern payment of similar customers of
the service supplier using similar amounts of gas or electricity, provided that the service
user shall submit an adjusted payment or request credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60)
days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator,
may be applied against any subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

(b)	The Tax Administrator requires service suppliers to identify its customers and
the service user to identify its non-utility supplier and provide, subject to audit, invoices,
books of account or other satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas or
electricity used and the cost or price thereof. If the service user is unable to provide such
satisfactory evidence, or, if the administrative cost of calculating the tax, in the reasonable
opinion of the Tax Administrator is excessive, the Tax Administrator may determine the tax
by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service user would have incurred if
the gas or electricity used had been provided by the service supplier, which is the primary
provider of gas or electricity within the city.

Section 29-68. Water Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city using water
which is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate set forth in Section 29-58 of this article, applied to the charges made for such water,
and shall be paid by the person paying for such water.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall not include: (1) charges
made for water which is to be resold and delivered through mains or pipes; (2) charges
related to late payments and returned checks; (3) state or federal taxes separately billed
to and payable by the service user; and (4) any local franchise fee separately billed to and
payable by a service user and paid to the City by the service supplier, if any.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person supplying the water. The amount collected in one month shall be remitted to
the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

Section 29-69. Subscription Television Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using a
subscription television service or a video network, whether such service is delivered by
cable, master antenna system, satellite master antenna television, direct broadcast
satellite, multi point distribution or other technology. The tax imposed by this section shall
be at the rates set forth in section 29-58 of this article, applied to the charges made for

823IR.WPD

ORDINANCE NO.____________

such service, whether such charges are made on a periodic, pay-per-view, or other basis,
including as a package deal, and shall be paid by the person paying for such service.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall not include: (1) charges
related to late payments and returned checks; (2) state or federal taxes separately billed
to and payable by the service user; (3) charge for unretumed equipment; and (4) any local
franchise fee separately billed to and payable by a service user and paid to the City by the
service supplier, if any.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person providing subscription television service or any other form of paid subscription
television service. The amount collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

Section 29-70. Interest and Penalty.

(a)	Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the Tax
Administrator on or before the due dates provided in this article are delinquent. Should the
due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return may be postmarked on the next
working day.

(b)	For failure to pay the tax when due, the Tax Administrator shall add a penalty
of ten (10) percent of such tax amount on the last day of the month following the due date
of the tax and an additional ten (10) percent on the last day of each month thereafter
provided, that the amount of such penalty to be added shall in no event exceed one
hundred (100) percent of the amount of tax due.

Section 29-71. Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this article shall
be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from a
service user which has willfully been withheld from the Tax Administrator shall be deemed
a debt owed to the City by the person required to collect and remit. Any person owing
money to the City under the provisions of this article shall be liable to an action brought in
the name of the City for the recovery of such amount.

Section 29-72. Duty to collect - Procedures.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this article shall be performed
as follows;

(a)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 29-67, the tax shall be collected
insofar as practicable at the same time as, and along with, the charges made in
accordance with the regular billing practices of the service supplier. Where the amount
paid by a service user to a service supplier is less that the full amount of the service charge

8231R.WPD

ORDINANCE NO.____________

and tax which has accrued for the billing period, such amount and any subsequent
payments by a service user shall be applied to the utility charge first until such charge has
been fully satisfied. Any remaining balance shall be applied to taxes due. In those cases
where a service user has notified the service supplier of his refusal to pay the tax imposed
on said energy charges and where the service supplier has notified the City of such refusal,
Section 29-74 (d) will apply.

(b)	The duty to collect tax from a service user shall commence with the beginning

of the first full regular billing period applicable to the service user where all charges
normally included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this article.
Whenever there is a change in rate, the new rate shall apply as of the beginning of the first
full regular billing period applicable to the service user where all charges normally included
in such regular billing are for services delivered on or after the effective date of the new
rate. Where a person receives more than one billing, one or more being for different
periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing.

Section 29-73. Additional Power and Duties of Tax Administrator.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed
to enforce each and all of the provisions of this article.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations
not inconsistent with provisions of this article for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing
the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such rules
and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office.

(c)	The Tax Administrator may make administrative agreements to vary the strict
requirements of this article so that collection of any tax imposed here may be made, and/or
to be in conformance with the billing procedures of particular service supplier so long as
said agreements result in collection of the tax in conformance with the general purpose and
scope of, and at the rates set forth in, this article. A copy of each such agreement shall be
on file in the Tax Administrator's office.

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who
asserts a right to exemption from the tax imposed by this article. The Tax Administrator
shall provide the service supplier with the name of any person who the Tax Administrator
determines is exempt from the tax imposed hereby, together with the address to which
service is supplied to any such exempt person. The Tax Administrator shall notify the
service supplier of termination of any person's right to exemption hereunder, or the change
of any address to which service is supplied to any exempt person. Name and/or ownership
changes made in service accounts will result in the automatic elimination of all existing tax
exemption status.

(e)	The Tax Administrator shall provide notice to all service suppliers, at least 90
days prior to any annexation or other change in the City's boundaries. Said notice shall set

8231R.WPD

ORDINANCE NO.____________

forth the revised boundaries by street and address along with a copy of the final annexation
order from Local Agency Formation Commission.

Section 29-74. Assessment - Administrative Remedy.

(a)	The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes not remitted by
a person required to remit.

(b)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed from the amounts remitted to a person
required to collect the tax, or that a service user has refused to pay the amount of tax to
such person, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City,
the Tax Administrator may relieve such person of the obligation to collect taxes due under
this article from certain named service users for specified billing periods.

(c)	The service supplier shall provide the City with amounts refused and/or
unpaid with the names and addresses of the service users neglecting to pay the tax
imposed under provisions of this article on a monthly basis.

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the service user that the Tax Administrator
has assumed responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand
payment of such taxes. The notice shall be served on the service user personally or by
deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the
service user at the address to which billing was made by the person required to collect the
tax; or, should the service user have changed address, to the last known address. If a
service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within fifteen (15) days from the
date of the service of the notice, which shall be the date of mailing if service is not
accomplished in person, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax
set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than $35.00. The penalty shall
become part of the tax herein required to be paid.

Section 29-75. Records.

(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and remit to the City

any tax imposed by this article to keep and preserve, for a period of three (3) years, all

records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he may have been
liable for the remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall
have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

(b)	The Tax Administrator, in conjunction with the provisions of subsection (a)
of this section, may request from a person providing only transportation services of natural
gas or electricity users within the City, the names and addresses of its transportation
customers on a quarterly basis.

823I&WPD

ORDINANCE NO.___________

Section 29-76. Refunds.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under
this article, it shall be reminded by the service supplier in accordance with this section. The
service supplier shall provide the City with the amounts refunded along with the names and
addresses receiving the refunds within ninety (90) days of the refund.

(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, a service
supplier may claim a refund; or take as credit against taxes remitted the amount overpaid,
paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established
that the service user from whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax; provided,
however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax
erroneously or illegally collected has either been refunded to the service user or credited
to charges subsequently payable by the service user to the person required to collect and
remit. A service supplier that has collected any amount of tax in excess of the amount of
tax imposed by this article and actually due from a service user, shall refund such amount
to the service user and claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which
is due upon any other monthly returns, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated no
later than one (1) year from the date of overpayment.

(c)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

(d)	Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, whenever a service supplier,
pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent
jurisdiction, makes a refund to service users of charges for past utility services, the taxes
paid pursuant to this article on the amount of such refunded charges shall also be refunded
to service users, and the service supplier shall be entitled to claim a credit for such
refunded taxes against the amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly returns. In
the event this article is repealed, the amounts of any refundable taxes will be borne by the
City.

(e) A service supplier may refund the taxes collected to the service user in
accordance with this section or by the service supplier's customary practice.

Section 29-77. Termination or Suspension of Utility Users' Tax.

The service supplier shall, upon notification, terminate or suspend any utility users
tax on such date as may be set by ordinance by the City Council.

Section 29-78. Maximum Tax Payable.

(a)	The combined total maximum of electricity, cogenerated electricity, gas,
telephone, water, and subscription television service users taxes paid by any single

8231R.WPD

ORDINANCE NO.____________

industrial or commercial service user for one location under this article shall not exceed the
sum of fifty-thousand dollars ($50,000) during any twelve month period between July 1 and
June 30.

(b)	A service user may deposit the maximum tax specified in subsection (a) with
the Tax Administrator by May 31st each year as payment in advance of taxes due the
following year under this article for the twelve-month period beginning July 1st and ending
June 30th. Any service user making a deposit for said maximum tax shall not thereafter
be billed for any tax under this article for said twelve-month period.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify each service supplier when to cease and
when to resume billing the tax to such service users.

(d)	The penalty assessment provided in Section 29-67 of this article shall not be
counted in computing the maximum tax as provided in subsection (a).

(e)	Any service user paying more than a maximum tax provided for in subsection

(a)	during any fiscal year may claim a refund or credit for such overpayment from the Tax
Administrator provided such refund or credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one
(1) year from the end of the fiscal year for which such refund or credit is claimed.

(f)	The phrase “one location" as used in subsection (a) shall mean one or
contiguous sites for which the service user receives one or more utility billings.

Section 29-79. City Council Review and Amendment.

The City Council is authorized to review and amend the Utility User Tax Ordinance
as it finds necessary to address changes in technology or other changes; provided,
however, no such amendments shall increase the effective tax rates without complying with
any and all public voting requirements.

Section 2; Severability,

If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
ordinance or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision
shall not effect the validity of the remaining portion of this ordinance or any part thereof.
The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any
one or more section, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrases be declared
unconstitutional.

Section 3: This Ordinance shall be in full force and shall take effect as provided by law.

8231R.WPD

Section 4: The Mayor shall sign this Ordinance and the City Clerk shall attest and certify
to the passage and adoption of it if a majority of the voters voting in the special election on
the measure approve the measure.

/s/ DAvid R. Eshleman
Mayor of the City of Fontana

ATTEST:

/s/ Beatrice Watson
City Clerk

823IR.WPD

RESOLUTION NO. 99-43

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FONTANA,
CALIFORNIA, RECITING THE FACT OF THE SPECIAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTION HELD ON APRIL 27,1999, DECLARING THE RESULT
THEREOF AND SUCH OTHER MATTERS AS PROVIDED BY LAW

WHEREAS, a special municipal election was held and conducted in the City of
Fontana, California, on Tuesday, April 27,1999, as required by law; and

WHEREAS, notice of said election was duly and regularly given in time, form and
manner as provided by law; that voting precincts were properly established; that election
officers were appointed and that in all respects said election was held and conducted
and the votes cast there at, received and canvassed and the returns made and declared
in time, form and manner as required by the provisions of the Elections Code of the State
of California for the holding of elections in cities; and

WHEREAS, the Registrar of Voters, County of San Bernardino, canvassed the
returns of the election and certified the results of the election; and

WHEREAS, the returns of said election are hereby submitted and attached and
made a part hereof as "Exhibit A".

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FONTANA,
CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. That there were 31 voting precincts established for the purpose of
holding said election in said City as established for the holding of county elections.

Section 2. That at said special election, the following measure was submitted
to the electors of said City, to wit;

MEASURE B

Shall the voters of Fontana ratify and approve a	YES
Utility Users’ Tax of 5% on residential utility users that ends after 5 years with an exemption for residents 62 years of age or older and 5% on nonresidential utility users that ends after 10 years?	NO

Page 1 of 3

Section 3. That the whole number of votes cast in said City was 7,125.

Section 4. That the number of votes given at each precinct and the number of
votes given in the City for and against the measure were as listed in Exhibit “A” attached
hereto.

Section 5. The City Council does declare and determine that:

As a result of said special election, a majority of the qualified voters voting on
said Measure B relating to the Utility Users’ Tax did vote in favor thereof, and that said
measure was carried, and shall be deemed adopted and ratified.

Section 6. That the effective date of the Measure shall be ten days after the
date of this resolution certifying the results of the election. However, because the
effective date falls within the middle of the month, the utility companies shall not begin
imposing the utility users’ tax fee until the first full month following the effective date of
the measure, or July 1, 1999.

Section 7. That the City Clerk shall enter on the records of the City Council of
said City a statement of the result of said special election, showing:

(1)	The whole number of voles cast in the city;

(2)	The measure voted upon;

(3)	The number of votes given at each precinct showing for and against the

measure.

(4)	The total number of votes for and against the measure.

Section 8. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution, shall enter the same in the book of original Resolutions of said City, and
shall make a minute of passage and adoption thereof in the records of the proceedings
of the City Council of said City, in the minutes of the meeting at which the same is
passed and adopted.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 1st day of June, 1999.
APPROVED AS TO LEGAL FORM:

I, Beatrice Watson, City Clerk of the City of Fontana, California do hereby certify
that the foregoing Resolution was duly and regularly adopted by the City Council of the
City of Fontana at a regular meeting thereof, held on the 1st day of June, 1999, by the
following vote, to-wit:

AYES:	Mayor	Eshleman,	Council	Member	Gonzales,	Mancha,	Nuaimi	and

NOES:	Roberts  None
ABSENT:	None
	

City Clerk of the City of Fontana

Mayor of the City of Fontana
ATTEST:



City Clerk





Page 3 of 3

ORDINANCE NO. 1289

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FONTANA, CALIFORNIA, TO RATIFY
AND APPROVE A UTILITY USERS TAX OF FIVE PERCENT ON
RESIDENTIAL UTILITY USERS THAT ENDS AFTER FIVE YEARS WITH
AN EXEMPTION FOR RESIDENTS 62 YEARS OF AGE OR OLDER AND
FIVE PERCENT ON NON-RESIDENTIAL UTILITY USERS THAT ENDS
AFTER TEN YEARS.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF FONTANA DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1: Chapter 10 of the Code of the City of Fontana, California is hereby amended
by deleting Article VI in its entirety and replacing it with the following:

Section 10-176. Short Title.

This article shall be known as the Utility Users Tax Ordinance of the City of
Fontana.

Section 10-177. Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this article shall be construed
as defined in this section.

(a)	“Person” shall mean any domestic or foreign corporation, firm, associate,
syndicate, joint stock company, partnership of any kind, joint venture, club, trust, society
or individual, but person shall not mean any federal, state or county governmental agency.

(b)	“City” shall mean the City of Fontana.

(c)	“Telephone corporation”, “electrical corporation", “gas corporation”, “water
corporation” and “cable television corporation” shall have the same meanings as defined
in Sections 234, 218, 222, 241 and 215.5, respectively, of the California Public Utilities
Code except, “electrical corporation”, “gas corporation” and “water corporation” shall also
be construed to include any municipality or public agency engaged in the selling or
supplying of electrical power or gas or water to a service user and “cable television
corporation” shall be construed to include every subscription television provider regardless
of the technology used to deliver the service.

(d)	“Non-utility service supplier” shall mean a service supplier, other than an
electrical corporation operating within the City, which generates electrical energy in
capacities of at least 50 kilowatts for its own use or for sale to others; or a gas supplier
other than a gas corporation, that sells, transports or supplies gas to users within the city.

1

(e)	“Tax Administrator” shall mean the Management Services Director of the City
of Fontana or his or her designee.

(f)	“Service supplier” shall mean any entity required to collect or self-impose,
and remit, a tax imposed by this article.

(g)	“Service user” shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed by this

article.

(h)	“Cogenerator” shall mean any corporation or person employing cogeneration
technology (as defined in section 218.5 of the California Public Utilities Code) for
producing power from other than a conventional power source for the generation of
electricity for self use or sale to others.

(i)	“Gas” shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon
fuel which may be substituted therefor. It shall not include fuel intended for use in motor
vehicles and subject to taxation under the State of California’s motor vehicles fuels tax.

(j)	“Fuel cell” shall mean a power-production system using an electrochemical
process to produce electricity and heat for its own use or sale to others.

(k)	“Month” shall mean a calendar month.

(l)	“Non-utility supplier” shall mean (a) a service supplier, other than an
electrical corporation franchised to serve the City, which generates electrical energy in
capacities of at least 50 kilowatts for its own use or for sale to others, including those using
cogeneration or fuel call technologies; or (b) a gas supplier other than a gas corporation,
that sells or supplies gas to other users within the City.

(m)	“Residential utility user” shall mean each service user who contracts with a
service supplier to provide service to a residential dwelling unit(s).

(n)	“Non-residential utility user” shall mean each utility user who contracts with
a service supplier to provide service to a commercial, industrial, or other non-residential
facility or unit.

(o)	“Utility” shall be defined to include telephone, electrical, gas, water, and
cable television service and any same or substantially similar service.

Section 10-178. Utility Users Tax Rate.

(a)	Residential Utility Users Tax. The utility users tax rate shall be 5% for all
residential utility users. The residential utility users tax shall only be collected until and
shall be discontinued at the end of fiscal year 2003-2004, that is, on July 1, 2004.

2

FINAL 8231 ORDINANCE UTUT

(b)	Non-residential Utility Users Tax. The utility users tax rate shall be 5% for
all non-residential utility users. The non-residential utility users tax shall only be collected
until and shall be discontinued at the end of fiscal year 2008-2009, that is, on July 1,2009.

(c)	The tax shall be reviewed on an annual basis as a part of the budget process
where revenue growth, identification of possible new revenue sources and expenditure
containment will be evaluated.

Section 10-179. Constitutional and Statutory Exemptions.

Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person when
imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of the Constitution of the
United States or that of the State of California or in violation of any applicable state or
federal law.

Section 10-180. Exemption for Elderly Households.

The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to utilities supplied to the separately
metered or billed residence of a service user at least 62 years of age provided the service
user applies for the exemption and provides sufficient proof of age and proof that the
utilities are in the applicant’s name to the Tax Administrator pursuant to Section 10-181.

Section 10-181. Application for Exemption.

(a)	Any service user meeting the exemption qualifications of Section 10-180 and
seeking an exemption must file an application with the Tax Administrator for an exemption.
Such application shall be made on forms supplied by the Tax Administrator and shall recite
under oath facts which qualify the applicant for an exemption.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall review all such applications, certify qualified
applicants as exempt, and notify all affected service suppliers when an exemption is
approved, stating the name of the applicant, the address to which exempt service is being
supplied, the account number, if any, and such other information as may be necessary for
the service supplier to remove the exempt service user from its tax billing procedure. The
service supplier shall remove the exempt service user from its tax billing procedure no later
than ninety (90) days after receipt of such notice from the Tax Administrator.

(c)	The exemption granted by this section shall not eliminate the duty of the
service supplier to collect and remit utility users taxes for exempt persons, or the duty of
exempt persons to pay such taxes, unless and until an exemption is applied for, granted
in accordance with this section and implemented by the service supplier.

(d)	Approved exemptions under this section shall not apply retroactively.

3

FINAL *231 ORDINANCE UTUT

(e)	Exemptions shall be renewed by the Tax Administrator on an annual basis
provided the Tax Administrator receives sufficient proof by July 1 of each year that the
utilities remain in the name of the person receiving the exemption. An exemption granted
shall automatically terminate with any change in the residence of the person exempted,
but such person may apply for a new exemption with each change of residence.

(f)	Any person exempt from the tax shall notify the Tax Administrator within ten
days of any change in fact or circumstance which might cause the person to become
ineligible for exemption.

(g)	Any person knowingly receiving the benefits of this exemption when the
basis for such exemption does not exist or ceases to exist shall be guilty of an infraction.

(h)	Any service supplier who determines that a new or nonexempt service user
is receiving exempt service through a meter or connection previously used by an exempt
service user shall immediately notify the Tax Administrator of such fact; and, the Tax
Administrator shall ascertain whether or not the provisions of this section have been
complied with and, where appropriate, order the service supplier to commence collecting
the tax from the nonexempt service user.

(I) Service suppliers shall remove the exempt status automatically for all name
and/or ownership changes made on service accounts.

Section 10-182. Other Local Exemptions.

(a)	The City Council may, by ordinance, establish one or more additional
classes of persons or one or more classes of utility service otherwise subject to payment
of a tax imposed by this article and provide that such classes of persons or service shall
be exempt, in whole or in part, from such tax. Any exemption granted by such ordinance
shall not eliminate the duty of the service supplier from collecting fees from such exempt
individuals or the duty of such exempt individuals from paying such fees to the services
supplier unless an exemption is applied for by the service user and granted in accordance
with the provisions of this article.

(b)	The tax imposed by this article shall not apply to any utility franchised by the
City or to any school district.

FINAL 8231 ORDINANCE UTUT

4

Section 10-183. Telephone Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using telephone
communication services including services for intrastate, interstate (to include the District
of Columbia), or international calls, and using any teletypewriter exchange services in the
City on the amount paid for such services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate set forth in Section 10-178 of this article, applied to the charges made for such
services, and shall be paid by the person paying for such services.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges" shall not include charges for
services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones, except that where such
coin-operated service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such
guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be included in the base
for computing the amount of tax due; nor shall the term “charges” include (1) charges for
any type of service or equipment furnished by a service supplied subject to Public Utility
regulations during any period in which the same or similar services or equipment are also
available for sale or use from persons other than a service supplier subject to Public Utility
regulations; (2) charges related to late payments and returned checks; and (3) charges
related to state or federal taxes separately billed to and payable by the service user; nor
shall the words “telephone communication services” include land mobile service or
maritime mobile services as defined in section 2.1 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal
Regulations, as said section existed on January 1, 1970. The term “telephone
communication services” as used in this Article 6 refers to that service which provides
access to any type of telephone system (including the public switched network) and the
privilege of telephone quality communication with substantially all persons having
telephone stations which are part of such telephone system. The Telephone Users Tax
is intended to, and does, apply to all charges billed to a telephone account having a situs
in the City including, but not limited to, cellular phones and digital or specialized mobile
radio systems, irrespective of whether a particular communication service originates and/or
terminates within the City.

(c)	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person providing such telephone communication services referred to above in
subsection (a), or the person receiving payment for such services. The amount of the tax
collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day
of the following month, or at the option of the person required to collect and remit the tax,
an estimated amount of tax collected, measured by the tax bill in the previous month, shall
be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of each month.

(d)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a), the tax imposed under this
section shall not be imposed upon any person for using such telephone communication
services, referred to above in subsection (a), to the extent that the amounts paid for such
services are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed under Division 2, Part 20 of the

FINAL *231 ORDINANCE UTUT

5

California Revenue and Taxation Code, or the tax imposed under Section 4251 of the
Internal Revenue Code.

Section 10-184. Electricity Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using electrical energy in
the City. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate set forth in Section 10-178
of this article, applied to the charges made for such energy and shall be paid by the person
paying for such energy. The tax applicable to electrical energy provided by a non-utility
supplier shall be determined by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service
user would have incurred if the energy used had been provided by the electrical
corporation franchised by the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from
the service supplier. Non-utility suppliers shall install and maintain an appropriate utility-
type metering system which will enable compliance with this section.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges,” shall include charges made for:
(1) metered energy and (2) minimum charges for service, including customer charges,
transportation charges, service charges, demand charges, standby charges and all other
annual and monthly charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, etc. There shall be excluded
from the tax imposed in this section: (1) charges related to late payments and returned
checks; (2) charges related to state and federal taxes separately billed and payable by the
service user; and (3) any local franchise fee separately billed to and payable by the
service user and paid to the City by the service supplier, if any.

(c)	As used in this section, the term “using electrical energy” shall not be
construed to mean the storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned or
possessed by him for use in an automobile or other machinery device apart from the
premises upon which the energy was received, provided, however, that the term shall
include the receiving of such energy for the purpose of using it in the charging of batteries;
nor shall the terms include the mere receiving of such energy by an electric public utility
or government agency at a point within the City for resale; or the use of such energy in the
production or distribution of water by a public utility or a government agency.

(d)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person providing the electrical energy services and/or the person receiving payment
for such services. The tax imposed in this section on use supplied by self-generation or
from a non-utility supplier not subject to the jurisdiction of this article, shall be collected
and remitted to the Tax Administrator in the manner set forth in Section 10-187. The
amount of tax collected by a service supplier or non-utility supplier in one month shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

6

Section 10-185. Tax on Cooenerated Electricity.

(a)	The tax imposed on every person using cogenerated electrical energy in the
city shall be at the rate set forth in Section 10-178 of this article, applied to the equivalent
charges the cogenerator would have incurred if the electrical energy used had been
provided by the electrical corporation franchised by the City. Rate schedules for this
purpose shall be available from the service supplier.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges,” shall not include: (1) amounts
related to late payments and returned checks; (2) amounts related to state and federal
taxes separately billed and payable by the service user; and (3) any local franchise fee
separately billed to and payable by the service user and paid to the City by the service
supplier, if any.

(c)	The cogenerator shall install and maintain an appropriate metering system
which will enable compliance with this section.

(d)	The tax shall be collected and paid in the manner provided in Section 10-184

(d). Provided, if the electricity is consumed by the cogenerator itself, the tax shall be
collected and paid in the manner provided in Section 10-187.

Section 10-186. Gas Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using gas in the City which
is transported through a pipeline distribution system or by mobile transport. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate set forth in Section 10-178 of this article,
applied to the charges made for such gas, and shall be paid by the person using the gas.
The tax applicable to gas provided by non-utility suppliers shall be determined by applying
the tax rate to the actual charges the service user incurred.

(b)	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include: (1) the charges for
gas which is delivered through a gas pipeline distribution system or by mobile transport;

(2)	gas transportation charges; and (3) demand charges, service charges, customer
charges, minimum charges, annual and monthly charges, and any other charges
authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission.

(c)	There shall be excluded from the tax imposed in this section: (1) charges
made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline distribution system or
mobile transport; (2) charges made for natural gas used in the propulsion of a motor
vehicle, as that phrase is defined in the Vehicle Code of the State of California, utilizing
natural gas, and other natural gas clean-air technologies; (3) charges related to late
payments and returned checks; (4) state or federal taxes separately billed to and payable
by the service user; (5) any local franchise fee separately billed to and payable by the

7

FINAL *231 ORDINANCE UTUT

service user and paid to the City by the service supplier, if any; and (6) charges made for
gas which is used for the cogeneration of electricity which is itself subject to taxation under
Section 10-185 of this Article.

(d)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person selling and/or transporting the gas. A person selling only transportation
services to a service user for delivery of gas through a pipeline distribution system shall
collect the tax from the service user based on the cost of transporting the fuel. The
amount of tax collected shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator by the person selling
and/or transporting the gas, on or before the last day of the following calendar month.

Section 10-187. Collection of Tax on Energy Provided bv Self-Production or bv a
Non-Utilitv Supplier.

(a)	Any service user subject to the tax imposed by Section 10-184,10-185 or 10-
186 which produces gas or electricity for self-use, or which receives gas or electricity
directly from a non-utility supplier not under the jurisdiction of this article, or which
otherwise is not having a full tax due on the use of gas or electricity when the city directly
billed and collected by the service supplier, shall report said fact to the Tax Administrator
and shall remit the tax due directly to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such
use. In lieu of paying said actual tax, the service user may, at its option, remit to the Tax
Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use an estimated amount of tax measured by
the tax billed in the previous month, or upon the pattern payment of similar customers of
the service supplier using similar amounts of gas or electricity, provided that the service
user shall submit an adjusted payment or request credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60)
days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator,
may be applied against any subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

(b)	The Tax Administrator requires service suppliers to identify its customers and
the service user to identify its non-utility supplier and provide, subject to audit, invoices,
books of account or other satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas or
electricity used and the cost or price thereof. If the service user is unable to provide such
satisfactory evidence, or, if the administrative cost of calculating the tax, in the reasonable
opinion of the Tax Administrator is excessive, the Tax Administrator may determine the tax
by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service user would have incurred if
the gas or electricity used had been provided by the service supplier, which is the primary
provider of gas or electricity within the city.

Section 10-188. Water Users Tax.

(a) There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the city using water
which is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate set forth in Section 10-178 of this article, applied to the charges made for such water,
and shall be paid by the person paying for such water.

8

(b)	As used in this section, the term "charges” shall not include: (1) charges
made for water which is to be resold and delivered through mains or pipes; (2) charges
related to late payments and returned checks; (3) state or federal taxes separately billed
to and payable by the service user; and (4) any local franchise fee separately billed to and
payable by a service user and paid to the City by the service supplier, if any.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person supplying the water. The amount collected in one month shall be remitted to
the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

Section 10-189. Subscription Television Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using a
subscription television service or a video network, whether such service is delivered by
cable, master antenna system, satellite master antenna television, direct broadcast
satellite, multi point distribution or other technology. The tax imposed by this section shall
be at the rates set forth in section 10-178 of this article, applied to the charges made for
such service, whether such charges are made on a periodic, pay-per-view, or other basis,
including as a package deal, and shall be paid by the person paying for such service.

(b)	As used in this section, the term "charges” shall not include: (1) charges
related to late payments and returned checks; (2) state or federal taxes separately billed
to and payable by the service user, (3) charge for unreturned equipment; and (4) any local
franchise fee separately billed to and payable by a service user and paid to the City by the
service supplier, if any.

(c)	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the person providing subscription television service or any other form of paid subscription
television service. The amount collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

Section 10-190. Interest and Penalty.

(a)	Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the Tax
Administrator on or before the due dates provided in this article are delinquent. Should
the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return may be postmarked on the
next working day.

(b)	For failure to pay the tax when due, the Tax Administrator shall add a penalty
of ten (10) percent of such tax amount on the last day of the month following the due date
of the tax and an additional ten (10) percent on the last day of each month thereafter
provided, that the amount of such penalty to be added shall in no event exceed one
hundred (100) percent of the amount of tax due.

9

Section 10-191. Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this article
shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from
a service user which has willfully been withheld from the Tax Administrator shall be
deemed a debt owed to the City by the person required to collect and remit. Any person
owing money to the City under the provisions of this article shall be liable to an action
brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount.

Section 10-192. Duty to collect - Procedures.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this article shall be performed
as follows:

(a)	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10-187, the tax shall be collected
insofar as practicable at the same time as, and along with, the charges made in
accordance with the regular billing practices of the service supplier. Where the amount
paid by a service user to a service supplier is less that the full amount of the service
charge and tax which has accrued for the billing period, such amount and any subsequent
payments by a service user shall be applied to the utility charge first until such charge has
been fully satisfied. Any remaining balance shall be applied to taxes due. In those cases
where a service user has notified the service supplier of his refusal to pay the tax imposed
on said energy charges and where the service supplier has notified the City of such
refusal, Section 10-194 (d) will apply.

(b)	The duty to collect tax from a service user shall commence with the
beginning of the first full regular billing period applicable to the service user where all
charges normally included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this
article. Whenever there is a change in rate, the new rate shall apply as of the beginning
of the first full regular billing period applicable to the service user where all charges
normally included in such regular billing are for services delivered on or after the effective
date of the new rate. Where a person receives more than one billing, one or more being
for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing.

Section 10-193. Additional Power and Duties of Tax Administrator.

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed
to enforce each and all of the provisions of this article.

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations
not inconsistent with provisions of this article for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing
the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such rules
and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office.

10

FINAL 8231 ORDINANCE UTUT

(c)	The Tax Administrator may make administrative agreements to vary the strict
requirements of this article so that collection of any tax imposed here may be made, and/or
to be in conformance with the billing procedures of particular service supplier so long as
said agreements result in collection of the tax in conformance with the general purpose
and scope of, and at the rates set forth in, this article. A copy of each such agreement
shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office.

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who
asserts a right to exemption from the tax imposed by this article. The Tax Administrator
shall provide the service supplier with the name of any person who the Tax Administrator
determines is exempt from the tax imposed hereby, together with the address to which
service is supplied to any such exempt person. The Tax Administrator shall notify the
service supplier of termination of any person's right to exemption hereunder, or the change
of any address to which service is supplied to any exempt person. Name and/or ownership
changes made in service accounts will result in the automatic elimination of all existing tax
exemption status.

(e)	The Tax Administrator shall provide notice to all service suppliers, at least
90 days prior to any annexation or other change in the City's boundaries. Said notice shall
set forth the revised boundaries by street and address along with a copy of the final
annexation order from Local Agency Formation Commission.

Section 10-194. Assessment - Administrative Remedy.

(a)	The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes not remitted by
a person required to remit.

(b)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed from the amounts remitted to a person
required to collect the tax, or that a service user has refused to pay the amount of tax to
such person, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City,
the Tax Administrator may relieve such person of the obligation to collect taxes due under
this article from certain named service users for specified billing periods.

(c)	The service supplier shall provide the City with amounts refused and/or
unpaid with the names and addresses of the service users neglecting to pay the tax
imposed under provisions of this article on a monthly basis.

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the service user that the Tax Administrator
has assumed responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand
payment of such taxes. The notice shall be served on the service user personally or by
deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the
service user at the address to which billing was made by the person required to collect the

11

tax; or, should the service user have changed address, to the last known address. If a
service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within fifteen (15) days from the
date of the service of the notice, which shall be the date of mailing if service is not
accomplished in person, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax
set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than $35.00. The penalty shall
become part of the tax herein required to be paid.

Section 10-195. Records.

(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and remit to the City
any tax imposed by this article to keep and preserve, for a period of three (3) years, all
records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he may have been
liable for the remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall
have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

(b)	The Tax Administrator, in conjunction with the provisions of subsection (a)
of this section, may request from a person providing only transportation services of natural
gas or electricity users within the City, the names and addresses of its transportation
customers on a quarterly basis.

Section 10-196. Refunds.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under
this article, it shall be refunded by the service supplier in accordance with this section.
The service supplier shall provide the City with the amounts refunded along with the
names and addresses receiving the refunds within ninety (90) days of the refund.

(b)	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, a service
supplier may claim a refund; or take as credit against taxes remitted the amount overpaid,
paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established
that the service user from whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax; provided,
however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax
erroneously or illegally collected has either been refunded to the service user or credited
to charges subsequently payable by the service user to the person required to collect and
remit. A service supplier that has collected any amount of tax in excess of the amount of
tax imposed by this article and actually due from a service user, shall refund such amount
to the service user and claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which
is due upon any other monthly returns, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated
no later than one (1) year from the date of overpayment.

(c)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes his right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

FINAL 8231 ORDINANCE UTUT

12

(d)	Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, whenever a service supplier,
pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent
jurisdiction, makes a refund to service users of charges for past utility services, the taxes
paid pursuant to this article on the amount of such refunded charges shall also be
refunded to service users, and the service supplier shall be entitled to claim a credit for
such refunded taxes against the amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly returns.
In the event this article is repealed, the amounts of any refundable taxes will be borne by
the City.

(e)	A service supplier may refund the taxes collected to the service user in
accordance with this section or by the service supplier's customary practice.

Section 10-197. Termination or Suspension of Utility Users' Tax.

The service supplier shall, upon notification, terminate or suspend any utility users
tax on such date as may be set by ordinance by the City Council.

Section 10-198. Maximum Tax Payable.

(a)	The combined total maximum of electricity, cogenerated electricity, gas,
telephone, water, and subscription television service users taxes paid by any single
industrial or commercial service user for one location under this article shall not exceed
the sum of fifty-thousand dollars ($50,000) during any twelve month period between July
1 and June 30.

(b)	A service user may deposit the maximum tax specified in subsection (a) with
the Tax Administrator by May 31st each year as payment in advance of taxes due the
following year under this article for the twelve-month period beginning July 1st and ending
June 30th. Any service user making a deposit for said maximum tax shall not thereafter
be billed for any tax under this article for said twelve-month period.

(c)	The Tax Administrator shall notify each service supplier when to cease and

when to resume billing the tax to such service users.

(d)	The penalty assessment provided in Section 10-187 of this article shall not
be counted in computing the maximum tax as provided in subsection (a).

(e)	Any service user paying more than a maximum tax provided for in subsection
(a) during any fiscal year may claim a refund or credit for such overpayment from the Tax
Administrator provided such refund or credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one
(1) year from the end of the fiscal year for which such refund or credit is claimed.

(f)	The phrase "one location” as used in subsection (a) shall mean one or
contiguous sites for which the service user receives one or more utility billings.

13

Section 10-199. City Council Review and Amendment.

The City Council is authorized to review and amend the Utility User Tax Ordinance
as it finds necessary to address changes in technology or other changes; provided,
however, no such amendments shall increase the effective tax rates without complying with
any and all public voting requirements.

Section 2: Severability.

If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
this ordinance or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such
decision shall not effect the validity of the remaining portion of this ordinance or any part
thereof. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more section, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrases be
declared unconstitutional.

Section 3: This Ordinance shall be in full force and shall take effect as provided by law.

Section 4: The Mayor shall sign this Ordinance and the City Clerk shall attest and certify
to the passage and adoption of it if a majority of the voters voting in the special election
on the measure approve the measure.



Mayor of the City of Fontana

ATTEST:

14