RESOLUTION NO. 2000-106

RESOLUTION OF THE MARIN COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
CALLING FOR AN ELECTION TO INCREASE A SPECIAL TAX UPON LIVING UNITS
LOCATED WITHIN CSA 17 FOR THE PURPOSE OF
CONTINUING TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL POLICE SERVICES

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors, as the governing body of County Service Area
("CSA") 17, and at the request of the CSA 17 Advisory Committee, determines that it is in the best
interests of the property owners within CSA 17 and to continue to provide additional police services
and to fund said additional services through imposition of a special tax; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code §§ 25210.6a and 50075, et seq., and in
compliance with California Constitution Article XIIIC, the Board of Supervisors is hereby authorized
to adopt this Resolution to increase (subject to voter approval) the special tax upon all living units
upon real property located within CSA 17; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors proposes to increase the special tax from $195.00
to an amount not to exceed $260.00 per annum per living unit beginning with fiscal year 2001-2002
and remaining in effect until repealed by the Board of Supervisors or the registered voters upon
whose property the special tax is imposed; and

WHEREAS, the increase in the special tax, if approved by the electorate, will not exceed
the spending limit as increased by the electorate pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:

1.	The increased special tax shall be collected annually by the Marin County Tax
Collector in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as County property
taxes are collected from every person who owns a living unit within this Area as
reflected upon the rolls of County Assessor. The County shall be entitled to deduct
its reasonable costs incurred in collecting the special tax before such tax is remitted
to CSA 17.

2.	This Board shall determine annually, based upon a budget recommended to it, the
tax rate up to the maximum allowed herein.

3.	The special tax established by this Resolution shall be submitted to the registered
voters within CSA 17 at an election to be consolidated with the General Election to
be conducted on November 7, 2000. The special tax shall not become effective
unless approved by two-thirds of the registered voters within CSA 17. The
questions submitted to the voters shall read substantially as follows:

Shall the special tax levied annually upon living units located within CSA
17 be increased from $195.00 per year to an amount not to exceed
$260.00 per year for each living unit within that area commencing with the
2001-2002 fiscal year?

B

Shall the appropriations limit of CSA 17 be increased for four years
starting with the 2001-2002 fiscal year equal to the proceeds of the taxes
imposed?

A

1

3.	The Board of Supervisors hereby orders that this election shall be consolidated with
any other election scheduled on Tuesday, November 7, 2000.

4.	Pursuant to the provisions of Elections Code Section 1002, the Marin County Board
of Supervisors authorizes and directs the Marin County Clerk to render all services
necessary for the conduct of the election. The costs of the election shall be borne
by CSA17.

5.	The increase in the special tax shall be deemed in effect beginning with the 2001-
2002 fiscal year upon certification of the election results evidencing approval by at
least two-thirds of the registered voters voting thereon.

6.	Pursuant to Government Code Section 50077.5 and the Code of Civil Procedure
Section 860, any judicial action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside, or annul
this special tax, if approved by the voters, shall be commenced within 60 days of
the effective date of this Resolution.

7.	The Clerk of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to mail a copy of this
Resolution to the Advisory Board of CSA 17.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors of the
' day of August, 2000, by the following vote:

Cynthia L. Murray, Harold C. Brown, Jr., John B. Kress,

Steve Kinsey

Annette Rose

County of	Marin held on this 8"
AYES:	SUPERVISORS
NOES:	NONE
ABSENT:	SUPERVISOR
ATTEST:  Ofl.	
CLERK / ( |	





PRESIDENT, BOARD OF SUPERVISOR 2



2