MEASURE Y

Shall Ordinance 2000-26 of the Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County be approved so as to authorize a special tax increase on property located in County Service Area P-2 (Zone 8), from $ 18 to $36 per parcel for single residential property for the first fiscal year, and not to exceed $54 per parcel per year for single residential	YES	
property in succeeding years, wish corresponding increases for properties in other use categories identified in the ordinance (i.e., small multiple residential, large multiple residential, and comraercialrindustrial/institutional), in order to provide additional funding for police protection service?	NO	

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURE Y

The Contra Costa Coumy Board of Supervisors adopted Ordinance 2000-26 authorizing an
increase in the special tax for police protection services throughout Zone B (the Alamo area) of Contra
Costa Coumy Service Area P-2, if approved by two-thirds of those voting on this ballot measure. The
authorizing Ordinance requires that the proceeds of this tax be used solely tor the purposes of
obtaining, furnishing, operating, and maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, for paying
the salaries and benefits of police protection personnel, and for other necessary police protection
service expenses.

The tax proposed by this measure is not based upon the value of property. The tax, if approved
by she voters, will be on a parcel and use of property basis. The authorizing Ordinance identifies the
following property use categories: Single Residential; Small Multiple Residential; Large Multiple
Residential; and Commercial/Industrial/Institutional.

The authorizing Ordinance designates the amounts of the special tax per parcel for each of the
property use categories during the first fiscal year (July 1,2001 through June 30, 2002). For instance,

during the first fiscal year, the tax on Single Residential property will be increased from $18 to $36
per parcel

For each subsequent fiscal year, the Board of Supervisors will determine the amounts of the
special tax per parcel for each of the property use categories, but the amounts may not exceed the
amounts specified in the authorizing Ordinance. For instance, in any subsequent fiscal year, the tax on
Single Residential property may not exceed $.54 per parcel.

At least two-thirds of (hose voting on the ballot measure must approve the measure m order for
it to pass,

A “yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the increase in the special tax.

A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the increase in the special tax.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
COUNTY SERVICE AREA P-2
MEASURE Y

For over 30 years the P2-B Police Service Area, comprised of 3305 parcels in Alamo, has
enjoyed additional dedicated police protection paid for by a $18 annual parcel tax. These funds paid
for one and one-half full-time sheriffs deputies. These officers focus on our area youth and schools
but also undertake general law enforcement duties, including routine patrols, investigation of local
crimes and traffic law enforcement. Recently, a bicycle patrol has been added for the Iron Horse Trail
and downtown area.

The foregoing activities arc overseen by a unpaid volunteer board of nine Alamo citizens
appointed by the Contra Costa Board of Supervisors. Regrettably, the current parcel tax unchanged

since 1969, will no longer support today's manpower and equipment costs. Unless increased by an
additional $36 or $3 a month the current level of additional police protection will no longer be
possible. It should be noted that Round Hill and White Gate are separately funded and not included.

The P2-B Police Service Area Board recommends a YES vote. Passage of this measure will
enable the district to maintain current staffing levels as well as provide a modest reserve for the future.

jess D. Erickson, Treasurer
Police Service Area P2-B

None Fifed.

ARGUMENT AGAINST
COUNTY SERVICE AREA P-2
MEASURE Y