<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLACER COUNTY COUNSEL

Measure W would authorize a 1/4 cent sales tax within the
County of Placer. The sales tax increase would be a
general tax. If approved by a majority of the voters the
Measure W sales tax increase will become effective April
1,2001.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285
authorizes the County Board of Supervisors to levy a
transaction and use ("sales") tax at certain rates, including
a .25 percent (1/4 cent) rate, if the tax is approved by a
majority of the voters in election on that issue.

Measure W states that the 1/4 cent sales tax is to be used
"for general County purposes." This means that the tax
proceeds may be used by the County for any
governmental purpose, without restriction. The County is
not in any way legally bound to use the tax monies for any
special purpose or for any particular project or projects.

The measure contains three "mandatory restrictions."
First, the tax must expire after twenty years. That is,
voters approving the measure expressly approving the
imposition of the tax for a period commencing April 1,
2001, terminating March 31, 2021. Thereafter, the
authority to collect the tax ceases as an operation of law.

Second, a "Citizen's Oversight Committee," will be created
to conduct public hearings, issue yearly reports of fund

expenditures, contract with an independent auditor to
conduct a yearly audit of the sales tax expenditures and
report to the Board of Supervisors. The Committee has
no authority to direct or control the use of the tax funds by
the County. After the tax has been collected for a ten year
period, the Committee shall recommend to the Board of
Supervisors whether to propose to the voters to extend
the tax to 30 years, allow the tax to expire as scheduled,
or take action to repeal the tax.

Third, this sales tax increase will expire automatically
should the state attempt to redirect the use of the
proceeds of the sales tax revenue beyond the control of
the Board of Supervisors.

To recap, these restrictions limit the duration of the
collection of the tax, establish a "Citizens Oversight
Committee" requiring annual audits and public reports of
the uses for the funds selected by the Board of
Supervisors, and provide for an automatic expiration of the
tax should the state attempt to redirect the use of the
proceeds of the sales tax revenue beyond the control of
the Board of Supervisors. <impartialend> 







<impartialsigs> Anthony J. La Bouff By: Sabrina M. Thompson
County Counsel	Deputy County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<fiscal> PLACER COUNTY AUDITOR-CONTROLLER
FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT

If the transactions and use tax is approved by voters, it
would increase the local sales tax in Placer County from
7.25% to 7.5%. The general sales tax proposed would
provide a source of discretionary revenues that would be
available to support discretionary programs of the Board
of Supervisors.

Approval of the 1/4 cent sales tax measure would result in
an increase in sales tax revenues. Taxable sales fluctuate
in response to economic conditions and consumer
spending patterns. This would affect the total revenue
that would be collected under this measure. As such, it is
impossible to predict with reasonable certainty the sales
taxes that would be collected over a 20-year period.
Based on current countywide collections, it is
conservatively estimated that a 1/4 cent sales tax increase
in Placer County could generate between $8.5 to $10.5
million in additional annual revenue.

County sales taxes are generated from taxable sales
made in Placer County to both individuals and businesses.
Those sales are made to individuals and businesses that
may or may not reside in the County. It is estimated that
approximately 37% of the sales tax revenues collected
reflect sales made to individuals and businesses that do
not reside in the county.

The Placer County Proposed Budget for fiscal 2000/2001
totaling $270 million dollars provides estimates of the
spending requirements and the related sources of funding.
Revenues funding the budget are comprised of both
restricted and non-restricted revenues. Restricted
revenues are revenues over which the Board of
Supervisors has limited spending authority. The County

General Fund represents $170 million of the county
budget. Taxes, including both property and sales taxes,
which are the revenue source over which the Board of
Supervisors has the broadest authority, total $61.5 million
in the General Fund. Currently these revenues fund
existing county services and programs including those
mandated by state and federal law. The proposed budget
reflects the annual prioritization process undertaken by the
Board of Supervisors to match current spending
requirements with available sources of funding.

Creation of the citizens oversight committee including
related public hearings, annual reporting, and annual
audits as required by this measure would have minor cost
impacts on the County. <fiscalend> 









<fiscalsigs> David D. Irwin Jr.

Acting Auditor-Controller <fiscalsigsend>







<favor> Yes on Measure W

We must act now and vote Yes on both Measures V and
W to protect Placer County and Lake Tahoe's land, air,
and water. Recent local growth has generated
economic opportunities for residents, but has also
brought the growing pains, pollution and traffic jams of
more populated areas.

Both Measures V and W are critical to protecting our
quality of life and our hard-earned dollars - at an average
monthly cost of just $1.25 per local resident (less than
the cost of a cup of coffee). Economic studies show that
37% of the cost of these measures would be paid by
visitors and tourists from outside the county.

Nothing is more important than clean air to breathe and
clean, safe water to drink. Together, Measures V and W
will protect woodlands that purify our air, endangered
farmland, stream corridors that give us clean drinking
water, and vital habitats for fish, birds, and other
animals.

Tough fiscal safeguards will ensure that Measures V and
W utilize taxpayer dollars efficiently and effectively. An
independent financial audit will be conducted annually,

with reports published in local newspapers. A citizens'
fiscal watchdog committee will hold public meetings to
monitor the spending of every dollar - ensuring frugal
expenditures.

Measures V and W also impose a strict 20-year limit on
all collections and expenditures.

We simply cannot afford to wait any longer to protect
Placer County's open space, farmland, streams,
wetlands, and oak woodlands for our children and
grandchildren. Preserving our natural resources is
cheaper today than it will be ten years from now.

These measures are supported by a broad-based
coalition of community groups that don't always agree.
Please join local taxpayers, church leaders, farmers and
public safety officials in supporting both Measures V and
W to protect our land, air, water, and public dollars. <favorend>







<favorsigs> Tom Jones, Chairman - Placer County Ducks Unlimited
Chapter

Joanne K. Neft, Taxpayers for V & W
Wayne Vineyard, Placer County Farm Bureau
Edward Bonner, Placer County Sheriff-Coroner-Marshal
Dr. Ron Feist, Educator <favorsigsend> 








<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W

The supervisors had the opportunity to propose a special
tax for open space conservation, but they chose instead
to propose an $8.5 million dollar general fund tax
increase, which can be spent on anything, not just
conservation! The county's own figures say that Placer
Legacy will only cost $3.7 million annually after 30 years.

But Placer County voters will not be fooled. Look at the
words of County Counsel Anthony LaBouff, who said, "I
think strongly that this is a general tax..." (Auburn
Journal, July 12).

We do not oppose this tax increase because open space
conservation is a wrong priority; we oppose this tax
increase because of its flagrant disregard for the
people’s money. Never before has the county had a

surplus of $8.5 million dollars (Auburn Journal, August 3)
and still asked the taxpayers for more.

It is fundamentally and morally wrong to raise taxes on
working families, seniors, students and farmers when it
is not necessary. Vote NO on Measure W and ask the
Supervisors to come back with a better plan for
conserving our heritage. <rebutfavorend>






<rebutfavorsigs> Wally Reemelin, President: League of Placer County
Taxpayers

Kenneth W. Campbell, Placer County Republican
Chairman

Lewis K. Uhler, President, National Tax Limitation
Committee

Alice C. Ferrari, Rancher and Homemaker <rebutfavorsigsend> 








<against> Measure W is simply a new unrestricted tax that legally an be used for any program for 20 years. This tax will
be put into the County general fund and can pay for any
County use. THERE IS NO OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
for the general fund. 

Vote NO on Measure W. Protect your property rights. <againstend> 







<againstsigs> Don Robinson, Businessman

Allen Stonesifer, Cattleman

Harvey Eisley, Nurseryman

Wade Freedle, Resource Education Network

Norma M. Harris, Businesswoman <againstsigsend>







<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE W

The argument against Measure W includes incorrect
information- and fails to propose an alternative for
protecting Placer County and Lake Tahoe’s land, air,
and water from traffic congestion and pollution.

Measures V and W will cost our residents less than the
cost of one cup of coffee a month - and were placed on
the ballot together in a rare, unanimous vote by the
Placer County Board of Supervisors. Passage of both
Measures will send a loud and clear message: Every
dollar from Measure W must be used to protect and
preserve our county’s land, air, and water for future
generations.

Our opponents are flat-out wrong when they claim there
will not be an oversight committee for general fund
expenditures.

Taxpayer advocates and strong supporters of property
rights like Placer County Realtors and the building
industry association support Measures V AND W
because of the many built-in safeguards to ensure only

wise and prudent expenditures. These safeguards
include:

•	Annual, independent financial audits of all
expenditures and collections - with regular reports
published in local newspapers.

•	A Citizens Fiscal Watchdog Committee of taxpayer
advocates, independent business owners and others
will hold regular public meetings to monitor the
spending of every single dollar. Every meeting will
be open to all members of the public.

Please don’t be fooled by misinformation. After
reviewing the facts, we would appreciate your vote for
both Measures V AND W - assuring protection of
Placer’s air, land, and water for future generations. <rebutagainstend>








<rebutagainstsigs> Sylvia Besana, Retired Educator

Peter Hill, Mayor, City of Rocklin

Bill M. Santucci, Placer County Supervisor, District 1

John J. Moore, CPA

Ed Bonner, Placer County Sheriff-Coroner-Marshal
<rebutagainstsigsend>