MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

MUNICIPAL

CITY OF BELVEDERE
SPECIAL TAX AND
APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT INCREASE
MEASURE B

B Shall an ordinance entitled 'An Ordinance Amending
And Readopting Chapter 3.28 Of The Belvedere
Municipal Code Regarding A Special Tax And
Appropriations Limit Increase To Finance Fire Protection
Services And Emergency Medical Services,’ which
ordinance would increase the special tax for fire and
emergency services first adopted by the City of Belvedere
in 1980, be adopted?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE B

City of Belvedere
Increase in Fire and Emergency Medical Services Levy

This ballot measure authorizes the Belvedere City Council to adopt an
ordinance amending and readopting existing Chapter 3.28 of the
Belvedere Municipal Code, effectively increasing the City’s existing tax
that funds fire protection and emergency medical services for the City.
The amended ordinance would be effective starting with the fiscal year
beginning July 1,2000.

If the measure is adopted, the City Council would be authorized, for
any fiscal year where it is determined that the cost of providing safe,
adequate and proper fire protection and emergency medical services for
the City will exceed $400,000, to impose a tax to fund such services on
each parcel of real property within the City. The maximum tax allowed to
be collected for the fiscal year 2000/2001 would be $450,000. The levy
would result in the following rate structure for the fiscal year 2000/2001:
$395.00 per residential dwelling unit; $450.00 per commercial
occupancy; and $80.00 per vacant parcel of land. After fiscal year
2000/2001, the maximum tax may be adjusted as if it were an
appropriation subject to the limitation of the provisions of California
Constitution Article XIIIB.

This measure would also increase the City’s appropriations limit to the
extent of the proceeds derived from the increased tax, for the four fiscal
years beginning July 1,2000 and ending June 30,2004.

Article XIIIA of the California Constitution requires that this measure
must be approved by a two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the
measure on April 11,2000.

If approved, this measure would supersede the City of Belvedere’s
existing tax for fire protection and emergency medical services.

A “Yes” vote on this measure authorizes the City to increase its
existing levy for fire protection and emergency medical services
beginning with the fiscal year commencing July 1,2000.

A “No” vote on this measure prohibits the City from increasing its
existing levy for fire protection and emergency medical services
beginning with the fiscal year commencing July 1,2000.

GARYT. RAGGHIANTI

City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURES A & B

Your YES vote on Measures A and B is essential to continue
professional fire protection and emergency medical services in
Belvedere.

Since 1980, Belvedere has contracted with the Tiburon Fire District for
fire and emergency medical services. Consequently, every four years
for the past twenty years, Belvedere voters have overwhelmingly
approved special assessments to cover these essential costs that are
over and above the City’s Proposition 13 General Fund budget allocation
limits for basic fire protection and paramedic services. Measure A allows
for the continuation of the assessment to raise a portion of the funds
required.

If approved, Measure B will increase the amount of the assessment to
the level needed to pay the Tiburon Fire District for the current level of
services specified in the newly revised contract, and will supersede
Measure A. The amount paid by Belvedere has risen substantially in the
four years since voters approved the previous assessment in 1996.
Measure B will help fund this increase by assessing $395 per residence,
$450 per commercial occupancy, and $80 per vacant lot.

Vote YES on Measures A and B in order to maintain the essential fire
and emergency medical services that protect Belvedere’s residents and
their properties.

si Justin Faggioli
City Councilmember and Former Mayor

s/ Kenneth G. Johnson
Former Mayor and Citizen of the Year

si Ann Otter

Former Mayor and Citizen of the Year

s/ Dr. Paul Ogden, MD

Belvedere Representative to the
Southern Marin Paramedic System

si Dr. Thomas Cromwell, MD
City of Belvedere Fire Commissioner

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

End of Measure B

21512