1/11/00 11:17 AM

CITY OF PIEDMONT MEASURE H	
■ ■ MEASURE H: “Shall Chapter 20E be added to the Piedmont City Code providing for a new Special 1 I Municipal Sewer Tax, replacing the existing sewer ser- vice charge, as more specifically set forth in Ord. 610 N.S. which is on file with the Piedmont City Clerk?”	YES
	NO
	

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE H

ORDINANCE NO. 610 N.S.

AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 20E
TO THE PIEDMONT CITY CODE TO PROVIDE FOR A
SPECIAL MUNICIPAL SEWER TAX

The City Council of the City of Piedmont hereby ordains as follows:
SECTION 1

It is the intent of the City Council of the City of Piedmont in adopting this
Ordinance to provide for the ability to raise sufficient funds through a special
tax for the provision of sewer services in Piedmont. Based on the recommen-
dation of the Municipal Tax Review Committee and in light of the mandate of
the Cease and Desist Order of the California Regional Water Quality Control
Board which requires the City to replace at least 20 miles of old sewer line, it
is understood that a substantial continuous source of revenue is required to pro-
vide for millions of dollars of replacement costs as well as for ongoing sewer
maintenance. This special tax shall replace the current sewer service charge
contained in Section 17A.9 of the City Code.

SECTION 2

Chapter 20E is hereby added to the Piedmont City Code to read as follows:

“CHAPTER 20E
SPECIAL MUNICIPAL SEWER TAX
SECTION 20E.1 AUTHORIZATION TO LEVY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL
SEWER TAX

For any fiscal year commencing on or after July 1, 2001, the City Council
shall determine what the total expenses will be required for the proper main-
tenance, construction, reconstruction, repair and operation of all the sewer facil-
ities and appurtenances within the City, and it may levy a special tax for such
fiscal year on each parcel of real property within the City in a manner provided
herein. This is a tax for special governmental purposes and the funds derived
from such special tax shall be limited to the uses set forth in this Section 20E.1.
SECTION 20E.2 DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT TO BE RAISED

Each year concurrent with the adoption of the annual budget, the City
Council will determine the total amount of expenditures necessary to provide
adequate levels of municipal sewer services as defined in Section 20E. This
shall be the maximum amount of funds to be derived from the tax authorized by
this Ordinance for such year.

PM-11

Measures F,G,H 1/11/00 11:17 AM Page^2

SECTION 20E.3 MAXIMUM TAX RATF./METHOD OF ASSESSMENT
After determining the total amount of tax to be raised under Section 20E.2,
the City Council shall apportion said amount among the parcels of real property
within the City not exempted by law or exempted pursuant to Section 20B.12,
as follows:

(a)	Sewer Connection. There shall be an annual sewer tax equal to the
number of sewer connections on each parcel of real property multiplied by an
amount to be determined by the City Council for that fiscal year.

(b)	Additional Tax. There shall be an additional annual sewer tax for
each parcel of real property in amount to be determined by the City Council
which in no case shall exceed the maximum amounts set forth hereafter as they
may be adjusted for cost of living purposes as provided hereafter.

MAXIMUM SEWER TAX RATE SCHEDULE

Developed	Parcels	Divided	by

Per Parcel According Single Family	Commercial	Multi-Family Tax Code Area

to Size____________Residence	Properties_Residence____Line____________

0 to 4,999 sq. ft.	$379

5.000	to 9,999 sq. ft. $432

10.000	to 14,999 sq. ft. $498

15.000	to 20,000 sq.ft. $581

Over 20,000 sq. ft.	$684

0 to 10,000 sq. ft.	$684

Over 10,000 sq. ft.	$942

Per Dwelling Unit	$316

Per Parcel	$379

The foregoing tax rate schedule shall apply for the 2001/2002 tax year
commencing July 1, 2001, and ending on June 30, 2002. For each tax year
thereafter commencing with the 2002/2003 tax year, the foregoing tax rate
schedule shall be adjusted as follows:

An amount equal to the percentage increase or decrease in the Consumer
Price Index for all Urban Consumers (All items) (Base Year 1994=100) for San
Francisco-Oakland, California, as published by the United States Department of
Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, for the period from December 1999 to
December of the fiscal year immediately prior to the year in which the percent-
age adjustment will apply, multiplied by the specific tax rate in the foregoing
Maximum Sewer Tax Rate Schedule. For purposes of example only, if the max-
imum tax rate for a single family resident parcel of4,000 square feet is $379.00,
and the Consumer Price Index for December 1999 is 100 and for December
2001 is 106, the increase of 6 is a 6% increase, meaning an additional maximum
tax of $22.74 for the 2002/2003 fiscal year or a total maximum tax of $401.74
for such fiscal year.

The records of the Alameda County Assessor as of March 1 of the fiscal
year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the special taxes are
payable shall determine whether or not any particular parcel is unimproved for
purposes of this Ordinance. All improved parcels which are located entirely
within the City of Piedmont shall be subject to the special taxes assessed pur-

PM-12

1/11/00 11:17 AM

suant to this Chapter 20.E. In addition, on improved parcels which are located
partially within the City of Piedmont, all such parcels whose residents are eli-
gible to register to vote in Piedmont and/or all such parcels which are eligible
to receive services from the City of Piedmont pursuant to the 911 Emergency
System as of March 1 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in
which the special sewer taxes are payable shall be subject to the special taxes
assessed pursuant to Chapter 20.E. Each parcel shall be taxed pursuant to this
Chapter 20.E according to its actual use as of March 1 of the fiscal year imme-
diately preceding the fiscal year in which any such special sewer tax is payable.
SECTION 20E.4 HEARING. TAX LIEN AND INCLUSION IN CITY TAXES
Prior to levying a special tax under this Ordinance in any fiscal year, the
City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed tax. Such hearing
may be conducted simultaneously with a hearing relating to the annual budget
for the fiscal year in which the general tax is to apply. Notice of such hearing
shall be posted on the official bulletin board at City Hall at least 10 days prior
to the hearing. All of the information and material which the City Council
intends to consider at such hearing and the proposed amount of tax to be raised
shall be made available to the public by being on file in the office of the City
Clerk for at least 10 days prior to said hearing.

Following said hearing, the Council may adopt a resolution fixing the total
amount of the special sewer tax to be raised.

SECTION 20E.5 COLLECTION

The City Council may elect to have any special tax authorized under this
Chapter collected either by the City or in the alternative by the Tax Collector of
the County of Alameda. If the services of the Tax Collector of the County of
Alameda are elected, the special tax may only be included on the annual tax bill
sent out by such Tax Collector and charges made by such Tax Collector shall be
paid out of general funds deducted from the gross proceeds of the tax.
SECTION 20E.6 FUNDING AND EXPENDING PROCEEDS

Proceeds of any tax levied under this Ordinance shall be deposited into a
special Municipal Sewer Tax Fund of the City.

SECTION 20E.7 SEVERABILITY

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any other provi-
sions or applications, and to this end the provisions this Ordinance are declared
to be severable.

SECTION 20E.8 DURATION. AMENDMENT OR REPEAL

This Ordinance, or any provision thereof, may only be amended or
repealed by approval of a two-thirds majority of the voters voting on the propo-
sition at any initiative or referendum election.

This Ordinance shall be adopted, if approved by a two-thirds majority of
the voters voting on the proposition at an election to be held on Tuesday, March
7, 2000, and shall be effective commencing with the fiscal year that begins on
July 1, 2001; provided that the provisions of Chapter 20B in effect on March 7,
2000 shall remain in effect for all purposes relating to the taxes provided there-
under through the fiscal year ending June 30, 2001.

PM-13

Measures F,G,H

1/11/00 11:17 AM

SECTION 20E.9 EXEMPTIONS

The City Council may from time to time by Council resolution adopt
exemptions to the tax measures set further herein.”

SECTION 3

This Ordinance shall require passage by a d/S^’s vote of the City Council
in compliance with the provisions of Section 53724(b) of the California Gov-
ernment Code, shall be posted at City Hall after its second reading by the City
Council for at least 30 days, and shall not become effective unless approved by
a two-thirds majority of the voters voting on the proposition at an election to be
held on Tuesday, March 7, 2000.

SECTION 4

If this Ordinance is approved by a two-thirds majority of the voters as set
forth in Section 20E.8 thereof, then Section 17A.9 of the Piedmont City Code
which sets forth the current sewer service charge shall be rescinded as of the
effective date of this Ordinance on July 1, 2001.

I certify that the foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of the original
document which was passed and adopted at a regular meeting of the Piedmont
City Council on October 18, 1999 by the following vote:

AYES:	White,	Bruck,	Labadie,	Matzger, Peters

NOES:	None

ABSENT: None

s/ANN SWIFT
City Clerk

Measures F,G,H 1/11/00 11:17 AM Page-a5

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

Based on a Cease and Desist Order of the California Regional Water
Quality Control Board, Piedmont and other East Bay cities are required to
make substantial improvements in their sewer systems in order to reduce over-
flows of untreated wastewater, particularly during winter storms. In practical
terms this means that Piedmont must spend approximately $16,000,000
beyond what has already been spent to upgrade and replace the City’s current
deficient sewer system.

It is clear that the current sewer service charge can barely cover the costs
of current sewer repairs and maintenance. Because of this the City has looked
at various alternatives to finance the major expense, including issuing munici-
pal bonds. After extensive review of various alternatives, the Municipal Tax
Review Committee has recommended a new Sewer Tax as the most cost effec-
tive method for the taxpayers. The Tax would cover not only current repairs, but
also the substantial capital expenses in rebuilding much of the City’s current
sewer system.

This new Sewer Tax would increase the average household sewer service
charge approximately $20 per month, but could potentially be reduced a mean-
ingful amount when the capital expenditures for the sewer work required to
comply with the Cease and Desist Order have been completed.

If the City does not complete the required sewer work by the deadline
established pursuant to the Cease and Desist Order, the City could potentially
become subject to large penalties, which could substantially increase the total
cost to the City.

s/GEORGE S. PEYTON, JR.
Piedmont City Attorney

Measures F,G,H

1/11/00 11:17 AM

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

Piedmont’s sewer system is old, largely built with outmoded clay pipes, and is
beginning to fall apart faster than it can be patched. Heavy rains create massive
ground water infiltration. This results in sewage backups, overflowing sewers,
overwhelmed treatment facilities, and Bay pollution. In 1998, undersized sew-
ers overflowed during heavy rains. Raw sewage flooded into city streets.

By law. Piedmont must stop these unsanitary discharges. Piedmont (like other
East Bay Cities) is required by a Consent Decree to upgrade about 20 miles of
our sewers. Upgrade costs are estimated at $16 million. However, the existing
sewer tax of $198 per year per household barely provides enough money to
keep the existing sewers and storm drains operating, and has not been raised
since 1986.

A committee of your fellow Piedmont citizens spent months studying this prob-
lem. As taxpayers themselves, they did not want to pay any more than was nec-
essary. They concluded that the best and least expensive approach involved tak-
ing advantage of subsidized State financing - while it lasts - and minimizing
disruption by completing the project expeditiously. Failure to act today risks
higher costs tomorrow.

Our sewers continue to deteriorate, and Piedmont has a legal and environmen-
tal obligation to fix them. Approximately $240 a year more per household ($20
per month) is needed to pay for the required major repairs and new sewers.
Approving Measure H is the least expensive way to fix Piedmont’s sewers. The
only other realistic option is to pay for the work with usage fees and higher
water bills. This alternative not only fails to reduce sewer repair costs, but also
ensures your payments won’t be tax deductible. Approving Measure H is your
least expensive option.

Keep our sewer repair costs as low as possible. Minimize construction disrup-
tion. Support a clean, healthy community and environment Vote Yes on
Measure H.

s/PATTY WHITE, Mayor

s/JEFFREY WIELER, Chair 1999 Tax Review Committee
s/JUNE BRUGGER, Co-Chair, Piedmonters for City Services
s/JOHN Y. CHIANG, Co-Chair, Piedmonters for City Services
s/CRAIG LUNDIN, Former Mayor

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H WAS SUBMITTED.

PM-16