PROPOSAL TO AMEND NEWCASTLE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX

Shall Measure Y which authorizes the Newcastle Fire Protection District to amend the special
tax as it applies to commercial business only be approved?

YES______ NO_________

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLACER COUNTY COUNSEL

The Newcastle Fire Protection District proposes to
amend the business tax rate section of their existing
special tax. The district finds that the special tax as
originally imposed on businesses did not adequately
consider the full financial impact to the district by
businesses and that new state legislative requirements
have added to that burden.

The district is proposing to the voters that the tax on
businesses be increased. The current tax on
businesses is the improved parcel base rate for each
dwelling unit on the parcel. The district is proposing this
rate be increased to the improved parcel base rate plus
an additional amount ranging from $.05 per square foot,
to $.10 per square foot, depending on the type of
business. Some of these rates cap out at a maximum of
$600.00 per business, while others do not, depending on
the type of business. In addition, motels, hotels and inns
will be taxed $20.00 per unit, with no maximum, plus
$.05 per square foot of the business which is not a
portion of a rentable unit,

The amendment and increase in the special tax, which
would be imposed upon the passage of Measure Y,
would be an annual tax upon parcels of property
commencing with the 2000-2001 tax year. The special
tax would continue to be collected in the same manner
as ad valorem taxes are collected by the county.

A "YES" vote is a vote in favor of increasing the
amount of tax on businesses as described
above.

A "NO" vote is a vote against increasing the
amount of tax on businesses as described
above.

Reference is made to Newcastle Fire Protection District
Resolution No. 608-00B for complete terms of this
measure. Measure Y must receive approval by
two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast by the voters voting
upon the measure to be considered approved by the
voters.

Anthony J. La Bouff By: Sabrina M. Thompson
County Counsel Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Y

On June 3rd 1997 the voters approved a Special Tax to
be applied within the Newcastle Fire Protection District.
The revenues of this Special Tax were earmarked to pay
for 24 hour full time paid firefighters for the community,
and they continue to be spent for this purpose. The fees
imposed by the Tax were calculated and based upon a
number of criteria, including the amount of potential
emergency services a particular piece of property or
business presents to the District, and the amount of staff
time and equipment that would be necessary to prepare
for and ultimately provide emergency services to that
property or business. Since 1997 it has become
apparent to the District that we under estimated the
costs involved in providing services to the existing and
potential businesses within the District. For example
there are no provisions in the Special Tax to
distinguished between the fees paid by say a Service
Station, a motel, or any other small business. All
currently pay the same fees. There are no motels
currently within the District, but there have been
discussions of at least two potential motel sites. There
are also currently plans approved for the construction of

another Service Station within the District. The Fire
Department makes annual inspections of the businesses
and prepares pre-plans for use in training for potential
emergency situations at those business locations.
Measure Y is a modification of the Special Tax only as it
applies to the fees to be applied to businesses within the
District. It establishes a more realistic fee for businesses
based upon their true potential need for emergency
services from the Fire Department.

A YES vote will not change the fees paid by residential
parcels but will amend the Special Tax only as it applies
to businesses.

Neil G. Anderson, Chairman

Newcastle Fire Protection District Board of Directors

Ray Vega,

Newcastle Fire Protection District Chief

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Y WAS
SUBMITTED

31Y1

MEASURE Y ORDINANCE

MEASURE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE NEWCASTLE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT TO AUTHORIZE
THE DISTRICT TO AMMEND SECTION X OF THE SPECIAL TAX CONCERNING THE TAX RATES TO BE APPLIED
TO COMMERCIAL BUSINESSES.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
THE NEWCASTLE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT AS
FOLLOWS:

Section I. The Board of Directors of the Newcastle Fire
Protection District (hereafter "District") finds and declares
that the District is empowered to place property taxes and
other fees and assessments on the ballot for approval by
the voters of the District as necessary in order to provide
sufficient revenues to provide for adequate fire protection
and prevention and emergency aid services within the
District.

Section II. That in such capacity the District did place on
the June 1997 ballot Measure F to enact a SPECIAL TAX
designed to establish a stable source of revenue in order
to maintain the level of emergency service and response
which the District believed necessary to provide for the
safety and well being of the permanent and transient
inhabitants of the District.

Section III. That the voters approved the SPECIAL TAX
Measure F as presented by the District on June 3, 1997
by over a two-thirds majority.

Section IV. That such SPECIAL TAX was designed to
apply the financial impact of such tax to each parcel of
property within the district based upon the level of benefits
to be derived by that parcel and the potential that parcel
has for the need of the services provided by the tax.

Section V. The District further finds that the SPECIAL
TAX as originally presented did not adequately consider
the full financial impact existing and new commercial
businesses within the District will and would have upon
the District.

Section'VI. The District finds that businesses within the
district require significantly more staff and equipment to
properly service them than was first estimated, and that
different catagories of businesses require varying levels of
service depending on the nature of that business.
Specifically that each business requires special checks
every year and requires the preparation of fire pre-plans to
properly prepare for an emergency and to identify
hazardous materials and their proper handling in the event
of such an emergency.

Section VII. The District further finds that businesses
which house or utilize combustible or hazardous materials
or serve varying levels of customers such as restaurants
or motels pose additional problems over the normal
commercial endeavor and require significanly increased
levels of fire and emergency services, both before, during
and after a need for service at their location.

Section VIII. The District also finds that since the
enactment of the SPECIAL TAX the law now requires
what is called the two in and two out rule. This requires
that before anyone can enter a burning building, there
must be a total of four firefighters suited up and ready to
enter. Two may enter, and the other two remain outside in
case the two inside require assistance. In order to provide
for this it requires the availability of additional fire fighters
and has resulted in an increase in personnel costs to the
District.

Section IX. The District finds that in order to maintain the
level of emergency service and response which it believes
is necessary to provide for the safety and well being of the
inhabitants of the District, that the SPECIAL TAX must be
amended to properly include the impact businesses such
as Vehicle Fueling or Gasoline Filing Stations, Motels,
Restaurants and other types of commercial businesses
will have upon the staff and equipment of the District.

Section X. Therefore, after careful and full review the
District finds that the portion of Section X of the Special
Tax concerning businesses titled "THE TAX RATE FOR
BUSINESSES SHALL BE:" should be amended to read
as follows:

THE TAX RATE FOR BUSINESSES SHALL BE:

A.	Restaurants or eating establishments:

The improved parcel base rate for each business
unit on that parcel
plus

$ 0.05 per square foot to a maximum of $600 per
business.

B.	Vehicle fueling or Service Stations:

The improved parcel base rate for each business
unit on that parcel
plus

$ 0.05 per square foot for all covered office,
storeroom or store space
plus

$ 0.10 per square foot of island space with no
maximum.

ISLAND SPACE is defined as the area 12 feet out
(perpendicular) from each operational side for
fueling of a fuel pump multiplied by the length of
the island upon which the fuel pump is mounted.

MEASURE Y ORDINANCE
CONTINUED ON NEXJJ^pE,

MEASURE Y ORDINANCE
CONTINUED

C.	Businesses, except those businesses falling
within item B above, which use or store hazardous
materials as defined in the Uniform Fire Code, and
which in the opinion of the Fire Prevention Officer
represent a substantial hazard in the event of an
emergency situation and/or in the manner of their
storage, use, creation or disposal.

The improved parcel base rate for each business
uniton that parcel
plus

$ 0.10 per square foot to a maximum of $600 per
business.

D.	Motels, Hotels or Inns:

The improved parcel base rate for each business
unit on that parcel
plus

$ 0.05 per square foot of the business which is not
a portion of a rentable unit
plus

$20 for each rentable unit on that parcel with no
maximum.

E.	All other businesses:

The improved parcel base rate for each business
unit on that parcel
plus

$ 0.05 per square foot to a maximum of $600 per
business.

Shall Measure Y which authorizes the
Newcastle Fire Protection District to amend
the special tax as it applies to commercial
business only be approved.

Section XIII. In aii particulars not recited in this
Ordinance, said election shall be held and conducted as
provided for by law for the holding of district elections
within the District.

Section XIV. The Secretary of the District is hereby
ordered and directed to cause a copy of this Measure to
be published in the Auburn Journal, a newspaper of
general circulation within the District once in accordance
with Section 6061 of the Government Code of the State of
California.

Section XV. This Measure shall be effective upon
publication pursuant to Section XV and approval by the
voters of the District and shall take effect for the SPECIAL
TAX rate which is submitted by the District to Placer
County in the year 2001.

Section XVI. If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase
or clause of this Measure is for any reason held to be
invalid, such decision shall not effect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Measure. The people of the
Newcastle Fire Protection District hereby declare that they
would have adopted this Measure and each section,
subsection, sentence, phrase or clause thereof regardless
of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
sentences, phrases or clauses be declared invalid.

Section XI. Pursuant to the requirements of the laws of
the State of California relating to district elections, there
shall be, and there is hereby called and ordered held in
the Newcastle Fire Protection District, County of Placer,
State of California, on Tuesday November 7, 2000, a vote
by the qualified voters of the District at an election for the
purpose of approving this Ordinance to authorize the
District to implement the provisions of this Special Tax as
set forth above.

Section XII. At the election there shall be submitted to the
qualified voters residing within the boundaries of the
district the following proposition:

Passed and adopted this 8th day of June, 2000 by the
following roll call vote:

Anderson	AYE

Fawx	AYE

Stenzel	AYE

Fator	AYE

Wiley	AYE

Neil G. Anderson, Chairman
ATTEST: Sharon Vega, Secretary

PROPOSAL TO AMEND ROSEVILLE MUNICIPAL CODE

Shall certain provisions contained in Chapter 4.32 of the Roseville Municipal Code related to
the utility user's tax be repealed and a provision added to the Roseville Municipal Code that
the City of Roseville shall not impose a utility user's tax on the Citizens of Roseville?

YES_________ NO____________

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY ROSEVILLE CITY ATTORNEY

The Roseville Municipal Code currently requires the	repeal those provisions of the Roseville Municipal Code

collection of a five percent tax on the following utility	and replace them with a statement forbidding the

services: water, intrastate telephone, sewer, electricity,	imposition of a tax on the utilities listed above,

refuse, gas and cable television. This measure would

