Measures P-Z

9/12/00 4:00 PM

Page

CITY OF BERKELEY BOND MEASURE	
MEASURE Q: In order to fund the mobile disaster fire pro- m teclion system as described in City Council Resolution Nos.  60,914-N.S. and 60,915-N.S., shall Community Facilities District No. 1 (Disaster Fire Protection) of the City of Berkeley: incur a bonded indebtedness in an amount not to exceed $9,750,000; levy a a rate not exceeding $0.0125 per square foot of building area; andestab priations limit of $1,000,000 per fiscal year?	BONDS YES
	BONDS NO
	special tax at lish an appro-

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q

This measure would authorize the issuance of $9,750,000 of bonds, which
would be used to acquire a mobile disaster fire protection system for the deliv-
ery of auxiliary fire fighting water, including transportable pumping units, ultra
large diameter hose, transport and support vehicles, portable hydrants, accesso-
ry fittings, hose bridges, and a storage site or sites, together with incidental
expenses related thereto. The issuance of the bonds would be subject to a
covenant that the remaining bonds approved by the voters under Measure G,
amounting to approximately $22.5 million, would not be issued.

This measure would also authorize a special tax to be levied for a period of
twenty years (from fiscal year 2001-02 through fiscal year 2020-21) at a rate of
$0.0125 per square foot of improvements to real property throughout
Community Facilities District No. 1 (Disaster Fire Protection) of the City of
Berkeley (which includes the entire City of Berkeley). The proceeds of this spe-
cial tax would be used solely to secure the bonded indebtedness. Finally, this
measure would establish an appropriations limit of $1,000,000 per fiscal year
applicable to the special tax.

This ballot measure will pass or fail as a whole.

Financial Implications

The proposed City special tax rate would limit the annual cost for an average

1,900	square fool home to $23.75 from FY 2001-02 through FY 2020-21. The
tax will cost residential taxpayers no more than the following average amounts.

Sauare Feet	Annual Tax
1,200	$ 15.00
1,500	$ 18.75
1,900	$ 23.75
3,000	$ 37.50
10,000	$125.00

s/MANUELA ALBUQUERQUE
City Attorney

BEM-3

Measures P-Z 9/12/00 4:00 PM Page 4,

e

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASUREjQ

MEASURE Q FUNDS ESSENTIAL FIRE SAFETY { VOTE YES!

Each year when hot winds from the east sweep over the hills, and temperatures
rise and humidity falls, all of Berkeley is vulnerable to devastating fire. It has
happened twice in the past, and the only thing that saved the City was a change
in the direction of the wind. Berkeley is also subject to majctf- earthquakes dur-
ing which existing water mains are expected to break. When this happens, our
community will be left with no ability whatsoever to deliver water to fight the
fires that will follow.

We have worked hard and must continue to work hard on prevention and
earthquake preparedness, but we also need Measur } to buy the
special equipment we need to stop these fires before they rage out of con-
trol.

What does Measure O buv?

Measure Q bonds buy a mobile fire protection system which permits rapid
delivery of large volumes of water through portable hoses from water sources
such as Lake Anza, the Bay, Aquatic Park, and existing reservoirs.

Didn’t we already Approve Funds for a Fire Response System?

Yes. Voters previously approved Measure G providing $55 million in bonds,
including $22.5 million for a saltwater pipe system. However, upon further
study, that system was found to be too costly and unreliable.

Can’t we Use Funds Already Approved?

No. The funds already approved cannot legally be used to purchase equipment.
Why Vote Yes for Measure 0?

Measure Q provides a reliable firefighting system which will actually save tax-
payers $12.5 million! $22.5 million of the previously approved bonds from
Measure G will NOT be issued. $10 million in bonds from Measure Q
WILL be issued. The taxpayers save $12.5 million!

s/SHIRLEY DEAN, Mayor, City of Berkeley
s/MAUDELLE MILLER SHIREK, Vice Mayor, City of Berkeley
s/BETTY OLDS, Councilmember, District 6, City of Berkeley
s/POLLY ARMSTRONG, Councilmember, District 8, City of Berkeley
s/KAREN HATA, Human Welfare and Community Action Commissioner,
City of Berkeley

Whv do we Need Measure O?

For Everyone’s Sake. Vote Yes on Measure O

BEM-4

Measures P-Z 9/12/00 4:00 PM Page 5.

e

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

Measure Q is a Portable Water Distribution System. In case of wildfire in the
hills, the EBMUD distribution system will be operative and ivailable. There is
no need for a Portable System. In the event of an earthquak: the city has said
EBMUD reservoir will be unavailable for fire fighting as it nust be conserved
for potable water uses. So it is unclear when the hoses coulc be used.

These hoses are a foot in diameter. They will block intersections whether on
University Avenue or Grizzly Peak. During an emergency wjien PEOPLE need
to be evacuated blocked intersections are NOT desirable. Evejn your SUV won’t
navigate the hose.	j

Resolution 60,914 reads “If the qualified electors . . . authorize the bonded
indebtedness . . ., then this Council will covenant, in the resolution issuing the
bonds, that it will not issue any additional bonds ... of which there is . . .
$22,500,000 . . . unissued . . Note that THIS Council CEASES TO EXIST
after the election so the covenant is WORTHLESS and the next Council can
issue bonds. Taxpayers will likely have 32 million to pay off.

The city needs millions to demolish the abandoned fire administration and the
Hall of Justice buildings. It will likely look to the 22.5 million left for these
funds.

Vote NO on Measure Q.

S/T. R. EDLIN, President CNA*
s/HELENE HUNTER
s/SUSAN KORBEL

s/PATRICK DEVANEY, Panoramic Hill NA*
s/EVELYN GIARDINA

*For identification purposes only

BEM-5

Measures P-Z 9/12/00 4:00 PM Page 6.



ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q

In 1992 Voters approved a 55 million dollar bond issue to :eismically retrofit
seven fire stations, build a new hills firehouse, retrofit the ijlall of Justice and
replace deteriorated/undersized water mains.

Instead the city constructed a NEW Public Safety Building and Emergency
Operation Center by getting the court to override what the voters approved.
Twelve million was budgeted for a RETROFIT of the Hall < f Justice. The city
spent over 18 million on a NEW building. TWO MILLION was spent on salt
water system and cisterns, NEITHER of which were AUTH 3RIZED expendi-
tures in the bond measure. Two firehouses were expanded b} adding additional
bays. Dorm rooms, bathrooms and kitchens were refurbishe . NONE OF THE
PRECEDING WERE SEISMICALLY NECESSARY NOI AUTHORIZED.
Less than $50,000 was spent on upgrading water mains.

Eight years later no new hills fire station has been built and the existing fire sta-
tion has NOT been seismically retrofitted. Current estimates for a new fire sta-
tion are almost double the budgeted cost of 2.5 million.

There is no credible plan to utilize portable hoses. There islstill 22 million of
unused bonding authority under Measure G that the city could issue which isn’t
unequivocally relinquished.

The city cannot be trusted to spend money as proposed as demonstrated by
Measure G expenditures. Under the proposed Bond Measure the fire hoses will
cost taxpayers 20 million to buy 8 million in portable hoses.

Due to increases in real estate prices the assessed valuation of Berkeley prop-
erty has increased by almost TWO BILLION dollars resulting in almost EIGHT
MILLION in new tax revenue received by the city EACH AND EVERY year.
New fire fighting equipment should be purchased from the new revenue stream.
Vote NO on Measure Q.

s/T. R. EDLIN, President, Council of Neighborhood Association*
s/JOHN DENTON, former City Council Member
s/EVELYN GIARDINA

*For identification purposes only

BEM-6

Measures P-Z 9/12/00 4:00 PM Page 7.



REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q

The Opponent’s Argument against Measure Q is Wrong!

Advanced engineering studies determined it was better to build a new Public
Safety Building than repair the old police building because the new building, its
vital communication center and personnel would be fully functional following
a major earthquake. The courts ruled that Measure G funds could be spent on a
new building because Berkeley would get better protection for the same amount
of money that was going to be spent on the old one. Additional building costs
were paid by federal grants that could only be spent on the new building!
Berkeley’s fire houses were built before both men and women served as fire-
fighters. Today’s code requires separate living quarters and upgrades to heating,
plumbing and electrical systems whenever extensive work like seismjc retro-
fitting is done. It’s common sense, it’s also the law!

Opponents say we should pay for what we need through existing revenues.
Bond approval is needed because actual property tax revenues collected,
between 1992 and 2000, when adjusted for inflation. State local property tax
takeaways, and other factors, are less today than in 1992!	•

Measure Q Saves the Taxpayer $12.5 Million
Funds to build the new hills fire station and retrofit the one remaining fire sta-
tion have been set aside. That leaves $22.5 million of unused bonds under
Measure G which will NOT be spent if Measure Q is approved. Instead, $10
million would be spent for a reliable firefighting system, and Berkeley taxpay-
ers SAVE $12.5 million.

s/BETTY OLDS, Councilmember, District 6, City of Berkeley
s/SAM DYKE, Businessman, Ashby-Adeline
s/FREDERICK S. LEIF, Member, Disaster Council, City of Berkeley
s/CHARLES L. ROBINSON, Community Activist, South Berkeley
s/JUNICHI MIYAZAKI, Member, Citizens Budget Commission,

City of Berkeley

BEM-7