(h)	"Individual” means any individual acting on behalf of themselves or as agents for others.

(i)	"Agent” means any business entity, labor union or individual which represents a business
entity, labor union or individual who Is a party in a contract subject to this Article, including but not
limited to any lobbyist, attorney, public relations firm or media personnel employed or contracted
with to influence any decision made by the Board of Supervisors concerning a contract.

(i)	“Solicited” means asked, requested or suggested, whether orally or in writing.

(j)	“Candidate" means a candidate for local, state or federal office.

(k)	"Party” means any business entity, labor union or individual who seeks to enter into a contract
with the County, including any business entity, labor union or individual who is involved in the
negotiation, development or making of a contract.

(l)	"Contract” means any contract for services, including any modification or extension of an
existing contract, when the services are of the type performed by employees of the County, the
services have been performed by employees of the County, or the services are performed by
employees of the County as of the operative date of sections 502-502.3.

(m)	“Disclosure" as required by this Amendment includes but is not limited to the date, place, cost
and name of parties engaged in lobbying activities and the date, amount or value, and name of
parties making contributions, gifts, payments or giving other considerations subject to this
Amendment.

Section 502.6. Approval

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter any contract subject to this Article cannot be
entered into without a vote of the Board of Supervisors.

Section 1008 is added to Article X to provide as follows:

SECTION 3. Operative Date

These amendments to the Charter of the County of San Diego shall be effective the first day of the
month following the month of adoption by the voters.

SECTION 4. Amendment of County Code, Administrative Code, and Regulatory Ordinances
of the County of San Diego

The Board of Supervisors is directed to adopt amendments to the County Code, Administrative
Code and regulatory ordinances of the County of San Diego as may be necessary to conform
existing provisions to the amendments to the Charter for the County of San Diego set forth in

Section 2.

SECTION 5. Severability

If any provision of this Charter amendment, or the application of any such provision to any person
or circumstances, shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Charter amendment to the extent it
can be given effect, or the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than
those as to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby, and to this end the provisions of
this Charter amendment are severable.

SECTION 6. Amendment

This Charter shall be amended only by the voters of San Diego County.

PR-3000-15

N SD 429-040

CITY OF SANTEE
Proposition U

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

Shall the ordinance amending Section 3.16.030(a) of the San-
tee Municipal Code to set a maximum rate of fifteen percent for
the City’s transient occupancy tax be adopted?

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City currently imposes a 6% Hotel/Motel Tax on persons occupying hotels and motels in
the City of Santee. This tax is primarily paid by visitors to Santee staying at its hotels and motels.
This tax is also referred to as a Transient Occupancy Tax. The City Council desires the ability to
increase the Hotel/Motel Tax from a rate of 6% up to a rate of 15% if the City identifies a need for
additional revenues. Revenues raised from the Hotel/Motel Tax are placed In the City's general
fund and used for projects to benefit the citizens and residents of Santee. The current City Council
has indicated that it intends to use the revenues received from the increase in the Hotel/Motel Tax
for the construction and maintenance of the Town Center Community Park.

Proposition 218 adopted by the California voters in November 1996 requires that all general
taxes be approved by a majority of the voters at a regularly scheduled general election, tf a majority
of the voters vote to increase Santee's Hotel/Motel Tax at the regular municipal election held on
November 7. 2000, the City Council will have the ability under Section 3.16.030 of the Santee
Municipal Code, to set the Hotel/Motel Tax at any level between 6% and 15%.

PR-09SD-1

N SD 429-041

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION U

The City’s Hotel/Motel tax does not affect City residents. It is a tax added to room rent on visitors
to Santee who stay thirty days or less, use City streets and possibly other public facilities. These
visitors enjoy the amenities of Santee and should contribute toward the cost.

The current 6% Hotel/Motel tax has not been changed in twenty-years since the City incorporated
in December 1980. the City of Santee has the lowest Hotel/Motel tax rate in San Diego County.
Out of eighteen cities in San Diego County, only one other city has 6% rate, two cities have 8%
rates, thirteen cities have 10% rates and one has a 10.5% rate.

If the Hotel/Motel tax is increased to 10%, it would generate an additional estimated $59,300
annually from visitors to Santee, that could be used for the construction and maintenance of the
Town Center Community Park as intended by the City Council. If the Hotel/Motel tax is increased
to the maximum 15%, it would generate and additional estimated $133,500 annually from visitors
to Santee toward the Park.

Most Hotels/Motels charge at least a 10% room tax. It is time for Santee to adjust its tax levy to be
“in-line” with other cities and generate additional dollars for the Town Center Community Park,

JACK E. DALE, JR	HAL RYAN

Mayor	Councilmember

RANDY G. VOEPEL
Councilmember

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION U

The argument that three politicians wrote in favor of increasing taxes reads like an excuse one
might hear from a spoilt child: “All the others are doing it, so I should, tool” The fact is that keeping
the transient occupancy tax (TOT) low will make our business environment MORE competitive.

The theory that visitors do not pay their fair share of local taxes is ludicrous. Visitors pay local sales
taxes, a 8% TOT and contribute to the local economy. The motels pay taxes. Furthermore, the city
receives some Federal and State monies some of which comes from taxes paid by those abroad.

They say that the tax has not been raised in twenty years. So what? Should taxes be raised simply
because time has passed? What a mindsetl

They argue that an increase to 10% will raise $59,300 more. How nice! This could fund an
additional special interest celebration party like that written about in the San Diego Union-Tribune
(8/17/00). The article's headline read: “Santee funds black-tie bash...$50,000 gala for 250.people
to mark city’s anniversary will be paid for by taxpayers". Gee, if they raise the TOT to 15% perhaps
they could have three partiesl In fairness, they abandoned the party, but in our opinion it
simply because it got reported ... the kids were caught in the cookie jar!

Too often, TOT monies are used as little special interest slush funds.

Vote NO on Proposition U!

More information: http://hometown.aol.com/steveglp/

STEVE GREEN	RICHARD KLOOS

Chairman, San Diego County	Owner, Gibraltar Construction

Libertarian Party

CONNIE M. WILLIS	LARRY ROSNER

Mortgage Broker	Small Businessman

MICHAEL BENOIT
Santee Business Owner

N SD 429-042

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION U

This measure allows for a fax increase. The politicians hope you will support it in the view that it
taxes “someone else”, namely tourists and visiting businesspeople. The United States wets
founded on the principle that taxation without representation is wrong, yet that is exactly what this
measure allows for, since non-residents staying in Santee lodging cannot vote in Santee elections.

If it costs more for visitors to stay here, they can seek lodging elsewhere. If our hotel tax is lower
than neighboring cities, then more visitors will be encouraged to stay here --- possibly even
resulting in more tax revenues. Empty rooms do not generate room tax, and harm the local
economy.

The measure is open-ended and vague. It gives politicians the ability to raise the hotel tax without
specifying how those taxes will be used. It doesn’t even specify a specific rate -- it just allows them
to raise it to the maximum of 15 percent or any number up to that point. Why encourage bigger
government and wasteful spending? Why give politicians a blank check to waste as they please?

The tax places an extra burden on the few businesses that operate hotels/motels here. Why
penalize these businesses? Which businesses will be targeted with tax increases next?

Already government is too big and taxes too high. The Santee City Council should be finding ways
to CUT taxes, not raise them.

Don’t fall into the politicians' trap that this is a tax on “someone else”. You could be next!

Please vote NO.

STEVE GREEN	REYNALDO G. TERAN

Chairman, San Diego County
Libertarian Party

SHY MEi-TZY WU	MARK D. ROBINSON

Owner, Best Western Santee	Small Businessman

ROBERT D. HILD
Engineer

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION U

Tourists and visiting business people are welcome to Santee. However, they are not city residents
and pay no property taxes that help support city services. Visitors use city streets and can us other
public facilities such as parks.

Increasing the City’s Hotel/Motel tax is not going to discourage visitors from staying in Santee.
Other considerations such as the purpose of the visit, the location and the amenities of the Hotel/
Motel are much more Important factors.

This measure allows the Hotel/Motel tax to be Increased from the current 6% up to a maximum of
15%. The City Council will not raise the rate unless there is a need for additional revenues. This
measure provides the flexibility to increase rates incrementally as needed, while having a cap,
instead of establishing a single rate.

Don't stereotype local government as “big government” lumped in with the State and Federal
levels. Local government, your city, is the most efficient and responsive level of government to
address your needs. It is a matter of trust in your elected representatives. The Hotel/Motel tax will
only be raised because a need such as the Town Center Community Park project Is identified.

This is a fair and equitable Hotel/Motel tax on someone else enjoying the amenities of your City.
You almost always pay a higher Hotel/Motel tax when you visit another city and stay In a
Hotel/Motel. Why shouldn’t our city have a comparable rate?

PLEASE VOTE YES

JACK E. DALE, JR. HAL RYAN
Mayor	Councilmember

-PR-09S0-3

LORI HOWARD
Council Member











<full>


City of Santee

COUNCIL AGENDA STATEMENT

10A

\



MEETING DATE June 28.2000	AGENDA ITEM NO.

ITEM TITLE A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SANTEE.
CALIFORNIA, CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF A GENERAL
MUNICIPAL ELECTION ON NOVEMBER 7, 2000. FOR THE SUBMISSION TO THE
QUALIFIED VOTERS A PROPOSITION TO ADOPT AN ORDINANCE INCREASING THE
CITY’S TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

DIRECTOR/DEPARTMENT Scott C. Smith, City Attorney

SUMMARY At its budget session, the City Council asked us to bring forward this
agenda item to place a proposition on the November 7, 2000 ballot to adopt an ordinance
setting a maximum rate of fifteen percent for the City’s transient occupancy tax. The transient
occupancy tax is imposed on persons occupying the City's hotels and is currently imposed at
a rate of six percent. If the ordinance is adopted, it will allow the City Council to increase the
rate of the transient occupancy tax to a maximum rate of 15%. As a general tax, the revenues
raised would be deposited in the City’s general fund to be used for general municipal projects.
The Council has indicated its present intent would be to use the funds for the construction and
maintenance of Town Center Park.

Prop 218 requires that the tax be approved by a majority of the voters at a regularly scheduled
general election. The Government Code requires that 2/3 of the City Council approve the
resolution submitting the tax to the voters. If either of the above does not happen, the
ordinance will not pass, and the City will continue to impose the transient occupancy tax at the
rate of six percent.

To place the ordinance on the ballot of the November 7,2000 election, the City Council must
adopt three resolutions: (1) a resolution calling the election and placing the ordinance on the
ballot; (2) a resolution requesting the County to consolidate the City’s election with all other
elections to be held in the County that day; and (3) a resolution authorizing members of the City
Council to draft an argument in favor of the proposition and directing the City Attorney to
prepare an impartial analysis. This item adopts the resolution calling the election and placing
the ordinance on the ballot. The other two resolutions are on tonight’s agenda as separate
items.

RECOMMENDATION

Approve the attached resolution (must be by a 2/3 vote)

ATTACHMENTS

Resolution (proposed ordinance is attached as Exhibit “A" to the Resolution)

SDPUBVHEPV2 34300

310.

agnd 10/97

RESOLUTION NO. -00

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SANTEE,
CALIFORNIA, CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF A
GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION ON NOVEMBER 7, 2000, FOR THE
SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS A PROPOSITION TO ADOPT
AN ORDINANCE INCREASING THE CITY’S EXISTING TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX

WHEREAS, the City currently imposes a tax, which is commonly referred to as the
transient occupancy tax, on persons occupying hotels in the City of Santee at a rate of six
percent; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires the ability to increase the transient occupancy
tax from a rate of six percent up to a rate of fifteen percent if the City identifies a need for
additional revenues;

WHEREAS, revenues raised from the transient occupancy tax are placed in the
City's general fund and increased revenues would allow the City to undertake projects that
would benefit the citizens and residents of Santee; and

WHEREAS, Council’s present intent is to use the revenues for the construction and
maintenance of Town Center Park; and

WHEREAS, Proposition 218 adopted by the California voters in November 1996
requires that all general taxes be approved by a majority of the voters at a regularly
scheduled general election; and

WHEREAS, the Government Code provides that no general tax subject to a vote
of the people shall be presented at an election unless the ordinance or resolution
proposing such tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the legislative body
of the local government.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Santee, California, does resolve,
declare, determine and order as follows:

SECTION 1:	That	pursuant	to	the	requirements of the laws of the State of California

relating to general law cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the City of Santee,
California, on Tuesday, November 7, 2000 a General Municipal Election for the purpose
of submitting the following proposition to the qualified voters:

- 1 -

RESOLUTION NO. -00

PROP	 Shall the ordinance amending Section	YES	
3.16.030(a) of the Santee Municipal Code to set a		
maximum rate of fifteen percent for the City’s transient	NO	
occupancy tax be adopted?		

SECTION 2: That the proposed ordinance shall be in the form attached hereto as Exhibit
“A” and is hereby incorporated by reference in this Resolution.

SECTION 3: That the Ballots to be used at the election shall be in the form and content
as required by law.

SECTION 4: That the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to procure and
furnish any and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and all supplies, equipment and
paraphernalia that may be necessary in orderto properly and lawfully conduct the election.

SECTION 5; That the polls for the election shall be open at seven o’clock a.m. on the day
of the election and shall remain open continuously from that time until eight o’clock p.m.
on the same day when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section 14401 of
the California Elections Code.

SECTION 6: That in all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be held
and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 7: That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City
Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the
election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 8: That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and shall enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

S DPUB\HEF\234256

-2-

RESOLUTION NO.

-00

ADOPTED at a Regular Meeting of the City Council of the City of Santee held this
____day of___________________2000,	by	the	following vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

APPROVED:

ATTEST:

JACK E. DALE, MAYOR

RICHEL THALER, CITY CLERK



-3-

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SANTEE, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING

SECTION 3.16.030(A) OF THE SANTEE MUNICIPAL CODE TO SET A

MAXIMUM RATE OF FIFTEEN PERCENT FOR THE TRANSIENT

OCCUPANCY TAX

WHEREAS, the City currently imposes a tax, which is commonly referred to as the
transient occupancy tax, on persons occupying hotels in the City of Santee at a rate of six
percent; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires the ability to increase the transient occupancy
tax from a rate of six percent up to a rate of fifteen percent if the City identifies a need for
additional revenues;

WHEREAS, revenues raised from the transient occupancy tax are placed in the
City’s general fund and increased revenues would allow the City to undertake projects that
would benefit the citizens and residents of Santee;

WHEREAS, Council’s present intent is to use the revenues for the construction and
maintenance of Town Center Park; and

WHEREAS, Proposition 218 adopted by the California voters in November 1996
requires that all general taxes be approved by a majority of the voters at a regularly
scheduled general election; and

WHEREAS, the Government Code provides that no general tax subject to a vote
of the people shall be presented at an election unless the ordinance or resolution
proposing such tax is approved by a two-thirds vote of all members of the legislative body
of the local government.

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Santee, California does ordain
as follows:

Section 1: Subsection (A) of Section 3.16.030 of the Santee Municipal Code is amended
to set a maximum rate of fifteen percent for the transient occupancy tax and to read as
follows:

3S-C,

SDPUB\HEP\234246

1

EXHIBIT “A”

ORDINANCE NO.

3.16.030	Imposed—Rate—Payment.

A. For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and
shall pay a tax in a maximum amount of fifteen percent of the rent charged by the operator.
The City Council shall set the rate by resolution.

Section 2: This Ordinance shall be considered as adopted upon the date that the vote is
declared by the legislative body, and shall go into effect ten (10) days after that date
pursuant to Section 9217 of the California Elections Code.

Section 3: The Mayor shall sign this Ordinance and the City Clerk shall attest and certify
to the passage and adoption of it if a majority of the voters voting on the proposition at the
regular municipal election held November 7, 2000 approve the proposition.

<fullend>