
<full> MONTEREY COUNTY CODE
Chapter 15.29
MEASURE A

PARAMEDIC EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
SPECIAL TAX AND SUPPLEMENTAL PARAMEDIC
EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
SPECIAL TAX

Sections:

15.29.005 Intent.

15.29.015 Definitions.

15.29.025 Authority for Special Tax.

15.29.035 Paramedic Emergency Medical Services Special Tax -
Imposed.

15.29.045 Supplemental Paramedic Emergency Medical Services
Special Tax - Imposed.

15.29.055 Maximum Special Tax Rates and Method of Assessment.

15.29.065 Duration, Amendment or Repeal.

15.29.005 INTENT.

It is the intent of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Monterey
to provide for the continued funding of the Monterey County Emergency
Medical Services System, including paramedic, ambulance, and
related services, presently funded with benefit assessments on real
property in County Service Area 74 and supplemental assessments
in four existing zones. As of January 1, 2001, the County may no
longer fund ambulance service with benefit assessments due to the
passage of Proposition 218 in November 1996 (California Constitution,
Articles XIIIC and XIIID). The Paramedic Emergency Medical Services
Special Tax implemented by the amendments to Chapter 15.29 shall
replace the benefit assessment, fee, charge, or any other form of
levy used to fund paramedic emergency medical services and
ambulance service in County Service Area 74.

15.29.015 DEFINITIONS.

As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings given in this section:

A.	"Ambulance" means any vehicle which is specially designed,
constructed, modified or equipped for transporting sick, injured, infirm
or otherwise incapacitated persons, capable of supporting Basic Life
Support (BLS), as defined in Health and Safety Code section 1797.60,
or a higher level of care.

B.	"Ambulance service" means the activity of transporting persons
by ambulance.

C.	"County service area" means a service area now formed or formed
in the future pursuant to the provisions of the County Service Area Law,
which comprises Chapter 2.2 (commencing with Section 25210.1) of
Part 2 of Division 2 of Title 3 of the California Government Code.

D.	"Emergency medical services (EMS)“ means and includes the
Monterey County Emergency Medical Services System pursuant to
Division 2.5 of the California Health and Safety Code and Chapter
15.40 of the Monterey County Code and any services provided by
or within that System.

E.	"First responder" means a public agency, including a city or fire
protection district, with equipment and personnel capable of
responding immediately to emergency medical calls, arriving promptly
thereafter at the scene of the medical emergency, and providing first
aid, CPR, or other appropriate prehospital emergency medical care.

F.	"Paramedic" means either (1) an individual whose scope of
practice to provide advanced life support is according to standards
prescribed by, and who has a valid certificate issued pursuant to,
Division 2.5 (commencing with section 1797) of the Health and Safety
Code or (2) the type of emergency medical services provided by
such an individual.

G.	"Supplemental emergency medical services" means enhanced
first responder services provided by and within an existing zone,
including a city or fire protection district, operating as a duly authorized
part of the Monterey County Emergency Medical Services System.

H.	"Zone" means a portion or the entirety of an existing service
area now formed or to be formed in the future pursuant to the provisions
of Section 25210.8 of the California Government Code and Section
15.30.120 of the Monterey County Code for the purpose of establishing
varying tax rates within the prescribed boundaries of the zone.

15.29.025 AUTHORITY FOR SPECIAL TAX.

The special tax authorized herein is adopted pursuant to the
provisions of the California Constitution, Article XIIIA, Section 4,
Article XIIIC, Section 2, and Article XIIID, Section 3, California
Government Code Sections 53720 et seq.: California Government
Code Sections 50075 et sea.: and California Government Code
Sections 25210.1 et sea.

15.29.035 PARAMEDIC EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
SPECIAL TAX - IMPOSED.

A special tax for emergency medical, ambulance, paramedic and
related services to be provided by the Monterey County Emergency
Medical Services System shall be levied upon all parcels of real
property as designated in section 15.29.055 and located within County
Service Area 74. This tax shall be known as the Paramedic Emergency
Medical Services Special Tax. Such tax shall be levied commencing
with fiscal year 2000-2001 and thereafter for each succeeding fiscal
year. This tax is solely for the purpose of raising revenue for the
provision of emergency medical, ambulance, paramedic, and related
services by the Monterey County Emergency Medical Services System
in County Service Area 74.

15.29.045 SUPPLEMENTAL PARAMEDIC EMERGENCY MEDICAL
SERVICES SPECIAL TAX

A supplemental special tax for paramedic emergency medical
services, including first responder services, may be levied upon all
parcels of real property as designated in section 15.29.055 and located
within any zone which has approved the supplemental special tax.
This tax shall be known as the Supplemental Paramedic Emergency
Medical Services Special Tax. Such tax shall be levied commencing
with first fiscal year following voter approval. This tax shall be solely
for the purpose of raising revenue for the provision of supplemental
emergency medical services, including first responder services, to
be provided within the zone from which the tax is collected.

15.29.055 MAXIMUM SPECIAL TAX RATES AND METHOD OF
ASSESSMENT.

A.	The rate of the Paramedic Emergency Medical Services Special
Tax imposed in County Service Area 74 shall not exceed $12.00 per
service unit per year and shall be assessed against each parcel of
real property located within County Service Area 74.

B.	The rate of any Supplemental Paramedic Emergency Medical
Services Special Tax imposed in a zone which has approved the tax
shall not exceed the voter-approved rate per service unit per year
and shall be assessed against each parcel of real property located
within such zone.

C.	The number of service units assigned to each parcel shall be

based on the use of real property as follows:  USE CODE DESCRIPTION SERVICE UNIT		
1A 		Vacant land, 1		.5
IB 		Vacant land, 2 or more		.5
1C 		One SFD, 1		1
ID 		One SFD, 2 or more		1
IE 		Two SFD, 1		2
1G		Misc. Improve		.5
1H 		Two SFD, 2 or more		.5
2A 		Vacant				.5
2B 		Two Units, 1		2
2C 		Three/Four Units		3
2D 		Five/Fifteen Units		5
2E 		Sixteen/Thirty Units,.		16
2F 		Thirty-one Units or more		31
2G 		Condos		1
2H 		Mobile Home Parks		1/sp
2J 		One SFD Multi-zone		1
2K 		One SFD Multi-zone/surplus	1
2L 		Residential Timeshares		1
2M		Vacant		.5
3A 		Vacant Rural, 1-10 ac		.5
3B 		Vacant Rural, 11-40 ac		.5
3C 		Undevel, 41-300 ac		.5
3D 		Undevel, 301 ac. or more....	.5
3E 		Res. Use, Impr. up to 10 ac.	1
3F 		Res. Use, Impr. 11-40 ac....	1



USE CODE DESCRIPTION	SERVICE	UNIT

3G ..........	Rural Mobile Homes....,		1
3H 		Nurseries				2
4A 	...	Grazing with improvements.	1
4B 		Dry Farm with improvements	1
4C 		Row crops				.5 *
4D 		Field crops		.5
4E 		Feed lots						1
4F 			Vineyards						1 ,
4G		Orchards						1
4H		Ag preserves				.5
4K •;	«	Ag preserves.........			,5
4L 			Open space				.5
5A 			Vacant					.5
5B 		Comm, shell-type			2
50 		Sub stores....				2
5D 			Comb store/off/res				4
5E 		Office bldg. - 1		4
5F 		Office bldg. - multi			4 ■
5G		Med/den office		4
5H 		Bank						4
5J 		Comm/SFD				.;...	1
5K ..........	Office condo....				1
5N 				Hotel/motel						•,2/rm
5P 	i...	Market.,..				4
5Q			Shop Ctr					7
5R	Serv. stn.				2
5S 		Restaurant......				4
5T 		■ Theater		i	4
5U 		Auto sales				2
5V 		Misc. bldg		2
5W		Recreation		2
5Z 			Vacant	.............	.5
6A 		Vacant....							,5
6B 			Light mfg					4 ■
6C 		Heavy mfg........				6
6D ..........	Indust. park.......				4
6E	Warehouse			2
6F 		Auto wreck							2
6G		Prod, shed				2 ,
6M		Vacant		.5
7C			Frat Organ				4
7F 		Hosp/convos,					5
8F 		Dev. gas/oil				6
8H 			Quarries		6
8J 		Labor camps				7
8K 		Improvements		1

are not listed above.	.

E. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county
ad valorem property taxes shall be applicable to any tax imposed by
this Chapter. Any tax levied under this Chapter shall be collected at the
same time and in the same manner as county ad valorem property taxes
are collected, and shall be subject to the same penalties, fees, and
accrual of interest and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency
as provided for such taxes. Every penalty imposed and such interest as
accrues under the provisions of this Chapter shall become a part of the
tax herein required to be paid. =:

15.29.065 DURATION, AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.

The authorization to levy the special taxes imposed under this Chapter
shall continue from year to year. The Board of Supervisors may amend
or repeal this Chapter or any provision thereof. Any amendment
increasing the tax rates above the limits established by this Chapter
shall first be approved by at least two-thirds of the voters voting on
the increase before it shall become effective.' <fullend>







<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
COUNTYWIDE PARAMEDIC EMERGENCY MEDICAL
SERVICES SYSTEM SPECIAL TAX MEASURE A

A "yes" vote by at least two-third of the voters voting on this measure
will authorize the County of Monterey to levy a special tax in the
amount of $12.00 per service unit for the purpose of funding the
county-wide paramedic emergency medical services system. This
special tax would replace an equivalent benefit assessment that has
been collected since 1989 on real property throughout the County.

The County’s emergency medical services system provides for the
effective and coordinated delivery of medical cafe services under
emergency conditions. Under state guidelines, the County’s system
includes the following elements: staffing and training, communications,
transportation, assessment of hospitals and critical-care centers,
system organization and management, data collection and evaluation,
public information and education, and disaster response. Established
policies and procedures assure medical control of the County’s system
with respect to dispatch, patient destination policies, patient care
guidelines, and quality assurance. The County’s system also contracts
with and regulates countywide ambulance services which provide
advanced life support by paramedics who render first aid^
cardiopulmonary resuscitation, cardiac monitoring, cardiac
defibrillation, advanced airway management, intravenous therapy, the
administration of specified drugs and solutions, and other procedures,

The County,has assigned the number of service units to each parcel
of real property based on the use of the property; a complete listing
of service units assigned to various uses of real property is-set forth
ip .the Voter Information Pamphlet.

In 1988, Monterey County voters approved an advisory measure
calling for the establishment of county-wide paramedic ambulance
service to be funded by annual benefit assessments on real property
of up to $12.00 per benefit unit for basic service and up to $5.00
per benefit unit for supplemental service if requested by a city, district,
or zone, In 1996, California voters passed Proposition 218, which
prohibits the use of benefit assessments to fund ambulance and
supplemental service, but which permits the use of ai special tax to
fund such service if approved by at least two-thirds of the voters
voting on the measure.

A "no” vote is to disapprove the levy of the special tax, and the
County of Monterey will not be permitted to levy either the proposed
special tax or the current benefit assessment for the purpose of funding
countywide paramedic emergency medical services system. <impartialend>







<impartialsigs> s/ADRIENNE M. GROVER

Acting County Counsel <impartialsigsend>







<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Measure A could save your life.

Measure A is not a new charge. It will not increase your property
tax bill. It simply changes the current $12 charge from a "benefit
assessment" to a "special tax."

In 1988, over two thirds of County voters approved a homeowner "benefit
assessment" of $12 per year to improve emergency medical services in
Monterey County. At that time, Monterey was one of only two counties in
California without county-wide paramedic ambulance service. Since 1988,
the $12 assessment has supported the development of a state-of-the-art
system of emergency medical services throughout Monterey County, including
all cities and communities.

State law now prohibits the use of "benefit assessments" to support
ambulance or other emergency medical services. The law does allow
these services to be funded through a "special tax," if approved by a
two-thirds vote. That means that our emergency care is now in jeopardy:
we must pass Measure A to preserve our county-wide system of emergency
medical services.

Before the $12 assessment was implemented in 1989, there was:

*	No paramedic ambulance service in most areas of Monterey County.

*	No medical instruction over the telephone for 9-1-1 callers.

Since 1989, the $12 assessment has ensured:

*	County-wide paramedic ambulance coverage.

*	A coordinated emergency medical services system that provides
accountability to consumers.

*	Funds to purchase medical equipment and train firefighters and police
responders.

*	Lifesaving emergency medical instructions for 9-1-1 callers.

*	A paramedic program supervised by board-certified emergency
physicians.

Measure A will provide high-quality medical care in a frightening,
life-threatening emergency, whether it strikes at home, at work, or
on the road.

Vote YES on Measure A, to protect yourself and your loved ones -
to maintain emergency medical services for everyone in Monterey
County. <favorend>








<favorsigs> s/ Ronald J. Pasquinelli

President, Monterey Peninsula Taxpayers Association

s/ Valerie Barnes, M.D., President, Monterey County Medical Society

s/ Jay Hudson, Retired Hospital Administrator

s/ Maximiliano Cuevas, M.D., CEO, CLINICA de SALUD

s/ Gary Gerbrandt, Mayor, City of Soledad <favorsigsend> 







<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Please vote NO on this $2,000.000 annual tax increase because
the County of Monterey does not need it.

Funding for emergency medical services will continue if you vote NO.

The annual revenue in the County’s General Fund has increased by
over $80.000,000 from five years ago -- enough money to pay this special
tax increase for more than 40 years!

County taxpayers may pay many times: The cities of Gonzales,
Monterey, Salinas, Soledad, and the Mission-Soledad Rural Fire Protection
District are also proposing annual tax increases for emergency medical
services (Measures C, D, E, F, and J). North County taxpayers will pay an
"emergency medical services" tax increase as of last November to the North
County Fire Protection District.

Enough is enough! Please vote NO on this tax increase and beware
of others like it.

To learn what you can do to fight this special tax increase and others
like it, contact:

No Tax Increase, PO Box 6879, Salinas, CA 93912-6879
Email: notaxincrease@pcpostal.com <rebutfavorend> 







<rebutfavorsigs> s/ Mark Dierolf, “No Tax Increase" Chairman

s/ Lawrence Samuels
Vice Chairman, Monterey County Libertarian Party

s/ Jane Heider, Carmel Valley Resident

s/ Angie Morfin, Salinas Resident

s/ Samuel G. Rice, Retired King City Resident <rebutfavorsigsend>







<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Please vote "NO" on this special tax increase because the County of
Monterey does not need it.

The total annual budget for County of Monterey is about a half a billion
dollars and the County can fund emergency medical services without
this tax increase.

Enough is enough! Please vote "NO" on this special tax increase.
Thank you.

To learn what you can do to fight this special tax increase, please send
an email to: notaxincrease@pcpostal.com <againstend>






<againstsigs> s/ Mark Dierolf

"No Tax Increase" Chairman
s/ Lawrence Samuels

Vice Chairman, Monterey County Libertarian Party <againstsigsend>







<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Most of the county’s operating funds are committed to programs mandated
by the state or federal government. Public Assistance consumes 27%, with
another 25% for Public Protection. The Supervisors must balance many
competing demands on the remaining funds, which do not include any money
for emergency medical services (EMS).

The record is clear: Before voters approved the current EMS "benefit
assessment" in 1988, Monterey County was one of only two counties in
California without county-wide paramedic ambulance service!

Why is Measure A so important? Although lifesaving paramedic services
cannot legally be provided without an organized EMS system, counties
are not required to establish EMS systems or to support paramedic
services. California’s EMS Act was passed in 1980-after Proposition
13-and the legislature avoided mandating any local EMS programs.
Non-mandatory programs, of course, need not be funded by either state
or local government. To maintain long-term stability, a local EMS system
needs a dedicated revenue source that is independent of the county
general fund.

Measure A is not a new charge. It will not increase your property tax
bill.

It merely replaces the current EMS "benefit assessment" with a "special
tax" of the same amount ($12 per year for a single-family home). If
Measure A is approved, the $12 charge will remain at its current level.
It cannot be increased without another two-thirds vote. It can only be
used to support our vital EMS system.

Vote YES on Measure A to maintain a stable, county-wide system of
emergency medical services. <rebutagainstend> 







<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Ronald J. Pasquinelli

President, Monterey Peninsula Taxpayers Association
s/ Valerie Barnes, M.D.

President, Monterey County Medical Society

s/ Jay Hudson

Retired Hospital Administrator

s/ Gary Gerbrandt
Mayor, City of Soledad <rebutagainstsigsend>

