COUNTY jf■

?i\Af

’00 JAN 13 All -18

January 13, 2000

ORANGE COUNTY
DEPARTMENT
OF EDUCATION

200 KALMUS DRIVE
P.O. BOX 9050
COSTA MESA, CA
92628-9050

(714) 966-4000

FAX {714} 662-3570
www.ocde.k12.ca.us

Ms. Rosalyn Lever
Orange County Registrar of Voters
1300-C South Grand Avenue
Santa Ana, CA 92705

Dear Ms. Lever:

JOHN F. DEAN, Eti.D.

County Superintendent
ot Schools

On behalf of the Irvine Unified School District, I am delivering an original
and one copy of the following documents to call for a special tax election in
the Irvine Unified School District on Tuesday, April 11,2000:

LYNN APRIL HARTLINE
Deputy Superintendent
Administration and H' ;rnan
Resource Servit.es

•Resolution No. 99-00-12 Ordering (the) Special Tax Election and
Setting Forth the Specifications Thereof

•Notice of the Special Tax Election

WILLIAM M. HABERMEHL
Associate Superintendent
Instruction and Alternative
Education Services

JOHN L. NELSON, Ed.D.
Associate Superintendent
Business, Child Development
and Special Education Services

Please call me at (714) 966-4234 if you have any questions about either of
these documents.

Sincerely,



ludith A. Bolton, Manager
Business Services

ORANGE COUNTY
BOARD OF EDUCATION

SHEILA MEYERS
ELIZABETH PARKER
FELIX ROCHA, JR.
DR. KEN L. WILLIAMS

Attachments

ERIC WOOLERY

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

28

School District Election Notice to
Levy a Special Tax in the Irvine Unified School District
And Increase the Appropriations Limit of the District
by the Amount of the Revenue Generated by the Special Tax

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Irvine Unified School

District of the County of Orange, State of California, that in accordance with law, an

election will be held on Tuesday, the 11th day of April, 2000, in said District, at which

election there will be submitted the following questions:

TITLE: Fair Local Funding to Retain Teachers and to Support Current Quality
Educational Programs

"Shall the Irvine Unified School District be authorized to enact a special levy of $95
per assessor’s parcel, to be used exclusively to retain teachers, to keep
neighborhood schools open, and to support student safety, science, technology,
smaller class size, art, music, counselors, athletics, libraries, and nurses, and shall
the District’s appropriations limit be adjusted for the period allowed by state law in
an amount equal to the revenue raised by the levy, and shall an annual public audit
be conducted and reported in a public hearing to ensure earmarked funds are used
as intended?”

Pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA and Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California
Constitution, the measure will become effective only upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds
of those voting on the measure.

For purposes of holding said election to levy a special tax in the Irvine Unified
School District and increase the appropriations limit of the District by the amount of the
revenue generated by the special tax, this election shall be and is hereby ordered
consolidated with any election to be held on the same date.

Each qualified elector of the Irvine Unified School District shall be entitled to vote
only in the School District Election Precinct of which he/she is a resident.

Dated this 13th day of January, 2000.

JOHN F. DEAN, Ed.D.

County Superintendent of Schools

BOARD OF EDUCATION
IRVINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
COUNTY OF ORANGE, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTION NO. 99-00-12
ORDERING SPECIAL TAX ELECTION
AND SETTING FORTH THE SPECIFICATIONS THEREOF

FAIR LOCAL FUNDING TO RETAIN TEACHERS
AND TO SUPPORT CURRENT QUALITY EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

WHEREAS, the Board of Education (the "Board") of the Irvine Unified School District
(the "District") is authorized to order elections within the District and to designate the
specifications thereof, pursuant to Education Code Section 5322, et seq., and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XI1IB of the California Constitution provides that the
appropriations limit of any entity of government may be changed by the electors of such entity,
for a period of up to four years; and

WHEREAS, Government Code 50079 authorizes any school district to impose a special
levy upon property within the District pursuant to the procedures established in Article 35
(commencing with Section 50075) and any other procedures provided by law; and

WHEREAS, State funding for California public schools is far below the national average;

and

WHEREAS, Irvine Schools are funded below the state average on a per student basis
and the District has the lowest per student revenue limit of any unified school district in Orange
County; and

WHEREAS, the combination of shortfalls in state funding, and an increase in state
restrictions on how our money can be spent, has drastically reduced District reserve funds; and

WHEREAS, the present revenues of the District are inadequate to retain teachers, to
keep neighborhood schools open, and to support student safety, science, technology, smaller
class size, art, music, counselors, athletics, libraries, and nurses.

WHEREAS, in the judgment of this Board, following notice and public hearing, it is
advisable to order a special election and submit to the electors of this District the questions
whether the District shall enact a special levy within the District to retain teachers, to keep
neighborhood schools open, and to support student safety, science, technology, smaller class
size, art, music, counselors, athletics, libraries, and nurses; and whether the District's
appropriations limit be increased in the amount of revenue so raised by the special levy from
the effective date of the levy.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE IRVINE UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

1.	That pursuant to Section 4 of Article XillA of the California Constitution and
Government Code Section 50079, a special election shall be held within the boundaries of the
Irvine Unified School District on April 11,2000.

2.	That the purpose of the election shall be to submit the questions whether two-
thirds of the voters voting at the election shall approve a special levy within the Irvine Unified

School District and an increase in the appropriations limit of the District by the amount of the
revenue generated by the special levy from the effective date of the levy.

3.	The special levy shall be expended exclusively to retain teachers, to keep
neighborhood schools open, and to support student safety, science, technology, smaller class
size, art, music, counselors, athletics, libraries, and nurses, and be established at a rate of $95
per year for each parcel of taxable land in the District, provided that all property which would
otherwise be exempt, will also be exempt from the special levy. The special levy shall be
assessed for no longer than 16 years commencing with fiscal year 2000-2001, upon
subsequent approval thereof by this Board, and shall be collected and enforced in the same
manner and procedure prescribed by law for the collection of other levies and assessments on
the county secured Assessment Roll. The special levy shall only take place subsequent to the
Board conducting a public hearing thereon, notice of which shall be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation within the District.

4.	The District will comply with all State laws governing this levy and the
expenditure of collected funds.

5.	The form of the ballot measure shall read as follows:

TITLE: FAIR LOCAL FUNDING TO RETAIN TEACHERS AND TO SUPPORT
CURRENT QUALITY EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

"Shall the Irvine Unified School District be authorized to enact a special levy of
$95 per assessor’s parcel to be used exclusively to retain teachers, to keep
neighborhood schools open, and to support student safety, science,
technology, smaller class size, art, music, counselors, athletics, libraries, and
nurses, and shall the District’s appropriations limit be adjusted for the period
allowed by state law in an amount equal to the revenue raised by the levy, and
shall an annual public audit be conducted and reported in a public hearing to
ensure earmarked funds are used as intended?

6.	Pursuant to Government Code Section 50079(b), that this special tax, if
authorized by the voters, shall not be applied to parcels used as the principal place of residence
by the corresponding owner(s)/taxpayer(s) of record, as of December 31 of the year preceding
any fiscal year in which such special taxes shall be levied, who are 65 years of age or older as
of December 31 of the corresponding year and who shall annually apply for an exemption from
such special tax with the Irvine Unified School District by the close of the last business day of
March preceding the fiscal year in which such special taxes shall be levied. Specific
procedures for verifying the ownership of property, principal place of residence, age of the
corresponding property owner(s) and the manner of applying for such exemption shall be
provided or designated by the Board of Trustees of the Irvine Unified School District.

7.	That pursuant to Section 4 of Article XlllA and Section 4 of Article X1IIB, the
measure will become effective only upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of those voting on the
measure.

8.	That the County Superintendent of Schools of the County of Orange and the
Registrar of Voters of the County of Orange are hereby requested to take all necessary steps to
call and hold the election in accordance with law.

9.	That the foregoing specifications of the Election Order are made pursuant to
Government Code Section 50077 and Education Code Section 5322, et seq.

10.	If any term, provision, finding, condition or directive of this Resolution, and the
corresponding and related actions directed hereunder, shall, to any extent, be held invalid or
unenforceable, the remainder of the proceedings, or the application of such term, provision,
finding, condition or directive other than those to whom or which it is held invalid or enforceable,
shall not be affected thereby, and each such term, provision, finding, condition or directive shall
be valid and enforceable to the fullest extent provided by law. If this Resolution, or the
proceedings directed hereby are held invalid or unenforceable as against any particular piece or
parcel of property currently located within the Irvine Unified School District, the remainder of the
proceedings, or the application of any term, provision, finding, condition or directive applicable
to other parcels of properties against which such holding is not applicable, shall continue to be
valid and enforceable to the fullest extent provided by law.

11.	That the County Registrar and the Orange County Board of Supervisors are
hereby requested to consolidate the election ordered hereby with any and all other elections to
be held on April 11,2000 within the Irvine Unified School District.

12.	That any and all members of this Board are hereby authorized to act as an
author of any ballot argument prepared in connection with the election, including a rebuttal
argument.

13.	That the Superintendent, President of the Board, and their designees are
hereby authorized to execute any Tax Rate Statement or other document and to perform all
acts necessary to place the parcel tax on the ballot.

PASSED and ADOPTED this llt.h day of January
following vote:

AYES:	Members Choi, Preston, Regele, Wakeham, Flint

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

2000 by the

ATTEST:

Clerk of the Board 0

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

COUNTY OF ORANGE

)

) SS
)

1,	.ipannp s. Flint_______, President of the Board of Education of the Irvine

Unified School District, do hereby certify that the foregoing resolution, being Resolution No.
99-00-12, was passed and adopted by the Board of Education at a Regular Meeting of said

Board held on the 11th day of January____________,	2000	thereafter	signed	and

approved by the President of the Board and attested by the Clerk of the Board, and that said
Resolution was adopted by the following vote:

AYES:	Members	Choi, Preston, Regele, Wakeham, Flint

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

resident of the Board