Measures P-Z

9/12/00 4:00 PM

Page

CITY OF BERKELEY ORDINANCE	
MEASURE T: Shall a special tax of 0.260 per square foot of I improvements on residential land, 0.520 per square foot on 1 industrial land and 1.040 per square foot on commercial land in Berkeley be authorized to provide supplemental funding for main- tenance and installation of streetlights?  Financial Implications: The annual cost for an average 1,900 squt would be $4.94, and for a 10,000 square foot industrial property or 50 commercial property would be $52.00.	YES
	NO
	ire foot home 30 square foot

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T

Currently the maintenance and installation of streetlights in Berkeley are fund-
ed by a city-wide assessment district. Proposition 218, adopted by the voters in
November 1996, prohibits an increase in this assessment. This ordinance would
authorize a special tax of 0.260 per square foot of improvements on residential
land, 0.520 per square foot on industrial land and 1.040 per square foot on com-
mercial land to supplement the existing assessment. These tax rates may be
adjusted by the Council by the increase in the cost of living in the immediate
San Francisco Bay Area, or personal income growth in the state of California,
whichever is greater. The City Council may repeal this ordinance, or amend it
in a manner that does not result in an increase in the tax imposed herein, with-
out further voter approval. If the City Council repeals this ordinance, it may
subsequently reenact it without voter approval, as long as the reenacted ordi-
nance does not result in an increase in the tax imposed herein.

Financial Implications

The proposed City special tax rate would limit the annual cost for an average

1,900	square foot home to $4.94. If the tax is not passed. Council may have to
cut funding of other general fund programs, such as police, fire, and senior and
youth programs to free up the necessary funds for streetlight maintenance and
installation.

It is estimated that the tax will cost residential taxpayers no more than the fol-
lowing average amounts during FY 2001-02

Square Feet	Annual 1
1,200	$ 3.12
1,500	$ 3.90
1,900	$ 4.94
3,000	$ 7.80
10,000	$26.00

s/MANUELA ALBUQUERQUE
City Attorney

BEM-13

Measures P-Z 9/12/00 4:00 PM Page 1



ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

PLEASE VOTE YES ON MEASURE T TO INCREASE PUBLIC SAFE-
TY WITH FUNDING FOR STREET LIGHTING IN BERKELEY. The
street lighting assessment has not been increased in over 10 years. Savings from
previous years have been used to avoid having to increase the fee but those sav-
ings have been used up while costs continue to increase for utility bills. Addi-
tionally, citizens, block and crime watch groups want new streetlights put in for
public safety reasons. Crime statistics reveal that crime is less likely to occur in
well-lit areas. The latest city project added streetlights to several blocks of Alca-
traz Avenue, which has helped to reduce drug trafficking.

Downtown Berkeley, its Arts District and other commercial areas are receiving
increased street lighting to enhance public nighttime use and safety. A YES vote
on Measure T will maintain and add lighting in our commercial areas.

The City of Berkeley is committed to using energy conserving street light tech-
nologies and works to find the appropriate level of lighting for particular needs
of neighborhoods.

WHY DO THE VOTERS HAVE TO VOTE ON THIS AND SO MANY
OTHER TAX INCREASES? In 1998, Gann backed Prop 218 passed which
required voter approval for any tax increases. This $300,000 annual increase
will allow the City to continue funding the maintenance and installation of new
lights without cuts in other vital City services.

COST TO OWNER OF 1900 SQ. FT. HOME IS $4.94/yr.

Please invest in this crime prevention measure and vote yes on Measure T.
s/Councilmember DONA SPRING individually and on behalf
of the Council Majority
s/Councilmember LINDA MAIO

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T WAS SUBMITTED.

BEM-14

Measures P-Z 9/12/00 4:00 PM Page!

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE T

ORDINANCE NO.	-	N.S.

AUTHORIZING SPECIAL TAX TO FUND MAINTENANCE AND INSTAL-
LATION OF STREETLIGHTS

BE IT ORDAINED by the People of the City of Berkeley as follows:

Section 1. Findings and purpose.

The people of the City of Berkeley find that the existing City-wide assessment
district for streetlights has become inadequate to fund the City’s needs for new
streetlights and for maintenance of existing streetlights due to limitations on
assessments districts imposed by Proposition 218. Accordingly, it is the puipose
of this ordinance to supplement the amount currently raised by the City’s exist-
ing streetlight assessment district by means of a special tax on improvements in
the City of Berkeley.

Section 2. Special tax.

A.	The tax imposed under this chapter is solely for the purpose of raising
of revenue to pay for the maintenance and installation of streetlights in Berkeley.

B.	Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution (Proposition
13) allows two-thirds of the qualified electors of the City to impose a special tax
within the City, provided the special tax is not an ad valorem tax on real prop-
erty or a transaction tax or a sales tax on the sale of real property within the City.
The tax imposed by this chapter is a special tax which is authorized for elector
approval by Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution.

Section 3. Tax authorized - Tax rate - Indexing.

A.	There is imposed a special tax on all improvements in the City for the
purpose of maintaining and installing streetlights in Berkeley. The tax autho-
rized by this chapter shall be assessed at the following rates:

1.	0.260 per square foot of improvements on land used for residential pur-
poses;

2.	0.520 per square foot of improvements on land use for industrial pur-
poses; and

3.	1.040 per square foot of improvements on land use for commercial pur-
poses.

B.	The tax imposed by this chapter shall be operative on July 1, 2001.

C.	The City Council of Berkeley is authorized and directed to increase the
tax rates authorized by this chapter by the greater of the cost of living in the
immediate San Francisco Bay Area, or personal income growth in the state, as
verified by official United States Bureau of Labor statistics. If either index is
discontinued, the City shall use any successor index specified by the applicable
agency, or if there is none, the most similar existing index then in existence.
Section 4. Definitions.

For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
below:

A.	“Building” means any structure having a roof supported by columns or
by walls and designed for the shelter or housing of any person, chattel or prop-
erty of any kind. The word “building” includes the word “structure.”

BEM-15

Measures P-Z 9/12/00 4:00 PM Page 1,

&

B.	“Improvements” means all buildings or structures erected or affixed to
the land.

C.	“Maintenance” includes purchasing electricity for the illumination of
both existing and new street lights.

D.	“Parcel” means a unit of real estate in one ownership as shown on the
most current official assessment role of the Alameda County Assessor.

. E. “Square Footage” means the total gross horizontal areas of all floors,
including usable basement and cellars, below the roof and within the outer sur-
face of the main walls of buildings (or the center lines of party walls separating
such buildings or portions thereof) or within lines drawn parallel to and two feet
within the roof line of any building or portion thereof without walls (which
includes, notwithstanding subsection 3 of this definition, the square footage of
all porches), and including pedestrian access walkways or corridors, but exclud-
ing the following:

1.	Areas used for off-street parking spaces or loading berths and drive-.
ways and maneuvering aisles relating thereto.

2.	Areas which are outdoor or semi-outdoor areas included as part of the
building to provide a pleasant and healthful environment for the occupants
thereof and the neighborhood in which the building is located. This exempted
area is limited to stoops, balconies and to natural ground areas, terraces, pools
and patios which are landscaped and developed for active or passive recre-
ational use, and which are accessible for use by occupants of the building.

3.	Arcades, porticoes, and similar open areas which are located at or near
street level, which are accessible to the general public, and which are not
designed or used as sales, display, storage, service or production areas.

F.	“Structure” means anything constructed or erected, the use of which
requires location on the ground or attachment to something having location on
the ground.

Section 5. Authority of the City Manager.

It shall be the duty of the City Manager’s staff to collect and receive all taxes
imposed by this chapter, and to keep an accurate record thereof. The City
Manager is charged with the enforcement of this chapter, except as otherwise
provided herein, and may prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations
relating to the administration and enforcement of this chapter, including provi-
sions for the re-examination and correction of returns and payments. The City
Manager may prescribe the extent to which any ruling or regulation shall be
applied without retroactive effect.

Section 6. Interest and penalties.

A.	The City Council is authorized to have the taxes imposed by this chap-
ter collected by the county of Alameda in conjunction with the county’s collec-
tion of property tax revenues for the City. In the event that the county of
Alameda collects the taxes imposed by this chapter, the imposition of penalties,
additional fees and interest upon persons who fail to remit any tax imposed by
this chapter, or who fail to remit any delinquent remittance under this chapter,
shall be subject to and governed by the rules, regulations and procedures uti-

BEM-16

&

iMeasures P-Z 9/12/00 4:00 PM Page 1

&

lized by the county in its collection of property taxes for the City, and in its col-
lection of this additional tax for the City.

B.	Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provi-
sions of this chapter shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.
Section 7. Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty or interest has been paid more than
once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City under
this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in Chapter 7.20 of the Berkeley
Municipal Code.

Section 8. Collection.

The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any person owing money under
the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of
the City for the recovery of such amount.

Section 9. Savings clause.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any person, association, corpo-
ration or to any property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the City
Council to impose the tax herein provided. If any sentence, clause, section or part
of this chapter, or any tax against any individual or any of the several groups
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconsti-
tutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such clause, sentence, section
or part of this chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provi-
sions, sentences, clauses, sections or other parts of this chapter. It is declared to
be the intention of the City Council of the City of Berkeley that this chapter
would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence,
clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.

Section 10. Violation - Penalty.

Any person who fails to perform any duty or obligation imposed by this chap-
ter shall be guilty of an infraction as set forth in Chapter 1.20 of the Berkeley
Municipal Code. The penalties provided in this section are in addition to the
several remedies provided in this chapter.

Section 11. Increase appropriations limit.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriation limit for the
City is increased by the aggregate sum authorized to be levied by this special
tax for each of the four fiscal years from 2001-02 through 2004-05.

BEM-17