
<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A  ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL OF THE MEASURE EXTENDING AND AMENDING THE UTILITY USERS TAX	

This measure submits to the voters the question of whether the Utility Users
Tax, which is levied only in the unincorporated portions of Alameda County and
has been used to fund county services provided to the unincorporated County
areas, should be continued at the current 5.5 percent rate for an eight year peri-
od from June 30, 2001 to June 30, 2009 and also amended to include taxation
of interstate, international and cellular or wireless telephone use. Without a
voter-approved extension, the current tax would automatically be repealed on
June 30, 2001.

Extension of existing tax: The current 5.5 percent Utility Users Tax for gas,
electric and intrastate telephone service in the unincorporated areas (e.g.
Ashland, Castro Valley, Cherryland, Fairview, San Lorenzo, Sunol) was
approved by the Board of Supervisors in December 1992. It was to remain in
effect until May 1, 1997 unless extended. The issue of whether to continue the
tax was placed on a countywide ballot, and on November 5, 1996, a majority of
county voters approved extending the tax until June 30, 2001. The tax has been
used to fund general County services provided to the unincorporated areas, pri-
marily for sheriff, planning, and library services. Approval of Measure A would
extend the tax levied in the unincorporated areas for another eight years. All
current exemptions and exclusions, including but not limited to those for low
income or lifeline utility users, would be retained.

Amendment: Voter approval of this measure would amend the current utility
users tax to add taxation of interstate, international, and cellular or wireless
telecommunications use.

Although the existing tax is collected only in the unincorporated areas of the
County, the law requires that there be a county-wide vote on the question of
extending the tax to June 30, 2009 and amending it.

If Measure A is approved by a majority of county voters, the 5.5 percent util-
ity users tax will remain in effect in the unincorporated areas of the County until
June 30, 2009 and the County has stated its intent that the proceeds of the tax will continue to pay for provision of general government services. This measure
has no effect on utility users taxes which have been enacted by individual cities
within the County (e.g. Alameda, Albany, Berkeley, Emeryville, Oakland, Pied-
mont, and San Leandro) and does not apply in Alameda, Albany, Berkeley,
Dublin, Emeryville, Fremont, Hayward, Livermore, Newark, Oakland, Pied-
mont, Pleasanton, San Leandro, or Union City.

If Measure A is defeated. County funds and/or services provided to all areas
of the County may be reduced; funding provided for services to the incorporat-
ed areas may be diverted to the unincorporated areas to partially make up for
the loss of utility user tax revenue which had previously funded services in the
unincorporated areas. <impartialend>







<impartialsigs> s/RICHARD E. WINNIE
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>









<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

A YES vote on Measure A allows unincorporated area residents to continue an
already existing tax that will preserve essential services such as law enforce-
ment, libraries and land use planning. If you live within ANY City, approving
this measure will not cost you anything at all! A YES vote will preserve gener-
al government services that affect all residents living within the unincorporated
areas of Alameda County.

By continuing the current 5.5% Utility Users tax in the unincorporated areas
(outside boundaries of any City) and amending it to include additional telecom-
munications services, you can help preserve services that are crucial to the qual-
ity of life in our communities. This is an existing tax that provides over $5 mil-
lion, including $3 million for the Sheriff’s Office services, over $1 million for
Libraries and nearly $1 million for land use planning. Measure A requires your
approval to continue this important revenue until 2009. People who are low-
income utility users, people who rely on life support systems, and agricultural
users do not pay this tax.

If this existing tax is not continued until 2009, the Sheriff’s Office will lose 43
positions. Patrol and investigative services will be drastically reduced and
school violence programs, drug abuse education for students, crime prevention,
and community policing will be eliminated. Reductions to Library funding will
mean fewer hours at the Castro Valley and San Lorenzo libraries, decreased
Bookmobile service, and decreased support for the County wide Library system.
Residents and the business community would suffer from major cuts in code
enforcement, environmental review, permit and plan preparation provided by
Alameda County’s Community Development Agency.

Measure A makes sense for all Alameda County residents. It continues an
EXISTING tax, there’s NO COST if you live in any City, and it ASSURES THE
QUALITY OF LIFE IN OUR COMMUNITIES. Vote YES on Measure A. <favorend>







<favorsigs> s/SUZANNE BARBA, President, League of Women Voters Eden Area
S/THOMAS J. ORLOFF, District Attorney
s/DOROTHY J. PARTRIDGE, President, San Lorenzo
Village Homes Association
s/CHARLES C. PLUMMER, Sheriff

s/ROBERTA RIVET, Member, Castro Valley Municipal Advisory Council <favorsigsend> 





NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A WAS SUBMITTED.







<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

ORDINANCE NO. 0-2001-7
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 2.12.070(A), 2.12.070(B),
2.12.070(C) and 2.12.180(B) OF THE ORDINANCE CODE
OF THE COUNTY OF ALAMEDA
The Board of Supervisors of the County of Alameda ordains as follows:

SECTION I

Section 2.12.070(A) of the Ordinance Code of the County of Alameda is amend-
ed to read as follows:

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax on every person, other than a telephone
corporation, for the use of intrastate, interstate, and/or international telephone communication services in the unincorporated areas of the
county including all two-way mobile communications service for
which a license is required utilizing any wireless or cellular device but
excluding private one-way or two-way land or marine mobile radio
communications by eligible users over designated areas of operation.
The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of five and one-half
percent of the charges made for such services and shall be paid by the
person paying for such services. The telephone users tax is intended
to, and does, apply to all charges billed to a communication services
account having a situs in the unincorporated areas of the county, irre-
spective of whether a particular communication service originates
and/or terminates within the unincorporated areas of the county.

SECTION II

Section 2.12.070(B) of the Ordinance Code of the County of Alameda is amend-
ed to read as follows:

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall not include charges for
services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones except
that where such coin-operated service is furnished for a guaranteed
amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed month-
ly or other periodic charge shall be included in the base for computing
the amount of tax due, nor shall the term “charges” include charges for
any type of service or equipment furnished by a service supplier sub-
ject to Public Utility regulations during any period in which the same
or similar services or equipment are also available for sale or lease
from persons other than a service supplier subject to public utility reg-
ulation.

SECTION III

Section 2.12.070(C) of the Ordinance Code of the County of Alameda is
amended to read as follows:

C.	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service
user by the person providing the intrastate, interstate, and/or interna-
tional telephone communication services, or the person providing two-
way mobile communications service for which a license is required
utilizing any wireless or cellular device, or the person receiving payment for such services. The amount of the tax collected in one month
shall be remitted by U.S. mail to the tax administrator postmarked on
or before the last day of the following month; or with the written
approval of the tax administrator and at the option of the person
required to collect and remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax col-
lected, measured by the tax bill in the previous month, shall be remit-
ted by U.S. mail to the tax administrator postmarked on or before the
last day of each month.

SECTION IV

Section 2.12.180(B) of the Ordinance Code of the County of Alameda is
amended to read as follows:

This Ordinance shall remain in effect only until June 30, 2009, and as of
that date is repealed unless a later ordinance is adopted and approved by
the voters prior to June 30, 2009, and either deletes or extends that date.

SECTION V

This ordinance shall become effective if and when the voters shall have
approved it on the November 7, 2000, ballot.

Before the expiration of 15 days after its passage by the Board of Supervisors,
the ordinance shall be published once with the names of the members voting for
and against the same in the Inter-City Express, a newspaper published in the
said County of Alameda.
<fullend> 