<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

Prepared by County Counsel

Measure P proposes to raise revenue for the support of additional library services
by establishing a tax assessment on non-exempt real property located within the
Sacramento Public Library Community Facilities District No. 1996-01.. This
community facilities district is currently comprised of the unincorporated territory of
the County of Sacramento and the cities of Citrus Heights and Elk Grove. The
library district will be expanded to include the territory of the cities of Galt and/or
Isleton, but only if annexation is approved by the respective municipal voters of
each city.

If approved, the revenues derived would be exclusively dedicated to the special.
purpose of providing improved and added public library services and facilities,
including but, not limited to expanding library hours, purchasing new and
replacement books and library materials, and increasing and improving computer
access, including remote access through the library web site, to on-line resources
such as e-books, homework resources, and health and consumer information.

Measure P sets a maximum tax assessment of $22 per taxable parcel, and has no
provision for any rate increase. If approved by voters, the assessment would be.
effective for a period of no more than 4 years t beginning in fiscal year 2001-2002
and ending fiscal year 2004-2005. No assessment would be levied on non-taxable
property, such as non-residential commercial, church, publicly owned,
agricultural, and vacant property.

Passage of Measure P requires approval by two-thirds of the voters voting
thereon. <impartialend>







<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

In today’s information-based world, the ability to read is increasingly important.
Literacy and lifelong learning are not optional, they are matters of basic survival.
Our local libraries offer essential programs and services that help children and
adults develop and strengthen their literacy skills.

Yet sadly, when improving education is more important than ever, our
neighborhood libraries are in trouble.

For the past 10 years, Sacramento County libraries have struggled to stay afloat.
Skyrocketing service demands, scarce local resources and escalating costs have
taken their toll.

More than 200 hours have been lost weekly - leaving branches dosed nights and
weekends. .

Book budgets have beep slashed, and many collections are outdated and worn.
Reading and literacy programs for children, students and adults have been
reduced or eliminated.

Invest in Our Future: A Four Year Program to Turn Our Libraries Around.

Measure P would restore hours, books and services at neighborhood libraries. As
guaranteed by law, this money can only be used for local branches, with not a
penny going to the Downtown Library or other county services. For only $22 a
year, for just four short years, we can help restore local libraries.

Measure P: Exclusively for libraries. The plan is straightforward:

Property owners pay a flat $22 annually, expiring automatically after four years,
with no hidden costs or escalators. Every, penny goes directly to restoring hours,
books and services in your.neighborhood libraries. Not one dollar will go to the
Downtown Library or administrative overhead.

Vote Yes to restore night and weekend hours. Vote Yes for.new books and
materials. Vote Yes to increase reading programs for children, students and
adults. Vote Yes for large print books and Senior services, greater access to
computers/technology. Vote Yes for renovating older, crowded facilities.

Invest in our Future Vote Yes on Measure P <favorend>  







<favorsigs> Ted Ruhig

Senior Columnist

Lou Blanas

Sacramento County Sheriff

James C. Shelby

Vice Mayor City of Citrus Heights

Rusty Hammer	•

President/CEO, Sacramento Metro Chamber

Bob Trigg

Retired Superintendent Elk Grove Schools <favorsigsend>








NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P WAS FILED