CITY OF GILROY
COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 1
(Emergency Medical Services)

RESOLUTION NO. 99-80

RESOLUTION OF FORMATION OF COMMUNITY
FACILITIES DISTRICT AND LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX

The City Council of the City of Gilroy resolves:

1.	Reference is made to Resolutions No. 99-75, Resolution of Intention to
Form Community Facilities District and to Levy a Special Tax, adopted by this City Council on
September 7, 1999 for the preliminary scope of the services and special tax levy contemplated by
these proceedings.

2.	This City Council has conducted the public hearing set by Resolution 99-
75, and determines that a majority protest under Section 53324 of the Government Code was not
made at the hearing.

3.	There is hereby formed a community facilities district by the City of
Gilroy (the “City”) under the terms of the Community Facilities Act of 1982, Chapter 2.5 of
Division 2 of Title 5 of the California Government Code, commencing with Section 53311. The
boundaries of the district are shown on the map on file with the City Clerk and approved by this
City Council on September 7, 1999 by Resolution No. 99-76. The map was recorded in the
office of the County Recorder of Santa Clara County on September 29, 1999 in Book 34 of the
Book of Maps of Assessment and Community Facilities Districts at Page 23 thereof

4.	The name of the community facilities district is “Community Facilities
District No. 1, (Emergency Medical Services), City of Gilroy, County of Santa Clara, State of
California” (“CFD No. 1”).

CFDRiKivi.DOC

-1-

RESOLUTION NO. 99-80

5.

The types of public services proposed to be financed by CFD No. 1 are set

forth on Exhibit A attached to this Resolution.

6.	The types of incidental expenses proposed to be incurred are set forth on
Exhibit B attached to this Resolution.

7.	As a supplement to funds expected to be provided by the City’s general
fund, a special tax sufficient to pay for a prescribed portion of such services, will be annually
levied within CFD No. 1. Upon recordation of a notice of special tax lien pursuant to Section
3114.5 of the California Streets and Highways Code, a continuing lien to secure each levy of the
special tax shall attach to all nonexempt real property within CFD No. 1, and this lien shall
continue in force and effect until collection of the tax by the City ceases. The rate and method of
apportionment of the special tax will be as set forth on Exhibit C attached to this Resolution.
The authority to levy the special tax shall terminate following Fiscal Year 2007-2008.

8.	Advances of funds or contributions of work in kind from any lawful
source, specifically including but not limited to the City and owners of property within CFD
No. 1, may be reimbursed from special tax revenue to the extent of the lesser of the value or cost
of the contribution, but any agreement to do so shall not constitute a debt or liability of the City.

9.	The Administrative Services Director of the City (the “Administrative
Services Director”), 7351 Rosanna Street, Gilroy, CA 95020, is designated as the person
responsible for preparing annually a current roll of special tax levy obligations by assessor’s
parcel number, and for responding to inquiries regarding estimates of future special tax levies.
The City intends to contract with private consultants to provide this service in lieu of actual
preparation by the Administrative Services Director.

10.	The special tax will be collected and enforced as a separate line item on
the regular property tax bill.

CFTjF ormdoc

-2-

RESOLUTION NO. 99-80

11. This City Council hereby establishes the annual appropriations limit of

CFD No. 1 at $2,200,000 for the 2000-2001 Fiscal Year,

12.	In the election held in these proceedings, it is the intention of the City
Council that the electors will be the registered voters of CFD No. 1.

13.	This City Council now finds and determines that all proceedings up to and
including the adoption of this Resolution were and are valid and in conformity with the
requirements of the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act. This determination and finding is
final and conclusive in accordance with Government Code Section 53325.1(b).

* * *

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 18th day of October, 1999, by the following

vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL MEMBERS:	ARELLANO,	GIFFORD,	ROWLISON,	SPRINGER,

GILROY

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBER:	SUDOL

ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBER:	MORALES

ATTEST:

APPROVED:

K/ \\ AfrJ

K.A. Mike Gilroy, Mayor

*

Rhonda Pellin, City Clerk

CF iJFGHMDOC

-3-

RESOLUTION NO. 99-80

EXHIBIT A

LIST OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES

1.	Paramedic Services (Including Related Equipment)

2.	Ambulance Services (Including Related Equipment)

Cfdform. DOC

EXHIBIT B

Incidental Expenses

It is anticipated that the following incidental expenses may be incurred with
respect to CFD No. 1 and may be included in each annual special tax levy:

Boundary Map preparation and recording services

Personnel and administrative costs of the City

Special Tax Consultant services

Special Legal Counsel services

Publishing, mailing and posting of notices and ballots

Governmental notification and filing costs

Costs of posting and collecting the special taxes

2

EXHIBIT C

OPTION “B”

City of Gilroy
Community Facilities District No. 1
(Emergency Medical Services)

Rate and Method of Apportionment of Special Tax

A special tax applicable to each Assessor's Parcel in Community Facilities District No. 1 (herein “CFD
No. 1”) shall be levied and collected according to the tax liability determined by the City Council of
the City of Gilroy, through the application of the appropriate rate for Taxable Property, as described
below. All of the property in CFD No. 1, unless exempted by law or by the provisions of Section E
below, shall be taxed for the purposes, to the extent, and in the manner herein provided, including
property subsequendy annexed to CFD No. 1 unless a separate Rate arid Method of Apportionment
of Special Tax is adopted for the annexation area.

A.	DEFINITIONS

The terms hereinafter set forth have the following meanings:

“Administrator” shall mean the person or firm designated by the City to administer the Special Tax
according to this Rate and Method of Apportionment of Special Tax.

“Assessor's Parcel” or “Parcel” means a lot or parcel shown on an Assessor’s Parcel Map with an
assigned Assessor’s Parcel number.

“Assessor's Parcel Map” means an official map of the County Assessor of the County of Santa
Clara designating parcels by Assessor's Parcel Number.

“City” means the City of Gilroy.

“Council” means the City Council of the City of Gilroy, acting as the legislative body of CFD No. 1.

“Developed Fraternal Organization Property” means, in any Fiscal Year, all Assessor’s Parcels
for which a construction building permit was issued prior to July 1 of that Fiscal Year for a building
used by a non-profit fraternal organization, including the Elks Club, Masons, Moose Club,
Oddfellows, or other such organizations as identified by the City,

“Developed High-Density Residential Property” means, in any Fiscal Year, all Assessor’s Parcels
of residential property for which a construction building permit was issued prior to July 1 of that Fiscal
Year for development of three or more Residential Units on a single Parcel.

“Developed Industrial Property” means, in any Fiscal Year, all Assessor’s Parcels for which a
construction building permit was issued prior to July 1 of that Fiscal Year for a building designated
by City industrial zoning codes that existed or were proposed at the time of CFD formation, including

Ml {Limited Industrial), M2 (General Industrial), Campus Industrial, or industrial zoning codes
created as a result of future Zoning Ordinance updates.

“Developed Large Parcel Commercial Property” means, in any Fiscal Year, all Assessor’s Parcels
measuring more than one acre for which a construction building permit was issued prior to July 1 of
that Fiscal Year for a building designated by City commercial zoning codes that existed or were
proposed at the time of CFD formation, including PO (Professional Office), Cl {Neighborhood
Commercial), C2 (Central District Commercial), C3 (Shopping Center Commercial), HC (Highway
Commercial), CM (Commercial Industrial), or commercial zoning codes created as a result of future
Zoning Ordinance updates.

“Developed Low-Density Residential Property” means, in any Fiscal Year, all Assessor’s Parcels
of residential property for which a construction building permit was issued prior to July 1 of that Fiscal
Year for development of one or two Residential Units on a single Parcel.

“Developed Religious Property” means, in any Fiscal Year, all Assessor’s Parcels within CFD No.
1 for which a construction building permit was issued prior to July 1 of that Fiscal Year and (hat meet
both of the following criteria: (1) a structure has been built that is used as a place of worship, rectory,
convent or private school, and (2) the Parcel is exempt from ad valorem property taxes because it is
owned by a religions organization. If a Parcel meets one, but not both, of the aforementioned criteria,
it shall be taxed as Developed Commercial Property.

“Developed Small Parcel Commercial Property” means, in any Fiscal Year, all Assessor’s Parcels
measuring one acre or less than one acre for which a construction building permit was issued prior
to July 1 of that Fiscal Year for a building designated by City commercial zoning codes that existed
or were proposed at the time of CFD formation, including PO (Professional Office), Cl
(Neighborhood Commercial), C2 (Central Distnct Commercial), C3 (Shopping Center Commercial),
HC (Highway Commercial), CM (Commercial Industrial), or commercial zoning codes created as a
result of future Zoning Ordinance updates.

“Fiscal Year” means the period starting July 1 and ending on the following June 30.

“Land Use Category” means any of the individual land use categories identified in Table 1 of
Section C, below.

“Maximum Special Tax” means the maximum Special Tax, determined in accordance with Section
C, that can be levied in any Fiscal Year.

“Proportionately” means, in any Fiscal Year, that the ratio of the actual Special Tax to the
Maximum Special Tax is equal for all Assessor’s Parcels in CFD No. 1.

“Public Property” means any property within the boundaries of CFD No. 1 that is owned by the
federal government. State of California or other local governments or public agencies.

“Residential Unit” means a residential dwelling unit and shall include single family homes, individual
duplex, triplex, and fourplex units, condominiums, townhomes, and individual apartment units in a
multi-unit building.

“Special Tax” means any special tax to be levied each Fiscal Year on Assessor's Parcels of Taxable
Property to fund the Special Tax Requirement as defined below.

"Special Tax Requirement” means the amount necessary in any Fiscal Year to: (i) pay the costs of
authorized services, (ii) pay administrative expenses of CFD No. 1, and (iii) cure any delinquencies
in the payment of Special Taxes levied in prior Fiscal Years or (based on delinquencies in the payment
of Special Taxes which have already taken place) are expected to occur in the Fiscal Year in which
the tax will be collected.

"Taxable Property” means all Assessor's Parcels of Developed Fraternal Organization Property,
Developed High-Density Residential Property, Developed Industrial Property, Developed Large
Parcel Commercial Property, Developed Low-Density Residential Property, Developed Religious
Property, and Developed Small Parcel Commercial Property, within the boundaries of CFD No . 1.

B.	ASSIGNMENT TO LAND USE CLASS

Each Fiscal Year, the Administrator shall designate each Parcel of Taxable Properly in CFD No. 1 as
Developed Fraternal Organization Property, Developed High-Density Residential Property, Developed
Large Parcel Commercial Property, Developed Industrial Property, Developed Low-Density
Residential Property, Developed Religious Property, or Developed Small Parcel Commercial Property.
The City will refer to County land use codes and City zoning designations and, when the two are in conflict,
the City will make a determination as to which best reflects the current use on an individual Parcel. The
allocation of Parcels to a Land Use Category shall be determined in the sole discretion of the City.

C,	MAXIMUM SPECIAL TAX

The following maximum rates shall apply to all Parcels of Taxable Property' within CFD No. 1 for
each Fiscal Year in which the Special Tax is collected:

Table I Maximum Special Tax (Fiscal Year 200001) *	
Land Use	Maximum
Category	Special Tax
	(Fiscal Year 200001) *
Developed High-Density Residential Property	$373 per Parcel
Developed Low-Density Residential Property	$95 per Parcel

Developed Large Parcel Commercial Property	$3,116 per Parcel
Developed Small Parcel Commercial Property	$373 per Parcel
Developed Industrial Property	$ 176 per Parcel
Develooed Fraternal Organization Prooertv	$95 per Parcel
Developed Religious Property	$95 per Parcel

* On July lf 2001 and on each July 1 thereafter, the Maximum Special Taxes shown in
Table 1 shall be increased by an amount equal to 2.0% of the amount in effect for the prior
Fiscal Year.

D.	METHOD OF LEVY AND COLLECTION OF THE SPECIAL TAX

Commencing with Fiscal Year 2000-01, the Special Tax shall be levied on all Parcels of Taxable
Property as follows:

Step 1: Determine the Special Tax Requirement (as defined in Section A above) for the Fiscal
Year in which the Special Tax will be collected;

Step 2: Calculate the total Special Tax revenues that could be collected from Taxable
Property within the CFD based on applying the Maximum Special Tax rates
determined pursuant to Section C to each Parcel of Taxable Property within
the CFD;

Step 3: If the amount determined in Step 1 is greater than or equal to the amount calculated
in Step 2, levy the Maximum Special Tax set forth in Table 1 above on all
Parcels of Taxable Property in the CFD.

If the amount determined in Step 1 is less than the amount calculated in Step
2, levy the Special Tax Proportionately against all Parcels of Taxable Property
up to 100% of the Maximum Special Tax for each Parcel until the amount of
the Special Tax levy equals the Special Tax Requirement for that Fiscal Year.

The Special Tax for CFD No. 1 shall be collected in the same manner and at the same time as
ordinaiy ad valorem property taxes, provided, however, that CFD No. 1 may (under the authority of
Government Code Section 53340), in any particular case, bill the taxes directly to the property owner
off the County tax roll, and the Special Taxes will be equally subject to penalties and foreclosure if
delinquent.

E.	EXEMPTIONS

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Rate and Method of Apportionment of Special Tax, no
Special Tax shall be levied on Parcels of Public Property, except as otherwise provided in Sections
53317.3 and 53317.5 of the Act. In addition, no Special Taxes shall be levied on Parcels within CFD
No. 1 which are determined by the Administrator not to be Taxable Property.

F.	APPEALS AND INTERPRETATIONS

In the event that a Parcel owner disagrees with the Land Use Category to which the Parcel has been
assigned, the Parcel owner may submit a written appeal to the City Manager. If it is determined, in
the City’s sole discretion, that the Land Use Category should be changed, the Parcel will be assigned
to a different Land Use Category in future Fiscal Years, but will not be subject to reimbursement of
Special Taxes for any that have already been levied or collected in past Fiscal Years.

The Council reserves the right to make minor administrative and technical changes to this document
that do not materially affect the rate and method of apportioning the Maximum Special Tax. In
addition, the interpretation and application of any section of this document shall be left to the
Council’s discretion.

C:\FIIXS\WPWIN\GIIjiOY\RMAB. 899

I, RHONDA PELLEN, City Clerk of the City of Gilroy, do hereby certify that the attached
Resolution No. 99-80 is an original resolution, duly adopted by the Council of the City of Gilroy
at a regular meeting of said Council held on the 18th day of October, 1999, at which meeting a
quorum was present.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the Official Seal of
the City of Gilroy this 3th day of November, 1999.

City Clerk of the City of Gilroy

(Seal)