

COUNTY

YUBA COUNTY MEASURE S

S Shall a ten percent (10%) surcharge upon
temporary lodgers in hotels, motels, and
I similar temporary lodging facilities be enacted?

YES	+
NO	



IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
YUBA COUNTY MEASURE "S"

Prepared by: Yuba County Counsel

This Measure enacts a hotel/motel surcharge (Occupancy Tax) as
authorized by Division 2, Part 1.7. Chapter 1 of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code (commencing with section 7280). The tax is equal
to ten percent (10%) of the daily amount charged a temporary lodger
in a hotel, motel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel,
bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house,
dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a
fixed location, or other similar structure. It does not apply to camp
sites, organized camps, an owner’s interest in timeshare estates or
camping clubs, or to lodging facilities designed for occupancy by less
than ten guests, such as bed and breakfast facilities.

A temporary lodger is one who stays in such a facility for a period
of thirty consecutive days or less.

The proceeds of the surcharge will be deposited in the Yuba County
General Fund, and may be expended only in compliance with duly
adopted orders of the Yuba County Board of Supervisors.

The Measure will become effective upon approval by the Board of
Supervisors of the County Clerk's Certified Statement of the Election
Results which must be submitted to the Board of Supervisors no later
than December 5, 2000.

The tax may not exceed ten percent (10%) without approval of a
majority of the voters voting in an election to increase the tax.

The Measure provides for severability. This means that if the Measure
passes and a part or parts of the Measure are successfully challenged,
the remainder will continue in force.

A “yes” vote is in favor of passage of the Measure.

A “no” vote is against passage of the Measure.

Prepared by:
si DANIEL G. MONTGOMERY, County Counsel

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “S”.
If you desire a copy of the Measure, please call the election
official’s office at (530) 741-6545 and a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you.

NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF OR AGAINST
THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED


