RCA ROUTING SHEET

INITIATING DEPARTMENT:	Office of the City Clerk
SUBJECT:	General Municipal Election to be Held Tuesday, November 7, 2000 - Election of City Officers
COUNCIL MEETING DATE:	June 19, 2000

RCA ATTACHMENTS	STATUS
Ordinance (w/exhibits & legislative draft if applicable)	Not Applicable
Resolution (w/exhibits & legislative draft if applicable)	Attached
Tract Map, Location Map and/or other Exhibits	Not Applicable
Contract/Agreement (w/exhibits if applicable) (Signed in full bv the City Attorney)	Not Applicable
Subleases, Third Party Agreements, etc. (Approved as to form by City Attorney)	Not Applicable
Certificates of Insurance (Approved by the City Attorney)	Not Applicable
Financial Impact Statement (Unbudget, over $5,000)	Not Applicable
Bonds (If applicable)	Not Applicable
Staff Report (If applicable)	Not Applicable
Commission, Board or Committee Report (If applicable)	Not Applicable
Findings/Conditions for Approval and/or Denial	Not Applicable

EXPLANATION FOR MISSING ATTACHMENTS

REVIEWED  	i	?	j.	j 		RETURNED	FORWARDED
Administrative Staff	(£k- )	rsn
Assistant City Administrator (Initial)	( )	
City Administrator (Initial)	( )	( )
City Clerk	( )	

EXPLANATION FOR RETURN OF ITEM:

sx

RCA Author:

ORANGE

Z)0 ndt~

o

j^nzziD

o

u

GENERAL

ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2000

D(

d'

and

Voter Information Pamphlet

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR ABSENT VOTER BALLOT ENCLOSED

In order to receive a sample ballot pamphlet in Spanish or Vietnamese for this election, and for future elections^
please call (714) 567-7591.

Para recibir una muestra del folleto de la boleta en espanol para esta election y para elecciones futures, por favor llame
(714) 567-7591. La direction del lugar de votacion donde Ud. va a votar esta en la ultima pagina de este folleto.

Be nhan dupe la phieu mSu va Cam Nang HUPng Din Ci Tri bing tieng Viet cho ky bau cd nay, cung nhU cho
nhCfng ky bau cl( trong tUPng lai, xin vui long goi (714) 567-7591. Bja diem bd phieu cua quy vj di/dc ghi 6 trang
bia sau cua bin HUPng Din CCf Tri nay.

FOR INFORMATION OR ASSISTANCE CALL: (714)

ABSENT VOTER INFORMATION.............. 567-7561

DIRECTION TO POLLING PLACE............ 796-8322

REGISTRATION INFORMATION.............. 567-7594

> PRECINCT WORKERS..................... 567-7580

TELECOMMUNICATION DEVICE

FOR THE DEAF........................... 567-7608

GENERAL INFORMATION.................... 567-7600

BILINGUAL ASSISTANCE................... 567-7591

Visit our web site at www.oc.ca.gov/election/

^ <fV

A°V J’ >?'<f

<?V> '

cr ^ r9>

THE LOCATION OF YOUR
POLLING PLACE

IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

> POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M. •

SAVE THIS SAMPLE BALLOT TO HELP YOU LOCATE
YOUR POLLING PLACE ON ELECTION DAY

O

SAMPLE BALLOT

.

<



.

• •

■^1;

:K

Si

D

OFFICIAL BALLOT

GENERAL ELECTION
COUNTY OF ORANGE

November 7, 2000

This ballot stub shall be removed
and retained by the voter.

CITY OF HUNTINGTON BEACH	
Vote for no  Member, City Council more than Three	
JOHN A. THOMAS  Business Owner	+
STEPHEN GARCIA  Accountant	+
PAM JULIEN  Businesswoman/City Councilmember	+
ROBERT J. JOHNSON Grocery Clerk	+
MARK H. SZULC  Business Owner	+
NORM WESTWELL  Businessman	+
JOEY RACANO  Musician/Environmentalist	+
JAMES A. “JIM” YOUNG  City Prosecutor/Attorney	+
MARK W. LEWIS  Sr. Maintenance Technician	+
DIANE A. LENNING  High School Teacher	+
J. DEVIN DWYER  Small Business Owner	+
CHUCK DOWNING  Businessman	+
THOMAS “THOM" DONEY  Vice Principal/Businessman	+
JOE CARCHIO  Businessman/Baseball Coach	+
GERALD CHAPMAN  Dentist/Planning Commissioner	+
DEBBIE COOK  Environmental Attorney	+
GILCOERPER  Police Officer	+
LOU BAKER  Entrepreneur Business Owner	+
BILL BORDEN  Newspaper Columnisl/Businessman	+
CONNIE BOARDMAN  College Prolessor/Scientist	+
	+
	+
	+
	

30-D605

TURN CARD OVER

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

.

CITY OF HUNTINGTON BEACH

City Clerk

Vote for One

CONNIE BROCKWAY

City Clerk, City of Huntington Beach

City Treasurer

Vote for One

SHARI FREIDENRICH

City Treasurer, City of Huntington Beach

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

CITY OF HUNTINGTON BEACH

Shall an electric power plant be required to pay
Q the same Utility Tax as do residents and busi-
v* nesses of the City of Huntington Beach by
amending the Huntington Beach Municipal
Code to remove Section 3.36.080(b) and make corresponding
changes to Section 3.36.010(g)?

Yes	+
No	+

Yes	+
No	+

ADVISORY VOTE ONLY Should the Utility
p Tax paid solely by an electric power plant be
n placed into an Infrastructure Fund to be used
only for the maintenance, construction, and re-
pair of infrastructure such as sewers, sewage lift stations, storm
drains, storm water pump stations, alleys, streets, highways, curbs
and gutters, sidewalks, street trees, landscaped medians, parks,
beach facilities, playgrounds, traffic signals, street lights, and block
walls along arterial highways?

30-D602

TURN CARD OVER

30-SB607

THANK YOU POLL WORKERS

The Registrar of Voters and staff extend our appreciation to the many
dedicated poll workers for their outstanding community service as they work
at the polling places on Election Day!

YOUR HELP IS REQUESTED.
WE NEED MORE COMMUNITY
VOLUNTEERS.

The Registrar of Voters is looking for volunteers to work as precinct
officers for upcoming elections. If you are interested in serving as a
precinct officer, please call (714) 567-7580 for further details.

W0>¥

D

The following pages contain

CANDIDATES’ STATEMENTS

together with

BALLOT MEASURES, ANALYSES
AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

This pamphlet may not contain a complete list of candidates. A complete
list of candidates appears on the Sample Ballot. Each candidate's
statement in this pamphlet is volunteered by the candidate and is printed
at the expense of the candidate unless otherwise determined by the
governing body.

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE
PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

30-VP-7

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q
CITY OF HUNTINGTON BEACH

First. Section 3.36.010 of Chapter 3.36 of the Huntington Beach Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:

3.36.010 Definitions. Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this Section govern the construction of this chapter:

(a)	"City" means the City of Huntington Beach.

(b)	"Month” means a calendar month.

(c)	“Person” means any domestic or foreign corporation, firm, association, syndicate, joint stock company, partnership of any kind, joint venture, club,
Massachusetts business or common law trust, society, individual or municipal corporation.

(d)	“Service supplier” means any entity which receives taxes paid and remits same as imposed by this chapter.

(e)	“Service user” means a person required to pay a tax imposed by this chapter.

(f)	“Tax Administrator” means the Finance Director of the City.

(g)	“Telephone corporation, eleuliiual corporation, gas corporation, and water corporation” shall have the same meanings as defined in Sections 234,218,
222, and 241 respectively, of the Public Utilities Code of the State of California, as said Sections existed on January 1, 1970. "Eleuliiual ujipuialiun" and
“wWater corporation" shall be construed to include any organization, municipality or agency engaged in the selling or supplying of electrical power or water to
a service user; however, as specified by Public Utilities Code Section 218, does not include a corporation or person employing cogeneration technology or
producing power from other than a conventional power source for the generation of electricity.

Second. Section 3.36.080 of Chapter 3.36 of the Huntington Beach Municipal Code is amended to read as follows:

3.36.080 Gas tax—Exclusions. There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this Section is computed:

(a)	Charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through mains or pipes;

(U) Cliaiges made fur gas lu Liu usatin the yunuiatiun ul eleutiiual unuiyy by an eluutiiual uuipuialiun,

(b)	fc) Charges made by a gas public utility for gas used and consumed in the conduct of the business of gas public utilities; and

(c)	fd) Charges for gas used in water pumping by water corporation.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE Q

This measure, if approved by the voters, would have the effect of requiring an electric power plant to pay the same utility tax, as do residents and businesses
of the City of Huntington Beach. It would operate by amending the Huntington Beach Municipal Code (the Code) to remove Section 3.36.080 (b) which
currently provides that “there shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this Section is computed: (b) Charges made for gas to be used in
the generation of electrical energy by an electrical corporation." The measure would also amend Section 3.36.010 (g) of the Code by deleting the term
“electrical corporation” from the list of definitions therein.

s/Gail Hutton

Huntington Beach City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

A yes vote on Measure Q is the fair thing to do since every other business
and resident in Huntington Beach already pays the city’s 5% utility tax.

The AES Power Plant is the largest industrial business in the City. As such,
the plant has a significant impact on our City’s services and our quality of life
while producing power for Southern California.

The opponents of this measure claim that electricity fees will go up because
of the added tax. This is unlikely since the AES Plant on which the tax is to
be levied must remain competitive in its rates. The AES Power Plant, under
the deregulated electrical industry, supplies power to a statewide electrical
grid, not directly to Huntington Beach residents. If there were any additional
cost, it would be spread among the millions of electric customers served by
AES throughout the state.

Vote yes on Measure Q and let AES pay its fair share of utility taxes just as
our citizens do.

s/Ralph Bauer - Huntington Beach City Councilmember
s/Pam Julien - Huntington Beach City Councilmember
s/Dave Sullivan - Huntington Beach City Councilmember
s/Bob Biddle - President, HB Tomorrow

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

Measure Q is bad public policy on several levels:

1)	It creates a double tax for Huntington Beach residents, forcing them to
pay the Utility Tax twice. There is nothing fair about double taxation.

2)	The double tax will raise electricity rates. Even the proponents of this
measure concede this fact, but they don’t tell you that it can raise
electricity costs $100 for every $1 of tax revenue generated for the City.

3)	By not specifying the exact purpose for the new tax dollars in this
measure, the City is circumventing state law requiring a two-thirds
majority to approve special taxes. Absent specifying the exact purpose, it
appears the City is simply creating another tax and spend proposal.

Measure Q will raise electricity rates and create a new, double tax for

Huntington Beach residents. Vote NO on Measure Q to keep electricity rates

lower and stop this tax and spend policy from being implemented.

s/Ed Blackford

President

AES Huntington Beach, LLC

s/Tom Livengood - Planning Commissioner

30-139

o	o
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q
Vote “NO” on Measure Q to prevent raising electricity bills for the citizens of Huntington Beach and the rest of California. This measure will tax the natural gas used to produce electricity at the power plant in Huntington Beach. This new tax can raise electricity costs in California by $100 for every $1 of revenue collected by the City.  The power plant has historically been exempt from the Utility Tax because consumers already pay the Utility Tax as a surcharge on their electricity bill from the utility. Since consumers already pay the Utility Tax when they use electricity, imposing this tax on the gas needed to make electricity causes Huntington consumers to pay the Utility Tax twice.  How would the new tax result in double taxation and raise the cost of electricity in California?  The costs of producing electricity, such as facilities, personnel, gas, and taxes are passed on to consumers through electricity rates. This means that the tax revenues collected by the City from the power plant will be passed on to electricity consumers in California in the form of higher electric rates. Consequently, imposing this new tax causes Huntington electricity consumers to pay the Utility Tax twice and raises electricity costs throughout the State of California.  Show that you believe that it is bad public policy to tax consumers twice and raise California electricity costs by voting “NO” on Measure Q.	Vote “YES on Measure Q.  The Utility Tax on natural gas is NOT a new tax. Every business in Huntington Beach pays this tax. The power plant was exempt when it was owned by Southern California Edison. The plant is now owned by AES, a private for-profit company. Fairness dictates that AES should pay the same taxes that you the citizens of Huntington Beach pay.  Under electrical deregulation, AES must be competitive in the market place. Any cost to AES must be absorbed by them. Therefore, any taxes AES pays will not be passed on to you the voter, since it is competition with other power plants which determines the price of electricity.  The AES power plant would like to expand its capacity and provide power for the growing Southern California market, which begs the question, “Should the City of Huntington Beach bear the electrical burden for half the state without at least having the AES plant pay what every other business in the city is already paying??  This measure is about fairness - one of the largest industrial businesses in the city should be a good corporate citizen and pay their fair share to run the City. Vote “YES” on Measure Q.  s/Ralph Bauer - Huntington Beach City Councilmember s/Pam Julien - Huntington Beach City Councilmember
s/Ed Blackford President,  AES Huntington Beach LLC	s/Dave Sullivan - Huntington Beach City Councilmember s/Bob Biddle - President, HB Tomorrow s/Tom Livengood - Planning Commissioner
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY MEASURE R CITY OF HUNTINGTON BEACH	ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R  A yes vote on this advisory measure will send a message to the City Council that the Citizens want the proceeds from the utility tax on the AES Plant to
This measure is an advisory measure only. The City Council is not bound by the results of the vote thereon either for or against the measure. The measure poses the question of whether the utility tax paid solely by an electric power plant should be placed into an Infrastructure Fund to be used only for the maintenance, construction and repair of infrastructure such as sewers, sewage lift stations, storm drains, storm water pump stations, alleys, streets, highways, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, street trees, landscaped medians, parks, beach facilities, playgrounds, traffic signals, street lights, and block walls along arterial highways. The measure would have no effect on existing law and would operate as an advisory vote only.	be spent toward meeting the city’s infrastructure improvements needs.  A 60-person citizen committee recently completed a 27-month study on how Huntington Beach can address our infrastructure needs. Infrastructure includes local sewer and drainage systems, streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, parks, beaches, and public alleys.  Huntington Beach is one of the few cities in the United States to address this problem in a comprehensive manner. The citizen report shows that the financial need for infrastructure improvements and maintenance is real. This need for new revenue is due, in part, to the past actions of our State Government, beginning in 1993, and continuing to the present day, of
s/Gail Hutton  Huntington Beach City Attorney	annually taking $7,000,000 in City property taxes to fulfill State Government responsibilities. This loss in revenue has grown to more than $50 million that the City could have used to meet its infrastructure needs.  Let’s all pull together to ensure that our infrastructure system, (the heartbeat of Huntington Beach), which we all rely on in our daily lives, is adequately funded to meet the community's present and future needs. Together, we can build a healthy community! Vote yes on this advisory measure.  s/Ralph Bauer - Huntington Beach City Councilmember s/Shirley Dettloff - Huntington Beach City Councilmember s/Pam Julien - Huntington Beach City Councilmember s/Dave Sullivan - Huntington Beach City Councilmember s/Dick Harlow - Infrastructure Advisory Committee Chair
	No argument against this measure was submitted.

30-140

RESOLUTION NO. 2000-115

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF HUNTINGTON BEACH, CALIFORNIA,
RECITING THE FACT OF THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
HELD ON NOVEMBER 7, 2000, DECLARING THE RESULTS
AND SUCH OTHER MATTERS AS PROVIDED BY LAW

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election was held and conducted in the City of
Huntington Beach, California, on Tuesday, November 7, 2000, as required by law; and

WHEREAS, notice of the election was given in time, form and manner as provided by
law; that voting precincts were properly established; that election officers were appointed and
that in all respects the election was held and conducted and the votes were cast, received and
canvassed and the returns made and declared in time, form and manner as required by the
provisions of the charter; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Resolution No. 2000-59 adopted June 19, 2000, the County
Election Department canvassed the returns of the election and has certified the results to this City
Council, the results are received, attached and made a part hereof as “Exhibit A.”

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HUNTINGTON
BEACH, CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That the whole number of ballots cast in the precincts except absent
voter ballots and provisional ballots was 62,493.

That the whole number of absent voter ballots cast in the city was 20,588, making a total
of 83,081 ballots cast in the city.

SECTION 2. That the names of persons voted for at the election for Member of the
City Council are as follows:

John A. Thomas
Stephen Garcia
Pam Julien

J. Devin Dwyer
Chuck Downing
Thomas “Thom” Doney
Joe Carchio
Gerald Chapman
Debbie Cook
Gil Coerper
Lou Baker
Bill Borden
Connie Boardman

Robert J. Johnson

Mark H. Szulc
Norm Westwell
Joey Racano

James A. “Jim” Young
Mark W. Lewis
Diane A. Lenning

Res. No. 2000-115

That the names of the persons voted for at the election for City Clerk are as follows:

Connie Brockway

That the names of the persons voted for at the election for City Treasurer are as follows:
Shari Freidenrich

That the measures voted upon at the election are as follows:

MEASURE Q - Shall an electric power plant be required to pay the same Utility
Tax as do residents and businesses of the City of Huntington Beach by amending the Huntington
Beach Municipal Code to remove Section 3.36.080(b) and make corresponding changes to
Section 3.36.010(g)?

MEASURE R - ADVISORY VOTE ONLY Should the Utility Tax paid solely by
an electric power plant be placed into an Infrastructure Fund to be used only for the maintenance,
construction, and repair of infrastructure such as sewers, sewage lift stations, storm drains, storm
water pump stations, alleys, streets, highways, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, street trees, landscaped
medians, parks, beach facilities, playgrounds, traffic signals, street lights, and block walls along
arterial highways?

SECTION 3. That the number of votes given at each precinct and the number of votes
given in the city to each of the persons above named for the respective offices for which the
persons were candidates and for and against the measures were as listed in “Exhibit A” attached.

SECTION 4. The City Council does declare and determine that Pam Julien was
elected as Member of the City Council for the full term of four years; Debbie Cook was elected
as Member of the City Council for the full term of four years; Connie Boardman was elected as
Member of the City Council for the full term of four years; Connie Brockway was elected as
City Clerk for the full term of four years; Shari Freidenrich was elected as City Treasurer for
the full term of four years;

That, as a result of the election, a majority of the voters voting on the measure relating
to Q did not vote in favor of it, and that the measure was not carried, and shall not be deemed
adopted and ratified.

That, as a result of the election, a majority of the voters voting on the measure relating
to R did vote in favor of it, and that the measure was carried and shall be deemed adopted and
ratified.

SECTION 5. The City Clerk shall enter on the records of the City Council of the City,
a statement of the result of the election showing: (1) The whole number of ballots cast in the
City; (2) The names of the persons voted for; (3) The measures voted upon; (4) For what office
each person was voted for; (5) The number of votes given at each precinct to each person, and
for and against each measure; (6) The total number of votes given to each person, and for and
against each measure.

Res. No. 2000-115

SECTION 6. That the City Clerk shall immediately make and deliver to each of the
persons so elected a Certificate of Election signed by the City Clerk and authenticated; that
City Clerk shall also administer to each person elected the Oath of Office prescribed in the
Constitution of the State of California and shall have them subscribe to it and file it in the office
of the City Clerk. Each and all of the persons so elected shall then be inducted into the
respective office to which they have been elected.

SECTION 7. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED ON DECEMBER 4, 2000.

ATTEST:

approved as to F0Rm

adl/OOreso/election results
RLS 00-1114

RESOLUTION NO. 2000 -66 '

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HUNTINGTON BEACH ORDERING THE SUBMISSION TO
THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF HUNTINGTON
BEACH CERTAIN MEASURES RELATING TO THE CITY'S
UTILITY TAX AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2000 AS
CALLED BY RESOLUTION NO. 2000-58.

WHEREAS, a General Municipal election on Tuesday, November 7, 2000 has been
called by Resolution No. 2000-58, adopted on June 19, 2000, and

WHEREAS, the City Council also desires to submit to the voters at the election a
question relating to amendments to the Huntington Beach Municipal Code relating to the City's
Utility Tax, and an advisory measure vote on the use of the proceeds of the utility tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HUNTINGTON
BEACH, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That the City Council pursuant to its right and authority, does order
submitted to the voters at the General Municipal Election the following questions:

"Shall an electric power plant be required to pay the same Utility Tax as do residents and businesses of the City of Huntington Beach by amending the Huntington Beach Municipal Code to remove Section 3.36.080(b) and make corresponding changes to Section 3.36.010(g)?"	Yes	
	No	

Advisory Vote Onlv "Should the Utilitv Tax paid solelv bv an electric power plant be placed into an Infrastructure Fund to be used only for the maintenance, construction, and repair of infrastructure such as	Yes	
sewers, sewage lift stations, storm drains, storm water pump stations, alleys, streets, highways, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, street trees, landscaped medians, parks, beach facilities, playgrounds, traffic signals, street lights, and block walls along arterial highways?"	No	

SECTION 2. That the proposed measure submitted to the voters are as follows:
attached as Exhibit "A".

SECTION 3. That in all particulars not received in this resolution, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

OOreso/utility tax/6/23/00

1

SECTION 4. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the
City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the
election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 5. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Huntington Beach at a
regular meeting thereof held on the j 7-hh day of July __________ 2000.

ATTEST: . .

.	.	.	.	•	v, «

City Clerk	■	/

REVIEWED AND APPROVED:

_____

City Adnfmistrator

Mayor

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

INITIATED AND APPROVED:

\

OOreso/utility tax/6/23/00

2

EXHIBIT "A"

Huntington Beach Municipal Code

3.36.010-3.36-010(d)

Chapter 3.36

.	UTILITIES	TAX	■.	, .	;	-;

.. (1598-10/70, 2211-8/77, 2452-10/80, 2470-2/81, 2886-12/86, 2933-8/88, 3095-4/91, 3096-4/91.

3118-7/91,3162-9/92,3390-5/98)	.

Sections:

3.36.010	Definitions

336.020	Telephone tax—Imposed	v ”

3.36.030	Telephone tax-Charges	■-.-j-,

3.36.040 Telephonetax--Intrastateuse	•.-;•>	{.

3.36.050	Electricity tax	.?

3.36.060 Use of electrical energy

3.36.070	Gas tax—Imposed

3.36.080	Gastax-Exclusions	.y.

3.36.090	Water tax-imposed	'

3.36.100 Water tax-Exclusions .

3.36.110 Cable Television Users Tax	:c .	, ; . ^ .

3.36.120	Exemptions

3.36.130	Collection of tax

3.36.140	Collection—When made	1 -

3.36.150	Collection—Commencement

3.36.160 Reporting and Remitting

3.36.170 Delinquent when

3.36.180 Penalty-Interest and Penalties

3.36.190 Penalty-Imposed by administrator

3.36.200 Penalty—Combining nature

3.36.210 Actions to collect

3.36.220 Failure to pay—Administrative remedy

3.36.230 Assessment—Administrative remedy

3.36.240 Appeals

3.36.245 Audit by City	.	..	.

3.36.250 Records
3.36.260 Refunds

3.36.265 Additional Powers and Duties of Tax Administrator.	,{■	■■,	rl-y.	■

3.36.270 City exempt	,	:. .v:7 .yd

3.36.280 Senior citizens-Exemption	::; - .	7

3.36.290 Application required	v	s7/j;i=

3.36.300 Notification to service supplier

3.36.310 Service supplier—Duty of	;7r.	:

3.36.320 Exemption automatic

3.36.330 Tax billing exemptions—Effective when	vui-xu'-

3.36.340 Violation—Penalty	. j .	/	ir-.u.r^s	i

3.36.010	Definitions. Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
Section govern the construction of this chapter:	(*.;•»	em	r,c:r:	luy’j

(a)	"City" means the City of Huntington Beach.

(b)	"Month" means a calendar month.

(c)	"Person" means any domestic or foreign corporation, firm, association, syndicate, joint stock
company, partnership of any kind, joint venture, club, Massachusetts business or common ,
law trust, society, individual or municipal corporation.

(d)	"Service supplier" means any entity which receives taxes paid and remits same as imposed by
this chapter.

3.36.010(e)-3.36.060	Huntington Beach Municipal Code

(e)	"Service user" means a person required to pay a tax imposed by this chapter.

(f)	. "Tax Administrator" means the Finance Director of the City.

(g)	"Telephone corporation, ekctrical-oorporation, gas corporation, and water corporation" shall
have the same meanings as defined in Sections 234,218, 222, and 241 respectively, of the
Public Utilities Code of the State of California, as said Sections existed on January 1, 1970.
-Electrical-corporation" and "water corporation" shall be construed to include any
organization, municipality or agency engaged in the selling or supplying of electrical power
or water to a service user; however, as specified by Public Utilities Code Section 218, does
not include a corporation or person employing cogeneration technology or producing power
from other than a conventional power source for the generation of electricity. (1598-1 q/70,
2933-8/88)

3.36.020	Telephone tax—Imposed. There is imposed a tax upon every person in the City, other
than a telephone corporation, using international, interstate, and intrastate telephone
communication services in the City. The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of five
(5%) percent of all charges made for such services. (1598-10/70,3096-4/91)

3.36.030	Telephone tax--Charges. As used in this Section, the term "charges" shall not include
charges for services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones except that where
such coin-operated telephone service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid
under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be included in the
base for computing the amount of tax due; nor shall the term "telephone-communication
services" include maritime-mobile services as defined in Section 2.1 of Title 47 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, or as that section may be amended from time to time. (1598-10/70,3162-9/92)

3.36.040 Telephone tax—Intrastate use. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.36.020,
the tax imposed under this chapter shall not be imposed upon any person for using intrastate
telephone communication services to the extent that the amounts paid for such services are .
exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed by Section 4251 of Title 26 of the United States
Code, as such Section existed on January 1, 1970, without regard to Section 3.36.020. •
(1598-10/70)	;

3.36.050	Electricity tax. There is imposed a tax upon every person in the City using electrical
energy in the City. The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of five (5%) percent of
the charges made for such energy and shall be paid by the person paying for such energy.
"Charges" as used in this Section shall include charges made for:	-,y :

(a)	Metered energy; and	:

(b)	Minimum charges for service, including customer charges, service charges, demand charges,

standby charges and annual and monthly charges.	;

In the case of a service user employing cogeneration technology the tax imposed by this Section
shall be based upon the legal rate per kilowatt cogenerated, as charged by the applicable public
Utility. (1598-10/70, 2933-8/88)

3.36.060 Use of electrical energy. As used in this Section, the term "using electrical energy"
shall not be construed to mean the storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned or
possessed by him for use in an automobile or other machinery or device apart from the premises
upon which the energy was received; provided, however, that the term shall include the receiving
of such energy for the purpose of using it in the charging of batteries. The term shall not include
electricity used in water pumping by water corporations; nor shall the term include the mere
receiving of such energy by an electrical corporation or governmental agency at a point within
the City for resale. (1598-10/70)

9/92

3.36.070-3.36.150

3.36.070	Gas tax—Imposed. There is imposed a tax upon every person in the City using gas in
the City which is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this Section shall be at
the rate of five (5%) percent of the charges made for such gas. (1598-10/70)

3.36.080	Gas tax—Exclusions. There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed
in this Section is computed:

(a)	Charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through mains or pipes;

. Charges-rnadefer-gas-to-be-used-in-the-generationof ekchdcal-cnergy-by-an-electrical .

• - • C^erperatkm;	1	.c-	.

(b)^ Charges made by a gas public utility for gas used and consumed in the conduct of the
business of gas public utilities; and

(c)(-d} Charges for gas used in water pumping by water corporation. (1598-10/70)

3.36.090	Water tax—Imposed. There is imposed a tax upon every person in the City using
water in the City which is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this Section
shall be at the rate of five (5%) percent of the charges made for such water and shall be paid by
the person paying for such water. (1598-10/70)

3.36.100 Water tax—Exclusions. There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax
imposed in this Section is computed charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered
through mains or pipes; and charges made by a municipal water department, public utility or a
county or municipal water district for water used and consumed by such department, utility or
district in the conduct of the business of such department, utility or district. (1598-10/70)

3.36.110 Cable Television Users Tax. (3118-7/91)	.	.	.	-

(a)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using cable television service.
The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of five percent (5%) of the charges made
for such service and shall be paid by the person paying for such services. (3118-7/91) o . ■: ;V

(b)	The tax imposed in this Section shall be collected from the service user by the person
furnishing the cable television service. (3118-7/91)	:.

3.36.120	Exemptions. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person if imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of the Constitution of the
United States or the Constitution of the State of California. (1598-10/70) nvUibh?. ::i .Vice H

3.36.130	Collection of tax. The amount of tax imposed by this chapter shall be collected from
the service user by the service supplier. (1598-10/70,2933-8/88)	r/.-.r.	:	;	•

3.36.140	Collection—When made. The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same
time as and along with the collection of charges made in accordance with the regular billing
practice of the service supplier. (1598-10/70)	c	=:	.

3.36.150 Collection-Commencement. The duty to collect tax from a service user shall
commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to that person which
shall begin as of January 1,1971, or at the beginning of the first regular billing period thereafter
which would not include service prior to January 1,1971. Where a person receives more than
one billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise
separately for each billing period. (1598-10/70)	•	-	>	:	•	•	;

7/91	■	■	•	..	V

Huntington Beach Municipal Code

3.36.160 Reporting and Remitting. (3390-5/98)

(a)	. Each service supplier shall make a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms provided by

him, stating th$ amount of taxes billed by the service supplier during .the preceding month.

At the time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the
Treasurer. The Tax Administrator is authorized to require such further information as he
deems necessary to properly determine if the tax herein imposed is being levied and collected
in accordance with this chapter. Tax returns must be postmarked with prepaid postage and
properly addressed, or delivered to the Treasurer on or before the 20th day of each month.
Returns and tax remittances are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason.
Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received on the
first regular working day following a Saturday/Sunday, or legal holiday. (1598-10/70,2211-8/77,
3390-5/98)

(b)	Service suppliers and the Tax Administrator may enter into an agreement to remit taxes by

way of electronic funds transfer or similar means. (3390-5/98)	:	■

(c)	The Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator's designated representative, may request
from a person providing transportation services of gas or electricity to service users within
the City a list of the names and addresses of its transportation customers within the City
pursuant to Section 6354(e) of Chapter 2.5 of Division 3 of the California Public Utilities
Commission. (3390-5/98)

(d)	If any person subject to record keeping under this Section unreasonably denies the Tax
Administrator, or the Tax Administrator's designated representative, access to such records,
then the Tax Administrator may impose a penalty of $500 on such person for each day
following the initial date that the person refuses to provide such access. (3390-5/98)

3.36.170 Delinquent when. Taxes collected from a service user which are not filed with the

Tax Administrator on or before the due dates provided in this chapter are delinquent. (1598-10/70,

2211-8/77)

3.36.180 Interest and Penalties. (3390-5/98)	.	■: .. .

(a)	Taxes collected from a service user which are not received by the Treasurer on or before the

due dates provided in this chapter are delinquent. (3390-5/98) ...	,	•	v

(b)	Any service supplier who fails to remit any tax imposed by this chapter within the time

required shall pay a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the tax. Said penalty shall
be paid in addition to the amount of the tax. (3390-5/98) . roh --v;	-	-	~	j	v.	-

(c)	Any service supplier who fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or before a period of
thirty (30) days following the date on which the remittance first became delinquent shall pay
a second delinquency penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of tax in addition to the
amount of the tax and the penalty first imposed. (3390-5/98) ~ - ;;

(d)	If the Treasurer determines that the non-payment of any remittance due under this chapter is
due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax shall be added
thereto in addition to the penalties stated in subsections (b) and (c) of this Section. (3390-5/98)

(e)	In addition to the penalties imposed, any service supplier who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this chapter shall pay interest to the City at the rate of one and one-hlalf percent (1-1/2%)
per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date
on which the remittance first becomes delinquent until paid. (3390-5/98)

(f)	Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of this Section shall
become a part of the tax herein required to be paid. (3390-5/98)

3.36.190—3.36.240(c)(1)

3.36.190 Penalty-Imposed by administrator. The Tax Administrator shall impose the
penalties and interest upon persons required to pay and remit taxes under the provisions of this
chapter. (1598-10/70.2211-8/77,3390-5/98)

3.36.200 Penalty-Combining nature. Every penalty imposed under the provisions of this
chapter shall become a part of the tax required to be paid. (1598-10/70,2211-8/77)

3.36.210 Actions to collect. Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax
collected from a service user which has not been paid to the Treasurer shall be deemed a debt
owed to the City by the person required to collect and pay. Any person owing money to the City
under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City
for the recovery of such amount. (1598-10/70,2211-8/77,3390-5/98)

3.36.220 Failure to pay—Administrative remedy. Whenever the Tax Administrator
determines that a service user has deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by him from
the amounts remitted to a service supplier, or that a service user has failed to pay the amount of
the tax for a period of two or more billing periods, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it
in the best interest of the City, he may relieve the service supplier of the obligation to collect
taxes due under this chapter from certain named service users for specified billing periods. The
Tax Administrator shall notify the service user that he has assumed responsibility to collect the
taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes. The notice shall be served
on the service user by handing it to him personally or by deposit of the notice in the United
States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing
was made by the service supplier; or should the service user have changed his address, to his last
known address. If a service user fails to remit the tax to the Treasurer within fifteen days from
the date of the service of the notice upon him, which shall be the date of mailing if service is not
accomplished in person; a penalty of twenty-five (25%) percent of the amount of the tax set forth
in the notice shall be imposed but not less than five dollars. The penalty shall become part of the
tax herein required to be paid. (1598-10/70, 3390-5/98)

3.36.230 Assessment-Administrative remedy. The Tax Administrator may make an
assessment for taxes not paid or remitted by a service supplier or service user. jThe Tax
Administrator shall mail a notice of the assessment which shall refer briefly to the amount of the
taxes and penalties imposed. The Tax Administrator shall mail a copy of such notice to the
supplier or the service user, allowing fourteen (14) days to appeal the assessment. (1598-10/70,
3390-5/98)	'	r. . •:	.	.	~.y	i	•	.	.	•••	'	'	•

3.36.240 Appeals. (3390-5/98)

(a)

City Administrator Appeal. If the service user or service supplier is aggrieved by any
decision of the Tax Administrator, or with the failure to grant a refund or exemption as
provided for under this chapter, he may appeal to the City Administrator, or his or her duly -
authorized designee, by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within fourteen (14) days
of the decision which aggrieved the service user or service supplier.; The City Clerk shall
thereupon fix a time and place for a hearing of such appeal.; The City Clerk shall give notice
to such person of the time and place of hearing as herein provided. (3390-5/98)

(b)	City Administrator Decision. The decision of the City Administrator, or his or her duly
authorized designee, shall be final unless appealed to the City Council. (3390-5/98)	:

(c)	Appeal to the City Council. An appeal from a decision by the City Administrator may be
filed no later than ten calendar days after the date of the decision. (3390-5/98):	•>•

(1)	Form of Notice on Appeal. The notice of appeal shall contain the name and address of
the person appealing the action, the decision appealed from and the grounds for the

Huntington Beach Municipal Code

appeal. A defect in the form of the notice does not affect the validity or right to an
appeal. (3390-5/98)

(2)	Action on Appeal. The City Clerk shall set the matter for hearing before the City
Council and shall give notice of the hearing on the appeal. (3390-5/98)

(3)	De Novo Hearing. The City Council shall hear the appeal as a new matter. The original
applicant has the burden of proof. The City Council may act upon the appeal, either
granting it, conditionally granting it or denying it, irrespective of the precise grounds or
scope of the appeal. In addition to considering the testimony and evidence presented at
the hearing on the appeal, the City Council shall consider all pertinent information from
the file as a result of the previous hearings from which the appeal is taken. (3390-5/98)

(4)	Decision on Appeal. The City Council may reverse or affirm in whole or in part, or
may modify the decision, or determination that is being appealed. (3390-5/98)

(5)	Fee for Appeal. The notice of appeal shall be accompanied by the fee fixed by
resolution of the City Council. (3390-5/98)

(6)	Appeal by City Council Member.

A.	A City Council member may appeal a decision of the City Administrator. The
appeal shall be processed in the same manner as an appeal by any other person but
need not be accompanied by the fee prescribed for an appeal. (3390-5/98)

B.	The City Council member appealing the decision is not disqualified by that action
from participating in the appeal hearing and the deliberations nor from voting as a
member of file City Council. (3390-5/98)

3.36.245 Audit by City. The City shall have the right to inspect all books, accounts and records
of the service supplier which the City deems necessary to properly determine if the tax herein
imposed is being levied and collected in accordance with this Chapter. The service supplier shall
make available all books, accounts and records at a location within Los Angeles or Orange
County and during normal business hours. (3390-5/98)

3.36.250 Records. It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and remit to the City
any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of three years, all records as
may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he may have been liable for the
collection of and remittance to the Treasurer, which records the Treasurer shall have the right to
inspect at all reasonable times. (1598-10/70,3390-5/98)

3.36.260 Refunds.	!	j..

(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been ■

erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter, it
may be refunded as provided in this Section. (1598-10/70,3390-5/98)	.

(b)	A person required to collect and remit taxes as imposed by this Chapter may claim a refund
or take as credit against taxes collected and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than
once or erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the service user from whom the tax has been
collected did not owe the tax; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be
allowed to the service supplier unless the amount of the tax so collected has either been
refunded to the service user by, or credited to charges subsequently payable to, the person
required to collect and remit such tax to the City. (1598-10/70,3390-5/98)

3.36.2binc)-3.36.265(d)

Huntington Beach Municipal Code

(c)	A service user who has not otherwise received a refund or a credit against future taxes from
the service supplier pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section may claim a refund directly

, from the Tax Administrator for any amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously or
illegally collected or received when it is established that the service user from whom the tax
has been collected did not owe the tax. The Tax Administrator shall notify the service
supplier of his/her determination and the amount of any refund due to the service user which
amount, if any, shall be promptly refunded or credited to the service user by the service
supplier in accordance with subsection (b) above. (3390-5/98)

(d)	Notwithstanding other provisions of this Section, whenever a service supplier, pursuant to an
order of the California Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction,
makes a refund to service users of charges for past utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to
this Chapter on the amount of such refunded charges shall also be refunded to such service
users, and the service supplier shall be entitled to claim a credit for such refunded taxes
against the amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly returns. (3390-5/98)

(e)	A service supplier may refund any sums due to the service user in accordance with this
Section or by the service supplier's customary practice. (3390-5/98)

(f)	No credit or refund shall be allowed or paid by the City under the provisions of this Section

unless the claimant has submitted a written claim to the Tax Administrator within one year of
the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly
establish claimant's right to the refund by written records showing entitlement thereto. The
submission of a written claim, which is acted upon by the Tax Administrator, shall be a
prerequisite to a suit thereon. The Tax Administrator shall act upon the refund claim within
the time period set forth in Government Code Section 912.4. If the Tax Administrator fails
or refuses to act on a refund claim within the time prescribed by Government Code Section
912.4, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the Tax Administrator on the last
day of the period within which the Tax Administrator was required to act upon the claim as
provided in Government Code Section 912.4. It-is the intent of the Tax Administrator that
the one year written claim requirement of this subsection be given retroactive effect;
provided, however, that any claims which arose prior to the commencement of the one year
claims period of this subsection, and which are not otherwise barred by a then applicable
statute of limitations or claims procedure, must be filed with the Tax Administrator as
provided in this subsection within ninety (90) days following the effective date of this
ordinance. The above refund procedure has been adopted by the City pursuant to
Government Code Section 935. (3390-5/98)	‘

3.36.265 Additional Powers and Duties of Tax Administrator. (3390-5/98)

(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed to enforce each

and all of the provisions of this Chapter. (3390-5/98)	.1

(b)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations not inconsistent
with provisions of this Chapter for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing the payment,
collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such rules and regulations
shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's Office. (3390-5/98)

(c)	The Tax Administrator may make administrative agreements to vary the strict requirements
of this Chapter so that collection of any tax imposed herein may be made in conformance
with the billing procedures of particular service supplier so long as said agreements result in
collection of the tax irj conformance with the general purpose and scope of this Chapter. A
copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's Office. (3390-5/98)

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a right to
exemption from or a refund of, the tax imposed by this Chapter. (3390-5/98)

5/98

3.36.270-3.36.340

Huntington Beach Municipal Code

3.36.270 City exempt. The taxes imposed by this chapter shall not apply to the City.

(1598-10/70)

3.36.280 Senior citizens—Exemption. The tax imposed by this chapter shall not apply to any
individual service user sixty-two years of age or older who uses telephone, electric, water or gas
services, in or upon any premises occupied by such individual, provided the combined adjusted
gross income as used for federal income tax reporting purposes of all members of the household
in which such service user resides does not exceed the "HUD Income Guidelines - Very Low
Income Category" currently on file at the City's Office of the Housing Rehabilitation
Administrator, for the calendar year prior to the fiscal year (July 1 through June 30) for which the
exemption provided by this chapter is applied. (2452-10/80,2886-12/86,3095-4/91)

3.36.290 Application required. Any service user, meeting the requirements for exempt status,
may file a verified application with the Director of Finance on a form furnished by him. The
Director of Finance, or his designee, shall review all applications and certify those service users
as exempt who meet the requirements for the exemption provided by this chapter. (2452-10/80)

3.36.300 Notification to service supplier. The Director of Finance, or his designee, shall
compile a list of all exempt service users, together with the addresses, account numbers, if any,
of such users, and such other information as may be necessary for service suppliers to remove
exempt service users from their tax billings. (2452-10/80)

3.36.310 Service supplier—Duty of. No service supplier shall be required to bill any exempt
service user for any tax imposed by this chapter after receipt of notice from the Director of
Finance that such service user has met the requirements for exempt status established by the
provisions of this chapter. (2452-10/80,2470-2/81)

3.36.320 Exemption automatic. The exemption provided for in this chapter shall continue and
be renewed automatically from year to year except as hereinafter provided. No exempt service
user shall fail to notify the Director of Finance within ten (10) days of a change of address, or of
any other fact or circumstance which might disqualify him or otherwise affect his exempt status.
All exempt service users shall file with the Director of Finance new verified applications in order
to receive exempt service at a new address or location. (2452-10/80)

3.36.330 Tax billing exemptions—Effective when. All service suppliers shall remove exempt
service users from their tax billings for the first regular full billings dated on or before
October 15,1980, and thereafter within sixty (60) days after notice from the Director of Finance
to do SO. (2452-10/80)

3.36.340 Violation-Penalty. It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person knowingly to
receive the exemption provided by this chapter when such person has not met the requirements
on which such exemption is based, or when such person can no longer meet the requirements on
which such exemption is based, and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine of five
hundred dollars ($500) or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each such person shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which a violation is committed or
continued. (2452-10/80)

4/91

RESOLUTION NO. 2000-69

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HUNTINGTON BEACH SETTING PRIORITIES FOR FILING
A WRITTEN ARGUMENT REGARDING A CITY MEASURE
AND DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election is to be held in the City of Huntington Beach,
California on November 7, 2000, at which there will be submitted to the voters the following
measure:

"Shall an electric power plant be required to pay the same
Utility Tax as do residents and businesses of the City of
Huntington Beach by amending the Huntington Beach
Municipal Code to remove Section 3.36.080(b) and make
corresponding changes to Section 3.36.010(g)?"

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HUNTINGTON
BEACH, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That the City Council authorizes

Ralph Bauer___________________(Council	Member	in	Favor/Against)

________Dave Sullivan_________________(Council	Member	in Favor/Against)

________Pam Julian____________________(Council	Member in Favor/Against)

________Shirley Dettloff	(Council	Member	in Favor/Against)

______________________________________(Council	Member	in Favor/Against)

members of that body, to fde a written argument regarding the City measure as specified above
in accordance with Article 4, Chapter 3, Division 9 of the Elections Code of the State of
California and to change the argument until and including the date fixed by the City Clerk after
which no arguments for or against the City measure may be submitted to the City Clerk.

SECTION 2. That the City Council directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of the
measure to the City Attorney, unless the organization or salaries of the office of the City
Attorney are affected. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure
showing the effect of the measure on the existing law and the operation of the measure. If the
measure affects the organization or salaries of the office of the City Attorney, the City Clerk
shall prepare the impartial analysis. The impartial analysis shall be filed by the date set by the
City Clerk for the filing of primary arguments.

1

SECTION 3. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Huntington Beach at a
regular meeting thereof held on the 17 th day of July________________________,	2000.

ATTEST:

City Clerk





REVIEWED AND APPROVED:
City Administrator

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

INITIATED AND APPROVED:

00reso/impartial/6/23/00

2

RESOLUTION NO. 2000-70

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HUNTINGTON BEACH SETTING PRIORITIES FOR FILING
A WRITTEN ARGUMENT REGARDING A CITY ADVISORY MEASURE
AND DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election is to be held in the City of Huntington Beach,
California on November 7, 2000, at which there will be submitted to the voters the following
measure:

Advisory Vote Only. "Should the Utility Tax paid solely
by an electric power plant be placed into an Infrastructure
Fund to be used only for the maintenance, construction,
and repair of infrastructure such as sewers, sewage lift
stations, storm drains, storm water pump stations, alleys,
streets, highways, curbs and gutters, sidewalks, street trees,
landscaped medians, parks, beach facilities, playgrounds,
traffic signals, street lights, and block walls along arterial
highways?"

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HUNTINGTON
BEACH, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That the City Council authorizes

________Ralph Bauer__________________(Council Member in Favor/Against)-

________n^vp Sullivan_________________(Council Member in Favor/Against)

________Pam Julien____________________(Council Member in Favor/Agaimtf-

________Shirley Dettloff____________(Council Member in Favor/Again at)-

_____________________________________(Council	Member in Favor/Agaiaot)-

members of that body, to file a written argument regarding the City measure as specified above
in accordance with Article 4, Chapter 3, Division 9 of the Elections Code of the State of
California and to change the argument until and including the date fixed by the City Clerk after
which no arguments for or against the City measure may be submitted to the City Clerk.

SECTION 2. That the City Council directs the City Clerk to transmit a copy of the
measure to the City Attorney, unless the organization or salaries of the office of the City
Attorney are affected. The City Attorney shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measure
showing the effect of the measure on the existing law and the operation of the measure. If the
measure affects the organization or salaries of the office of the City Attorney, the City Clerk

1

shall prepare the impartial analysis. The impartial analysis shall be filed by the date set by the
City Clerk for the filing of primary arguments.

SECTION 3. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Huntington Beach at a
regular meeting thereof held on the 17 th day of__________July______________,	2000.



INITIATED AND APPROVED:

nistrator

OOreso/advisory/6/23/OO

2

RESOLUTION NO. 2.000-58

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
HUNTINGTON BEACH CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF
THE HOLDING OF A GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE
HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2000, FOR THE ELECTION
OF CERTAIN OFFICERS AS REQUIRED BY THE PROVISIONS OF

THE CITY CHARTER

WHEREAS, under the provisions of the City Charter, a general municipal election
shall be held on November 7, 2000, for the election of municipal officers; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HUNTINGTON
BEACH DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the Charter there is called and
ordered to be held in the City of Huntington Beach on Tuesday, November 7, 2000, a
general municipal election for the purpose of electing three members of the City Council
for the full term of four years; a City Clerk for the full term of four years and a City
Treasurer for the full term of four years.

SECTION 2. That the ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and
content as required by law.

SECTION 3. That the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to procure
and furnish any and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and all supplies, equipment
and paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to properly and lawfully conduct the
election.

SECTION 4. That the polls for the election shall be open at seven o'clock a. m. of
the day of the election and shall remain open continuously from that time until eight
o'clock p.m. of the same day when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section
14401 of the Elections Code of the State of California.

SECTION 5. That in all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall
be held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 6. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and
the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of
the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

1

Res. No. 2000-58

SECTION 7. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Huntington Beach at

ATTEST:
City Clerk



day of June	m^\	, 2000.
	fayor J	fro Tem

REVIEWED AND APPROVED:
City Adrrtfnistrator

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

INITIATED AND APPROVED:

OOreso/adl/elections/5/3/OO

2

RESOLUTION NO. 2000-5 9

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF HUNTINGTON BEACH REQUESTING THE BOARD
OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF ORANGE TO
CONSOLIDATE A GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2000, WITH
THE STATEWIDE GENERAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON THAT
DATE PURSUANT TO SECTION 10403 OF THE ELECTIONS CODE

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Huntington Beach called a general municipal
election to be held on November 7, 2000, for the purpose of the election of three members of the
City Council, a City Clerk, and a City Treasurer; and

WHEREAS, it is desirable that the general municipal election be consolidated with the
statewide general election to be held on the same date and that within the City the precincts,
polling places and election officers of the two elections be the same, and that the County election
department of the County of Orange canvass the returns of the general municipal election and
that the election be held in all respects as if there were only one election,

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HUNTINGTON
BEACH DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of Section 10403 of the Elections Code,
the Board of Supervisors of the County of Orange is hereby requested to consent and agree to the
consolidation of a general municipal election with the statewide general election on Tuesday,
November 7, 2000, for the purpose of the election of three members of the City Council, a City
Clerk and a City Treasurer.

SECTION 2. That the County election department is authorized to canvass the returns
of the general municipal election. The election shall be held in all respects as if there were only
one election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

SECTION 3. That the Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to the
County election department to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the
consolidated election.

SECTION 4. That the City of Huntington Beach recognizes that additional costs will be
incurred by the County by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County for
any costs.

SECTION 5. That the City Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this
resolution with the Board of Supervisors and the County election department of the County of
Orange.

1

Res. No. 2000-59

SECTION 6. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED AND ADOPTED
regular meeting thereof held on the

ATTEST:



City Clerk	&=



by the City Council of the City of Huntington Beach at a

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

REVIEWED AND APPROVED'

City Administrator



INITIATED AND APPROVED:

OOreso/adl/general elections/5/3/OO

2

REuUEST FOR COUNCIL ACTION

MEETING DATE: June 5, 2000	DEPARTMENT	ID	NUMBER:	AS	00-026

Analysis: In 1998, Southern California Edison (SCE) sold the power plant at Pacific
Coast Highway and Newland to AES Huntington Beach. Under the terms of the City’s
Utility Tax (UT) Ordinance, SCE, as an electrical corporation, was exempt from the
payment of the tax on its usage of natural gas to generate electricity. Upon transfer of
ownership, the City Attorney opined that under the Ordinance, AES was also exempt from
payment of the tax because it was still an "electrical corporation”, even though it was not
subject to PUC jurisdiction. In addition, the City Attorney stated that the removal of this
exemption would require a vote of the Huntington Beach electorate under the provisions of
Proposition 218.

The five percent Utility Tax is paid by all Huntington Beach businesses and residents.
Since AES is now a privately run utility, with power sold on the open market and not directly
to Huntington Beach residents, AES should pay UT on the same terms as other Huntington
Beach businesses. It is estimated that approximately $1.2 million in UT revenue will be
generated based upon the plant’s current natural gas consumption.

The proposed ballot measure would utilize an “A/B” format. The “A” section would ask the
electorate to vote on whether or not the current exemption should be removed from the UT
Ordinance. A 50 percent plus one vote in favor would remove the exemption and subject
AES to the tax. The “B” measure would be an advisory vote related to the use of the funds.
Staff recommends that the voters be asked to recommend that UT revenues from the plant
be placed into an Infrastructure fund to be utilized for capital improvement projects.

Proposed language for the ballot measure is as follows:

“A” Shall an electric power plant be required to pay the same Utility Tax as do
residents and businesses of the City of Huntington Beach by amending the
Municipal Code to remove Section 3.36.080 (b) and make corresponding
changes to Section 3.3b.010(g)”?

ADVISORY VOTE ONLY

“B” “Should the Utility Tax paid by an electric power plant be placed into an
Infrastructure Fund to be used for Capital Improvement Projects"?

Environmental Status:

Attachment(s):

City Clerk’s Page Number	No.	Description
		

RCA Author: John P. Reekstin

(13)

F-2.

June 5, 2000 - Council/Ager \genda

■ Page 13

(City Council) Direct Staff to Prepare a Measure to be Submitted at the
November 7. 2000 General Municipal Election Relative to Removing an Electrical
Corporation’s Exemption from Paying the City’s Utility Tax - (620.20)
Communication from the Administrative Services Director requesting Council direction
as to whether the City Council should place a measure on the November 7, 2000 ballot
removing an electrical corporation’s exemption from the City Utility Tax. In 1998,
Southern California Edison (SCE) sold the power plant at Pacific Coast Highway and
Newland to AES Huntington Beach. Under the terms of the City’s Utility Tax (UT)
Ordinance, SCE, as an electrical corporation, was exempt from the payment of the tax
on its usage of natural gas to generate electricity. Upon transfer of ownership, the City
Attorney opined that under the Ordinance, AES was also exempt from payment of the
tax because it was still an "electrical corporation", even though it was not subject to PUC
jurisdiction. In addition, the City Attorney stated that the removal of this exemption
would require a vote of the Huntington Beach electorate under the provisions of
Proposition 218.

The five percent Utility Tax is paid by all Huntington Beach businesses and residents.
Since AES is now a privately run utility, with power sold on the open market and not
directly to Huntington Beach residents, AES should pay UT on the same terms as other
Huntington Beach businesses. It is estimated that approximately $1.2 million in UT
revenue will be generated based upon the plant’s current natural gas consumption.

Recommended Actions: Motions to:

1.	Direct staff to prepare a measure for submission to the voters at the

November 7, 2000 General Municipal Election to amend the Huntington Beach
Municipal Code to remove an electrical corporation’s exemption from paying the
City’s Utility Tax.

and

2.	Direct staff to prepare an alternative wording on Advisory Vote Only measure for
return at 7/5/00 Council Meeting for submission to the voters at the November 7,
2000 General Municipal Election as to whether the revenue from the Utility Tax paid by an
electric power plant should be used for capital improvement projects.

[Approved 6-0-1 (Bauer absent)]

IMPOSITION OF

UTILITY USER TAX__

ON AES POWER PLANT

-S

&

r\

3b

'n

zr>,

n-

3>

r'.

u-'
c.n

o

5>

June 5,2000
Item F-2
Presenter - John Reekstin

Director of Administrative Services

			-
		CIT1	rS UTILITY TAX

•	Rate is 5%, paid by all power
consumers, including businesses

•	Ordinance exempts power plant

•	Pov/er plant operated by a regulated
public utility (Edison) until recently

Now privately run - energy sold on
n market

ass-through to Huntington
Bedch consumers

			
		FINANCIAL BENEFIT OF UUT	
			
		• $1.2 upo con  • As i sho oth< bus	! million in annual revenue based >n current natural gas sumption  n private, for-profit company, AES uld compete on same terms as sr electrical power generators and inesses

$1.2 million in annual revenue could
be earmarked for infrastructure on a

pay

as you go basis

Approximately $15 million in bonding

cap

ability

BALLOT RECOMMENDATION

		
	• “A/l gen eari	3”vote - majority vote to impose eral tax, majority advisory vote narking funds for infrastructure
		

RECOMMENDED ACTIONS

1. Direct staff to prepare a measure
foir submission to the voters at the
November 7, 2000 General
Municipal Election to amend the
Huntington Beach Municipal Code

to

remove an electrical

corporation’s exemption from
paying the City’s Utility Tax.

RECOMMENDED ACTIONS

		
	2. Di Vc to 20 to Ut  pk  im	rect staff to prepare an Advisory >te Only measure for submission the voters at the November 7,  00 General Municipal Election as whether the revenue from the ility Tax paid by an electric power ant should be used for capital provement projects.
		

			•
		BALLOT MEASURE “A”	

Shall an electric power plant be
required to pay the same Utility Tax as
do residents and businesses of the
City of Huntington Beach by amending
the Municipal Code to remove Section
3.36.080 (b) and make corresponding
changes to Section 3.3b.010(g)?

			*
		BALLOT MEASURE “B”	

Should the Utility Tax paid by an
electric power plant be placed into an
Infrastructure Fund to be used for
Capital Improvement Projects?