(h)	“Individual" means any individual acting on behalf of themselves or as agents for others.

(i)	“Agent” means any business entity, labor union or individual which represents a business
entity, labor union or individual who is a party in a contract subject to this Article, including but not
limited to any lobbyist, attorney, public relations firm or media personnel employed or contracted
with to influence any decision made by the Board of Supervisors concerning a contract.

(i)	“Solicited” means asked, requested or suggested, whether orally or in writing.

(j)	“Candidate” means a candidate for local, state or federal office.

(k)	“Party’’ means any business entity, labor union or individual who seeks to enter into a contract
with the County, including any business entity, labor union or individual who is involved in the
negotiation, development or making of a contract.

(l)	“Contract” means any contract for services, including any modification or extension of an
existing contract, when the services are of the type performed by employees of the County, the
services have been performed by employees of the County, or the services are performed by
employees of the County as of the operative date of sections 502-502.3.

(m)	“Disclosure” as required by this Amendment includes but is not limited to the date, place, cost
and name of parties engaged in lobbying activities and the date, amount or value, and name of
parties making contributions, gifts, payments or giving other considerations subject to this
Amendment.

Section 502.6. Approval

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter any contract subject to this Article cannot be
entered into without a vote of the Board of Supervisors.

Section 1008 is added to Article X to provide as follows:

SECTION 3. Operative Date

These amendments to the Charter of the County of San Diego shall be effective the first day of the
month following the month of adoption by the voters.

SECTION 4. Amendment of County Code, Administrative Code, and Regulatory Ordinances
of the County of San Diego

The Board of Supervisors Is directed to adopt amendments to the County Code, Administrative
Code and regulatory ordinances of the County of San Diego as may be necessary to conform
existing provisions to the amendments to the Charter for the County of San Diego set forth in
Section 2.

SECTION 5. Severability

If any provision of this Charter amendment, or the application of any such provision to any person
or circumstances, shall be held invalid, the remainder of this Charter amendment to the extent it
can be given effect, or the application of such provision to persons or circumstances other than
those as to which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby, and to this end the provisions of
this Charter amendment are severable.

SECTION 6. Amendment

This Charter shall be amended only by the voters of San Diego County.

«

PR-3000-15

NSD 068-032

VALLEY CENTER FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2000-1

Proposition EE

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROP EE

To aid in protecting the lives and property of the residents and
property owners of Valley Center by financing a portion of the cost
of fire suppression and protection services, shall Community Facil-
ities District No. 2000-1 of the Valley Center Fire Protection District be authorized to levy special
taxes not to exceed $3.00 per Benefit Unit subject to adjustment pursuant to the special tax for-
mula contained in Resolution No. 2000-	?

Full text of this proposition follows the arguments/rebuttals.

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

As residents of Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 of the Valley Center Fire Protection
District (“District’’,) you are asked to vote on a ballot measure proposing the adoption.of special
taxes to finance a portion of the cost of fire suppression and fire protection services.

Specifically, the measure requests your approval of special taxes not to exceed $3.00 per
benefit unit as set forth in a formula adopted by resolution of the Board of Directors of the District.
The tax will be imposed on all assessor’s parcels that are not exempt by law from taxation, except
for vacant property and public property. On each July 1, commencing July 1,2002, the maximum
special tax per benefit unit will be increased by 2 percent of the amount in effect the previous fiscal
year.

The special tax resolution provides an appeal procedure whereby any landowner or resident
who believes that his or her tax has been incorrectly calculated may appeal the amount of the tax
to a review/appeal committee.

Approval by two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure is required to adopt the tax.

PR-19P0-1

N SD 068-033



ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION EE

The Valley Center Fire Board of Directors unanimously recommends a YES vote on Proposition
EE. The Valley Center Fire Protection District has not received a rate increase since formation of
the District in 1962 and frankly, both the population and the cost of doing business have increased.
The District currently responds to the emergency needs of approximately 22,000 residents with-six
on-duty personnel 24 hours a day. A YES vote on Proposition EE will enable the District to maintain
operational readiness, provide services at the current level, protect financial reserves and avoid
deficit spending.

A YES vote on Proposition EE will result in a tax increase of $30.00 to the average homeowner, a
$21.00 increase on mobile homes, and a maximum of $45.00 to businesses.

It is anticipated that the proposed increase will satisfy the needs of the District for the next 5 to 6
years.

Please vote YES on Proposition EE.

MIKE PACHECO
President

Valley Center Fire Protection District
Board of Directors

DAN THORNTON
Treasurer

Valley Center Fire Protection District
Board of Directors

MEL SCHULER
Vice-President

Valley Center Fire Protection District
Board of Directors

PAT TAYLOR

V. C. Firefighters' Assoc. President

PATRICK GARCIA
Valley Center Fire Protection District Director

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION EE

No argument against the proposition was filed in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

N SO 068-034

RATE AND METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT FOR
VALLEY CENTER FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2000-1

A Special Tax as hereinafter defined shall be levied on all Assessors Parcels in Valle/Cenjer Fire
Protection District (the “Fire Protection District”). Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 (“CFD
No. 2000-1") and collected each Fiscal Year commencing in Fiscal Year 2001-2002, in an amount
determined by the Board through the application of the appropriate Special Tax for “Developed
Property”, as described below. All such Developed Property in CFD No. 2000-1, unless exempted
by law or by the provisions hereof, shall be taxed for the purposes, to the extent and in the manner
herein provided.

A.	DEFINITIONS

The terms hereinafter set forth have the following meanings:

“Act” means the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982, as amended, being Chapter
2.5, Division 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code of the State of California.

“Administrative Expenses” means the following actual or reasonably estimated costs
directly related to the administration of CFD No. 2000-1: the costs of computing the Special
Taxes and preparing the annual Special Tax collection schedules (whether by the Fire
Protection District or designee thereof or both); the costs of collecting the Special Taxes
(whether by the County or otherwise); the. costs associated with preparing Special Tax
disclosure statements and responding to public inquiries regarding the Special Taxes; the
costs of the Fire Protection District, CFD No. 2000-1 or any designee thereof related to an
appeal of the Special Tax; and the Fire Protection District=s annual administration fees and
third party expenses. Administrative Expenses shall also include amounts estimated or
advanced by the Fire Protection District or CFD No. 2000-1 for any other administrative
purposes of CFD No. 2000-1, including attorneys^ fees and other costs related to
commencing and pursuing to completion any foreclosure of delinquent Special Taxes.

“Assessor’s Parcel” means a lot or parcel shown in an Assessor’s Parcel Map with an
assigned Assessor's Parcel number.

“Assessor’s Parcel Map” means an official map of the County Assessor of the County
designating parcels by Assessor's Parcel Number.

“Benefit Unit” means the benefit units assigned to each Assessors Parcel of Developed
Property within CFD No. 2000-T, pursuant to the benefit unit formula shown below In Table 1.

N SD 068-035

TABLE 1

Assignment of Benefit Units to Developed Property In
______Community Facilities District No. 2000-1_

Category	Description	Benefit Unit Formula
Land	Agricultural - irrigated crops and groves	1 unit per 5 acres and/or portion of five acres, with a maximum of 20 units per parcel
Miscellaneous	Agricultural buildings, livestock, dairies, poultry ranches, hay, grain storage, greenhouses (excludes residential backyard facilities)	10 units per parcel
Assemblies	Churches, halls, drinking & dining establishments (occupant load over 50)	15 units per occupancy
Businesses	Auto sales & service, used car lots, auto wrecking, shopping centers, drinking & dining establishments, offices, sales yards, retail stores, banks, ice plants, medical and dental offices, packing or processing, storage, lumber or building supply, utilities	10 units per occupancy (less than 5,000 sf)  15 units per occupancy (greater than or equal to 5,000 sf)
Hazardous	Hangars, repair garages, bulk storage tanks, industrial buildings, manufacturing, welding shops, auto wrecking, mining and extraction quarries, or explosives used or stored (use of quantities of hazardous materials or open flame)	20 units per occupancy (less than 5,000 sf)  15 units per occupancy (greater than or equal to 5,000 sf)
Institutional	Nurseries, rest homes, rehabilitation homes, reformatories, halfway houses, bed/breakfasts (occupant load under 12)	10 units per dwelling, with a minimum of 20 units per parcel
	Hospitals, jails, rest homes (occupant load over 12)	40 units per parcel
Educational  (Private)	Educational classrooms, including staff lunch rooms, conference rooms, kitchens and multi-purpose facilities. Bus facilities are considered separate business	10 units per 100 students
Residential	Single-family residences on 5 acres or less, Multi-residential with kitchens	10 units per dwelling unit
	Single-family residences on more than 5 acres	10 units per dwelling unit, plus 1 unit per 5 acres and/or portion of 5 acres, maximum of 20 units per parcel
	Mobile Homes/Trailers (inside parks)	7 units per dwelling, plus 20 units for all community buildings inside park
	Motels/Hotels (no kitchens)	5 units per room
	Overnight campgrounds or trailer parks	1 unit per space, plus 20 units for all community buildings inside park
PR-19P0-4		N SD 068-036

"Board” means the Board of Directors of the Fire Protection District, acting as the legislative
body of CFD No. 2000-1.

“CFD Administrator” means the District Administrator of the Fire Protection District, or
designee thereof, responsible for determining the Special Tax Requirement and providing for
the levy and collection of the Special Taxes.

“CFD No. 2000-1” means Valley Center Fire Protection District Community Facilities District
No. 2000-1.

"County” means the County of San Diego.

“Developed Property" means, for each Fiscal Year, all Taxable Property, for which a
building permit for new residential or non-residential construction vJas issued prior to
January 1 of the prior Fiscal Year, or which was in agricultural use (including irrigated crops,
groves, or livestock, etc. as identified in Table 1) as of January 1 of prior Fiscal Year.

“Fiscal Year” means the period starting July 1 and ending on the following June 30.

“Maximum Special Tax” means the maximum Special Tax, determined in accordance with
Section C below, that can be levied in any Fiscal Year on any Assessors Parcel of
Developed Property.

“Proportionately” means, for Developed Property, that the ratio of the actual Special Tax
levy to the Maximum Special Tax is equal for all Assessors Parcels of Developed Property.

“Public Property” means, for each Fiscal Year, any property within the boundaries of CFD
No. 2000-1 that is used for public rights-of-way or any other purpose and is owned by or
dedicated to the. federal government, the State of California, the County, or any other public
agency, provided however that any property owned and leased by a public agency to a
private entity and subject to taxation under Section 53340.1 (a) of the Act shall be taxed and
classified in accordance with its use.

“Special Tax” means the special tax to be levied In each Fiscal Year on each Assessor’s
Parcel of Developed Property to fund the Special Tax Requirement.

“Special Tax Requirement” means that amount required in any Fiscal Year for CFD No.
2000-1 to: (i) pay directly for fire protection and emergency medical technician services
eligible under the Act; and (ii) pay Administrative Expenses.

“State” means the State of California.

“Taxable Property” means all of the Assessor’s Parcels within the boundaries of CFD No.
2000-1 which are not exempt from the Special Tax pursuant to law or Section E below.

“Vacant Property” means for any Fiscal Year, all Assessors Parcels within CFD No. 2000-1
and not classified as Developed Property or Public Property.

B.	ASSIGNMENT TO LAND USE CATEGORIES

Each Fiscal Year, all Assessors Parcels within CFD No. 2000-1 shall be classified as
Developed Property, Public Property, or Vacant Property. All Assessors Parcels of
Developed Property shall be subject to the levy of Special Taxes in accordance with the rate
and method of apportionment determined pursuant to Sections C and D below. The CFD
Administrator shall assign Benefit Units to eiach Assessors Parcel of Developed Property
based on its primary land use and the formulas shown in Table 1. The Maximum Special Tax
for an Assessors Parcel of Developed Property shall be based on the number of Benefit
Units assigned to that Assessor=s Parcel.

C.	MAXIMUM SPECIAL TAX RATE

1.	Maximum Special Tax

The Fiscal Year 2001-2002 Maximum Special Tax is equal to $3.00 per Benefit Unit.

2.	Increase in the Maximum Special Tax

On each July 1, commencing July 1, 2002, the Maximum Special Tax per Benefit Unit shall
be increased by 2 percent (2%) of the amount in effect in the previous Fiscal Year.

D.	METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT OF THE SPECIAL TAX

Commencing with Fiscal Year 2001-2002 and for each following Fiscal Year, the Board shall
determine the Special Tax Requirement and shall levy the Special Tax until the amount of
PR-19P0-5	N	SD	068-037

Special Taxes equal the Special Tax Requirement. The Special Tax shall be levied
Proportionately on each Assessor’s Parcel of Developed Property at up to 100% of the
applicable Maximum Special Tax per Benefit Unit.

E.	EXEMPTIONS

No Special Tax shall be levied on Vacant Property or Public Property.

F.	REVIEW/APPEAL COMMITTEE

The Board shall establish as part of the proceedings and administration of CFD No. 2000-1
a special three-member Review/Appeal Committee. Any landowner or resident who feels that
the amount of the Special Tax, as to their Assessors Parcel, is in error, may file a notice with
the Review/Appeal Committee appealing the amount of the Special Tax levied on such
Assessor's Parcel. The Review/Appeal Committee shall interpret this Rate and Method of
Apportionment and make determinations relative to the annual administration of the Special
Tax and any landowner or resident appeals, as herein specified. The decision of the Review/
Appeal Committee shall be final and binding as to all persons.

G.	MANNER OF COLLECTION

The Special Tax will be collected in the same manner and at the same time as ordinary ad
valorem property taxes; provided, however, that CFD No. 2000-1 may directly bill the Special
Tax, may collect Special Taxes at a different time or in a different manner if necessary to meet
its financial obligations, and may covenant to foreclose and may actually foreclose on
delinquent Assessor's Parcels as permitted by the Act.

H.	TERM OF SPECIAL TAX

The Special Tax shall be levied as long as necessary to pay for authorized services.

PR-19P0-6

NSD 068-038

VALLEY CENTER FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2000-1

Proposition FF

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

In accordance the Gann Initiative (Article XIIIB of the Con-
stitution of the State of California), shall Community
Facilities District No. 2000-1 of the Valley Center Fire Pro-
tection District establish an Article XIIIB appropriation limit equal to $2,500,000?

PROP FF

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Article XIHB of the California Constitution (commonly referred to as the “Gann Initiative”)
provides for the establishment of appropriations limits for public agencies in the State of California.
You are asked to vote on the establishment of an appropriations limit in accordance with Article
XIIIB for Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 of the Valley Center Fire Protection District.

Specifically, it is proposed that the appropriation limit for Community Facilities District No.
2000-1 equal $2,500,000. Approval by a majority of the voters voting on the measure is required
to approve the adoption of the appropriations limit.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION FF

Proposition FF is a legal requirement which sets the maximum amount of money the Fire District
can appropriate In any year.

•	Proposition FF does not raise taxes

•	Proposition FF does not cost you one cent.

Proposition FF is on the ballot because the Gann Initiative requires each jurisdiction have a limit
on how much they can appropriate. To go above the limit would require a vote of the people.

The limit of $2,500,000 was agreed by the Board of Directors as reasonable given the size of the
District, the number of fire stations and personnel we have now, and into the foreseeable future.

Please vote YES on Proposition FF.

MIKE PACHECO
President

Valley Center Fire Protection District
Board of Directors

MEL SCHULER
Vice-President

Valley Center Fire Protection District
Board of Directors

PATRICK GARCIA
Valley Center Fire Protection District
Director

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION FF

No argument against the proposition was filed in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

DAN THORNTON
Treasurer

Valley Center Fire Protection District
Board of Directors,

PAT TAYLOR

V. C. Firefighters' Assoc. President

N SD 068-039