
<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL OF THE MEASURE EXTENDING
THE ALAMEDA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION SALES/USE TAX
This measure submits to the voters the question of whether to extend for
another twenty years the existing half-cent sales/use tax dedicated to local trans-
portation projects. In November 1986 voters in Alameda County passed a sales/
use tax which will terminate on March 31, 2002. Approval of Measure B by
,two-thirds of the voters would permit the County to continue to collect the half-cent sales/use tax for transportation purposes for another twenty years, begin-
ning on April 1, 2002, immediately after the expiration of the 1986 tax.

Measure B asks for voter approval of County Ordinance 2000-1 (printed in
full in this Voter Pamphlet), known as the “Alameda County Transportation Im-
provement Authority Ordinance”. The ordinance requires that the proceeds of
this tax are to be used only for the projects and purposes set forth in the
Alameda County Transportation Expenditure Plan (the “Plan”, also printed in
full in this Voter Pamphlet). The total estimated net revenue under the Plan is
$1,420,870,122. The Plan provides that approximately 43% of these funds
would be spent on mass transit projects including expansion of BART, the
Altamont Commuter Express (ACE) Rail Service, and county bus service;
approximately 24% of the tax revenue would be spent on capital improvements
for local surface streets and roads; approximately 17% of the funds would be
spent on highway infrastructure including new lanes and interchange improve-
ments on 1-580, 1-680, 1-880, SR84 and SR92, and the widening of 1-238;
approximately 10% of the funds would be spent on special transit for seniors
and people with disabilities; and approximately 6% of the funds would be spent
on bike and pedestrian safety projects.

The Plan of Measure B would require the formation of a new “Alameda
County Transportation Improvement Authority” to administer the new tax in
order to separate the responsibilities and liabilities of the existing sales tax pro-
gram from the new agency.

The measure also authorizes the Authority to issue bonds to finance those specific transportation projects set forth in the Plan. It places a limitation on the
Authority’s power to issue bonds payable from the sales/use tax revenues.
Unless approved by the Authority and voters, the Authority cannot have out-
standing at any one time more than $1,000,000,000 in limited tax bonds.
Pursuant to Article 13B of the California Constitution, the Ordinance fixes the
annual appropriations limit at $300,000,000.

The measure must be approved by at least two thirds of those voting on this
measure or it will be defeated. <impartialend>





<impartialsigs> s/ RICHARD E. WINNIE
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Vote YES on Measure B for comprehensive transportation solutions to traffic
and congestion in Alameda County.

Passage of Measure B authorizes a twenty year program to address congestion in
every major commute corridor in Alameda County - providing a balance of mass
transit solutions and road improvements to address the county’s traffic woes.
Measure B identifies five regional transportation priorities for Alameda County:

1.	Expand mass transit programs that have a demonstrated ability to get
people out of their cars. These include major new expansions of the BART
system throughout the county, Altamont Commuter Rail service, and express
and feeder bus services;

2.	Fix aging highways. The plan authorizes major new projects to improve
interchanges, open new lanes, and improve surface streets and arterial roads
that feed key commute corridors.

3.	Maintain and improve local streets and roads. The current expenditure
plan provides critical funds to every city in Alameda County for maintenance
and upkeep of local streets and roads. The new plan will continue to fund
these activities, repaving streets, filling potholes, and upgrading local trans-
portation infrastructure.

4.	Improve bike and pedestrian safety. The plan funds significant improve-
ments in bike and pedestrian infrastructure to minimize traffic disruption and
maximize safety for cyclists and pedestrians.

5.	Expand special transportation services for seniors and people with dis-
abilities. The plan significantly increases funds to better serve people with
special transportation needs and the growing aging population in Alameda
County.

Measure B was created through a two year public planning process that solicit-
ed comment from citizens throughout Alameda County. It reflects a consensus
throughout the county, drawing support from environmental, social justice, tax-
payer, and transit advocates, union members and business interests, all fourteen
Alameda County cities, and unanimous support from the County Board of
Supervisors.

Vote YES on Measure B. <favorend>







<favorsigs> s/KEITH CARSON, Alameda County Supervisor
s/SCOTT HAGGERTY, Alameda County Supervisor
s/HELEN BURKE, Sierra Club

s/JON SHAHOIAN, Alameda County Taxpayers Association
s/TOM C. GOFF, California Alliance for Jobs <favorsigsend>







<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Why is it bad public policy to join so many diverse transportation projects into
one special tax proposal? Because we get too many unnecessary projects which
can’t stand on their own merits. Alameda County gets no benefit by subsidizing
projects which the intended beneficiaries could afford, but wouldn’t approve if
given the choice.

The biggest and most expensive construction project is typical. The BART
extension to the Santa Clara County line will cost $165 million, almost 12% of
the tax revenues. Yet Santa Clara has never agreed to allow BART within its
borders. This expensive train track thus goes nowhere. Only Mrs. Winchester
could appreciate that.

The ACE train transports only a very small ridership to well-paying Silicon
Valley jobs.

The new freeway off-ramp to Jack London Square is designed to benefit mer-
chants who are doing quite well without it.

The bus subsidies to AC Transit, Union City Transit, and Livermore transit
(LAVTA) benefit ridership areas which could easily afford to tax themselves if
they wanted bigger systems.

Most handicap services are mandated by federal law. These will be provided
whether or not this tax passes. Subsidizing this service frees up existing funds
for the otherwise lowest priority services of transit districts.

This 20 year, $1.4 BILLION hodgepodge of boondoggles lasts 5 years longer,
and costs $300 million more than its pork-laden predecessor which voters
defeated in 1998. So now it’s fatter instead of leaner. Wrong concept!

Vote NO on B again! <rebutfavorend>







<rebutfavorsigs> s/MARK ROSS, Voters Against Special Taxes

s/WAYNE R. NYGREN, Infrastructure Management Consultant

s/PETER KAVALER, Software Engineer

s/DAVID GRAPPO, Attorney at law <rebutfavorsigsend>








<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

Ever notice how hard it is to end a temporary tax? Alameda County voters
rejected this same basic proposal just two years ago. But our local politicians
have sent it back to us. It’s still too costly, too wasteful, or its projects should be
funded in other ways. Every proposal in this legislation falls within the normal
jurisdiction of a city or public agency operating within the county. If any city or
agency wants its special project, it should pay separately for it within its exist-
ing budget.

Most local cities and agencies are now awash in new real estate and sales tax
funds due to the booming economy. Yet the first 22% of this proposal, or $317
million, simply gets funneled back to the 15 cities in the county, allegedly to fix
potholes. But due to booming tax revenues, none of the cities needs funds for
this purpose. The entire $317 million will simply free up funds for patronage or
other low priority items. The BART extension to Oakland Airport is also unnecessary. Buses, shuttles, and cabs efficiently fill this need now. All other proposed
projects similarly are unnecessary, wasteful, or should be funded in other ways.
There is no need for new taxes for any of these projects.

There is virtually no public oversight built into this 20 year 1.4 BILLION DOL-
LAR program. The volunteer citizen watchdog committee that it creates has no
power, no budget, and is appointed by the administrators of the tax. There is too
much money, too much time, and no safeguards in the proposal.

Let’s tell our local politicians that we pay enough now in taxes; they should just 
spend wisely what they already have. Vote NO on B. <againstend>







<againstsigs> s/DAVID GRAPPO, Voters Against Special Taxes
s/MARK ROSS, Voters Against Special Taxes <againstsigsend>








<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

MEASURE B IS OUR BEST CHANCE TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT
TRAFFIC AND CONGESTION.

Traffic in Alameda County is already bad and it will only get worse unless we
take action now. Just consider the facts:

•	In 1998, Alameda County residents spent 41,800 vehicle hours a day in traf-
fic, up from 18,800 hours in 1994.

•	Everyday, we lose nearly half a million dollars in lost productivity due to
traffic congestion.

•	Alameda County is expected to add 220,000 jobs over the next 20 years,
bringing more residents to our communities and putting more cars on our
roads.

Measure B addresses these problems head on. It authorizes a twenty year pro-
gram to address congestion in every major commute corridor in Alameda
County - providing a balance of mass transit solutions and road improvements
to address the county’s traffic woes.

The Measure B plan identifies five regional transportation priorities:

1. Expand, mass transit programs that have a demonstrated ability to get
people out of their cars including BART. ACE Commuter Express, and
express and feeder bus service.

2. Fix aging highways. 

3.	Maintain and improve local streets and roads.

4. Improve bike and pedestrian safety.

5. Expand special transportation services for seniors and people with dis-
abilities.

THE CHOICE IS OURS.

Comprehensive, regional transportation solutions through continuing the Mea-
sure B sales tax or twenty years of traffic and congested highways with our cur-
rent, inadequate roads and mass transit alternatives.

On November 7th, we urge you to Vote Yes on Measure B. <rebutagainstend>






<rebutagainstsigs> s/THOMAS M. BLALOCK, P.E., President, BART Bd. of Directors
s/JERRY BROWN, Mayor of Oakland
s/JON SHAHOIAN, Alameda County Taxpayers Assoc.
s/CATHIE BROWN, Mayor, City of Livermore
s/SHELIA YOUNG, Mayor of San Leandro <rebutagainstsigsend>







<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

ORDINANCE NO. 2000-1
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE CONTINUATION OF
A ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT TRANSACTIONS AND
USE TAX BY THE ALAMEDA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION
IMPROVEMENT AUTHORITY, FOR THE ISSUANCE OF
LIMITED TAX BONDS, AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
The Members of the Alameda County Transportation Improvement
Authority (the “Authority”) do ordain as follows:

ARTICLE I
General

Section 1. Title

This ordinance shall be known as the “Alameda County Transportation
Improvement Authority Ordinance.”

Section 2. Period of Tax

This Alameda County Transportation Improvement Authority Ordinance is
intended to continue imposition and collection in Alameda County of a one-half
of one percent transactions and use tax for transportation purposes which will
expire as of March 31, 2002. There shall be no coincidental assessment of the
current tax and the new tax to be imposed pursuant to this ordinance. The new
tax authorized by this ordinance shall be imposed for a twenty year period begin-
ning April 1, 2002 or as soon thereafter as the tax may be lawfully imposed.
Section 3. Purpose

Pursuant to Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code (commencing with
Section 180000), the Board of Supervisors of Alameda County have, at the rec-
ommendation of the Alameda County Transportation Authority (“ACTA”), cre-
ated the Alameda County Transportation Improvement Authority by Resolution
98-383. ACTA, the Board of Supervisors and the cities of Alameda, Albany,
Berkeley, Dublin, Emeryville, Fremont, Hayward, Livermore, Newark, Oak-
land, Piedmont, Pleasanton, San Leandro and Union City have recommended
that a measure be submitted to the voters of the County for their approval which
would, if so approved, authorize the Authority to continue the imposition of a
one-half of one percent transactions and use tax for a period of twenty years and
authorize the Authority to issue limited tax bonds to finance the transportation
improvements set forth in the 20-Year Transportation Expenditure Plan
approved by the Board of Supervisors.

The purposes of this ordinance are as follows:

a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provi-
sions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7251)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Division 19 of the Public
Utilities Code which directs the County Board of Supervisors to adopt the tax
ordinance for voter approval, exercising the taxing power granted to the
Alameda County Transportation Improvement Authority created by the Board of
Supervisors by Resolution 98-383 pursuant to Public Utilities Code Division 19.


b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates pro-
visions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limi-
tations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax
and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the
State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in admin-
istering and collecting the California State Retail Transactions and Use Tax.

d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be admin-
istered in a manner that will, to the degree possible consistent with the provi-
sions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the
cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes and at the same time minimize
the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provi-
sions of this ordinance.

e)	To improve, construct, maintain, and operate certain transportation pro-
jects and facilities contained in the 20-Year Transportation Expenditure Plan
adopted by the Board of Supervisors of Alameda County, which plan is incor-
porated here by this reference as though fully set forth herein, and as that Plan
may be amended from time to time pursuant to applicable law.

f)	To set a maximum term of twenty years during which time this tax shall be
imposed pursuant to the authority granted by Division 19 of the Public Utilities
Code.

Section 4. Contract with State

Prior to the operative date, the Authority shall contract with the State Board
of Equalization to perform functions incident to the administration and opera-
tion of this transactions and use tax; provided that, if the Authority shall not
have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date,
it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.
Section 5. Transactions Tax Rate of One-Half of One Percent

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in this County at the rate of one-half of one percent of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property
sold at retail in this County on and after the operative date. This tax shall be
imposed for the maximum period of twenty years described in Section 2 herein.
Section 6. Place of Sale

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer to an out of state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retail-
er has no permanent place of business in the state or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the
State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. Use Tax Rate of One-Half of One Percent

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
this County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative tax date for storage, use or other consumption in this County
at the rate of one-half of one percent of the sales price of the property. The sales
price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales
or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. This tax shall be
imposed for the maximum period of twenty years described in Section 2 herein.
Section 8. Adoption of Provisions of State Law

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though
fully set forth herein.

Section 9. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes

In adopting the provisions of Part I of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the tax-
ing agency, the name of the Authority shall be substituted therefor. The substi-
tution, however, shall not be made when the word State is used as part of the
title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board
of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California if
the substitution would require action to be taken by or against the Authority or
any agency, officer or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administra-
tion or operation of this ordinance; the substitution shall not be made in those
sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exte-
rior borders of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would
be to provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not other-
wise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consump-
tion remains subject to tax by the state under the said provisions of that code;
the substitution shall not be made in sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sen-
tence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code. The name of the County shall be substituted for the word “state” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this state” in Section 6203 and in the def-
inition of that phrase in Section 6203. A retailer engaged in business in the
County shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property unless the retailer ships or delivers die property into the
County or participates within the County in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the County or through any rep-
resentative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary or person in the County under
authority of the retailer. “A retailer engaged in business in the County” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division
3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the County.

Section 10. Permit Not Required

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

Section 11. Exemptions, Exclusions and Credits

a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California
or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax gross receipts from:

1)	Sales of tangible personal properly, other than fuel or petroleum prod-
ucts, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside Ala-
meda County and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this state, the
United States, or any foreign government.

2)	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a
point outside the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the County shall be
satisfied:

(i)	with respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division
3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with 9840 of the Vehicle Code, by registration to an
out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his principal place of residence.

(ii)	with respect to commercial vehicles by registration to a place of
business out-of-county, and a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3)	the sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4)	a lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordi-
nance.

5)	for the purposes of subsections (4) and (5), the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the uncondi-
tional right to terminate the contract upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

c)	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance the storage,
use or other consumption in this County of tangible personal property:

1)	other than fuel or petroleum products, purchased by operators of air-
craft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use
of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire of compen-
sation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemp-
tion is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

2)	if the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

3)	if the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such proper-
ty for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property
for an amount fixed prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4)	for the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), storage, use or other con-
sumption, or possession, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible per-
sonal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time during which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

d)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
or retailer imposing a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the prop-
erty the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.
Section 12. Propositions

There shall be proposed to the voters of Alameda County the following
proposition:

“Shall Alameda County voters authorize implementing the Alameda County 20-
Year Transportation Expenditure Plan including:

•	Expand BART in Alameda County

•	Expand Altamont Commuter Express service

•	Expand Countywide Express, Local and Feeder Bus service

•	I-880/l-580/l-680/I-238/Route 84/Route 92 Improvements

•	Extend special transit services for seniors and persons with disabilities

•	Improve pedestrian/bike safety

Approval of this Measure authorizes continuing the 1/2 cent transportation sales
tax during the Plan’s implementation. A Citizens Watchdog Committee shall
audit all expenditures.”

Section 13. Limitation on Issuance of Bonds

Unless approved by the Authority and by the voters, the Authority shall not
have outstanding at any one time in excess of $1,000,000,000 in limited tax
bonds.

Section 14. Use of Proceeds

The proceeds of the taxes imposed by this ordinance shall be used solely for
the projects and purposes set forth in the 20-Year Transportation Expenditure
Plan and for the administration thereof.

Section 15. Appropriations Limit

For purposes of Article XIIIB of the State Constitution, the appropriations
limit for the Authority for fiscal year 2000-2001 and thereafter shall be
$300,000,000, unless that amount should be amended pursuant to applicable law.
Section 16. Amendments

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part I
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes
and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code shall automatically become a part of this ordinance; provided,
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance.

Section 17. Enjoining Collection Forbidden

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue
in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or the Authority,
or against any officer of the state or the Authority, to prevent or enjoin the col-
lection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 18. Severability

If any provision of this ordinance of the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.
Section 19. Effective Date

This ordinance relates, in substantial part, to the continuation of the authority to
levy and collect the transactions and use taxes to support the 20-Year
Expenditure Plan and shall take effect at the close of the polls on the day of
election at which the proposition is adopted by two-thirds vote of the electors
voting on the measure.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Members of the Alameda County Trans-
portation Improvement Authority on July 25, 2000 by the following vote;
AYES: Members Carson, Chang, Cooper, Dean, Haggerty, King, Morrison,
Steele, Young and Chairman Green - 10
NOES; none

EXCUSED: Member Chan - 1.

ATTEST: Joan Van Brasch, Acting Clerk
of the Authority
<fullend> 