OF THE

RESOLUTION

BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF

no.0039

THE COUNTY OF

1

NEVADA

CONSOLIDATING THE PENN VALLEY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX
ELECTION, AND THE BEYERS LANE COMMUNITY SERVICE DISTRICT SPECIAL
TAX ELECTION WITH THE NOVEMBER 7, 2000 GENERAL ELECTION

WHEREAS, the Penn Valley Fire Protection District Board of Directors in
Resolution 00-7 called a special election on November 7, 2000 proposing to repeal two
special taxes and enact a new special tax for the purpose of providing fire suppression,
prevention, rescue and emergency medical services, in which it requested that the
Nevada County Board of Supervisors consolidate the special election with the
November 7, 2000 general election, authorized the County Clerk to render all services
necessary for the conduct of the election, and stated that it would reimburse the County
for the cost of the election; and

WHEREAS, Beyers Lane Community Service District Board of Directors in
Resolution 00-10 called a special election on November 7, 2000 seeking voter approval
of the renewal of the annual special tax in the amount of $100 per parcel in order to
provide continued funding for road maintenance and improvements, in which it
requested that the Nevada County Board of Supervisors consolidate the special election
with the November 7, 2000 general election, authorized the County Clerk to render all
services necessary for the conduct of the election, and stated that it would reimburse
the County for the cost of the election.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Nevada, State of California, that the special elections called for November 7,
2000 by the Penn Valley Fire Protection District Board of Directors and the Beyers Lane
Community Service District Board of Directors shall be consolidated with the November
7, 2000 general election, that the County Clerk shall conduct the elections in all
respects, and that the County Clerk shall bill the Penn Valley Fire Protection District and
Beyers Lane Community Service District which shall reimburse the County for the cost
of conducting the elections.

- 2 -

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Nevada at a regular

meeting of said Board, held on the 22nd day of________________________August______________,	XD92000,

by the following vote of said Board:

ATTEST;

CATHY R. THOMPSON
Clerk of-tfie Board .of/Sup*



Ayes: Supervisors Peter Van Zant, Karen Knecht,

Bruce Conklin, Elizabeth Martin.

Noes:	None,

Absent:	Sam Dardick.

DATE	==r=^-—1	' 1 	, - jjr:. ''.t-.t,-..--	M  COPIES SE&Tt TO
8-23-00	County Clerk
	
	
	
	
	
	

- 3 -

PENN VALLEY
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

P.O. Box 180
Penn Valley, Ca 95946
(530) 432-2630

RESOLUTION 00-7

RESOLUTION TO REPEAL THE TWO SPECIAL TAXES, AND TO ENACT A
NEW SPECIAL TAX EQUITABLY AGAINST ALL REAL PROPERTY FOR THE
PURPOSE OF PROVIDING FIRE SUPPRESSION, PREVENTION, RESCUE,
AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES; TO APPROVE AN INCREASE IN
THE DISTRICT’S SPENDING LIMIT; AND TO CALL A SPECIAL ELECTION
THEREON.

WHEREAS, the voters of The Penn Valley Fire Protection District
previously approved a special tax measure in 1981 to support fire protection
services (including fire prevention and suppression), and a separate special tax
measure in 1991 to support rescue ^services (including emergency medical care
and ambulance service) within the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board of the District has determined that the personnel,
equipment and facilities of the District are used jointly for fire protection and
rescue services; and

WHEREAS, the Board of the District has determined that the collection of
two separate special property taxes creates confusion among some property
owners and these taxes are not applied equitably against all real property in the
District, the Board has determined that these two special taxes should be
combined into a single special tax applied equitably against all real property and
structures thereon for the support of the District’s fire suppression, prevention,
rescue and other emergency services; and

WHEREAS, the Board of the District wants to maintain and improve the
high quality of the rapid response emergency rescue and fire protection services
in the District; and	a. ■

WHEREAS, the need for these services in the District are increasing due
to population growth and aging of the population, resulting in more calls and
more concurrent calls; and

WHEREAS, the United States and the State of California have passed
new regulations for fire fighting that require more fire fighters to be on the scene
for some fires before they can enter a structure (the "2 In 12 Out" regulations);
and

WHEREAS, the District's rescue and fire fighting career staff are too few
to respond to these calls within the critical time periods for rescue and fire
fighting in some instances, and to conform to the new regulations for an
increased number of fire fighters to be on the scene for some types of fires,
thereby causing the District to rely on paid-call firefighters who are slower to
respond; and

WHEREAS, the Board of the District has determined that to use fully the
Emergency Rescue and Fire Protection Special Tax, if approved by the voters,
the District's "spending limit" established under Article XIII B of the California
Constitution (i.e., Proposition 4) must be increased. Otherwise, the District will
be critically limited in the level of services it could provide in future years; and

WHEREAS, Article XIII B offhe California Constitution provides that the
spending limit imposed may be changed by the electors, and

WHEREAS, the Board of the District has determined to submit a new
special tax measure to the voters in the form of this Resolution that will allow the
District to repeal the two existing special taxes, levy a new single tax at a higher
rate to allow the District to provide necessary additional staff, and to assess the
tax equitably against all real property and structures thereon, based upon the use
of the property.

NOW THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE PENN
VALLEY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT OF THE COUNTY OF NEVADA,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY RESOLVE that, subject to the
approval of the voters of the Penn Valley Fire Protection District, a new special
property tax shall be established to replace the two existing special taxes, as
previously approved by the voters in March of 1981 and May of 1991, as follows:

Section 1 Enactment of a Special Property Tax

There is hereby enacted within the Penn Valley Fire Protection District, a
special tax to be assessed against ail taxable real property and structures within
the District. The special property tax shall be assessed equitably against all real
property and structures thereon, based upon the use of the property and in the
amounts as follows:

-5 -

Classification of Real Property	Current  Maximum Annual Amount of Tax	New Maximum Annual Amount of Tax	Increased Annual Amount of Tax
Single-Family  Residential  Homes	$58.22 per parcel	$96 per parcel	$37.78 per parcel
Multi-Family  Residential	$58.22 per living unit	$96 per living unit	$37.78 per living unit
Mobile Home Parks	$58.22 per space	$96 per space	$37.78 per space
Campground/  Recreation  Facilities	$0 per parcel	$96 per parcel	$96 per parcel
Commercial/  Industrial	$3,487 per 100 square feet	$5.75 per 100 square feet	$2,263 per 100 square feet
Unimproved  Parcels	$0	$20 per parcel	$20 per parcel
Commercial  Agricultural  Parcels	$0, except if a residence is on the parcel, the tax is $58.22.	$96 per parcel or $5.75 per 100 square feet for sales or office related facilities, whichever is larger.	Minimum of $96 per parcel, or $37.78 if the parcel is currently taxed because a residence is on it.
All other parcels with structures	$3,487 per 100 square feet	$5.75 per 100 square feet	$2,263 per 100 square feet

Property tax assessed on a square foot basis for improvements shall be
calculated based on a proportionate cost per square foot.

Section 2 Definitions

For the purpose of this ordinance the following words or terms shall have
the following meanings:

a.	"Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Penn Valley Fire Protection
District.

b.	"Commercial Agricultural parcels" shall mean buildings used for the raising of
livestock, fowl, fish, or the growing or storage of crops for sale as a business
and shall not include parcels with outbuildings which are appurtenant to
primarily residential use of the property. Commercial Agricultural parcels
which contain sales or office facilities shall pay a special property tax equal to
the residential parcel tax or a tax calculated on a per square foot basis for the

- 6 -

sales or office facilities in accordance with the tax rate for
“commercial/industrial” uses, whichever is the larger amount.

c.	"Commercial/industrial" shall mean all property and the buildings and/or
structures thereon, which is used for and/or in conjunction with any activity for
which compensation is paid to or derived from or otherwise generates any
revenue due to activity conducted on the property. This category shall also
include motels and hotels.

d.	"District" shall mean the Penn Valley Fire Protection District.

e.	"Living unit" shall mean each residential unit on property containing more than
one residential unit or residence, including duplexes, apartments,
condominiums, townhouses and any other types of muti-family residential.
For the purpose of assessing the special tax, each space in a mobile home or
trailer park shall be assessed as a living unit whether fully occupied or not.

f.	"Single-Family Residential" and/or "Single-Family Residential Homes" shall
mean property which contains a single residence. A property which contains
more than one residence shall be taxed as a multi-residence living unit.

g.	"Structure" shall mean any building or other improvement on the real
property, the construction of which would require a building permit in
accordance with applicable law.

h.	'Taxable real property" shall mean all real property within the boundaries of
the District, except for property of any church or governmental entity.

Section 3 Authorization for Spending Limit Increase

To the extent that the revenue from the special property tax enacted by
this resolution exceeds the spending limit for the District as calculated in
accordance with the provision of Article XIII B of the California Constitution and
applicable statutory provisions, the approval of this Resolution by the voters shall
constitute approval to increase the District's spending limit in an amount equal to
the revenue derived from the special property tax that is established by this
Resolution.

Section 4 Submission of the Special Property Tax to Voters

The special tax and corresponding increase in the District's spending limit
established by this Resolution shall be submitted to the registered voters within
the District at an election for their approval or rejection. The special tax shall not
become effective unless approved by two-thirds of the registered voters of the

District voting thereon. The question submitted to the voters shall read
substantially as follows:

Shall the existing special property taxes as adopted in 1981 for fire
suppression and prevention and in 1991 for rescue and emergency
medical services be repealed and replaced by a single special
property tax assessed equitably against all real property and
structures for fire suppression, prevention, rescue, ambulance and
other emergency services within the Penn Valley Fire Protection
District, as established by the District's Resolution No. 00-7, and a
corresponding increase in the District's spending limit, be approved
in the following amounts?

The special property tax shall be based upon the property classifications and
amounts as follows:

Classification of Real Property	Current  Maximum Annual Amount of Tax	New Maximum Annual Amount of Tax	Increased Annual Amount of Tax
Single-Family  Residential  Homes	$58.22 per parcel	$96 per parcel	$37.78 per parcel
Multi-Family  Residential	$58.22 per living unit	$96 per living unit	$37.78 per living unit
Mobile Home Parks	$58.22 per space	$96 per space	$37.78 per space
Campground/  Recreation  Facilities	$0 per parcel	$96 per parcel	$96 per parcel
Commercial/  Industrial	$3,487 per 100 square feet	$5.75 per 100 square feet	$2,263 per 100 square feet
Unimproved  Parcels	$0	$20 per parcel	$20 per parcel
Commercial  Agricultural  Parcels	$0, except if a residence is on the parcel, the tax is $58.22.	$96 per parcel or $5.75 per 100 square feet for sales or office related facilities, whichever is larger.	Minimum of $96 per parcel, or $37.78 if the parcel is currently taxed because a residence is on it.
All other parcels with structures	$3,487 per 100 square feet	$5.75 per 100 square feet	$2,263 per 100 square feet

Section 5 Effective Date of the Special Property Tax

The special property tax shall be deemed established and shall be in
effect as of the day following the election, upon certification of the election results
evidencing approval by at least two-thirds of the registered voters voting thereon,
by the Nevada County Board of Supervisors and/or the Board of Directors of the
Penn Valley Fire Protection District. The increase in the District's spending limit
shall be deemed effective beginning in the 2001-2002 fiscal year, on July 1,
2001.

The special property tax shall be levied against all taxable real property
within the District beginning with the 2001-2002 fiscal year.

Section 6 Use of the Special Property Tax Proceeds

The special property tax shall be used solely for the purpose of providing
fire suppression, protection, prevention, rescue, ambulance and other emergency
services within the District which the District is authorized by law to provide, for
any responses outside of the District under mutual aid agreements with other fire
suppression or emergency service agencies and for any incidental expense
relating thereto including expenses related to the collection of the tax.

Section 7 Levy and Collection of the Special Property Tax

The special property tax shall be deemed to be automatically levied as of
the date of July 1st of each year, beginning with July 1, 2001. Unless otherwise
ordered pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the special
property tax shall annually be collected on the County of Nevada property tax bill
in the same manner and subject to the same penalty as the county property
taxes are collected. The District Board shall annually take such steps as are
necessary to have the special property tax collected through the property tax bill
and shall coordinate with the County Auditor and Tax Collector in this regard.
The County shall be entitled to deduct its reasonable costs incurred in collecting
the special tax before the balance of the tax is remitted to the District.

Section 8 Appeals

Any property owner who is assessed a special tax as provided for herein
may appeal any determination by the District concerning the nature of the use of
the property or the calculation of the amount of the tax by filing a notice of appeal
with the District offices. Any such appeal shall be filed by December 1st of the
year for which the tax is being appealed. (For example, an appeal for taxes
imposed for the 2001-2002 fiscal year shall be filed by December 1, 2001.) The
appeal shall be filed on the form provided by the District and shall contain a
statement by the property owner as to the nature and basis for the appeal.

- 9 -

Upon receipt of a timely filed appeal, the District Board shall schedule an
appeal hearing. The property owner shall be notified at least 20 days prior to the
date of the appeal hearing. At the appeal hearing the property owner shall be
have the burden of producing evidence sufficient to establish that (1) the nature
of the use (classification) of the property is in error or (2) the amount calculated
for the tax based on the use of the property is in error. In any appeal, the
property owner shall also have the affirmative obligation of providing evidence to
establish the correct nature of the use of the property and all other factors
relevant to the proper calculation of the special property tax.

It is the intent of this Section to provide an effective and timely
administrative remedy to any property owner who contests the levy of the special
property tax by the District. Thereafter, any legal action or proceeding to
challenge the levy of a special property tax as provided herein shall be filed
within 90 days of the Board's decision on the property owner’s appeal. The
Board’s decision on appeal shall be accompanied by written findings of fact, if
requested by the appealing property owner. Any such request for findings of fact
shall be made at the commencement of the appeal hearing and notice of this
requirement shall be provided in the notice of the hearing mailed to the property
owner 20 days prior to the hearing date.

Section 9 Call of Election

The Board of Directors hereby calls an election at which the question of
the approval of the proposed special property tax and the increase in the
spending limit shall be submitted to the registered voters within the Penn Valley
Fire Protection District. The election shall be held at the presidential election on
the date of November 7, 2000. Pursuant to the provision of California Elections
Code Section 10002, the Board of Directors hereby requests the Nevada County
Board of Supervisors to authorize and direct the Nevada County Clerk to serve
as the election official conducting this election, in all respects, and to consolidate
this election with the regular election to be held on that date. The costs of the
election shall be borne by the Penn Valley Fire Protection District.

Section 10 Repeal of the Existing Special Property Taxes

The special property tax for fire protection and prevention services as
adopted in District Ordinance No. 81-1, approved by the voters on March 3,
1981, and the special property tax for rescue and emergency services as
adopted by Resolution No. 91-1, approved by the voters on May 21, 1991, are,
effective upon the passage, approval and implementation of this resolution by a
two-thirds vote of the voters voting hereon (consistent with the Provisions of
Article XIII C of the California Constitution) hereby rescinded, effective as of July
1, 2001; provided however, that any existing and/or delinquent payments of
these benefit assessments fees as levied in any year prior to the 2001-2002

- 10 -

fiscal year shall continue to be valid legal obligations subject to all collection and
enforcement provisions as may be provided by law.

Section 11 Transmission of this Resolution to Countv Clerk

The Secretary of the Board is hereby directed to submit a copy of this
resolution to the Nevada County Clerk immediately upon its adoption.

Section 12 Validation Pursuant to CCP Section 860 et. seq.

Pursuant to the provisions of Government Code Section 50077.5 any
judicial action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside, void or annul this
ordinance and/or the approval of the subject special property tax and/or increase
in the spending limitation pertaining to the special property tax shall be
commenced, if at all, within 60 days of the date of the adoption hereof.

Adopted on this 6th dav of June_______________________,	2000	by	the	following role

call vote of the Board of Directors of,the Penn Valley Fire Protection District.

Ayes: B.H. Nix, Edward G. DeLaney, Kurt Grundel, George Mueller, Wiliam "Hank"Westc
Noes:	None

Abstain:	None

Absent:	None

Attest:

- 11 - .