b

3 .A ?L3 i*.ALLOT

Note: It will be faster at the polls to mark your sample ballot
a jring this with you to your polling location.

CC 3LID GEN I	J

RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA
NOVEMBER 7, 2000

PROPOSITION 38
SCHOOL VOUCHERS. STATE-FUNDED PRIVATE AND
RELIGIOUS EDUCATION. PUBLIC SCHOOL FUNDING,

INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Authorizes
annual state payments of at least 14000 per pupil for
private/religious schools. Permits replacement of current

constitutional public school funding formula. Fiscal Impact:
Near-term state costs from zero to $1.1 billion annually. Long-
term state impact from $2 billion in annual costs to S3 billion in
•• nnuai savings, depending on how many public school students

hift to private schools.

YES	
NO	o

CITY

CITY OF INDIAN WELLS

MEASUREH

Shall Ordinance Bill No. 2000-18 be adopted to levy an
Admissions Tax on patrons attending entertainment evepts?

|	PROPOSITION	39

' SCHOOL FACILITIES. 55% LOCAL VOTE. BONDS, TAXES.
ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS. INITIATIVE
_ CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Authorizes
bonds for repair, construction or replacement of school facilities,
classrooms, if approved by 55% local vote. Fiscal Impact:
Increased bond debt for many school districts. Long-term costs
statewide could total in the hundreds of millions of dollars
annually. Potential longer-term state savings to the extent
school districts assume greater responsibility for funding school
facilities.

6
o

YES

NO

ATsLTsI

liililllillllililli

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF Mr""" LIRE “H”

Measure “H” would impose a three percent (3%) admissions tax. The tax
paid by a patron is a percentage of the admission charged. For example,
a S20 ticket would pay a tax of 60 cents (3% x $20 = 60®,) After 2003, the
measure authorizes the City Council to lower the tax rate or to increase it
to a maximum of five percent (5%). Prior to increasing the tax rate, the
City Council is required to give event operators an opportunity to be
heard on any proposed increase.

The tax would be paid by any person who pays an admission charge to
participate as a spectator to any entertainment, amusement or recre-
ational activity in the City of Indian Wells. Typical events that will be taxed
include sporting contests, athletic events, exhibitions, concerts, lectur-
ers, theatrical and musical performances, fairs, and festivals if an admis-
sion is charged. The ordinance exempts events held by non-profit
organizations. Thus, the tax would not apply to events held by a nonprofit
country dub, social club or tennis club. Nor would it apply to events held
by schools or governmental entities. The tax would not be applied to
complimentary tickets or event sponsors.

The City Council is authorized to adopt regulations to implement the
ordinance or to amend portions of the ordinance. The Council can not
increase the maximum five percent (5%) tax rate nor can it amend the
exemptions.

The tax revenues received from the tax can be used for any municipal
purpose. The measure will take effect only if it is approved by a majority

of the Indian Wells electors voting on the measure.

Prepared by:

John 1. Cook, City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “H.” If you
desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the City Clerk
at (760) 346-2489, and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMEf 1 FAVOR OF MEASURE “H”

The admissions tax is an important, needed revenue source for the City
of Indian Weils enabling the City to continue providing quality public
services to its residents. The proposed admissions tax is similar to the
City’s transient occupancy tax (i OT) on hotel guests as the tax charged

is a percent of the sales price and is paid principally by people visiting the
City.

Prudent business practices dictate diversification of investments to limit

loss of income and to protect portfolios from market fluctuations. Diversi-
fication of the City’s income sources is equally important. Currently, the
City’s principal revenue source is TOT which pays for 66% of General
Fund expenditures. Dependency on this single revenue source essen-
tially places the City's “financial eggs” in one basket. With Indian gaming
expansion into the hotel business, the City’s future growth in TOT
revenue is uncertain. The proposed admission tax provides a way to
diversify City revenues and pay for local public services without having to
directly tax residents.

Admission taxes throughout the State of California and elsewhere are
frequently used to generate income from stadiums and venues where
admission fees are charged to event spectators. The mosfeornmon
method of taxation is a percentage of the admission charge. The
proposed tax rate is 3% for the first three years. After 2003, the City
Council has the option to increase or lower the tax. After 2003, the rate
shall not exceed 5%, For example, the tax on a $20 ticket would be:

At 3%, $20 ticket = $0.60 tax
At 5%, $20 ticket = $1.00 tax

The proposed admission tax is fair and reasonable based on what other

cities have instituted for similar purposes. It provides diversified and
stable future City income, funding for local public services and improve-
ments, and is not a tax burden to local residents. VOTE YES on the
admission tax.

By:	Percy L. Byrd, Mayor

Ed Monarch, Mayor Pro-Tern
Conrad Negron, Council Member
Robert A. Bernheimer, Council Member

NO ARGUMENT FILED AGAINST MEASURE “H”

33-50

3350