easure N 9/12/00 2:57 PM Page 1

-e-

CITY OF ALBANY MEASURE	
IL 1 MEASURE N: Shall a special tax of $18.00 per residential	YES
unit be authorized in the City of Albany to fund Paramedic	
■ Advanced Life Support [ALS] fire engines and future ambu-	NO
lance purchases as part of the City of Albany’s Emergency Medical	
Services Program?	

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

In 1997 Albany voters approved a ballot measure to continue funding for
Emergency Medical Services (EMS). This funding allowed the Fire Department
to continue to provide a Basic Life Support (BLS) level of service on fire
engines and Advance Life Support level of service on ambulances for emer-
gency medical calls in Albany.

Measure N, if approved by the voters, would provide additional funding to
enable Albany to enhance its level of service on fire engines from Basic Life
Support to paramedic Advanced Life Support.

If this Measure were approved by a 2/3 vote, a special tax of $18.00 per
equivalent residential unit (single family household) would be assessed. The
revenue would be placed in the Emergency Medical Services fund and would
be used to provide paramedic Advanced Life Support service on fire engines to
compliment the existing paramedic Advanced Life Support ambulance services
and would also provide additional funding to purchase future ambulances.

s/ROBERT ZWEBEN
Albany City Attorney

ABM1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

FUNDING FOR PARAMEDIC ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT
FIRE ENGINES, AND AMBULANCE PURCHASES
Measure N seeks approval from Albany residents to increase the current
Emergency Medical Services tax by $18.00 per single family household per
year. This increase will fund a paramedic Advanced Life Support level of ser-
vice on fire engines and fund ambulance purchases for the City of Albany.

A “YES” vote on Measure N will add Advanced Life Support paramedics to the
engine company that responds to an emergency while the ambulance is respond-
ing to another medical call. This fire engine will have personnel trained in
Advanced Life Support instead of the present Basic Life Support level. The cur-
rent Basic Life Support level of service on fire engines limits medical technicians
to administering first aid. Advanced Life Support paramedics can perform many
technical medical procedures such as advanced airway techniques, advanced car-
diac care, and on-the-scene drug therapy. Any of these procedures can mean,the.
difference between life and death. Prompt professional application of emergency
medical procedures by Advanced Life Support paramedics and a quick response
time is critical to saving lives and has been shown to greatly improve a patient’s
survival rate.

Measure N will improve the quality of emergency medical care to Albany resi-
dents which is of paramount importance in a citywide disaster response. In the
event of a disaster, paramedic Advanced Life Support fire engines will have the
capability of rendering advanced emergency medical aid which will greatly
improve a patient’s chance of surviving a life-threatening emergency.
Historically, Albany voters have supported a strong Emergency Medical Ser-
vice Program. Passage of Measure N will assure a quick paramedic response to
all medical emergencies. Measure N is unanimously supported by the Albany
City Council. PLEASE JOIN US IN VOTING YES ON MEASURE N
NOVEMBER 7.
s/JON ELY
Mayor, City of Albany
s/ALLAN MARIS
Vice Mayor, City of Albany
s/DOUG DONALDSON
Co-Chair, (EQPP) Earthquake Preparedness Program
s/RUTH J. GANONG
Former Mayor, Director Albany YMCA
s/JEROME BLANK
Former Mayor, Director, Albany Chamber of Commerce

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N WAS SUBMITTED.

ABM2

Measure N 9/12/00 2:57 PM Page 3

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE N

Section 1 Title: Declaration of Findings and Purpose.

This section may be cited as the “Paramedic Advanced Life Support Fire
Engines and Ambulance Special Tax”. The special tax imposed under this sec-
tion is solely for the purpose of raising revenue for the continued and expand-
ed operation of paramedic and ambulance transport services. This section is not
enacted for regulatory purposes.

The people of the City find and declare that:

(a)	The continuing provision of the City’s Emergency Medical Services
Program is a matter of the highest and most urgent necessity; and

(b)	It is a medical necessity for the City to enhance our Emergency
Medical Service (EMS) response from Basic Life Support to Paramedic
Advanced Life Support fire engines; and

(c)	Paramedic Advanced Life Support fire engines will provide
advanced medical procedures and will offer many emergency and life saving
advantages; and

(d)	Paramedic Advanced Life Support fire engines will give the City of
Albany 100% Advanced Life Support coverage and maintain a three minute and
30 second on-the-scene response time average; and

(e)	Paramedic Advanced Life Support fire engine capability is of para-
mount importance to citywide disaster preparedness.

Section 2 Special Tax

(a)	The intent of the tax imposed under this section is solely for the pur-
pose of providing additional funding for the City’s Emergency Medical Ser-
vices Program in order to protect individual health and safety and to improve
the quality of life in the City of Albany.

(b)	Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution (Proposition
13) allows two-thirds of the qualified electors of the City to impose a special tax
within the City, provided the special tax is not an ad valorem tax on real prop-
erty or a transaction tax or a sales tax on the sale of real property within the City.
The tax imposed by this Ordinance is a special tax which is authorized forelec-
tor approval by Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution.

(c)	The City Council is hereby authorized to increase the Emergency
Medical Services special tax in the amount of $18.00 per Residential Unit as
follows:

Categories
Residential (per unit)
Commercial (per parcel)
Industrial (per parcel)
Institutional (per parcel)
Rural (per parcel)

Residential Units Assigned
1
2
4
1
1

(d)	The tax imposed by this section shall be operative on July 1, 200l.

(e)	The proceeds of the Paramedic Life Advanced Support Fire Engines

ABM3

Measure N 9/12/00 2:58 PM Page 4

and Ambulance Special Tax shall be deposited in the Emergency Medical Ser-
vices Fund and shall be used for the sole and exclusive purpose of providing
paramedic advanced life support fire engines and ambulance transport services.
Section 3 Annual Audit

A certified public accounting firm retained by the City will perform an
annual audit to assure accountability of the proper disbursement of these tax
proceeds in accordance with the objectives stated herein.

Section 4 Examination of Books and Records

The Director of Finance and Administrative Services or his/her designee,
is hereby authorized to examine assessment rolls, property tax records, records
of the Alameda County Recorder and any other records of the County of
Alameda deemed necessary in order to determine ownership of parcels and
computation of the tax imposed by this section.

Section 5 Collection of Tax: Interest and Penalties

The City Council is authorized to have the taxes imposed by this section
collected by the County of Alameda in conjunction with the County’s collection
of property tax revenues for the City of Albany. In the event that the County of
Alameda collects the taxes imposed by this section, the imposition of penalties,
additional fees and interest upon persons who fail to remit any tax imposed by
this section, or who fail to remit any delinquent remittance under this section,
shall be subject to and governed by the rules, regulations and procedures uti-
lized by the County of Alameda in its collection of property taxes for the City
of Albany and its collection of this additional tax for the City of Albany.
Section 6 Collection of Unpaid Taxes

The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under the provisions
of this section shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any person owing money
under the provisions of this section shall be liable to an action brought in the
name of the City for the recovery for such amount.

Section 7 Refund of Tax. Penalty, or Interest Paid More Than Once; or
Erroneously or Illegally Collected
When the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest has been paid more than
once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City
under this section it may be refunded provided a verified claim in writing there-
fore, stating the specific ground upon which claim is founded, is filed with the
Director of Finance and Administrative Services within one (1) year from the
date of payment. If the claim is approved by the Director of Finance and
Administrative Services, the excess amount collected or paid may be refunded
or may be credited against any amounts then due and payable from the person
from whom it was collected or by whom paid, and the balance may be refund-
ed to such person, his/her administrators or executors.

Section 8 Savings Clause

The provisions of this section shall not apply to any person, or to any
property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the City of Albany to
impose the tax herein provided. If any provision, sentence, clause, section or
part of this section is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such

ABM4

-e

Measure N 9/12/00 2:58 PM Page 5

unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall affect only such provision, sen-
tence, clause, section or part of this section and shall not affect or impair any of
the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or parts of this section. It
is hereby declared to be the intention of the City of Albany that this section
would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid provision,
sentence, clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.

Section 9 Regulations

The City Council is hereby authorized to promulgate such regulations as
it shall deem necessary in order to implement the provision of this section,
including codifying this Ballot Measure as part of Chapter IV, Section 4.8 et
seq. of the Albany Municipal Code or as otherwise directed by the Albany City
Clerk.

Section 10 Increase Appropriations Limit

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriation limit
for the City of Albany is hereby increased by the aggregate sum authorized to
be levied by this special tax for fiscal years 2001/02 and each year thereafter.

ABM5