Measures P-Z 9/12/00 4:00 PM

Page



CITY OF BERKELEY ORDINANCE	
1 1 MEASURE U: Shall the Business License Tax Ordinance be I 1 amended to correct an error made in 1991 by providing that the Business License Tax rate applicable for providers of health, veterinary, legal, educational, engineering-architectural-sur- veying, accounting-auditing-bookkeeping, and miscellaneous services classified be increased to the pre-1990 rate of $3.60 for every $1 receipts?	YES
	NO
	not otherwise ,000 in gross

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

In 1978, the City of Berkeley enacted Chapter 9.04 of the Municipal Code,
establishing a comprehensive Business License Tax system. Under the
Business License Tax Ordinance (“Ordinance”), different categories of busi-
nesses are taxed at different rates based upon their gross receipts. Thus, under
the Ordinance, businesses in the categories of "business, personal, and repair'
services” are taxed at one rate. In contrast, businesses in the categories of “pro-
fessional - semi-professional” pay a higher rate, currently twice the rate of the
business, personal and repair services category. In the original Ordinance, the
category of professional - semi-professional businesses included persons pro-
viding health, veterinary, legal, educational, engineering-architectural-survey-
ing, accounting-auditing-bookkeeping, and any other unclassified service
providers.

However, in 1990, the City Council amended the Ordinance in order to take
advantage of a legal ruling permitting municipalities to impose a business license
tax on certain types of savings and loan institutions. In the course of amending
the Ordinance, an additional amendment was made which resulted in reclassify-
ing persons providing health, veterinary, legal, educational, engineering-archi-
tectural-surveying, accounting-auditing-bookkeeping, and any other unclassified
service providers, as business, personal and repair services. As a result, busi-
nesses within these categories enjoyed a 50% reduction in their Business License
Tax rates. In a report regarding the Business License Tax Audit Program, the City
Auditor concluded that the 1990 rate reduction was made in error.

If approved by a majority of the voters, this Ordinance would restore the pre-
1990 classification of professional - semi-professional businesses which
includes persons providing health, veterinary, legal, educational, engineering-
architectural-surveying, accounting-auditing-bookkeeping, and any other un-
classified service providers. Under the current rate structure, this measure would
result in such businesses being taxed the rate of $3.60 for every $1,000 in gross

receipts. The business license tax rate for other categories of businesses would
not change.

s/MANUELA ALBUQUERQUE
City Attorney

Measures P-Z 9/12/00 4:00 PM Page L

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

Measure U is a clean-up measure recommended by our City Auditor. It corrects
the Business License tax for professional and semi-professional businesses. The
City Auditor discovered a discrepancy in the Business License Tax Rates.
Several years ago the Council took action which had unintended consequences.
An error on the ordinance amendment misclassified professional and semi-pro-
fessional businesses inadvertently reducing their tax rate in half.

Since the passage of Prop 218 all tax increases including this correction require
voter approval.

This measure would return these businesses to the correct tax rate and would
once again be similar to the City of Oakland’s change, which Berkeley’s
Business License Tax Structure was based on.

PLEASE VOTE YES ON MEASURE U to restore fairness in our business
license taxes.

The entire City Council voted to submit this corrective measure to the voters.
s/Councilmember DONA SPRING
s/Councilmember LINDA MAIO

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U WAS SUBMITTED.

BEM-19

Measures P-Z 9/12/00 4:00 PM Page 2,

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE U

ORDINANCE NO.	-	N.S.

INCREASING RATE OF BUSINESS LICENSE TAX FOR PERSONS
PROVIDING HEALTH, VETERINARY, LEGAL, EDUCATIONAL, ENGI-
NEERING-ARCHITECTURAL-SURVEYING, ACCOUNTING-AUDITING-
BOOKKEEPING, AND MISCELLANEOUS SERVICES NOT OTHERWISE
CLASSIFIED

BE IT ORDAINED by the People of the City of Berkeley as follows:

Section 1. That Berkeley Municipal Code Section 9.04.160.A (Ordinance No.
5017-N.S.) is hereby amended to read as follows:

Section 9.04.160 Business, personal and repair services.

A.	Every person primarily engaged in the business of providing business,
personal or repair services, or social services, or transportation services, or health
veterinaryr-Iegal,-educational, cngincering/architcetural, survcying;-aocoufttfflg/
nuditing/booldcoeping, and miscellaneous services-not classified elsewhere, as
defined in the current U.S. Government printing office publication entitled
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, not specifically taxed by other provi-
sions of this chapter, shall be classified within the business, personal and repair
services category and pay a license fee for each thousand dollars of gross receipts
for services performed within the City as provided in Section 9.04.240.

Section 2. That Berkeley Municipal Code Section 9.04.165 (Ordinance No.
5017-N.S.) is hereby amended by adding subsection B. and renumbering subse-
quent subsections to read as follows:

B.	Health. Veterinary. Legal, Educational. Engineering-Architectural-
Surveying. Accounting-Auditing-Bookkeeping, and Miscellaneous Services Not
Classified Elsewhere.

Every person in any business, profession, or occupation within the business
fields of health, veterinary, legal, education, engineering-architectural-surveying,
accounting-auditing-bookkeeping, and miscellaneous services not classified
elsewhere, as described in the current U.S. Government Priming Office publica-
tion entitled Standard Industrial Classification Manual shall be classified as pro-
fessional - semi-professional.

£C. Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed or construed as
applying to any person engaged in any of the professions or occupations enu-
merated in this section solely as an employee or partner of any other person or
entity conducting, managing or carrying on any such business in the City.

CD. Any person subject to a license under provisions of this section may
exclude from gross receipts the portion of those receipts paid to subcontractors,
providing that a list of such subcontractors and the amounts of payment are
reported to the Director of Finance.

©E. Persons engaging in professional and semi-professional and connected
business and other business activities taxed on the basis of gross receipts under
different rates, as provided by this chapter, may elect to combine gross receipts
BEM-20

Measures P-Z 9/12/00 4:00 PM Page 2'

at one rate and obtain one license, if the provisions of Section 9.04.225 apply to
the combined activities.

Section 3. This ordinance shall become effective on July 1, 2001.

BEM-21