CITY OF DAVIS
PARK PRESERVATION TAX MEASURE $

ORDINANCE NO. 2043

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DAVIS AMENDING ARTICLE XIV OF
CHAPTER 15 OF THE DAVIS CITY CODE ESTABLISHING A -ARK
PRESERVATION TAX TO FUND MAINTENANCE OF PARKS. STREET TREES.
GREENBELTS. BIKE PATHS. MEDIANS. PUBLIC LANDSCAPING. URBAN
WILDLIFE AND HABITAT. SWIMMING POOLS AND RECREATiCIf-.L
FACILITIES SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE VOTERS

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DAVIS. as
Section 1. Article XiV of Chapter 15 of the Davis City Code is hereby : n-;:.-o
to read as follows:

ARTICLE XIV. PARK PRESERVATION TAX
Section -14.010. Findinos.

The P3rk Preservation Tax currently provides funding for the maintenance at
community parks, street trees, greenbelts. bike paths, medians, public landscaping
swimming pools and related recreational facilities, ihe Park Preservation izz vJii
expire in June of 2002 unless it is reenacted by an affirmative vote of twc-iNiJs
ot Davis voters. The City Council proposes to extend the current Park Preservation
Tax, as well as increase the tax to maintain current levels of maintenance to existing
and new facilities throughout the City of Davis.

Our parks, greenbelts. and street trees reflect ihe essential character cf Dane
and are instrumental in making Davis the type of community that its citizens
appreciate and support. The City Council strongly believes that it is in the public
interest to continue funding maintenance cf the parks, street trees, greenbelts, bike
paths, medians, public landscaping, urban wildlife and habitat, swimming pools
and recreational facilities. The Park Preservation Tax levied herein, if approved b»
a two-thirds vote of the voters, will extend and increase the amount of the current
Park Preservation Tax. In particular, the construction of new community parks and
greenbelts creates the need for additional maintenance services that cannot be
funded from existing revenue sources without reducing existing service levels. This
Park Preservation Tax, if approved, will also provide revenue which may be used
to maintain and operate property owned by the Davis Joint Unified School District
or other public agencies so long as the property is available, or. a joint use basis,
for use by the residents of the City for park, open space and recreational uses

Section - 14.020. Legal Authority.

This Park Preservation Tax is levied under each of the following legal authorities:
Government Code section 37100.5 which authorizes general law cities to levy any
tax that may be jevied by charter cities, subject to voter approval' Government
Code section 50075 through section 50077 which authorizes cities to impose special
taxes. This tax is a special tax authorized under Article 13A. section 4 of ‘.he California
Constitution and Proposition 213. This tax is an excise tax and is based, to the
extent practicable, upon the value that occupants of property receive from the public
facilities supported by this tax. This tax is based, among other things, on the value
that occupants of different uses of property' receive from the availability of properly
maintained parks, street trees, greenbelts. bike paths, medians public landscaomo.
urban wildlife and habitat, swimming pools, and recreational facilities This '?>
not a property tax: it is not based on the status of ownership of property: r?or • u
based on the value of property.


Section 14.030. Definitions.

The following terms shall have the following definitions when used in this article:

“Assessor’s Parcel" or “Parcel” means a lot or parcel shown in an Assessor’s
Parcel Map with an assigned Assessor’s Parcel number.

“Assessor’s Parcel Map” means an official map of the County Assessor of the
County of Yolo designating parcels by Assessor’s Parcel Number.

“City” means the City of Davis as its jurisdictional boundaries exist on July 1 of
each year that this tax is in effect.

“Commercial Property” means all Parcels that are used for non-residential land
uses that do not classify the Parcel as Industrial Property or Day Care Property,
as defined below.

“Common Area” means a separate legal or Assessor’s Parcel owned by a common
interest development association or as tenants in common by the owners of separate
interests in a common interest development provided that the common area: (1)
in the case of residential property, cannot be used as an independent residential
dwelling unit; or (2) in the case of commercial or industrial property is not improved
building space.

“Day Care Property” means ail property that is used as a commercially-operated
day care center and is not used as a residence.

“Developed Property" means, in any Fiscal Year, all Parcels of Taxable Property
with a structure that has been cleared for occupancy before March 1 of the prior
Fiscal Year. For purposes of levying the Special Tax, each Parcel of Developed
Property shall be assigned to one of the Land Use Classes identified in Table 1
below.

“Fiscal Year” means the period starting July 1 and ending the following June 30.

“Group Living Property” means'all Parcels of Developed Property that have been
issued conditional use permits from the City’s Planning Division for a group living

use.

“improved Building Space’’ means the greater of (i) gross building area as shown
on building permits issued for any property, or (ii) gross building area as measured
or determined by an engineer retained by the City.

“Industrial Property” shall generally include but not be limited to, all Parcels of
Developed Property with a building or structure that is used for assembling,
disassembling, fabricating, finishing, manufacturing, packaging, repair or
processing operations, as classified by the City’s Planning Division.

“Land Use Class” means any one of the six classes listed in Table 1 below.

“Maximum Special Tax” means the maximum Special Tax, determined in
accordance with Section 14.040 and Section 14.060, which can be levied by the
City Council in any Fiscal Year.

“Multi-Family Residential Property” means all Parcels of Developed Property
with a residential structure or structures consisting of five or more residential units
on a single Parcel.

“Public Improvements” means those facilities, improvements and amenities that
will be constructed, installed, operated, serviced, maintained and repaired from
proceeds of the Special Tax and shall include, but not be limited to the following:
parks, street trees, greenbelts, bike paths, medians, public landscaping, urban
wildlife and habitat, swimming pools and recreational facilities.

“Public Property” means property owned by a public agency, public rights-of-
way, unoccupied public utility property and property encumbered with a public or
utility easement that makes impractical utilization of the property for other that the
Dublic or utility purpose set forth in the easement.

“Single Family Residential Property” means all Parcels of Developed Property
with a residential structure or structures consisting of less than five residential
mits on a single Parcel.	J.	„	.

(Ordinance Continued on Next Page)

"Special Tax” means that tax levied pursuant to application of the special tax
formula set forth below to pay for the construction, installation, operation, servicing,
maintenance, and repair of the Public Improvements.

“Taxable Property” means all Assessor’s Parcels within the City of Davis as the
boundaries of the City exist on July 1 of each year which are not exempt from the
Special Tax pursuant to law or Section 14.080 below.

“Vacant Land” means all Parcels of Taxable Property that have either no structures
or a structure or structures that have not been cleared for occupancy.

Section 14-040. Park Preservation Tax.

A. If approved by the voters, commencing July 1, 2001 for fiscal year 2001-
2002, the City shall continue collecting funding for parks, street trees, greenbelts,
bike paths, medians, public landscaping, urban wildlife and habitat, swimming pools
and recreational facilities in the form of a Park Preservation Tax in the manner and
at the rates set forth herein.

1. Developed Property. The Maximum Special Tax for all Parcels of
Developed Property shall be determined by reference to Table 1 below:

	Table 1  Maximum Special Tax Rates	
Land		Maximum
Use Class	Description	Special Tax
1	Single Family Residential	$98 per unit per year
2	Multi-Family Residential	$98 per unit per year
3	Group Living	$40 per resident per year
4	Commercial	$80 per 1,000 square feet per year of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet
5	Industrial	$25.60 per employee per year up to a maximum of 30 employees
6	Day Care	$28.60 per 1,000 square feet per year of improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet

2. Vacant Land. The Maximum Special Tax Rate for Vacant Land shall be
$98 per year per Assessor’s Parcel.

B. Method of Apportionment of Park Preservation Tax.

1.	For Fiscal year 2001-02, the City shall levy the Park Preservation Tax
at the maximum tax rates set forth above.

2.	The Special Tax shall be levied on each parcel of land in the amount
determined by reference to this Section 14-040 :

a.	On each Parcel of Taxable Property in Land Use Classes 1, 2 and 3.

b.	If there is more than one Land Use Class on a Parcel, the Special Tax
shall be determined by separately applying the appropriate Special Tax
for each Land Use Class on the Parcel and levying the sum total of the
combined Special Taxes.

Section 14.050. Collection.

The Park Preservation Tax shall be collected in the same manner and at the
same time as ordinary ad valorem property taxes and shall be subject to the same

(Ordinance Continued on Next Page)

57-503

57503

penalties for non-payment. If necessary to meet financial obligations or if it becomes
more cost-efficient, as determined by the City Council, the City may collect the
Park Preservation Tax in the same manner and at the same time as other City taxes,
fees and/or charges provided that the total annual tax imposed shall not exceed
the maximum amounts set forth in this Article.

Section 14.060. Annual Adjustment of Tax Rate
Starting July 1, 2002, and on each July 1 thereafter through the effective date
of this article, the Maximum Special Tax Rates specified in Section 14.040 shall
be increased by the percentage change in the consumer price index for the
preceding year or two percent (2%), whichever amount is less. At its sole discretion,
the City Council may elect in any year not to implement the increase provided by
this Section 14.060.

Section 14.070. Limitation on Disposition of Revenue.

Revenues collected under the provisions of this Article shall be deposited in a
special fund called the Park Preservation Tax fund and shall be used only for the
operation and maintenance of parks, street trees, greenbelts, bike paths, medians,
urban wildlife and habitat, swimming pools, and recreational facilities within the
City and for the incidental expenses incurred in the administration of this tax,
including, but not limited to the cost of elections, and the cost of collection.
Revenues may be used to, operate and maintain property owned by the Davis Joint
Unified School District or other public agencies so long as the property so
maintained is available for use by the residents of the City for the purposes set
forth herein.

Section 14.080. Exemptions.

A.	Public Property. No Park Preservation Tax shall be levied against public

property.

B.	Low-Income Exemption. To avoid undue hardship, the City Council shall
continue the existing Park Preservation Tax low-income refund program, subject
to changes as the City Council may, from time to time, determine to be appropriate.

C.	Common Areas. No Park Preservation Tax shall be levied against common
areas.

Section 14.090. Effective Date; Sunset Provision.

A.	This Article shall take effect immediately upon its approval by a two-thirds
vote of the voters voting in the election called to approve this ordinance.

B.	This Article shall remain in effect only until June 30, 2011 and as of that
date this Article is repealed unless an extension or re-authorization of this Article
is approved by the voters of the City at an election called for that purpose.

Section 14-100. Appeals.

The imposition of this Park Preservation Tax and/or the amount of said tax
imposed based on the use of property may be appealed to the City Council under
such procedures as the Council shall, by ordinance, adopt. The City Council may
modify the appeals process from time to time in order to facilitate the hearing and
resolution ot appeals.

Section 14.110. Severability.

If any sentence, clause, article, section, subsection, phrase or portion of this
Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portion of this Ordinance. The voters of the City hereby
declare that they would have adopted the remainder of this Ordinance, including
each sentence, clause, article, section, subsection, phrase or portion of this

(Ordinance Continued on Next Page)

Ordinance, irrespective of the invalidity of any other sentence, clause, article, section,
subsection, phrase or portion of this Ordinance.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DAVIS ON
March 14, 2001 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

AYES:	BOYD,	FREEMAN,	GREENWALD,	HARRINGTON,	WAGSTAFF.

NOES: NONE.

ABSENT; NONE.

s/ Ken Wagstaff, Mayor

ATTEST"

s/ Bette E. Racfci, City Clerk

(ANALYSIS Follows on Next Page)

S7-Sn<5



57505

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF DAVIS
SPECIAL TAX MEASURE S

Measure S, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure, will
extend and increase the Park Preservation Tax, a special tax adopted by the voters
in June 1998. Unless extended by the voters, the existing 1998 Park Preservation
Tax will sunset and expire in June 2002. If Measure S is adopted, it will replace
the 1998 Park Preservation Tax beginning July 1, 2001.

Measure S, the extended and increased Park Preservation Tax, as set forth in
Ordinance No. 2048, will provide funding for the maintenance and operation of
parks, street trees, greenbelts, bike paths, medians, public landscaping, urban
wildlife and habitat, swimming pools and recreational facilities. As a special tax,
the tax revenue must be placed in a special fund and can only be used for these
purposes and incidental expenses related to these purposes.

The Park Preservation Tax will continue to be imposed on parcels of property
within the City based on the use of the property. The maximum tax per parcel per
fiscal year (July 1 -June 30) under Measure S will be calculated as follows:

Single-family residential
Multi-family residential
Group Living

Commercial

Industrial

Commercial Day Care Facilities

Vacant Land

$98.00 per unit

$98.00 per unit

$40.00 per resident

$80.00 per 1,000 square feet of

Improved Building Space up to a
maximum of 10,000 square feet
$25.60 per employee up to a maximum
of 30 employees
$28.60 per 1,000 square feet of

Improved Building Space up to a
maximum of 10,000 square feet
$98.00 per Assessor’s Parcel

For fiscal years after 2001-02, the City Council may, but is not required to,
increase the maximum tax rate by the change in the consumer price index but not
to exceed 2 percent (2%) per year.

The tax rates in Measure S are approximately twice the tax rates of the expiring
1998 Park Preservation Tax. The increase is intended to provide funding for the
continued maintenance of existing park facilities and for the new parks, greenbelts
and park facilities that have been constructed since the adoption of the 1998 Park
Preservation Tax, or are planned to be constructed within the next tew years.

Measure S includes several exemptions to the tax including an exemption for
public property and the requirement to continue the existing low income exemption.

The Park Preservation Tax would continue to be collected with the ad valorem
property taxes for each parcel, unless that City later decided to collect the tax with
other City taxes and charges.

Measure S would sunset and be repealed on June 30, 2011 and could not be
collected after that time unless two-thirds of the voters voting in an election
approved an extension or reauthorization of the tax.

s/ Harriet Steiner
Davis City Attorney

(ARGUMENTS Follow on Next Page)

57-506

III flllllllllllllllllllll

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Measure S does two things: First, it re-enacts and continues Measure M, a $4-
per-month per-parcel tax passed in 1998 to maintain Davis parks and their programs.
Unless re-enacted, Measure M will expire on June 30, 2002. Second, Measure S
extends the same level of maintenance service to the parks that have been added
for new Davis neighborhoods since 1998. That will add $4 per month. Measure S
continues financial reforms initiated in 1998, including a leaner level of park services,
that will improve the city’s long-term financial condition.

Passage of Measure S allows the city to:

•	continue basic park maintenance citywide, including new facilities

•	continue community programs including senior activities and Rainbow Summer

•	maintain facilities such as Veterans Memorial Building and the Senior Center

If Measure S fails, the city must make significant program reductions affecting
all city park and recreation programs, and perhaps others as well.

The city lost about $2.5 million in revenue when the Davis Landscape and Lighting
Assessment District expired on June 30,1998. That District levied $85 to $150
per parcel. Measure M in 1998 restored only $49 of this tax. Passage of Measure
S will bring the total annual replacement tax for parks and related activities to $98
per dwelling unit. The tax will continue at this rate for ten years and increase by
2% annually ONLY if the consumer price index for the preceding year has increased
by that amount. Measure S will expire at the end of ten years unless renewed by
a two-thirds vote of the community.

The passage of Measure S is vital if the city is to continue to provide the quality
of life Davis residents enjoy. We urge you to vote Yes on Measure S on June 5.

s/ Ken Wagstaff, Mayor
City of Davis

s/Sheryl Freeman, Councilmember
City of Davis

s/ Susie Boyd, Mayor Pro Tern
City of Davis

s/Sue Greenwald, Councilmember
City of Davis

s/ Michael J. Harrington, Councilmember
City of Davis

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Measure S does not reenact Measure M, it cancels it a year early, replaces it
with double the existing tax and a COLA, and locks it in for 10 years.

This new tax is unnecessary! The city threatens us with elimination of services
and programs unless we pass this tax. Don’t fall for this scare tactic. Maintenance
of new parks is already covered by taxes all new residents pay. Services and
programs are provided now with the existing tax. There’s no need for an increase!

Proponents argue this tax is only $8.17 per month, but that’s nearly $100 a year
added to everything else we are asked to oav.

The proposed tax is especially unfair to students, renters, and those on fixed
incomes, who will pay the same as someone in a $450.000 house, and to small
businesses, which could pay the same as the city’s largest retailers.

Don’t be afraid to reject this new tax. The existing tax continues until June 2002,
and there’s enough in the city budget now to maintain our parks if the city managed
its money properly. The city’s General Fund had a projected balance last year of
$3.6 million!

Part of our quality of life is that all of us live without hardship. The city promised
to find ways to reduce or eliminate this tax; its time they kept that promise. Reject
this tax and we can work together to provide for essential services in ways we can
afford.

Vote NO on Measure S.

s/ Nancy Whitaker
Retired

s/ John S. Chiles
Direct Descendant,

Davis Founding Family (1850-2001)

s/ Matthew Huerta
ASUCD President, 2000-2001

s/ Linda M. Parsons
Retired Elementary School Teacher

s/ Pamela S. Nieberg
39-year Davis resident and concerned citizen

^7-t;ns

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

Measure S will double the existing parks tax, add an annual inflater, and lock in
this unnecessary tax for 10 years.

When the city first levied an assessment of $1.2 million for landscape
maintenance in 1991, it was billed as temporary. The city promised to seek ways
to eliminate the assessment through better fiscal management. Instead, in 1998,
the city put before the voters a $2.4 million per year parks tax, threatening us with
loss of essential services and popular programs if we did not pass that tax. That
measure failed, and none of the threats materialized. Later that year, after more
promises from the city to eventually eliminate the tax, a tax measure for half the
amount passed.

Since passage of that tax, the city has reaped unprecedented budget surpluses
but has made no attempt to decrease the tax. Now, they want to more than double
it, despite a recent poll showing an overwhelming percentage of residents are
satisfied with the quality and maintenance of our parks and programs.

Why is our city claiming financial crisis? New building in Davis is bringing in
new fees and taxes as projected, adding to the tax revenues. This should be enough
to pay for the required services and maintenance, if our city practiced good fiscal
management.

The current tax approved by the voters does not expire until July 2002. Why is
the city asking for more money now? We were just asked to tax ourselves for
schools and for open space; the city plans to increase our water rates by 25%,
followed by increases in the public safety tax and other services. How much more
can we pay?

It’s time to say NO to more taxes, while we can still afford to live here. Vote NO
on Measure S.

s/ Shneor Sherman
Chair, Committee for
Efficient Government

s/ Pamela S. Nieberg

Member, Citizens Budget Committee,
1997-98

s/ Harry L. Miller
President, Yolo County
Taxpayers Association

s/ Richard K. Entrikin
Concerned Citizen,
25-year resident

s/ Jill Guient Ferrarini
Local Activist

