Shall Ordinance No. 573 adopted by the Millbrae City Council on June 11,1991 which increased from 8% to 10% the Transient Occupancy Tax charged
to persons for the privilege of occupancy in any hotel or motel in the City of Millbrae be continued in full force and effect?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

The City Council of the City of Millbrae placed this measure on the
ballot to authorize the continuation of the 2% increase in the transient
occupancy tax rate from 8% to 10% that was enacted by the City Council in
1991. The transient occupancy tax, commonly known as the “Hotel Tax,” is
placed on the room rent charged to guests in hotels or motels located in
Millbrae. The tax is collected by the hotels as part of the room bills.

The City estimates that the Hotel Tax revenues from this 2% increment
generate approximately $950,000 per year. These revenues go into the City’s
general fund for general governmental purposes to support police, fire, public
works, parks and recreation, library, code enforcement, and capital
improvements in the City.

The City Council submits this measure to the electorate to ensure that
the current 10% tax rate is in compliance with state law, as recently
interpreted by the California Supreme Court. Because the revenues from
the Hotel Tax are placed in the City’s general fund for general City
government purposes, a majority vote of the City’s voters voting in this
election is required to approve the measure. If the measure does not pass,
the Hotel Tax would be reduced to 8%.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

A yes vote on Measure N is a vote to maintain Millbrae’s hotel tax at its
current 10% level. Measure N will not increase the existing 10% hotel
tax. It will simply provide voter confirmation to continue the hotel tax at
the same level it has been since 1991.

In 1991, when the Council set the rate, it was understood that voter
confirmation was not required. However, recent court rulings have led the
City Council to believe it would be prudent to place the item before the
voters for confirmation.

Approval of Measure N will keep tax revenues fairly distributed to all those
who use our city services. Approval of Measure N will insure that the
thousands of hotel visitors who travel our streets, frequent our restaurants
and retail areas, enjoy our parks and open space, as well as rely daily on
our police, fire and medical response services, pay their fair share.
Approval of Measure N will prevent a loss to Millbrae of $950,000 in
hotel tax revenue per year.

Failure to approve Measure N would cause severe budget problems and
increase Millbrae’s dependency on revenues collected from property tax
payers to fund essential city services. Measure N will keep the hotel tax at
the same level as twelve other San Mateo County cities and below the 14%
rate currently charged in San Francisco.

The 1991 increase in the hotel tax from 8% to 10% has made it possible
for Millbrae to hire more police officers and fire fighters, modernize our
Police and Fire Stations, as well as improve Millbrae’s parks and streets.
It is important that we ensure our revenue structure continues to allow for
necessary public safety, parks and recreation and maintenance services.
Join with all Millbrae City Council members in supporting Measure N.

/s/ John Wilms	August	20,	2001

President, El Rancho Inn and Suites

/s/ Victor B. Graff	August	17,	2001

Member, Millbrae Planning Commission

/s/ Keith W. Larsen	August	20,	2001

Chair, Millbrae Parks & Rec. Commission

/s/ Robert H. Treseler	August	20,	2001

Millbrae City Treasurer

/s/ John Falsarella	August	20,	2001

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

Unnecessary Revenue:	Will	the	sky fall if voters don’t approve this tax

increase? Of course not! Millbrae got by just fine with an 8% TOT
(before 1991).

“San Francisco’s TOT is 14%.” That’s like standing next to Luciano Pavarotti
proclaiming “Look how thin I am! ” In a study of high taxes on visitors, the
World Travel & Tourism Council ranked San Francisco tenth highest of the
52 cities studied.

Comparisons: Portland’s hotel tax is 6%. Oregon’s average is 7.3%. Hawaii’s
is 7.25%. Washington’s standard hotel tax is only 2% (though special taxes
push the average to 5%). California’s average TOT was also below 10%
until 1992, when cities and counties began a decade of tax hikes.

Lawbreakers:	The	Supreme	Court	found	1986’s	Prop	62	to	be

constitutional in 1995 (Santa Clara County v. Guardino), affirming that such
taxes, raised without voter approval, are indeed illegal. Millbrae
nevertheless thumbed its nose at the voters and the Court and continued to
collect the 2% overcharge. The city is bowing to the law only now because
a new Supreme Court decision (.HJTA v. La Habra) has clarified eligibility
to sue for continuing to overcharge taxpayers. The illegality of the tax itself
was established 6 years ago.

Don’t reward these scofflaws with your approval. Vote ‘NO’.

/s/ John J. Hickey	August	29,	2001

Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County

/s/ Margret Buckley Schmidt	August 29, 2001

Treasurer, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County

fsf Christopher VA Schmidt	August 29, 2001

Retired Computer Professional

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

A Moral Question: Is it OK to steal from your neighbor’s houseguests if you
can get away with it?

The City of Millbrae thinks so—at least when guests stay in local hotels.
Like an embezzler, the city pads hotel bills with a 10% transient occupancy
tax (‘TOT’) which is no more just nor honest than a Mafia protection racket.

And taxing a hotel guest who can’t vote against him is the perfect crime,
from a politician’s point-of-view.

A Legal Question: If the voters passed an initiative (Prop 62 in 1986) which
required voter approval of such taxes, was it OK to ignore the law and raise
the TOT without a vote?

The City of Millbrae thought so, and stalled for 10 years before putting this
tax on the ballot.

Don’t encourage this kind of opportunistic pickpocketing. Vote ‘NO’ and
help put a politician on the straight and narrow path.

/s/ John J. Hickey  Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	August 19, 2001
/s/ Margret Buckley Schmidt  Treasurer, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	August 19, 2001
/s/ Linden Hsu  Secretary, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	August 19, 2001
/s/ Christopher VA Schmidt  Retired Computer Professional	August 19, 2001

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

Measure N ensures that visitors using Millbrae hotels and motels continue
to pay their fair share for the police, fire and street maintenance services
they require. A yes vote on Measure N permits the City of Millbrae to
continue to apply the full 10% Hotel Tax to visitors staying at Millbrae
hotels and motels.

Continued collection of the full 10% hotel tax is critical to maintaining the
services enjoyed by Millbrae residents, businesses and visitors. Failure of
Measure N would cost the Millbrae General Fund Budget nearly
$1 million and require deep cuts in essential services.

It is illogical to suggest that we return to 1991 financing of City services.
We are all aware of the fact that costs have risen greatly since 1991.
Suggesting that it is more appropriate to compare Millbrae’s hotel tax rate
against cities in the northwest than against San Francisco is absurd.
Millbrae’s cost of doing business is certainly more comparable with
San Francisco, a few miles to the north.

The Council adopted the 10% tax rate in 1991 in full compliance with the
law. Because of a recent decision of the California Supreme Court, cities
and counties throughout the State will be asking voters to approve similar
precautionary measures.

Please join with us in voting yes on Measure N.

/s/ Eric Mertl  President Millbrae Police Officers Assoc.	August 30, 2001
/s/ Jennifer Gingrass  Millbrae Firefighters Local 2400 District 3	August 30, 2001
/s/ Denis Richardson  Mayor, Millbrae	August 30, 2001


RESOLUTION 01-122

CITY COUNCIL, CITY OF MILLBRAE
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

SUBMITTING TO THE QUALIFIED MILLBRAE VOTERS
A MEASURE RELATING TO THE CONTINUATION OF THE 2%
INCREASE IN THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX AND
REQUESTING THE COUNTY CLERK TO INCLUDE THIS MEASURE IN THE
GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION ON NOVEMBER 6, 2001

WHEREAS, for the purpose of confirming the validity of certain tax revenues in light
of the recent California Supreme Court case of Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association v. City of
La Habra, the City Council of the City of Millbrae desires to submit to the voters at the next
General Municipal Election a measure to ensure continuation of the 2% increase in the
Transient Occupancy Tax that was enacted by the City Council on June 11, 1991, pursuant to

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Millbrae

as follows:

1.	The measure set out in Section 2 below hereby is submitted to the qualified voters of
the City of Millbrae in conjunction with the General Municipal Election scheduled for
Tuesday, November 6, 2001 for the purpose of continuing in effect an ordinance previously
approved by the City Council on June II, 1991 amending Section 3-6.03 of the Millbrae
Municipal Code by increasing the Transient Occupancy Tax from the then existing rate of 8%
to 10%.

2.	The manner in which the proposed measure for the continuation of the 2% increase in
the Transient Occupancy Tax under the referenced provision of the Millbrae Municipal Code

shall be submitted to the electorate on November 6, 2001 is as follows:

date. The election shall be held and conducted, the returns canvassed, and the results declared

the election shall be in the form and content as required by law.

5. The Millbrae City Clerk hereby is directed to forward a certified copy of this resolution
to the County Clerk of San Mateo County together with such other documents as may be
required to give effect to and carry out the purposes of this resolution.

Regularly passed and adopted this 24th day of July, 2001.

in the manner as provided by law for General Municipal Elections. The ballots to be used in

MAYOR

ATTEST:

Resolution 01-122

I do hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was duly and regularly passed and
adopted by the City Council of the City of Millbrae this 24lh day of July, by the
following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:	Richardson, Hershman, Larson, Holober and

Qiugg

NOES:

COUNCILMEMBERS:

None