To qualify for State or other library improvement matching funds to build a new community library, wired for computers, with adequate space for books,
children's activities, community meetings, and make surrounding site improvements, shall Belmont Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 issue
S8.650.000 of bonds, levy special taxes to pay for facilities, maintenance, incidental expenses, including debt service; and establish the District's annual
appropriations limit equal to $8,650,000, as provided in Resolutions 8917 and 8918?

TAX RATE STATEMENT

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

As shown on the foregoing Sample Official Ballot, an election is being
held in Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 of the City of Belmont
(“CFD No. 2000-1") on March 6.2001. for the purpose of submitting to the
registered voters of CFD No. 2000-1 the question of whether or not the
City of Belmont shall issue and sell bonds of CFD No. 2000-1 in an amount
not to exceed S8.650.000 to finance the acquisition and construction of
capital improvements related to the City of Belmont library and to pay
costs of issuance of the bonds and levy special taxes to (i) pay debt service
on the bonds, (ii) pay for operation and maintenance costs of the library,
(iii) fund a reserve fund and (iv) pay for incidental expenses.

The bonds will bear interest at a rate or rates established at the time the
bonds are sold. The bonds will be sold in a single series and may be sold at
a fixed or variable interest rate, provided that such interest rate shall not
exceed the greater of 12 percent per annum or the maximum rate permitted
by any then applicable provision of law limiting the maximum interest rate
on the bonds. The City of Belmont expects to issue the bonds in an
aggregate principal amount of approximately 58.650,000 in 2002.

If the bonds are authorized and sold, the principal thereof and interest thereon
will be payable from the proceeds of a special tax (the “Special Tax”) levied
upon the taxable property in CFD No. 2000-1 in accordance with the Rate
and Method of Apportionment of the Special Tax. as adopted by the City
Council, which is available at the City Clerk's office.

The following information regarding the Special Tax rates is given to
comply with Section 9400 to 9404 of the Elections Code. Such information
is based upon the best estimates and projections presently available from
official sources, but is subject to change.

The tax rate under the Rate and Method of Apportionment is not based on the
assessed valuation of land within CFD No. 2000-1. The actual amount of the
Special Tax that will be levied to repay the bonds is dependent upon the type
of development within CFD No. 2000-1, the interest rate of the bonds, the
timing of the issuance of bonds, the terms of the bonds and the level of
delinquencies in payment of the Special Tax. Based upon current
dev elopment and currently available interest rates on the bonds, the estimated
total Special Tax levy in the first fiscal year after the issuance for the bonds
(the fiscal year 2003-04) is projected to be approximately $583,057.50 and
the highest total estimated Special Tax levy during the term of the bonds is
projected to occur in fiscal year 2022-23 and is projected to be approximately
$584,517.50. Based on the foregoing, the highest Special Tax is projected to
be the maximum tax rate, levied in fiscal year 2003-04 for each type of
property as follows:

Type of Property	Special Tax

Eecililkl	Operation and Maintenance

Residential Parcel $54 per taxable	S17 per taxable

dwelling unit	dwelling	unit

The City Council (the “Council'’) of the City of Belmont (the “City”),
acting as the legislative body of Community Facilities District No. 2000-1
of the City of Belmont (the “District”), on December 12, 2000. adopted
Resolution No. 8917 establishing the District pursuant to the Mello-Roos
Community Facilities Act of 1982, which commences writh Section 53311
of the California Government Code (the “Act").

The Council, by the adoption of Resolution No. 8918. has called for an
election asking approval of Measure C. Measure C, if adopted, will
authorize the District to issue up to S8.650.000 of bonds (the “Bonds") to
finance a portion of the costs of a new library in Belmont.

Measure C also provides that if the Bonds are issued they would be
paid by the levy of a special tax levied in accordance with a rate and method
of apportionment of the special tax (the "Special Tax Formula”) for the
District. The Special Tax Formula is attached as Exhibit A to Resolution
No. 8919. The Special Tax Formula provides for a levy of special tax to
both fund the debt service on the Bonds and the maintenance costs
associated with the library.

The Bonds, if issued, cannot bear an interest rate that exceeds the
maximum allowed by law (currently 12%) and cannot have a term greater
than 40 years.

In order for Measure C to be approved, two-thirds of the votes cast
must be in favor of Measure C.

A “yes” vote on Measure C is a vote to allow the District to issue Bonds
and to finance a portion of the costs of a new library in Belmont, and to
cause the Special Tax Formula to become effective.

A “no” vote on Measure C is a vote against the issuance of the Bonds,
the financing of a portion of the costs of a new library in Belmont, and the
implementation of the Special Tax Formula.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure C.
If you desire a copy of Resolutions 8917 and 8918, please call
the City Clerk of the City of Belmont at 650.595.7413 and a
copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

Commercial/	$0,065	per	taxable S0.02 per taxable building

Industrial Parcel building area square foot	area	square foot

The estimates set forth above are estimates only but in no event will the
Special Tax exceed the maximum Special Tax that the City of Belmont would
be entitled to lew annually in CFD No. 2000-1 under the Special Tax submitted
for approval bv the voters of CFD No. 2000-1 in the Ballot Proposition.

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

Measure C provides funding to rebuild Belmont Library.

Our library was built in 1960 and is the smallest in the County, Built to
house 30.000 books, it now houses 45,000. There isn't enough space for
more reference materials, quiet study/reading. or programs for children.
Unfortunately, many Belmont residents and students must use other
libraries for their needs.

Measure C earmarks new funding specifically for the improvement,
expansion, and maintenance of Belmont Library. Measure C:

•	Allows expansion of our book, reference, periodical and audio-visual
collection.

•	Creates more story-time space for children.

•	Creates space for quiet study, homework rooms, tutoring.

•	Allows creation of senior library programs such as services for
homebound seniors.

•	Provides adequate seating for library users.

•	Upgrades outdated wiring for computers, the Internet, and new
technology.

•	Ensures modem seismic, health/safety standards.

A Library Task Force composed of citizens who are parents, library users,
financial experts, seniors, business and civic leaders evaluated our library
services and helped develop a fiscally responsible plan to improve it.

To ensure funds are spent properly, the Finance Commission will monitor
all Measure C funding and report to the community. All money raised by
Measure C is tax deductible, and every dime stays in Belmont.

Our City has won numerous awards for fiscal accountability. By law.
Measure C funding can only be spent on our library project—and no funds
can be spent on administration.

State matching funds are available to help fund our library at up to 65% of
the cost, but only if we adopt Measure C We can only compete for these
funds if vou vote “YES'' on Measure C.

Nearly 1,000 citizens already say our Library needs help, and our City
Council unanimously agreed. Vote YES on Measure C.

/s/ Terri Cook	December	16.	2000

Counci Imcmber, Fmrir., Mayor

isf David Warden	December	17,	2000

Counci lmember, Pres. Cipriani Homeowners Assoc.

is! Ed Rodriguez	December	15.	2000

Chair. Belmont Finance Commission

/s/ Elsa Raval	December	16,	2000

Fox Elementary School PTA

/s/ Gloria Purcell	December 15,	2000

Homeview Neighborhood Association

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C SUBMITTED

BELMONT

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C






• BELMONT CITY CLERK

10?3 SIXTH AVE. STE.311
BELMONT, CA 94002

ADOPTION COPY
RESOLUTION OF FORMATION

RESOLUTION NO. 8917

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BELMONT ESTABLISHING COMMUNITY FACILITIES
DISTRICT NO. 2000-1 OF THE CITY OF BELMONT,
AUTHORIZING THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX THEREIN,
CALLING AN ELECTION AND APPROVING CERTAIN
ACTIONS RELATED THERETO

WHEREAS, the City Council of City of Belmont (the “City Council”) has heretofore adopted
Resolution No. 8884 stating its intention to form Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 of the
City of Belmont (“Community Facilities District No. 2000-1” or the “District”) pursuant to the
Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982, as amended, being Chapter 2.5 of Part 1 of Division
2 of Title 5 of the Government Code of the State of California (the “Act”); and

WHEREAS, a copy of Resolution No. 8884 setting forth a description of the proposed
boundaries of Community Facilities District No. 2000-1, the facilities, services and incidental
expenses (including facilities maintenance) to be financed by the District (the “Facilities”, “Services”
and “Incidental Expenses,” respectively) and the rate and method of apportionment of the special tax
proposed to be levied within the District is on file with the City Clerk and except to the extent
amended by this resolution is incorporated herein by reference; and

WHEREAS, notice was published within the District as required by law relative to the
intention of the City Council to form proposed Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 and to levy
a special tax and to incur bonded indebtedness in the amount of up to $8,650,000 therein; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has heretofore adopted Resolution No. 8885 stating its
intention to incur bonded indebtedness in the amount not to exceed $8,650,000 within the District;
and

WHEREAS, on December 12, 2000, this City Council conducted a noticed public hearing as
required by law relative to the proposed formation of Community Facilities District No. 2000-1, the
levy of the special tax therein and the issuance of bonded indebtedness by the District; and

WHEREAS, at the December 12, 2000 public hearing there was filed with this City Council
a report containing a description of the facilities and services necessary to meet the needs of the
District and an estimate of the cost of such facilities and services as required by Section 53321.5 of
the Act (the “Facilities Report”); and

WHEREAS, at the December 12, 2000 public hearing all persons desiring to be heard on all
matters pertaining to the formation of Community Facilities District No. 2000-1, the levy of the
special tax and the issuance of bonded indebtedness were heard and full and fair hearings were held;
and

WHEREAS, at the public hearing evidence was presented to the City Council on the matters
before it, and the proposed special tax to be levied within the District was not precluded by a
majority protest of the type described in Section 53324 of the Act, and this City Council at the
conclusion of the hearing is fully advised as to all matters relating to the formation of the District, the
levy of the special tax and the issuance of bonded indebtedness therein; and

I

I)(X'SSI'\23f>X}iv4',242W 0001

09IVRLP02

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that there are more than twelve registered
voters residing in the proposed boundaries of Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 for the
period of 90 days prior to December 12, 2000 and that the qualified electors in Community Facilities
District No. 2000-1 shall be the registered voters within the District who are registered on or before
the last day to register for the election prior to the election; and

WHEREAS, on the basis of all of the foregoing, the City Council has determined at this time
to proceed with the establishment of Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 and to call an election
therein to authorize (i) the levy of special taxes pursuant to the rate and method of apportionment of
the special tax, as set forth in Attachment “A” attached hereto, (ii) the issuance of bonds to finance
the Facilities and Incidental Expenses, and (iii) the establishment of an appropriations limit for
Community Facilities District No. 2000-1;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF CITY OF BELMONT DOES HEREBY
RESOLVE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Each of the above recitals is true and correct.

SECTION 2. A community facilities district to be designated “Community Facilities
District No. 2000-1 of the City of Belmont” is hereby established pursuant to the Act. The City
Council hereby finds and determines that all prior proceedings taken with respect to the
establishment of the District were valid and in conformity with the requirements of law, including the
Act. This finding is made in accordance with the provisions of Section 53325.1(b) of the Act.

SECTION 3. The boundaries of Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 are established
as shown on the map designated “Map of Proposed Boundaries of Community Facilities District No.
2000-1 of the City of Belmont”, which map is on file in the office of the City Clerk and was recorded
pursuant to Sections 3111 and 3113 of the Streets and Highways Code in the City of Belmont Book
of Maps of Assessment and Community Facilities Districts in the County Recorder’s Office in Book
No. 16, Page No. 56, on November 10, 2000.

SECTION 4. The types of Facilities, Services and Incidental Expenses authorized to be
provided for Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 are those set forth in Resolution No. 8884.
The estimated cost of the Facilities, Services and Incidental Expenses to be financed is set forth in
the Facilities Report, which estimates may change as the Facilities are designed and bid for
construction and acquisition. The City is authorized by the Act to contribute revenue to, or construct
or acquire the Facilities, all in accordance with the Act.

SECTION 5. Except where funds are otherwise available, it is the intention of the City
Council, subject to the approval of the eligible voters of the District, to levy the proposed special tax
at the rates set forth in Attachment "A" hereto on all non-exempt property within the District
sufficient to pay for (i) the Facilities and Services, (ii) the principal and interest and other periodic
costs on the bonds proposed to be issued to finance the Facilities and Incidental Expenses, including
the establishment and replenishment of reserve funds, any remarketing, credit enhancement and
liquidity facility fees and other expenses of the type permitted by Section 53345.3 of the Act; and
(iii) the Incidental Expenses. The District expects to incur, and in certain cases has already incurred.
Incidental Expenses in connection with the creation of the District, the issuance of bonds, the levying
and collecting of the special tax. the completion and inspection of the Facilities and the annual
administration of the bonds and the District. The rate and method of apportionment of the special tax

IX K SSI >OXXv4\242W 00(11

09IVRLP03

is described in detail on Attachment “A” hereto and incorporated herein by this reference, and the
City Council hereby finds that Attachment “A” contains sufficient detail to allow each landowner
within the District to estiThate the maximum amount that may be levied against each parcel. As
described in greater detail in the Facilities Report, which is incorporated by reference herein, the

special tax is based on the expected demand that each parcel of real property within Community
Facilities District No. 2000-1 will place on the Facilities and Services and on the benefit that each
parcel will derive from the right to access the Facilities and from the Services and, accordingly, is
hereby determined to be reasonable. The special tax shall be levied on each assessor’s parcel for so
long as described in Attachment “A” provided in no event shall the special tax be levied after the
fiscal year ending June 30, 2031. The special tax is apportioned to each parcel on the foregoing
bases pursuant to Section 53325.3 of the Act and such special tax is not on or based upon the
ownership of real property.

The Finance Director of the City of Belmont, 1070 Sixth Avenue, Belmont, California
94002, telephone number (650) 595-7436, will be responsible for preparing annually, or authorizing
a designee to prepare, a current roll of special tax levy obligations by assessor’s parcel number and
will be responsible for estimating future special tax levies pursuant to Section 53340.2 of the Act.

SECTION 6. In the event that a portion of the property within Community Facilities
District No. 2000-1 shall become for any reason exempt, wholly or partially, from the levy of the
special tax specified on Attachment “A”, the City Council shall, on behalf of Community Facilities
District No. 2000-1, increase the levy to the extent necessary and permitted by law and these
proceedings upon the remaining property within Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 which is
not delinquent or exempt in order to yield the required debt service payments on any outstanding
bonds of the District or to prevent the District from defaulting on any of its other obligations or
liabilities; provided, however, that in no event shall the special tax on a residential property increase
as a result of a default by more than 10 percent. The amount of the special tax will be set in
accordance with the rate and method of apportionment of the special tax attached hereto as
Attachment “A”.

SECTION 7. Upon recordation of a notice of special tax lien pursuant to Section 3114.5 of
the Streets and Highways Code, a continuing lien to secure each levy of the special tax shall attach to
all non-exempt real property in the District and this lien shall continue in force and effect until the
special tax obligation is prepaid and permanently satisfied and the lien canceled in accordance with
law or until collection of the special tax by the District ceases.

SECTION 8. It is hereby further determined that there is no ad valorem property tax
currently being levied on property within proposed Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 for the
exclusive purpose of paying the principal of or interest on bonds or other indebtedness incurred to
finance the construction of capital facilities which provide the same services to the territory of
Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 as are proposed to be provided by the Facilities to be
financed by Community Facilities District No. 2000-1.

SECTION 9. Written protests against the establishment of the District have not been filed
by one-half or more registered voters within the boundaries of the District or by the property owners
of one-half (I /2) or more of the area of land within Community Facilities District No. 2000-1, based,
in part, upon a Certificate from the Registrar of Voters, which is on file with the City Clerk of the
City. The City Council hereby finds that the proposed special tax has not been precluded by a
majority protest pursuant to Section 53324 of the Act.



09IVRLP04

SECTION 10. An election is hereby called for Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 on
the proposition of levying.the special tax on the property within Community Facilities District No.
2000-1 and establishing an appropriations limit for the District pursuant to Section 53325.7 of the
Act and shall be consolidated with the election on the proposition of incurring bonded indebtedness,
pursuant to Section 53351 of the Act. The proposed propositions relative to incurring indebtedness
in the maximum principal aggregate amount of $8,650,000, authorizing the levy of the special tax,
and the proposition establishing an appropriations limit, which are combined into one ballot
proposition, are attached hereto as Exhibit “B.”

SECTION 11. The date of the election for Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 on the
proposition of incurring the bonded indebtedness, authorizing the levy of the special tax and
establishing an appropriations limit for the District shall be March 6, 2001. The City’s election
official shall conduct the election. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the election shall be
conducted at polling places and, except as otherwise provided by the Act, the election shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of law regulating elections of the City of Belmont
insofar as such provisions are determined by the City’s election official to be applicable.

While the City shall act as the election official for purposes of the Act, the City hereby
requests the Board of Supervisors of San Mateo County, pursuant to Elections Code Sections
23301.5 and 23302 to consolidate this City election with any County-wide elections scheduled for
March 6, 2001.

The City also hereby requests the Board of Supervisors of San Mateo County to direct the
County Clerk to do all things necessary and proper for the conduct of the city-wide election,
including (but not limited to): establishing precinct boundaries and polling places; selecting and
employing election officials; publication of notices (other than the Notice of City-wide Election,
which is being done by the City); preparation and distribution of sample ballots; distribution of
printed arguments for and against the measure; the conduct of the election; the counting of ballots
and the canvassing and certification of the election results. The City agrees to enter into a service
contract with the County for these services and to pay the County's reasonable costs, as specified
therein, in rendering these services. The Finance Director is hereby authorized to execute the service
contract on behalf of the .City.

It is hereby found that there are more than twelve registered voters within the territory of
Community Facilities District No. 2000-1, and, pursuant to Section 53326 of the Act, each qualified
resident voter within the District on the last day to register prior to the election shall have one vote.

SECTION 12. The preparation of the Facilities Report is hereby ratified. The Facilities
Report, as submitted, is hereby approved and made a part of the record of the public hearing
regarding the formation of Community Facilities District No. 2000-1, and are ordered to be kept on
tile with the transcript of these proceedings and open for public inspection.

•i

I )< K SSI inXXvI-.M.'OO non I

09IVRLP05

ADOPTED, APPROVEDrAND SIGNED this 12th day of December, 2000.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was duly and regularly passed and adopted by the City
Council of the City of Belmont at a regular meeting thereof held on December 12, 2000, by the
following vote:

AYES, COUNCIL MEMBERS:	Cook,	Warden	.Wright,	Rianda,	Hahn________

NOES, COUNCIL MEMBERS:	None__________________________________________

ABSTAIN, COUNCIL MEMBERS: None_________________________________________

ABSENT, COUNCIL MEMBERS:	None________________________________________

MAYOR OF THE CITY OF BELMONT

3

[XK'SSf-'V2J6X8v4U4299 0001

2001—014332

02/05/2001 01:19P

09IVRLP06

ATTACHMENT “A”

RATE AND METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT

Reso. No. 8917

CITY OF BELMONT COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2000-1

(LIBRARY PROJECT)

A Special Tax as hereinafter defined shall be levied on all Assessor’s Parcels in the City of
Belmont Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 (Library Project) (the “District”) and collected
each Fiscal Year commencing in Fiscal Year 2001-02 pursuant to this Rate and Method of
Apportionment. All of the real property in the District, unless exempted by law or by the provisions
hereof, shall be taxed for the purposes, to the extent and in the manner herein provided.

Section I. Definitions

The defined terms below shall apply wherever such terms are used in this Rate and Method of
Apportionment.

"Act" means the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of 1982 (Chapter 2.5, Part 1, Division 2,
Title 5 of the California Government Code), as amended from time to time.

"Administrative Expenses" means the actual or reasonably estimated costs directly related to the
administration of CFD No. 2000-1 including, but not limited to, the following: the costs of
computing the Special Taxes and preparing the annual Special Tax collection schedules (whether by
the City or designee thereof or both); the costs of collecting the Special Taxes (whether by the
County, the City, or otherwise); the costs of remitting the Special Taxes to the fiscal agent; the costs
of the fiscal agent (including its legal counsel) in the discharge of the duties required of it under the
fiscal agent agreement executed in connection with a CFD bond issuance; the costs to the City, CFD
No. 2000-1 or any designee thereof of complying with arbitrage rebate requirements; the costs to the
City, CFD No. 2000-1 or any designee thereof of complying with City, CFD No. 2000-1 or obligated
persons disclosure requirements associated with applicable federal and state securities laws and of
the Act; the costs associated with preparing Special Tax disclosure statements and responding to
public inquiries regarding the Special Taxes; the costs of the City, CFD No. 2000-1 or any designee
thereof related to an appeal of the Special Tax; and the costs associated with the release of funds
from an escrow account, if any. Administrative Expenses shall also include amounts estimated or
advanced by the City or CFD No. 2000-1 for any other administrative purposes of CFD No. 2000-1,
including attorney’s fees and other costs related to commencing and pursuing to completion any
foreclosure of delinquent Special Taxes.

"Annual Special Tax Requirement" means that amount required in any Fiscal Year for CFD No.
2000-1 to: (i) pay annual debt service on all Outstanding Bonds; (ii) pay Facilities Costs and
Operation and Maintenance Costs; (iii) pay Administrative Expenses; (iv) pay any amounts required
to establish or replenish any reserve funds for all Outstanding Bonds in accordance with the fiscal
agent agreement; (v) pay for reasonably anticipated delinquent Special Taxes based on the
delinquency rate for Special Taxes levied in the Previous Fiscal Year; and (vi) less a credit for
Available Funds.

A-1

2001—O14332

02/06/2001 01.19P

09IVRLP07

"Annual Tax Revenues" means the amount of Special Taxes collected each Fiscal Year to pay the
Annual Special Tax Requirement.

"Assessor's Parcel" or “Parcel” means a lot or parcel shown in an Assessor's Parcel Map with an
assigned Assessor Parcel Number as of January 1 of the calendar year in which the Special Tax is
levied.

"Assessor's Parcel Map" means an official map of the County Assessor of the County of San Mateo.

"Available Funds" means, to the extent determined to be available therefor by the Finance Director,
any of (i) the balance in the reserve fund established pursuant to the terms of the fiscal agent
agreement in excess of the reserve requirement as defined in such fiscal agent agreement, (ii)
delinquent special tax payments, (iii) foreclosure proceeds, and (iv) other sources of funds available
as a credit to the Special Tax Requirement.

“CFD” means City of Belmont Community Facilities District No. 2000-1 (Library Project)
"Classification Date" means May 30th of each Fiscal Year.

"City" means the City of Belmont, California.

"City Council' means the elected legislative body of the City of Belmont.

"Finance Director" means the manager of the City of Belmont.

"Commercial/Industrial Parcel" means a Parcel which is designated commercial or industrial
pursuant to the land use approved for such Parcel by the Belmont general plan or other land use
planning document approved by the City as of the Classification Date. In the event the City has no
official land use designation for a Parcel, the land use code on the secured tax rolls of the County
may be used to classify such Parcel.

“County" means County of San Mateo, California.

"Coverage Factor" means a percentage rate equal to fifteen (15) percent.

"Debt Service" means the total amount of principal and interest due on outstanding bonds of the
CFD.

“Facilities Costs” means the actual costs of constructing, acquiring or developing the Library Project,
including administrative costs of the City.

"Fiscal Year" means the period beginning July I and ending the following June 30.

"Library Project" means the construction of a new City library located in the City, the necessary
equipment and facilities required to relocate the existing library to the new location, and
improvements to the park area adjacent to the library.

"Maximum Annual Special Tax Rate" means the maximum amount of Special Taxes per Taxable
Dwelling Units or per square foot of Commercial/Industrial Building Area that may be levied against
a Taxable Parcel.

A-2

09IVRLP08

“Operations and Maintenance Costs” mean the actual or reasonably estimated costs of operating and
maintaining the Library Project incurred by or on behalf of the City of Belmont, all as permitted
pursuant to Section 53317(j) of the Act.

"Prepaid Parcel'" means any Parcel that has prepaid in full pursuant to this Rate and Method of

Apportionment the Special Taxes to be levied against such Parcel .

"Principal Prepayment Amount" means the amount of unpaid outstanding bond principal allocable to
each Taxable Parcel as of the date of such calculation.

"Public Parcel" means any Parcel that is, or is intended to be, publicly owned and which is normally
tax-exempt under California law, including public streets, schools, parks, and public drainage ways,
rights-of-way, landscaping, greenbelts and open space.

"Residential Parcel" means a parcel that is designated for residential use pursuant to the land use
approved for such Parcel by the Belmont general plan or other land use planning document approved
by the City as of the Classification Date. In the event the City has no official land use designation for
a Parcel, the land use code on the secured tax rolls of the County may be used to classify such Parcel.

"Special Tax" means the special tax to be levied in each Fiscal Year on each Assessor's Parcel of
Taxable Property to fund the Annual Special Tax Requirement.

"Special Tax Collection Schedule" means the document prepared by the Finance Director for use by
the Auditor in collecting the Special Taxes each Fiscal Year.

"Special Tax Report" means the report prepared annually by the Finance Director showing the
classification of each Parcel within the boundaries of the CFD, the amount of Special Taxes to be
levied on each Taxable Parcel, the projected sources and uses of funds for the CFD in such Fiscal
Year showing that projected Annual Tax Revenues are sufficient to pay projected the Annual Special
Tax Requirement, and a Tax Collection Schedule.

“Taxable Commercial/Industrial Building Area” means the actual building area of improvements to a
Commercial/Industrial Parcel as determined as of the Classification Date by the City or the County.
Does not include any Parcel or unit that is classified as a Tax-Exempt Parcel.

"Taxable Parcel" means any Residential Parcel or Commercial/Industrial Parcel. Excluding any
parcel that is classified as a Tax-Exempt Parcel.

"Taxable Dwelling Unit" means, as of the Classification Date, any dwelling unit within the
boundaries of the CFD for which a building permit has been issued by the City or any residential
dwelling unit that could be constructed on a parcel created within the boundaries of the CFD
pursuant to a recorded Final Map approved by the City. If any single building permit has been issued
for construction of one or more dwelling units on multiple Parcels, each such Parcel shall be assigned
the total number of developed dwelling units applicable to such Parcels prior to construction
notwithstanding the fact that such Parcels may have been consolidated into a single Parcel by the
County Assessor; provided Does not include any parcels or units that is classified as a Tax-Exempt
Parcel

A-3

09IVRLP09

"Tax-Exempt Parcel" means any Parcel that is a Public Parcel or a Prepaid Parcel. However, Taxable
Parcels that are acquiredjjy a public entity shall remain subject to the applicable Special Tax
pursuant to Section 53317.4 of the Act.

Section 2. Assignment to Land Use Categories

Each Fiscal Year, each Taxable Parcel within CFD No. 2000-1 shall be classified as either a
Residential Parcel or a Commercial/Industrial Parcel. The secured property tax roll, land use codes
and plot map books maintained by the County Assessor of San Mateo County, in combination with
official records maintained by the City regarding development agreements, recorded final maps,
building permits issued, and other changes in parcel development status, will be the basis for
classifying the Parcels in the CFD. If the land use code on the secured property tax roll is incorrect,
the City may assign the appropriate code based on its review of the status of the property.

Prior to July 1 of each Fiscal Year the Finance Director shall cause to be prepared a Special Tax
Report.

Section 3. Termination of the Special Tax

When all of the CFD's Administrative Expenses, Operations and Maintenance Costs and Debt
Service obligations are satisfied and no bonds authorized for issuance by the CFD remain either
unissued or outstanding, the City Council shall determine that the Special tax shall cease to be levied.
The City Council shall then direct the City Clerk to record a Notice of Cessation of Special Tax as
provided by law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the Special Tax be levied after the
Fiscal Year ending June 30, 2031.

N

P)

fl

H§ .

Zid •
Qool

Section 4. Maximum Annual Special Tax Rate

The Maximum Annual Special Tax for each Assessor’s Parcel classified as Taxable Parcel shall be
the amount shown in Table 1 below:

Table 1

Classification	Maximum Annual Special Tax	
	Facilities	Operation & Maintenance
Residential Parcel	$54 per Taxable Dwelling Unit	$17 per Taxable Dwelling Unit
Commercial/Industrial Parcel	$0,065 per Taxable Commercial/Industrial Building Area square foot	$0.02 per Taxable Commercial/Industrial Building Area square foot

Section 5. Method of Apportionment of the Special Tax

A Special Tax rate per square foot of Commercial/Industrial Building Area, or per unit of Taxable
Dwelling Unit shall be established annually by the City Council for each Taxable Parcel in the CFD.
A Special Tax under the Act applicable to each Taxable Parcel included within the boundaries of the

A-4

0< X SSI '236XXv4\242W 0001

09IVRLP0A

CFD shall be levied and collected according to the tax liability determined by the City through the
application of the procedures described below:

Step 1	Determine	the	projected	Annual	Special	Tax	Requirement.

Step 2

Step 3

Step 4

Step 5

Multiply the Annual Special Tax Requirement by 15% to determine the
Commercial/Industrial Annual Special Tax Requirement. Multiply the Annual
Special Tax Requirement by 85% to determine the Residential Annual Special Tax
Requirement.

Classify each Parcel within the boundaries of the CFD into Taxable/Tax-Exempt
parcels. Parcels shall be classified as of their status applicable in the next ensuing
Fiscal Year as of the Classification Date.

Classify each Taxable Parcel as a Commercial/Industrial Parcel or Residential Parcel
for such Fiscal Year.

Determine the number of Taxable Dwelling Units and Taxable Commercial/Industrial
Building Area square foot.

N

fiv-'o

c-

Hg

o?s

Qea

NgS

Step 6

Step 7

The Special Tax shall be levied proportionately on each Taxable Dwelling Unit at up
to 100% of the applicable Maximum Annual Special Tax as set forth in Table 1 as
needed to satisfy the Residential Annual Special Tax Requirement as determined in
Step 2.

The Special Tax shall be levied proportionately on each Taxable
Commercial/Industrial Building Area square foot at up to 100% of the applicable
Maximum Annual Special Tax as set forth in Table I as needed to satisfy the
Commercial/Industrial Annual Special Tax Requirement as determined in Step 2.

Notwithstanding the above, under no circumstances will the Special Tax levied against any
Assessor's Parcel be increased by more than ten (10%) percent per year as a consequence of
delinquency or default iirthe payment of Special Taxes by the owner of any other Assessor's Parcel
of CFD No. 2000-1.

Section 6. Prepayment of Special Taxes

Parcels for which the prepayment of Special Taxes in whole has been made shall be reclassified as
Prepaid Parcels and shall no longer be subject to the levy of Special Taxes.

Prepayment Prior to the Sale of Bonds. Prior to the sale of bonds, the owner of each Taxable Parcel
shall have the option to prepay future Special Taxes to be levied against such Taxable Parcel with a
single cash payment. The amount of such optional cash payment shall be determined as follows:

Step I	Prior	to	the sale of bonds; the total number of Taxable Dwelling and Taxable

Commercial/Industrial Building Area shall be determined.

Step 2	The	total	Library Project costs to be financed v\iih the sale of bonds by the CFD shall

be determined, from such amount shall be deducted the following bond financing
costs: the cost of financing a bond debt service reserve fund, any interest to be

Ad

i X k ssi	ioum

09IVRLP0B

capitalized from the proceeds of bonds, an underwriter’s discount and bond insurance
premiums—All other budgeted costs of creating the CFD and issuing bonds approved
by the City shall be included as Library Project costs.

Step 3a	Multiply	the	net	amount	determined	in step 2 above by 85% and divide by the sum of

the total number of Taxable Dwelling Units.

Step 3b	Multiply	$17	by the number of fiscal years from the current fiscal year to fiscal year

ending June 30, 2031.

Step 3c	Sum	of Step 3a and 3b shall be the optional cash payment amount assigned to each

such Taxable Dwelling Unit.

Step 4a	Multiply	the	net amount determined in step 2 above by 15% and divide by the total

number of Taxable Commercial/Industrial Building Area square foot.

Step 4b	Multiply	$.02	by the number of fiscal years from the current fiscal year to fiscal year

ending June 30, 2031.

Step 4c	Sum	of Step 4a and 4b shall be the optional cash payment amount assigned to each

such Taxable Commercial/Industrial Building Area square foot.

Notice shall be given by mail to each owner of Taxable Parcels within the CFD of a
30-day period prior to the sale of bonds within which cash payments may be made.

Prepayment Subsequent to the Sale of Bonds. The owner of any Taxable Parcel may prepay the
Special Taxes to be levied against such Parcel at certain times during the term to maturity of
outstanding bonds. The dates that such prepayment(s) will be permitted will be determined by the
City at the time(s) bonds are sold, but will generally be at the first date the bonds secured by the
Special Taxes may be called for optional redemption. Optional prepayment amounts for each
Taxable Parcel subsequent to the sale of bonds shall be determined at the same time annual Special
Taxes are determined as follows.

Step 1	The	total	number	of Taxable Dwelling Unit and Taxable Commercial/Industrial

Building Area in the CFD as of the Classification Date for such Fiscal Year shall be
determined.

Step 2	The	total	amount	of	unpaid bond principal outstanding at the beginning of such Fiscal

Year shall be determined, from which amount shall be subtracted any principal
coming due in such Fiscal Year, the payment of which was provided for in the
collection of the prior Fiscal Year's Annual Tax Revenues.

Step 3	The	unpaid	outstanding	bond	principal	determined	in	step 2 above shall be multiplied

by 85% and divided by the total Taxable Dwelling Units to arrive at the unpaid bond
principal per Taxable Dwelling Unit for such Fiscal Year. The unpaid outstanding
bond principal determined in step 2 above shall be multiplied by 15% and divided by
the total Commercial/Industrial Building Area square footage to arrive at the unpaid
bond principal per Commercial/Industrial Building Area square footage for such
Fiscal Year.

A-6

09IVRLP0C

Step 4	For	each	Taxable	Parcel,	the	unpaid	bond	principal	per Taxable Dwelling Unit, or per

Commercial/industrial Building Area square footage, for such Fiscal Year shall be
multiplied by the total number of Taxable Dwelling Unit and Commercial/Industrial
Building Area square footage allocable to such Taxable Parcel to arrive at the
Principal Prepayment Amount allocable to each such Taxable Parcel.

Step 5	To	derive	the Operation and Maintenance portion of the prepayment for each Taxable

Dwelling Unit, multiply $17 by the number of fiscal years from the current fiscal year
to fiscal year ending June 30, 2031.

Step 6	To	derive	the Operation and Maintenance portion of the prepayment for each Taxable

Commercial/Industrial Building Area square footage, multiply $.02 by the number of
fiscal years from the current fiscal year to fiscal year ending June 30, 2031.

An owner of a Taxable Parcel may prepay the future Special Tax obligations of such
Parcel by paying in cash the sum of i) the amount of any delinquent and unpaid
installments of Special Taxes levied against such Parcel, together with any penalties,
interest and costs due thereon, ii) the Special Taxes levied against such Parcel in such
Fiscal Year, iii) the Principal Prepayment Amount allocable to such Taxable Parcel in
such Fiscal Year as derived in Step 4, iv) a prepayment premium in an amount equal
to the prepayment premium required under the fiscal agent agreement to be paid on
bonds to be called on the next permissible call date times the Principal Prepayment
Amount allocable to such Taxable Parcel in such Fiscal Year, v) a reasonable fee,
fixed by the City, for the cost of administering the prepayment and the advance
redemption of bonds, vi) if residential parcel, amount derived in Step 5, if
commercial/industrial parcel, amount derived in Step 6, and vi) a credit for such
Taxable Parcel's pro rata share of the reserve fund balance (if any) established under
the fiscal agent agreement.

Section 7. Application of Surplus Tax Revenues

Any amounts collected in excess of the Annual Special Tax Requirement shall be applied as set forth
in the fiscal agent agreement securing outstanding bonds of the CFD.

Section 8. Manner of Collection

The annual Special tax shall be collected in the same manner and at the same time as ordinary ad
valorem property taxes; provided, however, that CFD No. 2000-1 may directly bill the Special Tax,
may collect Special Taxes at a different time or in a different manner if necessary to meet its
financial obligations, and may covenant to foreclose and may actually foreclose on Assessor's Parcels
which are delinquent in the payment of Special Taxes.

Section 9. Administrative Changes

The Finance Director has the authority to make necessary administrative adjustments to the Rate and
Method of Apportionment in order tit remedy any portions of the Special fax formula that require
clarification, provided that no such adjustment shall result in a tax levy on any I axable Parcel in
excess of the applicable Maximum Annual Special Fax Rate for such Taxable Parcel

A-7

IKK SSI '()XKv I ? l.’V/ (KlfJi

09IVRLP0D

Any taxpayer that believes that the amount or formula of the Special Tax is in error may file a notice
with the Finance Director appealing the Special Tax. The Finance Director or his designee will then
promptly review the appeal, and if necessary, meet with the applicant. If the findings of the Finance
Director verify that the Special Tax should be modified, a recommendation at that time will be made
to the City Council and, as appropriate, the Special Tax shall be corrected and, if applicable, a refund
shall be granted from such fund or account established under the fiscal agent agreement securing
outstanding bonds of the CFD for which the payment of such refunds is authorized.

Interpretations may be made by resolution of the City Council for purposes of clarifying any
vagueness or ambiguity as it relates to the Special Tax or the Maximum Annual Special Tax Rate,
the method of apportionment, the classification of properties or any definition applicable to the CFD.

Section 10. Exemptions

No Special Tax shall be levied on Tax-Exempt Parcels; however, should a Parcel no longer be
classified as a Tax-Exempt Parcel, its tax-exempt status shall be revoked.

A-8

(XX'S.sr\2.1688v4 •242<W 0001

09IVRLP0E

Reso. No. 8917

ATTACHMENT B
BALLOT PROPOSITION

COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2000-1
OF THE CITY OF BELMONT

SPECIAL TAX AND SPECIAL BOND ELECTION
March 6, 2001

PROPOSITION_______: To qualify for State or other library

improvement matching funds to build a new community
library, wired for computers, with adequate space for books,
children’s activities and community meetings and to make

surrounding site improvements, shall Community Facilities	YES_____

District No. 2000-1 of the City of Belmont issue $8,650,000

of bonds, levy special taxes to pay for such facilities, their	NO_

maintenance, and incidental expenses, including debt
service; and establish the District’s annual appropriations
limit equal to $8,650,000, as provided in Resolutions 8917
and ftc^a of the City?

n-i

IX X \M WiXXvVM.’W

2001—O14332

02/05/2001 01:19p
R1 P»9*: 15 of 15

09IVRLP0F

RECEIVED

FEB 2 0 2001

D( :	n	2001-014332

02/05/2001 01:19P R1 Fee:NC
Page 1 of 15
Recorded in Official Records
County of San Dateo
llarren Slocum
Assessor-County Clerk-Recorder
Recorded By

BELMONT CITY CLERK

RECORDING REQUESTED BY:
Kathy Kern
BELMONT CITY CLERK
1070 SIXTH AVE., Ste 311
BELMONT, CA 94002

WHEN RECORDED MAIL TO:

BELMONT CITY CLERK
1070 SIXTH AVE., Ste 311
BELMONT, CA 94002

THIS SPACE FOR RECORDER'S USE ONLY

iff

Resolution No. 8917

City of Belmont
San Mateo County, California

Resolution establishing Community Facilities District No. 2000-1
of the City of Belmont, authorizing the levy of a special tax therein, calling an election
and approving certain actions related thereto. Attachment A & B.

TITLE OF DOCUMENT

09IVRLP01

m

SERVICE AGivEEMENT FOR THE PROVISION OF ELECTION
SERVICES BETWEEN THE CITY OF BELMONT AND SAN MATEO COUNTY

CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER

This agreement, entered into this 12 th day of December 20 OO . by and between the
City of Belmont and San Mateo County Chief Elections Officer;

WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable that the Chief Elections Officer be retained for the
purpose of conducting an election hereinafter described for the City of Belmont (hereinafter referred
to as City);

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED BY THE PARTIES HERETO AS FOLLOWS:
SERVICES TO BE PERFORMED BY THE CITY OF BELMONT:

1)	Prior to the election the City of Belmont will request the Board of Supervisors through the
Chief Elections Officer to conduct an election for the City of Belmont on March 6, 2001, and
will request services of the Chief Elections Officer.

2)	The City will publish the Notice of Election and the Notice to File Arguments For or Against
any measure.

3)	The City will submit to the Chief Elections Officer the exact ballot wording to be voted on.

4)	The City Clerk will prepare and deliver to the printer the ballot pamphlet information
containing, as applicable, ballot measure, tax rate statement, impartial analysis, arguments
for or against and rebuttals thereto. The last day for primary arguments (300 words) to be
submitted is December 18, 2000. The last day for rebuttal arguments (250 words) and
impartial analyses December 28, 2000.

5)	The City will review and sign off on the sample ballot and official ballot wording for the
City’s Measure, tax rate statement, impartial analysis, and any arguments and rebuttals.

SERVICES TO BE PERFORMED BY CHIEF ELECTIONS OFFICER:

1)	The Chief Elections Officer will select the sample and official ballot printer(s)

2)	The Chief Elections Officer will prepare and deliver to the printer the official ballot
information

3) The Chief Elections Officer will issue-, receive and process absentee ballots

I I 'I lie ( ’ll lef I'.leel ii illOt I leer \\ ill set up ;l II pnl h in; place local ions. Ill I'e pi >11111C, place \\ i u'kel -■
a l id e< inti itcl lie e led mil

• > I The ( ') i ie| Klei I ii in.-. ( )! I lee r \\ ill prep, ue a (';im;n
< 'ln-1 l .lert une. ( Min er to 1 lie ('u \ ot I'elmon!

•is ot Voles ( ‘:isl and sulunil .1 ( 'erl ificale lit

6)	The Chief Elections Officer will conduct other various and miscellaneous election activities
as required including but not limited to all those required of the City’s Election Official,
other than those described under “Services to be Performed by the City of Belmont”.

TERMS:

This agreement shall be in effect for the performance of all services incident to the preparation
and conduct of the election to be held on March 6, 2001.

In the event the Chief Elections Officer is unable to perform services required under this
Agreement, as a result of employer/employee relation conditions, vendor conditions or other conditions
beyond the control of the Chief Elections Officer, the Chief Elections Officer will be relieved of all
obligations under this Agreement. The Chief Elections Officer may terminate this agreement after
giving 72 hours written notice and the Chief Elections Officer will be relieved of all obligations.

This agreement can be mutually terminated upon a 30 day written notice.

CONSIDERATION:

In consideration of the performance of services and supplies provided by the Chief Elections
Officer, the City of Belmont shall pay to the Chief Elections Officer a sum equal to the actual cost of
such services and supplies.

The City of Belmont shall make payment within 30 days of receipt of invoice from the
Chief Elections Officer.

CITY:

Signature:__________

Print Name: Thomas Fil



Date:

sM

oo

Title:

COUNTY:

Signature:

Print Name:

Finance Director

1

Date:



Title.