MANHATTAN BEACH

SUPPLEMENTAL

Voter Information Pamphlet

SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2001	1

MARK AND SAVE THIS SAMPLE BALLOT

_____For	use	at	your Polling Place or for voting your “VOTE BY MAIL” Ballot

POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Y

This measure was unanimously placed on the ballot by the Manhattan Beach City Council. The measure would
authorize the issuance and sale of general obligation bonds as authorized by Article XVI of the California Constitution
and Government Code sections 43600 et seq. The maximum principal amount of the bond issue would be fifteen
million dollars ($15,000,000). The bond proceeds would be combined with existing City reserves of nineteen million
dollars ($19,000,000) and used to construct a new public safety (police and fire) facility on the existing civic center site.

The new public safety facility will replace the existing police station, built in 1958, and fire station built in 1960. The new
facility will provide more space for current police and fire operations, state of the art technology, and meet current
earthquake and other safety standards. A parking component will also be constructed which will provide increased
parking at the civic center complex.

The measure provides that the City would comply with accountability and reporting rules, as required by state law, in
administering the bond proceeds.

Bond obligations would be repaid through a real property tax within the City, based on the assessed taxable value of
such property. The highest annual tax rate would not exceed seventeen dollars and sixty-seven cents ($17.67) per
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) of the assessed value of real property in the City of Manhattan Beach.

A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the City of Manhattan Beach to issue general obligation bonds not to
exceed the principal amount of fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000) to construct a new public safety building to house
the police and fire departments and construct associated parking.

A “no" vote is a vote to not authorize the issuance and sale of said bonds.

Pursuant to state law the measure would only take effect if passed by a two thirds majority.

/s/ Robert V. Wadden Jr.

City Attorney

TAX RATE STATEMENT- MEASURE Y

The following information is provided in compliance with Sections 9400-9404 of the California Elections Code.

The highest estimated tax rate to fund this bond is in the first year (2002), and is estimated to be $.01767 per $100 of
assessed valuation (or $17.67 per $100,000 of assessed valuation). These estimated tax rates are based on
assumptions for assessed valuation, the timing of the bond sale (estimated to occur in 2002), the maximum amount
($15 million) and the interest rate on the bonds. As the assessed valuation of the City as a whole increases, your
actual assessment may decrease. Although the City has made every effort to reasonably account for such factors,
these estimates are not legally binding on the City.

/s/ Geoff Dolan, City Manager
City of Manhattan Beach

Manhattan Beach - 4 -

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Y

Invest in your community - support a modern public safety facility!

Vote YES on Measure Y

Just like good schools, a safe community is an important component of our high property values. Let’s keep our City
safe!

We ask that you help construct a modern, well-equipped and efficient public safety facility -- the kind of facility that our
community and our Police and Firefighters deserve.

Our Police and Fire Stations are over 40 years old, and despite efforts to keep them up to date, they are deteriorating.
They don’t meet current building codes or safety regulations. They are crowded and house many more employees
than originally intended; we are working out of trailers now. They were not designed to support female employees or
our current Paramedic program.

Bottom line - they don’t allow our forces to carry out their missions, and they inhibit our ability to provide you with
higher levels of service.

Don’t gamble with your safety! Vote YES

Our facilities may not function in a natural disaster. When a serious earthquake hits, our employees will be
endangered, and just when you need help the most, our equipment may be trapped in the building.

Invest in another 40 years of Safety! Vote YES on Measure Y

A recent study recommended that a new facility be constructed to meet the current and future needs of our Police and
Fire Departments. To fund this construction, a one time community safety bond will be sold at a cost of less than $18
per $100,000 of assessed valuation. Safety and peace of mind have a price, and we need to be willing to pay it --
because some things are priceless.

Don’t allow our first class public safety employees to work out of second class facilities.

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure Y.

/s/ Walt Dougher, Mayor, City of Manhattan Beach

/s/ Firefighter/Paramedic David Shenbaum, President, Manhattan Beach Firefighters' Association
/s/ Sgt. Shawn Shelton, President, Manhattan Beach Police Officers’ Association
/s/ Dr. Muriel Savikas, Chairman, Board of Directors, Manhattan Beach Chamber of Commerce
/s/ Peter Alfvin, President, Board of Trustees, Manhattan Beach Unified School District

Manhattan Beach - 5 -







ORDINANCE NO. 2031

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MANHATTAN
BEACH, CALIFORNIA, CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF A SPECIAL
ELECTION ON THE PROPOSITION OF WHETHER BONDS SHALL BE
ISSUED AND SOLD TO FINANCE A PORTION OF NEW POLICE AND
FIRE FACILITIES AND CIVIC CENTER PARKING, ORDERING THE
SUBMISSION OF A MEASURE TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS OF THE
CITY AT SUCH SPECIAL ELECTION AND ESTABLISHING
SPECIFICATIONS FOR THE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Manhattan Beach, California (the “City") has
determined that the facilities for the City's Police and Fire Departments and civic center parking are
inadequate and in need of improvement to ensure the health and safety of the occupants of the facilities and
to enable the City’s Police and Fire Departments to provide increased safety and emergency response
services to the residents of the City;

WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the public interest and necessity demand
the construction of new police and fire facilities and civic center parking to replace the inadequate facilities
(the “Public Safety Project”) and that it is advisable to provide a portion of the funding for the Public Safety
Project by means of general obligation bonds;

WHEREAS, Section 1(b) of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution excepts from the
general one percent (1 %) of full cash value limitation those ad valorem taxes used to pay for debt service
of any bonded indebtedness for the acquisition or improvement of real property approved on or after July
1, 1978, by two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast by voters on the proposition;

WHEREAS, in the judgment of the City Council, it is advisable to call a special election on
the question of whether bonds shall be issued and sold and ad valorem taxes be levied for the purposes set
forth below.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MANHATTAN BEACH,
CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY DECLARE, ORDER AND ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The above recitals are true and correct.

SECTION 2. Pursuant to the laws of the State of California, the City Council hereby calls
a special election and orders the submission to the qualified voters of the City the question of whether bonds
of the City (the “Bonds") in a maximum amount of $15,000,000, shall be issued and sold and ad valorem
taxes levied for the purpose of raising money for a portion of the costs of building new City police and fire
facilities and civic center parking facilities to replace existing inadequate facilities.

SECTION 3. The estimated cost of the police and fire facilities and civic center parking
facilities is $34,000,000, including costs authorized pursuant to California Government Code Section
43610.1(a) and (b) which may be paid from the proceeds of the Bonds.

SECTION 4. The purpose of the election shall be for the voters in the City to vote on a
proposition, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein, containing the
question of whether the City shall issue Bonds and ad valorem taxes levied to pay for a portion of the costs
of building new City police and fire facilities and civic center parking facilities to the extent permitted by such
proposition

SECTION 5. The maximum amount of the Bonds shall be $15,000,000.

SECTION 6. The maximum number of years any series of Bonds shall run shall not
exceed thirty (30) years. The maximum rate of interest to be paid on the Bonds shall not exceed the legal

1

Ord. 2031

5

rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum. The actual rate of interest on any series of Bonds shall be
determined at or prior to the time of the sale of such series

SECTION 7. The date of the special election shall be November 6, 2001.

SECTION 8. The election shall be consolidated with such other elections to be held on
November 6, 2001 under state law within the territory of the City, and shall be held and conducted, and all
other proceedings incidental to and connected with the election, shall be regulated and done, in accordance
with the provisions of law regulating regularly scheduled elections. The precincts, polling places for said
precincts in the County of Los Angeles, and persons appointed and designated to serve as election officers
for said election will be those determined, designated, and appointed pursuant to state law by the Registrar-
Recorder/County Clerk of the County of Los Angeles (the “Registrar”). The City, by resolution, shall request
that the election be consolidated with the general election and that the Registrar conduct the election as well
as perform various other services required by law on behalf of the City.

SECTION 9. The City Clerk shall, not later than 88 days prior to the date of the election,
cause a certified copy of this Ordinance to be filed with the Board of Supervisor of the County of Los Angeles
and the Registrar.

SECTION 10. The City Attorney is hereby directed to prepare an analysis of the measure
and to supply it to the City Clerk for use in the sample ballot.

SECTION 11. Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 12111, the City Clerk is
hereby directed to publish a synopsis of the measure to be voted on in substantially the form attached hereto
as Exhibit “B" with such additions or modifications as approved by the City Attorney.

SECTION 12. The City Clerk is hereby directed to publish this Ordinance pursuant to
California Government Code Section 43611.

SECTION 13. Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City
Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the election, in time, form
and manner as required by law.

SECTION 14. In all particulars not recited in this Ordinance, the election shall be held and
conducted as provided by law for holding municipal and general obligation bond elections The City Clerk
shall make this Ordinance readily available for public inspection within thirty (30) days of the date this
Ordinance is adopted.

SECTION 15. Upon its second reading and adoption, the City Clerk shall certify to the
adoption of this Ordinance and thenceforth and thereafter the same shall be in full force and effect.

PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED this 19th day of June, 2001.

Ayes:

Noes:

Absent:

Abstain:

Mayor, City of Manhattan Beach, California

ATTEST:

City Clerk

Ord. 2031

EXHIBIT “A"

MEASURE______

PUBLIC SAFETY BOND

“To build City police and fire facilities which will replace inadequate existing
facilities, meet current seismic, health and safety standards, provide improved
safety and emergency response services and provide civic center parking, shall
the City of Manhattan Beach issue bonds in an amount not to exceed $15,000,000
at interest rates within the legal limit and levy an additional ad valorem tax upon
taxable property within the City to secure the bonds?"

Bonds - Yes

Bonds - No

EXHIBIT “B”

MEASURE TO BE VOTED ON

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the City of Manhattan Beach,
County of Los Angeles, State of California, that in accordance with law, the following measure is to be voted
on at a Special Municipal Election to be held in the City of Manhattan Beach, California, on Tuesday, the &h
day of November, 2001, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., during which period and between
hours the polls shall remain open, at which election there will be submitted the question of:

Issuing and selling bonds of said City in the principal amount of not-to-exceed Fifteen
Million Dollars ($15,000,000) and levying an additional ad valorem tax on taxable property within the City
to secure the bonds. The need for the issuance of such bonds and the purposes for which it is intended that
the proceeds of the bond issue will be expended are to finance a portion of the costs of building new City
police and fire facilities and civic center parking facilities to replace inadequate facilities.

Said bonds proposed to be issued and sold shall bear interest at a rate or rates not
exceeding the legal maximum of twelve percent (12%) per annum. The maturity of the bonds shall not
exceed thirty (30) years from the dated date of the said bonds.

All of the foregoing purposes and provision enumerated herein shall be voted upon as one
proposition to appear on the ballot as follows:

“To build City police and fire facilities which will replace inadequate existing
facilities, meet current seismic, health and safety standards, provide improved
safety and emergency response services and provide civic center parking, shall
the City of Manhattan Beach issue bonds in an amount not to exceed $15,000,000
at interest rates within the legal limit and levy an additional ad valorem tax upon
taxable property within the City to secure the bonds?”

The polls for this election shall open at 7:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m. The precincts, places for holding
the election, and officers appointed to conduct the election shall be those determined, specified or appointed
by the Los Angeles Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk pursuant to state law.

Dated this______day of______________,	2001.

CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF MANHATTAN BEACH,
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

4