>Mffl[p[y

OFFICIAL BALLOT

COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO
SPECIAL ELECTION

ALPINE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

Tuesday, November 6, 2001

I HAVE VOTED - HAVE YOU?

ALPINE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
SPECIAL ELECTION
Tuesday, November 6, 2001

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

PROPOSITION A

Shall the Alpine Fire Protection
District establish and impose standby
or availability charges, not to exceed
$15.00 per unit of benefit per year,
on all real property (except that of
Federal, State or Local Governmental
Agency) within the boundaries of
said fire protection district, for fire
suppression, emergency medical,
and related services within said
boundaries?

YES	4	o
NO	4	©

FP-14

N SD 001-002

VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLET

The following pages contain

BALLOT MEASURE, RESOLUTION,
ANALYSIS AND ARGUMENTS

ARGUMENTS

Arguments in support of or in opposition to the proposed measure are the
opinions of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any
official agency.

N SD 001-003

ALPINE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
Proposition A

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

■	Shall the Alpine Fire Protection District establish and impose

rnUr A standby°ravai|abi|itychar9es'not,oexceed $15.00 per unit

1 1	** of benefit per year, on all real property (except that of Federal,

State or Local Governmental Agency) within the boundaries of said fire protection
district, for fire suppression, emergency medical, and related services within said
boundaries?

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE ALPINE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
DETERMINING AND PROPOSING FOR ADOPTION AN
ANNUAL SPECIAL BENEFIT TAX FOR FIRE PROTECTION
AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES

RESOLUTION #01/02-2

The Board of Directors of the Alpine Fire Protection District do hereby resolve as follows:

Section 1: The Board does hereby determine and propose for adoption an annual special benefit
fee for fire suppression and emergency medical services within the boundaries of said District
pursuant to Government Code Section 50075, to be levied on a parcel, class of improvement, and
use of property basis, not to exceed the following schedule:

Actual Use	Maximum Number of Units of Benefit
Unimproved	2 units per acre/or portion of an acre up to 10 units per parcel
Irrigated Farm	4 units per parcel
Residential	4 units per dwelling
Apartments	3 units per dwelling
Mobile Homes	2 units per dwelling
Commercial	10 units per enterprise
Industrial	20 units per enterprise
Vacant Land	1 unit per acre or portion of an acre

Section 2: Such charges shall be charged to any parcel, improvement, or use of property, to
which fire protection and emergency medical services may be made available, whether or not said
service are actually used upon a parcel, improvement, or use of property.

Section 3: Such charges shall be imposed for the purpose of obtaining, furnishing, operating and
maintaining fire protection and emergency medical equipment and apparatus, and for the purpose
of paying salaries, insurance costs, and benefits to personnel.

Section 4: In fiscal year 2001-02 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Board of Directors may direct
the maximum special benefit tax as stated in Section 1 to be increased by a percentage equal to
the percentage increase of the adjusted price index measured between January 1 of the
immediately preceding fiscal year and the preceding January 1 as determined for the San Diego
area by the U.S. Department of Labor. Increases greater than the increase in the adjusted
consumer price index shall not be made unless they are authorized by a two thirds vote of the
voters casting ballots in the year for which such increase are proposed.

Section 5: Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075, the special benefit tax proposed by this
Resolution shall be submitted to the voters within said district. The ballot proposition shall be
worded as provided in the Resolution of the Board of Directors calling for the election.

Section 6: This Resolution shall become operative on December 1,2001 if the special benefit tax
proposed by this resolution is approved by two thirds of the voters voting on the question of the
adoption of the special benefit tax.

PR-19A0-1

N SD 001-004

Section 7: If the proposition is approved, the Board of Directors shall establish schedules varying
each of such special taxes according to value of benefits to each parcel, improvement, and use
of property. However, the special benefit taxes shall not exceed the maximum charges set forth in
Section 1 thereof and shall be in lieu of the previous benefit charge.

Section 8: If any portion of this Resolution be declared unconstitutional, invalid or otherwise
unenforceable, the other provisions of this Resolution shall remain in full force and effect.

Section 9: Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075, this Resolution is effective immediately
as a resolution relating to an election.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Directors of the Alpine Fire Protection District,
County of San Diego, State of California, on the 17th day of July, 2001 by the following vote:
AYES:	Smith,	Kramer,	Howell,	Fuller,	Fritz	(5)

NOES:	(0)

ABSTAIN:	(0)

ABSENT:	(0)

Mary Fritz	Jean	D.	Moore

President of the Board	Clerk	of	the	Board

PR-19A0-2

N SD 001-005

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

As residents of the Alpine Fire Protection District (“District”), you are called upon to vote on the
adoption of a special benefit tax (also referred to as a “standby and availability charge" or “benefit
fee") to pay for fire protection and emergency medical services. The special benefit tax will be
levied in an amount not to exceed $15.00 per unit of benefit per year.

Units of benefit are levied on a parcel, class of improvement, and use of property basis not to
exceed the following schedule:

Actual Use	Maximum Number of Units of Benefit
Unimproved	2 units per acre/or portion of an acre up to 10 units per parcel
Irrigated Farm	4 units per parcel
Residential	4 units per dwelling
Apartments	3 units per dwelling
Mobile Homes	2 units per dwelling
Commercial	10 units per enterprise
Industrial	20 units per enterprise
Vacant Land	1 unit per acre or portion of an acre

For example, under the above formula, the owner of one single-family residence would pay a
maximum special benefit tax of $60.00 per year to the District.

In fiscal year 2001 -2002 and each fiscal year thereafter, the District Board of Directors may direct
the maximum special benefit tax to be increased by a percentage equal to the percentage increase
of the consumer price index measured between January 1 of the immediately preceding fiscal year
and the preceding January 1 as determined for the San Diego area by the U.S. Department of
Labor.

Increases exceeding the consumer price index are not permitted unless approved by two- thirds
of the voters of the District voting on the increase.

Approval by two-thirds of the voters voting on this measure is required for the adoption of the
special benefit tax.

A “yes” vote is a vote in favor of the adoption of the special benefit tax.

A “no” vote is a vote against the adoption of the special benefit tax.

PR-19A0-3

N SD 001-006

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Dear Alpine Neighbor:

Please join us in voting “YES” on A to preserve and improve Alpine firefighting and paramedic
services.

The firefighters and directors of the Alpine Fire District have used our tax dollars carefully and
efficiently. Despite receiving less funds from the State and responding to many more emergency
calls, the Alpine Fire District has still been able to expand public services and set aside money
annually to pay for a badly needed new fire station.

The current fire station, built over 50 years ago, has leaky roofs and an overloaded electrical
system. There is insufficient space for modern firefighting apparatus, new paramedic equipment
and facilities for female firefighters. It fails to meet earthquake standards and does not allow for
decontamination after hazardous calls. The current station simply does not meet the common
decency needs of a modern firefighting force.

Funds set aside for a new station are not adequate. Therefore, Board Members have placed
Proposition A on the ballot to raise $360,360 annually for fire and life safety.

Every penny from Proposition A will stay in Alpine and may ONLY be used for fire safety and
paramedic programs. To protect taxpayers, Proposition A funds will be subject to an independent
annual audit.

Proposition A needs our votes to be successful. If two-thirds of votes cast in the election are "YES",
our community will get the new fire station. Life-saving services will be maintained and improved.
Emergency response times will remain short or be further reduced.

If Proposition A fails to receive a two-thirds vote, construction of a new fire station will result in cuts
to paramedic services, firefighting and backcountry fire prevention programs. Emergency
response times will increase. Lower fire safety levels could also result in higher homeowners’
insurance premiums.

Please vote YES on Proposition A.

JAY C. HARN
Publisher
Alpine Sun

BILL F. PASKLE
President

Alpine Firefighters Association

PATRICIA A. CANNON
President/CEO

PAUL GONYA
Vice President

Alpine Chamber of Commerce Alpine Planning Group

BARBARA HOWELL
Board Member
Alpine Fire Protection District

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

No argument against the proposition was filed in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-19A0-4

N SD 001-007