MEASURE F

“Shall an ordinance entitled “An Ordinance of the Town of Atherton Authorizing the Levy of a Special Tax for Municipal Services and Capital
Improvements and for the Expenditure of Funds Derived from such Tax, and numbered 520 be adopted?”

FULLTEXT

ORDINANCE NO. 520
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF ATHERTON

CALLING AN ELECTION TO SUBMIT TO THE VOTERS
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX
FOR MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS,
AND FOR THE EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS DERIVED FROM
SUCH TAX

The City Council of the Town of Atherton does hereby ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. ELECTION CALLED. The City Council of the Town of
Atherton submits the following ordinance to the voters of the Town of
Atherton at an election to be held on Tuesday, June 5, 2001.

SECTION 2. FULL TEXT OF MEASURE. The complete text of the
proposed ordinance shall be:

“AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF ATHERTON
AUTHORIZING THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX FOR

MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
AND FOR THE EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS DERIVED FROM
SUCH TAX

The people of the Town of Atherton do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO ADOPT MEASURE. This
ordinance and the tax authorized herein are adopted pursuant to the
provisions of the California Constitution, Articles XIIIA §4, XIIIB §4 and
XIIIC §2, and pursuant to Sections 50075, 50076, 50077 and
53722 et. seq. of the California Government Code.

SECTION 2.	AUTHORIZATION TO LEVY SPECIAL TAX. If, in

any fiscal year commencing July, 2001, the City Council shall determine
that municipal services such as police protection, street repair and
maintenance, drainage facility repair and maintenance are necessary for the
public good, welfare, and safety, and that the cost of providing such
services will exceed the amount of funds generated through other revenue
and income which are counted under the limit of the Town for such services
calculated in accordance with the provisions of Article XIIIB of the
California Constitution, as provided for in the adopted budget, and/or if
capital improvements are required, the cost of which exceeds the amount of
funds generated through other revenues and receipts, and/or if amounts
should be required to augment operational and capital needs of the Town,
then it may levy a special tax for such fiscal year on each parcel of property
within the Town in the manner provided herein. This special tax shall be in
addition to the annual tax rate allowed by law,

SECTION 3. DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT TO BE RAISED.
Each year following adoption of the Town’s annual budget, the City
Council will determine the total amount of expenditures necessary to
provide adequate levels of municipal services and capital improvements
and deduct therefrom the projected revenue to be gathered from sources
other than this special tax. The difference, if any, shall be the maximum
amount of funds to be derived from the tax authorized by this ordinance
for such year.

SECTION 4.	MAXIMUM TAX RATE/METHOD OF ASSESSMENT.

After determining the amount of tax to be raised under Section 3, the City

Council shall apportion said amount among the parcels of real property
within the Town not exempted by law as follows:

MAXIMUM TAX IN GIVEN YEAR

	2001-02	2002-03	2003-04	2004-05
For each dwelling on a parcel with an area of less than 1/4 acre:	450,00	450.00	450.00	450.00
For each unimproved parcel with an area of less than 1/4 acre:	225.00	225.00	225.00	225.00
For each dwelling on a parcel with an area of 1/4 acre or more, but less than 1/2 acre:	570.00	570.00	570.00	570.00
For each unimproved parcel with an area of 1/4 acre or more, but less than 1/2 acre:	285.00	285.00	285.00	285.00
For each dwelling on a parcel with an area of 1/2 acre or more, but less than 2 acres:	750.00	750.00	750.00	750.00
For each unimproved parcel with an area of 1/2 acre or more, but less than 2 acres:	375.00	375.00	375.00	375.00
For each dwelling on a parcel with an area of 2 acres or more: 960.00		960.00	960.00	960.00
For each unimproved parcel with an area of 2 acres or more: 480.00		480.00	480.00	480.00

9.	For each private club:	10,000.00	10,000.00	10,000.0010,000.00

10.	For each parcel available for tax
owned by a utility which serves

the Atherton community:	450.00	450.00	450.00	450.00

11.	For each parcel available for
tax owned by a utility which
does not directly serve the

Atherton community:	750.00	750.00	750.00	750.00

The records of the San Mateo County Assessor, as of each year, shall
determine whether or not any particular lot is unimproved for purposes of
this ordinance.

SECTION 5. HEARING, TAX LIEN AND INCLUSION IN CITY
TAXES. Prior to levying a special tax under this ordinance in any fiscal
year, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed tax.
Such hearing shall be conducted after the City Council has adopted an
annual budget for that year. Notice of such hearing shall be posted in at
least three public places within the Town of Atherton at least fifteen days
prior to the hearing. All of the information and material which the City
Council intends to consider at such hearing and the amount of tax to be
raised shall be made available to the public by being on file in the office of
the City Clerk for at least fifteen days prior to said hearing. Following said
hearing, the City Council may adopt a resolution fixing the amount of tax
to be raised which shall not exceed the amount contained in the material on

file in the Clerk’s office. Any tax levied under this ordinance shall become
a lien upon the properties against which it is assessed and collectible in the
manner provided by applicable law and by the levying resolution.

SECTION 6. COLLECTION. The City Council may elect to have
any special tax authorized under this Chapter either collected by the Town
or, in the alternative, by the Tax Collector of San Mateo County. If the
services of the Tax Collector of the County of San Mateo are elected, the
special tax may only be included on the annual tax bill set out by such Tax
Collector. A certified copy of the resolution electing to use the service of
the Tax Collector of San Mateo County shall be filed with said Tax
Collector prior to September 1st of the fiscal year for which the tax is
assessed and shall include a list of all parcels of real property to be taxed
and the amount of each parcel.

SECTION 7. INCREASE APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Pursuant to
California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriations limit for the Town
of Atherton will be increased by one and one-half times the aggregate sum
authorized to be levied as a special tax in each of the years covered by this
ordinance.

SECTION 8.	FUNDING AND EXPENDING PROCEEDS.	Proceeds

of any tax levied under this ordinance shall be deposited in a Special Fund
and expended only for the purposes stated in this ordinance.

SECTION 9. UNEXPENDED RESIDUE. In accordance with
Section 2(b) of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, all revenues
received by the Town in a fiscal year and the fiscal year immediately
following it in excess of the amount which may be appropriated by the Town
in compliance with Article XIIIB during that fiscal year and the fiscal year
immediately following it shall be returned by a revision of tax rates or fee
schedules within the next two subsequent fiscal years.

SECTION 10. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance
of the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid
such invalidity shall not affect any other provision or applications, and to
this end the provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.

SECTION II. DURATION AMENDMENT OR REPEAL. The
authorization to levy a tax under this ordinance shall commence with the
Fiscal Year 2001-2002, beginning July 1, 2001 and shall continue through
and including June 30, 2005. This ordinance or any provision thereof may
only be amended or repealed by approval of two-thirds of the voters voting
on the proposition at any initiative or referendum election.

This ordinance shall be adopted if approved as an initiative measure by
two-thirds of the voters voting at a consolidation election to be held on
Tuesday, June 5, 2001, and go into effect ten (10) days after the City
Council has, by resolution, declared that such initiative measure was
approved by two-thirds of the voters voting thereon.”

SECTION 3. CONDENSED STATEMENT OF MEASURE. The man-
ner in which the proposed measure shall appear on the ballot shall be:

“Shall an ordinance entitled “An Ordinance of the Town of
Atherton Authorizing the Levy of a Special Tax for
Municipal Services and Capital Improvements and for the
Expenditure of Funds Derived from such Tax, and
numbered 520 be adopted?”

SECTION 4. PUBLICATION. This ordinance shall be posted in at least
three public places within the Town of Atherton, and shall become effective
immediately upon its passage and approval. The City Clerk is authorized and
directed to give notice of election in accordance with Chapter 2 (commencing
with section 12100) of Division 12ofthe California Elections Code.

SECTION 5. CONSOLIDATION. The election on the proposed
ordinance shall be consolidated with any and all other elections to be held
on June 5, 2001.

SECTION 6. SEVERABILITY, If any provision of this ordinance or
the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid such
invalidity shall not affect any other provision or application, and to this
end the provisions of the ordinance are declared to be severable.

SECTION 7. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance calling an election
shall become effective immediately upon its adoption by the City Council
of the Town of Atherton.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F

INITIATIVE - AUTHORIZES SPECIAL TAX
TO FINANCE MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

This initiative Measure proposes to add a new ordinance to the
Ordinance Code of the Town of Atherton that would allow the City Council
to impose a Special Tax on Real Property to finance Municipal Services,
such as police protection, street repair and maintenance, drainage facility
repair and maintenance, and capital improvements where other sources of
revenue are not sufficient because of restraints imposed by Article XIIIA of
the California Constitution also known as Proposition 13. The ordinance
would correspondingly increase the appropriations limit under Article XIIIB
of the California Constitution.

The City Council must conduct a duly noticed public hearing on
proposed tax after adoption of the annual budget. The tax may not exceed
the total amount of expenditures necessary to provide adequate levels of
municipal services and capital improvements, as determined by the City
Council, after deducting the projected revenue to be gathered from sources
other than the Special Tax.

The tax on individual parcels may not, however, exceed in any year the
amounts set forth in Section 4 of the proposed ordinance.

The tax will be a lien on individual parcels and may be collected by the
Town or the County Tax Collector at the option of the City Council.

Any monies raised by this Special Tax may be used only for said
municipal services and capital improvements. In accordance with Article
XIIIB of the California Constitution, all revenues received in a fiscal year
and the fiscal year following it in excess of the Town’s appropriations limits
during that fiscal year and the fiscal year immediately following it shall be
returned by a revision of tax rates or fee schedules within the next two
subsequent fiscal years.

Authority to levy this tax will commence with the tax year 2001-2002
and will expire with the tax year 2004-2005, and may only be amended or
repealed by a two-thirds vote of the people.

/s/ Marc G. Hynes

City Attorney

Town of Atherton

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

Much in our Town has changed this past year. We have a Council that
is committed to financial and administrative oversight, openness,
responsiveness and accountability. The budget is balanced. The Town is
under new management. Wasteful practices have been successfully
challenged and eliminated. Extensive changes, recommended by our new
auditors and recently constituted audit committee, composed of highly
qualified citizens, are being implemented.

In the midst of this progress, it is vital for the well-being of our Town
that outstanding and sometimes long-neglected issues finally be addressed.
We have proven our commitment to restoring your trust. We now need your
help to provide funds necessary to complete the job. We need your support
of the parcel tax.

Atherton is unique as a residential community without any commercial
business to generate significant sales tax revenue. Parcel tax funds,
approximately $ 1.6 million, are needed for - and will be committed to - four
specific areas:

•	Roads and drainage - two recent studies have concluded what most
residents already know - road and drainage maintenance and repairs
require immediate and serious attention;

•	Capital improvements - long overdue repairs to the Town’s
facilities and infrastructure today can result in cost savings for
tomorrow;

•	Police staffing - a fully-staffed, on the street, police force is
recommended to ensure adequate community coverage and enhance
security;

•	Salary adjustments - in order to hire and retain a small, high-caliber
staff. Town salaries must remain competitive.

We have listened to your past concerns and criticisms. We have responded
with positive change. We care about our Town’s future. We want these
projects important to the Town to move forward. Now is the time. Today,
many of those who previously and actively opposed the tax join us in
support. We ask that you please vote ‘“yes”. (Sandy Crittenden assisted in
preparing this argument.)

/s/ Dianne M. Fisher  Mayor	March 16, 2001
/s/ Alan B. Carlson  Vice Mayor	March 16,2001
/s/ William R. Conwell  Council Member	March 18. 2001
/s/ James R. Janz  Council Member	March 16, 2001

/s/ Kathy McKeithen	March	16,	2001

Council Member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

Human Nature. It is human nature to gravitate towards the institutions we
value. Thus, it is no surprise that town council life attracts those who
would see the government receive all the money that is coming to it, and
then some.

Boundaries. The rest of us, however, value other pursuits. Variety is the
spice of life, after all. A civil society requires that we draw and respect
boundaries. In California, the 1% per year property tax is an easily
recognized line that has served both taxpayers and governments well.

When governments covet the citizens’ wealth on the other side of that
line, and seek special exceptions for special taxes, they do civilization a
disservice. Respect for boundaries is diminished and democracy is
reduced to an unseemly chaos of special interest initiatives and special tax
measures.

Every time one special tax passes, two more go on the ballot. There is no
limit, once respect for boundaries is broken down.

This election, it’s an extra $2400per parcel (over 4 years). What comes
next?

Let’s keep the river of government within its banks. Vote ‘No’ on F. Stick
to a budget.

Is/ Jack Hickey	March 28. 2001

Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F

This is NOT a referendum on the value of storm drains, etc. We all want
our public services to be adequately funded and well-run—and that's why
we ALREADY pay property taxes. Last year, Atherton taxpayers paid $27
million in property taxes. That's more than Belmont or Pacifica—cities
with much larger populations and more challenging terrain.

The claim that we need a special tax to pay employees wages comparable
to neighboring cities is absurd. Atherton's tax base is nearly triple the county
average per parcel already.

Local property tax growth has far outstripped inflation in each of the last 8
years—up 10% in 1997, 10% again in 1998. 10% yet again in 1999 and
11 % in 2000! (http://www.care.co.sanmateo.ca.us/assessor/)

Residents rejected this levy in 1999 and 2000. Since 1999, annual property
taxes have increased by $5 million (from $22 million to S27 million). If the
town really did need an extra $1.6 million then, it surely doesn't need it
now.

This IS a vote on working within a budget. Does the Town really need
more money than we already give it in property and sales taxes? We say
‘No’!

Is/ John J. Hickey	March 17, 2001

Chair - Libertarian Party of San Mateo County

11

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F

The opponents claim Atherton taxpayers paid $27 million in
property taxes. They fail to acknowledge that by law only 9 cents out of
every property tax dollar is allocated to the Town. These 9 cents funded
less than one-half of last year’s budget. That budget included virtually no
money for maintenance of our roads, storm drains or buildings.

We need to keep this issue in perspective. To compare Atherton to
Belmont and Pacifica is misguided. These municipalities receive a
majority of their revenue from commercial businesses in the form of sales
tax. Atherton has chosen not to have a business district. Only an
insignificant amount of sales tax is raised from the few home-based
businesses in Town.

W'e say that Atherton has changed this past year. The Town now
has a more complete annual audit process. Wasteful expenses have been
eliminated. Gasoline, telephone, credit card and even routine legal bills
have been drastically reduced. Atherton’s financial practices and costs
are regularly scrutinized by City Council and the citizen-based Audit
Committee.

For the first time ever, revenue from this special tax will be placed
in a completely separate account. This is to ensure that funds will be
spent primarily on maintaining what we have, keeping our roads and
drainage system in stable, usable condition and fairly compensating our
staff. You have our word.

(The Libertarian Party opposing this measure is a group which

opposes essentially all tax measures signatory is an Atherton resident.)	in San Mateo County. Neither
/s/ Dianne M. Fisher  Mayor	March 29, 2001
/s/ Alan B. Carlson Vice Mayor	March 29, 2001
/s/ William R. Conwell  Council Member	March 29, 2001
/s/ Kathy McKeithen  Council Member	March 29, 2001
/s/ Sandy Crittenden	March 29, 2001

Prior Opponent of Parcel Tax Measures