RESOLUTION NO. 2001-102

A RESOLUTION OF THE MARIN COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
CALLING FOR A SPECIAL ELECTION TO IMPOSE A SPECIAL TAX UPON PARCELS
LOCATED WITHIN CSA 16 FOR THE PURPOSE OF PROVIDING
ADDITIONAL LANDSCAPING AND MAINTENANCE SERVICES

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors, as the governing body of CSA 16, and at the
request of the CSA 16 Advisory Committee, determines that it is in the best interests of the
property owners within CSA 16 to provide additional landscaping and maintenance to their
street and median strip and to fund said additional services through imposition of a special tax;
and,

WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code SS 25210.6a and 50075, et seq., and in
compliance with California Constitution Article XIIIC, the Board of Supervisors is hereby
authorized to adopt this Resolution to establish and impose (subject to voter approval) a
special tax upon all real property located with CSA 16; and,

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors proposes to increase the current special tax from
$150.00 per annum per parcel to the amount of $225.00 per annum per parcel for fiscal year
2002-03, and shall remain in effect until repealed by the Board of Supervisors or until repealed
by the registered voters upon whose property the special tax is imposed; and,

WHEREAS, the special tax, if approved by the electorate, will not exceed the spending
limit as increased by the electorate pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, as follows:

1.	The special tax shall be collected annually by the Marin County Tax Collector in the
same manner and subject to the same penalties as County property taxes are collected. The
Parks, Open Space and Cultural Services Department shall annually take such steps as are
necessary to have the special tax collected through the property tax bill, and shall coordinate
such efforts with the Marin County Auditor and the Marin County Tax Collector. The County
shall be entitled to deduct its reasonable costs incurred in collecting the special tax before
such tax is remitted to CSA 16.

2.	The special tax established by this Resolution shall be submitted to the registered
voters within CSA 16 at a special election to be conducted on November 6,2001. The special
tax shall not become effective unless approved by two-thirds of the registered voters within
CSA 16. The question submitted to the voters shall read substantially as follows:

Shall the existing special tax of $150.00 per annum be increased to
$225.00 per parcel per annum within CSA 16 to. provide additional
landscaping and maintenance services within that area?

3.	The Board of Directors hereby calls for a special election to be held on November 6,
2001 seeking voter approval to impose the special tax on parcels within CSA 16.

4.	Pursuant to the provisions of Elections Code Section 1002, the Marin County Board
of Supervisors authorizes and directs the Marin County Clerk to render all services necessary
for the conduct of the election. The costs of the special mailed ballot election shall be borne by
CSA 16.

5.	The special tax shall be deemed established and shall be in effect beginning with the
2002-2003 fiscal year, upon certification of the election results evidencing approval by at least
two-thirds of the registered voters voting thereon.

6.	Pursuant to Government Code Section 50077.5 and Code of Civil Procedure Section
860, any judicial action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside, or annul this special tax, if
approved by the voters, shall be commenced within sixty (60) days of the effective date of this
resolution.

7.	The Clerk of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to mail a copy of this
Resolution to the Advisory Board of CSA 16.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors held this 7th
day of August, 2001, by the following vote:

AYES:	SUPERVISORS	Cynthia	L.	Murray, John B. Kress, Annette Rose,

Harold C. Brown, Jr.

NOES:	NONE

ABSENT: SUPERVISOR Steve Kinsey

ATTEST:

The foregoing Iretnif—
correct copy of Ha e^fUSiii
record in tMt Oita.

mark

of the Board flftupSMMI
of the County of Uadi

2

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors