“To improve academic performance, attract qualified teachers, improve/maintain instructional programs/technology/classrooms, shall
Belmont-Redwood Shores School District impose a qualified special tax of $184/y ear/tax able parcel (with exemptions for parcels owned/occupied by
persons 65 years of age or older upon application) for ten years, at a rate of $92 on July 1,2001, and $184 by July 1,2002, adjusted annually by CPI,
and shall the District’s appropriations limit be raised by such amount each year?”

FULL TEXT

To improve academic performance, attract qualified teachers, improve and
maintain instructional programs, technology and classrooms, shall
Belmont-Redwood Shores School District impose a qualified special tax of
$184 per year per taxable parcel (with exceptions for parcels owned/occupied
by persons 65 years of age or older upon application), for ten years at an
effective rate of $92 on July 1, 2001, and the full rate by July 1, 2002,
adjusted annually by changes in the Consumer Price Index (all urban
consumers) for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Metropolitan Area,
published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics, but in no event to exceed 5% per year, and shall the District’s
appropriations limit be raised each year, by undertaking actions such as:

a)	Improving children’s academic performance

b)	Attracting and retaining highly-qualified teachers and other
employees

c)	Acquiring, maintaining, and providing technology for classroom use

d)	Providing training for teachers

e)	Assisting with classroom and school maintenance

f)	Preserving the elementary music program

g)	Providing extra help for students needing academic assistance.

An exemption shall be granted for any parcel owned by one or more
persons 65 years of age or over who occupies said parcel as a principal
residence, upon annual application for exemption.

This Measure will also increase the District’s Gann Appropriation Limit in
an amount equal to the levy of special taxes for said year, as permitted by
Article XIIIB, Section 4 of The California Constitution. This increase is
required for the District to use the revenues generated by the tax.

To insure additional accountability, a community budget advisory
committee shall be appointed by the Governing Board whose principal
functions will be to monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District
and to report on an annual basis to the community on how these funds have
been spent.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the Belmont-Redwood Shores
School District propose to levy a special tax for a period of ten years
beginning July 1, 2001 and ending June 30, 2011. This tax shall be at a rate
of $92 per year per parcel on July 1,2001 and $ 184 per year per parcel on
July 1, 2002, adjusted annually thereafter by changes in the Consumer Price
Index for the Bay Area, not to exceed 5% annually.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District which now
receives a separate tax bill from the San Mateo County Assessor’s Office.
Any person 65 years of age or older who owns and occupies a parcel may
qualify for an exemption from the special tax. All property which would
otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from
imposition of this special tax.

The purposes of the special tax are to: improve academic performance;
attract qualified teachers; improve and maintain instructional programs,
technology and classrooms; and to preserve elementary music programs.

This measure would also increase the District’s appropriations limit
per fiscal year, in an amount equal to the levy of the special tax for that
year, as permitted by Article XIIIB, section 4 of the California Constitution.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to
be levied on property within the boundaries of the
Belmont-Redwood Shores School District at a rate of
$92 per year per parcel by July 1, 2001 and $184 per year
per parcel by July 1, 2002 per year for ten years ending
June 30, 2011, adjusted annually by changes in the
Consumer Price Index for the Bay Area, not to exceed 5%
annually. It would also allow the appropriations (spending)
limit to be raised.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special
tax to be levied and would not allow the appropriations
limit to be raised.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote
“yes.”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 6

Last year, the Belmont/Redwood Shores School District was forced to
make over $800,000 in budget cuts. Many programs were eliminated or
severely cut. These include: reading specialists, staff development
programs, and at-risk counselors. Additionally, there has been a 10%
reduction in classroom supplies at each school.

Future cuts will be unavoidable unless we can raise additional
revenues. Measure B will raise those funds.

Excellent public schools significantly contribute to the quality of life
of our community. Our schools are known for superb teachers,
award-winning math, science and arts programs, and state-of-the-art
computer centers. These programs not only allow our students to excel
academically, they help enhance the value of our homes and the properties
in which we have invested.

However, many of these programs are at risk because school revenues
are not adequate to continue to pay for a first rate education for our
children. State and local funds simply do not provide for the level of
investment that this kind of excellence requires.

Measure B will continue our community’s commitment to high
standards for our students by:

•	Attracting and retaining qualified teachers

•	Providing and maintaining technology for classroom use

•	Assisting with classroom and school maintenance

•	Preserving the elementary music program

•	Providing extra help for students needing instructional assistance

Measure B is a responsible and reasonable investment. It will cost
property owners $184 annually ($92 the first year), and conclude in
10 years. The Cost of Living Adjustment is capped at 5% per year.
A complete exemption is available for those persons 65 years or older,
upon application.

Invest just an additional 50 cents a day in our community and in our
children’s future. Quality matters in the Belmont/Redwood Shores School
District. We ask you to VOTE YES on Measure B on June 5.

Is/ Eleanore Hahn	March 16, 2001
Mayor, City of Belmont	
fs/ Ira Ruskin	March 16, 2001
Mayor, Redwood City	
/$/ Howard Mason	March 16, 2001
Belmont City Treasurer	
/s/ Catherine Bonnar	March 16, 2001
President Belmont-Redwood Shores School Board	
/s/ Joan M. Peceimer	March 19, 2001
Belmont Senior Citizen	

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Pennies a dav? Let’s be clear: This is a $2000 tax (@CP1=3.7%), collected
over 10 years. For less fortunate residents who carry the balance on their
credit cards, that’s $4500, with interest. Many residents need that money to
buy health insurance, or pay the rent or a mortgage.

Budget cuts?? That doesn’t square with the state’s Ed-Data web site
(http://www.ed-data.kl2.ca.us/dev/district.asp): The last 4 budgets reported
(’96-’99) were $9.6, $11.1, $12.4, and $14.5 million. This year’s
budget—$17.2 million—doesn’t sound like “severe cuts” to us! Even the
doomsayers asking for this tax admit that “Our schools are known for su-
perb teachers, award-winning math, science, and arts programs, and state-
of-the-art computer centers.”

The $ 12 million bond: $3 million remains unspent from 1997’s Measure B.
Property owners (and renters) will be paying a surtax to retire that debt and
pay interest for another 20+ years.

The cost of living is high enough without another tax! Vote ‘No’.

/s/ Linden C, Hsu  Libertarian Party of San Mateo County, Secretary	March 28, 2001
/s/ Jack Hickey  Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	March 29, 2001
/s/ Christopher VA Schmidt	March 27, 2001

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

BELMONT-REDWOOD SHORES SCHOOL DISTRICT

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

This is NOT a referendum on public schooling. We all want our public
services to be adequately funded and well-run. That’s why we
ALREADY pay property taxes. Last year. District taxpayers (including
renters) contributed $ 10 million in property taxes to the elementary school
district, and other taxes brought the total to $14 million (http://www.ed-
data.kl2.ca.us/dev/district.asp).

Spending $14 million each year on 2500 students amounts to over $112,000
for each classroom of 20 students, or $168,000 for a classroom of 30. That’s
enough to pay teachers good wages and leave plenty for overhead. —And
those taxes keep increasing every year.

Property tax growth has outstripped inflation in each of the last 8 years—up
roughly 10% in each of 1999 and 2000 (http://www.care.co.sanmateo.ca.us/
assessor/). Income tax revenue is also up.

This IS a vote on working within a budget. Does the District really need
more money than we already give it in property taxes and state and federal
income taxes? We say ‘No’.

Many of our residents operate closer to the edge of personal insolvency
than the District ever has. It is not right to ask them to pay extra taxes
because somebody’s “classroom technology” proposal sounds “nice”.

Please vote ‘No’, and demand that the District operate budget.	within its regular
/s/ Linden C. Hsu  Secretary, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	March 17, 2001
/s/ Jack Hickey  Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	March 19, 2001
is/ Christopher VA Schmidt  Taxpayer	March 17, 2001

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

There are several things that the opponents of Measure B did not tell you in
their argument. First, our district is spending far less today (in inflation
adjusted dollars), than it was 35 years ago when California schools were
ranked best in the nation. Today, California ranks in the lowest third of all
states in spending per student. The Belmont/Redwood Shores School
District has found ways to be efficient and effective with substantially less
taxpayer money than was spent in the mid 1960s.

Second, Belmont/Redwood Shores residents have consistently supported
excellence in their public school system and our district has delivered with
high API scores and Distinguished School recognitions. But, the
Belmont/Redwood Shores School District was forced to make over $800,000
in budget cuts last year, and it faces more cuts next year. To maintain the
level of quality education our community demands, we need more than our
local property taxes can currently provide.

And third, these opponents of Measure B have argued against every
school parcel tax or bond measure in our county on the June 5 ballot.
Across-the-board opposition to taxes does not address our local needs.
Let the residents of our district determine the needs of our district.

On June 5, we ask that you vote YES on Measure B because...Quality
Matters.

/s/ Ralph Kirberg	March	29,	2001

Belmont Business Owner

/s/ Mary Morrissey Parden	March	29,	2001

Redwood Shores Homeowner

/s/ Dave Warden	March	29,	2001

Vice-Mayor, City of Belmont

is/ Emily Sarver	March	27,	2001

President, Belmont-Red wood Shores PTA Council

/s/ Michelle Green	March	29,	2001

President, Belmont Faculty Association