MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS OFFICES

CITY OF NEWARK MEASURE

MEASURE F: Shall the City of Newark increase the hotel/ YES
motel tax imposed on travelers from 7.5% to 10% of the daily
room rate?	NO






<impartial>

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F

Chapter 3.16 of the Newark Municipal Code and City Council Resolution
No. 6107 provide for a tax payable by persons occupying a hotel or motel room
in Newark at a rate of seven and one-half percent (7.5%) of the room rate. The
7.5% rate has been in effect since approved by Newark voters at the election of
November 6, 1990. The hotel/motel operator collects the tax from guests.
Persons who stay in the hotel or motel longer than thirty (30) consecutive days
are exempt from the tax. Hotel/motel operators pay the tax to the city every
three months.

This tax is not a special tax, but is a general tax deposited in the general fund
for general government purposes. It is not a tax upon real property. Because it
is a general tax and not a tax involving real property, it may be increased by a
simple majority vote. As required by state-wide Propositions 218 and 62, such
a tax may only be imposed or increased by a vote of the people at a regular
municipal election.

Measure F amends City of Newark Resolution No. 6107 to increase the tax
rate from 7.5% to 10% of hotel/motel room charges effective January 1, 2002. t
For example, under the current rate, based on a $75.00 per night hoteFmojtel'
room, the guest pays a room tax of $5.62 per night. If passed, Measure F would
increase that tax by $ 1.88 to $7.50 per night.

s/GARYT. GALLIANO ^
City Attorney, City of Newark

<impartialend>





<favor>

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

In 1972, the City began collecting a tax on hotel and motel rooms known as a
Transient Occupancy Tax. This is a tax collected from travelers on the rental
price of rooms occupied for less than 30 days. Newark voters approved the cur-
rent 7.5% tax rate in 1990.

Travelers who stay in Newark hotels/motels receive and use City services. The
City provides excellent public safety services, well-maintained roads, and many
other community and recreational services. The cost of these services has
increased significantly since the last increase in the City’s Transient Occupancy
Tax rate over ten years ago. Increasing the tax rate on hotel and motel room
rentals from 7.5% to 10% will help preserve and enhance existing services for
Newark residents and travelers visiting the City. Forty cities in the Bay Area
currently charge 10% or more.

Monies received from this tax are deposited into the General Fund and are used
to support general City services. Currently over 60% of the City’s General Fund
budget is used to provide Police, Fire, and Maintenance Services. Over the last
10 years, the cost of providing these services has increased while the City’s
General Fund revenue has been negatively impacted as a result of State “take
aways”.

Help Newark get back the State “take aways” for a small increase on the travel-
er’s hotel bill, ($1.88 on a $75.00/night motel room). Vote YES on Measure F.
Based on the number of Newark hotel/motel rooms and room rates, increasing
the tax rate from 7.5% to 10% would result in an increase in revenues of
approximately $1,000,000 annually. Newark’s hotel/motel operators have
expressed no opposition to this Measure.

Please vote YES on this Measure to preserve and enhance the high level of ser-
vices paid for by the City’s General Fund.

The undersigned authors of the primary Argument in favor of the Transient
Occupancy Tax increase to 10% Measure at the General Municipal Election for
the City of Newark to be held on Tuesday, November 6, 2001, hereby state that
the argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

<favorend>





<favorsigs>

s/DAVID W. SMITH, Mayor, City of Newark
s/ALAN L. NAGY, Vice Mayor, City of Newark
s/SUSAN JOHNSON, Councilmember, City of Newark
s/LUIS L. FREITAS, Councilmember, City of Newark

<favorsigsend>



NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F WAS SUBMITTED.









<resolution>

RESOLUTION NO. 8252

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NEWARK
CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF A GENERAL

MUNICIPAL ELECTION TQ BE HELD IN CITY OF NEWARK ON

TUESDAY, THE SIXTH DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2001 FOR THE ELECTION
OF CERTAIN OFFICERS OF NEWARK, REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION
WITH OTHER LOCAL ELECTIONS TO BE HELD ON SAID DATE,
REQUESTING THE SERVICES OF THE REGISTRAR OF VOTERS IN

CONDUCTING SAID ELECTION AND FOR THE SUBMISSION TO THE
VOTERS A QUESTION RELATING TO AN INCREASE IN THE

HOTEL/MOTEL TAX

WHEREAS, in accordance with the provisions of law relating to general law cities and
with Section 2.10.011 of the Newark Municipal Code, a regularly-scheduled election will be held
within the City of Newark, County of Alameda, on Tuesday, November 6, 2001, for the purpose
of electing one mayor and two Council members for full terms of two and four years, respectively;
and

WHEREAS, in accordance with Elections Code Section 10400, local elections which are
called to be held on the same date in territory which is wholly or partially the same may be
consolidated by the Registrar of Voters upon receipt of request for same from the jurisdictions
involved at least 88 days prior to the date of said elections; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Elections Code Section 10403.5 the City has requested the
County to render special services to the City with respect to the conduct of the City’s Municipal
Election to be held on November 6, 2001, and the County is agreeable to provide these services;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council also desire to submit to the voters at the election a question
relating to an increase in the city’s hotel/motel(transient occupancy) tax,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City Council of the City of Newark
hereby declare, determine and order as follows:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California
relating to General Law Cities within said State, there shall be, and there is hereby called and
ordered held in the City of Newark, County of Alameda, State of California, on Tuesday,
November 6,2001, a regular General Municipal Election of the qualified electors of said City for
the purpose of electing one mayor for a full year term of two years and two Council members for
full terms of four years.

SECTION 2. That the City Council, pursuant to its right and authority does order
submitting to the voters at the General Municipal election of November 6, 2001 the following
question:

Shall the City of Newark increase the hotel/motel tax imposed	Yes________

on travelers from 7.5% to 10% of the daily room rate?	No

SECTION 3. That the City Council of the City of Newark hereby requests that the
General Municipal Election to be held in the City of Newark on November 6, 2001, be
consolidated with the other local elections to be held on said date insofar as the territory in which
said elections are to be held is the same, to-wit within the boundaries of the City of Newark, and
the County of Alameda, State of California.

SECTION 4. That the Registrar of Voters is authorized to canvass the returns of the
General Municipal Election. The election shall be held in all respects as if there were only one
election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

SECTION 5. That the Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions to the
Registrar of Voters Office to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of the consolidated
election.

SECTION 6. That the City of Newark recognizes that additional costs will be incurred by
the County by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse the County for any costs.

SECTION 7. That the City Clerk be directed to forward a certified copy of this resolution
to the Board of Supervisors of Alameda County and the Registrar of Voters of Alameda County.

Resolution No. 8252

2

I	HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing resolution was introduced at a regular meeting of the
City Council of the City of Newark held on July 12,2001, by Council Member Johnson who
moved its adoption and passage, which motion was carried after being duly seconded, and passed
by the following vote:

AYES:	Council Members Freitas, Johnson, and Nagy

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Mayor Smith and Council Member Boggs

SECONDED:	Council Member Freitas

APPROVED:

s/AT .AN I,. NAGY
ATTEST:	Mayor	Pro Tempore

Resolution No. 8252

3

ORIGINAL

do ANG Newspapers

39737 Paseo Padre Parkway, Fremont, CA 94538

Legal Advertising
(510)293-2601

Legal No. 2115208

PUBLIC NOTICE

RESOLUTION NO PZ'L.

F5ESOUJIJON OF 1 HE CITY COUNCIL Or
THE CITY OF NEWARK CALLING AND
GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OR A
GENERAL' MUNICIPAL ELECTION rU BL
HELD IN CITY ,OR NEWARK" ON TUESDAY
THE sixth; DAY OF. NOVEMBER. 2001
FOR THE RFCTJON OF CERTAIN.'Or
FICERS Or NEWARK REQUESTING .CON
SOLIDATION WITH OTHER LOCAL ELEC
TIONS TO RE HELD ON SAID DATE RE
QUESTING TKL SERVICES OT THE REGIS
TRAR OF VOTERS IN- CONDUCTING SAID
ELECTION AND TOR 1 HE! SUBMISSION TO
THE VOTERS A QUESTION RELATING TO
AN INCREASE IN THE HOTEL MO I EL TAX

WHEREAS in aL/"Oichnrp wrtli fhe prou
510ns of law relating to general law 1 dies and

with Section 2 10.011 df.lhc Newark Munic-
ipal C ode x inqularly s^h sidled election v, II
be held w thin {lie City of N-waik C01 nty 01
Alameda on Tupsday -Novombei 6, 2001 for
the purpose of electing one mayot and two
Council nteiubt is toi full teim*- of two and
tcui /eae= if spc'-iijeiy and

.WHEREAS, in accordance with elections
Code Seetron .10400: local elections winch
ate caked hi bo held on the same dale »ter
ritory which 1. wholly or park illy the son it
may be cccalideted fc, the Roqisirar of
Voteis upon receipt of request for same item
the jurisdiction invoked at Is 1 t 88 days
pi 101 to the d lie of said Hection= and

WHEREAS, puisuard to Elections Code
S-o*ian 104 Xi S 11 e C y ha*- requested the
County to render special services to the City
with lespeel to the conduct of the City s Mu
nicipal Elec bon to be .held on November 0
2001 andttn County is agreeable to provide
these services- and’

WHEREAS II I	II

submit to Hie vutc'rs at the election a ques-
tioi letatinq to an'increase m the city s hotel
,notel(tiansienf occupancy*, tax-

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED
that the Oily Grume I of the City of Newark
I eieliy declare- determine and order a fol

SECTION-ff.-That pursuant to .the req'uifev1 L
ments of the jarVe of the State of, pafifornra re-

iMiBWilffliiiiiilaK

iiip l| iMi (

ordered heBliri fhe'Gity of-Newark;-County of-

■ November; 6;:2001; .arfregular^erieraL Munic-
ipal ElertiorFiqkTh&Sqlfol^	said

City’for thepflrpese.Of'el^Gtingierf#>iriaj(or.,for ■

membeisfor4aTEtetrhsiWoti'yeafsvT;.:iT- . r
SECTION 2 ~ha‘ f Cr Council oui

I I 1 0 r» c »r t the General Lie
11 -I c on of No ember S 2001 the fo

lowing question:','- V' -	\	,......... Z"-

■s 1 I .he City -cr Neivadc^inc ease he

sspaiBBB™

No______X~'Z	~—

1 SECT! ON; 3,'T h at; 4 heC ity--Co u n c1 fdf'the
City of NeWajjk'hewbfee'clilestStthattbe'Gfen.

ftatSMEMiM
MjWfySai®®
dtl'ptIgfiptilHIJIfflM
neld or aid date insofar as tl l-i 1 u in
which	-	Id	is	the

same, to-wit-withrhltbe'bouiYdanes of the City

of California^'c-'.	" VI; -	,

SECTIG)N;f4.;Th'4t,tbe f-fog i st ra r of Voters is -
in i to can ass the reti -	11 f

e il r lucoa decticr ihe 1	11	ill 1

I'lpiixsgfljtnpH

election anc( onty one farm of ballot shall be- •
used ■	,	y	:.-Z	'	■

SECTION 5. Toa‘ ins I" ird of-Supervi-
'sqrs is. |rgquflstsd,dp.'ls§ue instructions to ,the .
Reqistiai of Voteis Office to Like any ana all
tap- re* essay fc the hukfinq of the uoi

enll f 1 [ut I	+j nn

SECTION 6. That the City of Newaik rec-
oqni/es that -iddilionai oats will b“ incurred
by thr County by reason-ot this consolidation
'iinct iqrees to eimLu-ce the Count y foi any

RFfTION 7 Tint till City Cleik be d

tooe ‘6 'Z
zezouzri

-Z# snBiv aq

A|np

am

■ red oid ur leuoimsd
LBS16 VO Alio uoiun
. nnog oaoo sBuin 8091

Buom uqop uo iq-)

IJno^-jqjysdng'eqi jo isugissiwu/og
>.‘L>LBaSM3ZSl®& MBVIAI

'peieo

....	!.	snSjSfeciL

PROOF OF PUBIIGATION

RESOLUTION NO. 8252

RESOLUTION NO. 8252

In the matter of:

GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION OF CERTAIN
OFFICERS OF NEWARK

The undersigned below, deposes and says that he/she was the public
Notice Advertising Clerk of the ARGUS a newspaper of general
circulation as defined by Government Code Section
6000 adjucated as such by the Superior Court of the State of California,
County of Alameda (Order Nos. 314 854) which is published and
circulated in Washington Township in said county and state seven days
a week.

That the

PUBLIC NOTICE

of which the annexed is a printed copy, was published in every issue of
the ARGUS, on the following dates:

<resolutionend>





<full>

3.16.010

Chapter 3.16
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

Sections:

3.16.010	Definitions.
3.16.020	Tax imposed.
3.16.030	Exemptions.
3.16.040	Operator’s duties.
3.16.050	Registration.
3.16.060	Reporting and remitting.
3.16.070	Penalties and interest
3.16.080	Failure to collect and report
3.16.090	Appeal.
3.16.100	Records.
3.16.110	Refunds.
3.16.120	Actions to collect
3.16.130	Violations—Designated.
3.16.140	Violations—Penalty.
3.16.150	Remedies cumulative.

3.16.010	Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the
definitions given in this section govern the construction
of this chapter:

A.	“Hotel” means any structure, or any portion of
any structure, which is occupied or intended or designated
for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist
home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel,
lodginghouse, roominghouse, apartment house, dormitory,
public or private club, mobile home or house trailer in a
fixed location except a mobilehome located within a
mobile home park where the tenant is an employee of the
owner or operator of the mobile home, or other similar
structure or portion thereof.

B.	“Occupancy” means the use or possession, or the
right to the use or possession of any room or rooms or
portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or
sleeping purposes.

C.	“Operator” means the person who is proprietor
of the hotel, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee,
sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other
capacity. Where the operator performs his functions
through a managing agent, such person shall also be
deemed an operator for the purpose of this article and
shall have the same duties and liabilities as his principal.
Compliance with the provisions of this chapter by either
the principal or the managing agent shall, however, be
considered to be compliance by both.

D.	“Person” means any individual, firm, partnership,
joint venture, association, social club, fraternal organiza-

tion, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, busi-
ness trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group
or combination acting as a unit.

E.	“Rent” means the consideration charged, whether
or not received, for the occupancy of space in a hotel
valued in money, whether to be received in money,
goods, labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash,
credits and property and services of any kind or nature,
without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.

F.	“Transient” means any person who exercises
occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by reason of con-
cession, permit, right of access, license or other agree-
ment for a period of thirty consecutive calendar days or
less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any
such person so occupying space in a hotel shall be
deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty days
has expired unless there is an agreement in writing be-
tween the operator and the occupant providing for a
longer period of occupancy. In determining whether a
person is a transient, uninterrupted periods of time ex-
tending both prior and subsequent to the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this chapter may be considered.
(Ord. 134.1 § 1, 1979; Ord. 134 § 2, 1972)

3.16.020	Tax	imposed.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each tran-
sient is subject to and shall pay a tax as established by
city council resolution based on a percentage of the rent
charged by the operator. The tax constitutes a debt owed
by the transient to the city which is extinguished only by
payment to the operator or operators of the hotel at the
time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments,
a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each
installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the
transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any
reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel,
the city council may require that such tax shall be paid
directly to the city clerk. (Ord. 134.1 § 2, 1974: Ord. 134
§ 2, 1972)

3.16.030	Exemptions.

No tax shall be imposed upon:

A.	Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to
which, it is beyond the power of the city to impose the
tax provided in this chapter;

B.	Any federal or state officer or employee when on
official business;

C.	Any officer or employee of a foreign government
who is exempt by reason of express provision of federal
law or international treaty.

No exemptions shall be granted upon a claim therefor
made at the time rent is collected under penalty of perju-

57

ry upon a form prescribed by the city clerk. (Ord. 134 §
3, 1972)

3-16.040	Operator’s	duties.

Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this
chapter to the same extent and at the same time as the
rent is collected from every transient. The amount of tax
shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent
charged, and each transient shall receive a receipt for
payment from the operator. No operator of a hotel shall
advertize or state in any manner, whether directly or
indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be as-
sumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be
added to the rent, or that, if added, any part will be
refunded except in the manner provided in Section

3.16.060	of this chapter. (Ord. 134 § 4, 1972)

3.16.050	Registration.

Within thirty days after the effective date of the ordi-
nance codified in this chapter, or within thirty days after
commencing business, whichever is later, each operator
of any hotel renting occupancy to transients shall register
said hotel with the city clerk and obtain from him a
“transient occupancy registration certificate” to be at all
times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. Said
certificate shall, among other things, state the following:

A.	The name of the operator;

B.	The address of the hotel;

C.	The date upon which the certificate was issued;

D.	“This Transient Occupancy Registration Certifi-
cate signifies that the person named on the face hereof
has fulfilled the requirements of the Uniform Transient
Occupancy Tax Ordinance by registering with the City
Clerk for the purpose of collecting from transients the
Transient Occupancy Tax and remitting said tax to the
City Clerk. This certificate does not authorize any person
to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any
lawful business in an unlawful manner, nor to operate a
hotel without strictly complying with all local applicable
laws, including but not limited to those requiring a permit
from any board, commission, department or office of this
city. This certificate does not constitute a permit.” (Ord.
134 § 5, 1972)

3.16.060	Reporting and remitting.

Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the
month following the close of each calendar quarter, or at
the close of any shorter reported period which may be
established by the city clerk make a return to the city
clerk, on forms provided by him, of the total rents
charged and received and the amount of tax collected for
transient occupancies. At the time the return is filed, the

full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the
city clerk. The city clerk may establish shorter reporting
periods for any certificate holder if he deems it necessary
in order to insure collection of the tax and he may require
further information in the return. Returns and payments
are due immediately upon cessation of business for any
reason. All taxes collected by operators pursuant to this
chapter shall be held in trust for the account of the city
until payment thereof is made to the city clerk. (Ord. 134
§ 6, 1972)

3.16.070	Penalties	and interest

A.	Original Delinquency. Any operator who fails to
remit any tax imposed by this chapter within the time
required shall pay a penalty of ten percent of the amount
of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.

B.	Continued Delinquency. Any operator who fails
to remit any delinquent remittance on or before a period
of thirty days following the date on which the remittance
first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency
penalty of ten percent of the amount of the tax in addi-
tion to the amount of the tax and the ten percent penalty
first imposed.

C.	Fraud. If the city clerk determines that the non-
payment of any remittance due under this chapter is due
to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent of the amount
of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penal-
ties stated in subsections A and B of this section.

D.	Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any
operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this
chapter shall by interest at the rate of one-half of one
percent per month or fraction thereof on the amount of
the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent until paid.

E.	Penalties merged with tax. Every penalty im-
posed and such interest as accrues under the provisions
of this section shall become a part of the tax required to
be paid by this chapter. (Ord. 134 § 7, 1972)

3.16.080	Failure	to	collect	and	report	tax.

If any operator fails or refuses to collect the tax and
to make, within the time provided in this chapter, any
report and remittance of the tax or any portion thereof
required by this chapter, the city clerk shall proceed in
such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and
information on which to base his estimate of the tax due.
As soon as the city clerk procures such facts and infor-
mation as he is able to obtain upon which to base the
assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter and pay-
able by any operator who has failed or refused to collect
the same, and to make such report and remittance, he
shall proceed to determine and assess against such opera-

58

3.16.080

tor the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this
chapter. In case such determination is made, the city clerk
shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by serving
it personally or by depositing it in the United States mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at
his last known place of address. Such operator may
within ten days after the serving or mailing of such
notice, make application in writing to the city clerk for
a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the
operator for a hearing is not made within the time pre-
scribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined
by the city clerk shall become final and conclusive and
immediately due and payable. If such application is made,
the city clerk shall give not less than five days’ written
notice in the manner prescribed in this section to the
operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in said
notice why said amount specified in the notice should not
be fixed for such tax, interest and penalties. At such
hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why
such specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so
fixed. After such hearing, the city clerk shall determine
the proper tax to be remitted and shall determine the
proper tax to be remitted and shall thereafter give written
notice to the person in the manner prescribed in this
section of such determination and the amount of such tax,
interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due
shall be payable after fifteen days unless an appeal is
taken as provided in Section 3.16.090. (Ord. 134 § 8,
1972)

3.16.090	Appeal.

Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the city
clerk with respect to the amount of such tax, interest and
penalties, if any, may appeal to the city council by filing
a notice of appeal with the city clerk within fifteen days
of the serving or mailing of the determination of tax due.
The city council shall fix a time and place for hearing
such appeal, and the city clerk shall give notice in writing
to such operator at his last known place of address. The
findings of the city council shall be final and conclusive
and shall be served upon the appellant in the manner pre-
scribed above for service of notice of hearing. Any
amount found to be due shall be immediately due and
payable upon the service of notice. (Ord. 134 § 9, 1972)

3.16.100	Records.

It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the
collection and payment to the city of any tax imposed by
this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of three
years, all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of such tax as he may have been liable for the
collection of and payment to the city, which records the

city clerk shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable
times. (Ord. 134 § 10, 1972)

3.16.110	Refunds.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or
penalty has been overpaid or paid more than once or has
been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
city under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided
in subsections B and C of this section, provided a claim
in writing therefor, stating under penalty of perjury the
specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed
with the city clerk within three years of the date of pay-
ment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the city
clerk.

B.	An operator may claim a refund or take as credit
against taxes collected and remitted the amount overpaid,
paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected
or received when it is established once in a manner
prescribed by the city clerk that the person from whom
the tax has been collected was not a transient; provided,
however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be al-
lowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either
been refunded to the transient or credited to rent subse-
quently payable by the transient to the operator.

C.	A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid
or paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collect-
ed or received by the city by filing a claim in the manner
provided in subsection A of this section, but only when
the tax was paid by the transient directly to the city clerk,
or when the transient having paid the tax to the operator,
establishes to the satisfaction of the city clerk that the
transient has been unable to obtain a refund from the
operator who collected the tax.

D.	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of
this section unless the claimant established his right
thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.
(Ord. 134 § 11, 1972)

3.16.120	Actions to collect

Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed
by the transient to the city. Any such tax collected by an
operator which has not been paid to the city shall be
deemed a debt owed by the operator to the city. Any
person owing money to the city under the provisions of
this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the
name of the city for the recovery of such amount. (Ord.
134 § 12, 1972)

3.16.130	Violations—Designated.

No operator or other person shall fail or refuse to

59

furnish a supplemental return or other data required by
the city clerk, or render a false or fraudulent return or
claim. No person required to make, render, sign or verify
any report or claim shall make any false or fraudulent
report or claim with intent to defeat or evade the determi-
nation of any amount due required by this chapter to be
made. (Ord. 134 § 13, 1972)

3.16.140	Violations—Penalty.

Any person, firm, corporation or organization violating
any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misde-
meanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punishable
by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars or by
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months in the
county jail, or by both such fine and imprisonment. A
person, firm, corporation or organization shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for each day during any
portion of which a violation of this chapter is committed,
continued, or permitted by the person, firm, corporation
or organization and shall be punishable as provided in
this section. (Ord. 134 § 14, 1972)

3.16.150	Remedies	cumulative.

All remedies prescribed under this chapter shall be cu-
mulative and the use of one or more remedies by the city
shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose
of enforcing the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 134 §
13, 1972)

<fullend>