PIEDMONT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE A	
MEASURE A: In order to maintain the quality of Piedmont’s public education by providing continued support for special instructional programs and services, lower class sizes, technology, and maintenance services commensurate with a superior educational program, shall the Piedmont City Unified Scho authorized to levy a special tax of up to the amounts specified in the tion pamphlet for a period of five years?	YES
	NO
	ol District be ro ter informa-

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

Measure A seeks voter approval of a special tax for Piedmont Unified School
District (“District”) educational programs. A school district, following notice and
public hearings, is allowed to submit to the voters for approval or rejection a
measure authorizing the levying of a special tax pursuant to Section 4 of Article
XIIIA of the California Constitution; the California Government Code, sections
50075-50077; and the California Education Code, sections 5000-5442. In 1997
Piedmont voters passed a similar special tax which expires on June 30,2001, and
this measure seeks to extend the special tax for an additional five years.

If approved, these tax funds are proposed by the District to be used for
special instructional programs and services, including funding to achieve aver-
age class sizes of: 20 students for grades K-3 and state-designated high school
classes (currently 9th grade English and science), 28 students for grades 6-12,
26 students for grades 4-5, and 24 students in English classes for grades 8-12.
The special tax is also sought to provide funding for library and counseling
services in grades K-12; elementary school classroom aides; elementary pro-
grams in music, reading resource, computer instruction and physical edu-
cation; advisors and coaches for extra curricular activities and high school
athletic teams; the District’s technology plan; a seven-class program and
diverse curriculum at the middle school and high school; and maintenance of
District facilities and grounds.

If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote “Yes”, a
special tax will be imposed on each parcel of land within the District for a peri-
od of five years. The special tax rate will be increased annually at the determi-
nation of the Board of Education at a rate not to exceed 5 percent annually. Prior
to the levying of the special tax in any given year, the Board of Education will
conduct a public hearing on the matter. After the hearing, the Board will adopt
a resolution establishing the amount of tax to be raised for that year and the rate
per parcel. The tax would be collected by the Alameda County Tax Collector at
the same time as and along with the general ad valorem taxes. The maximum
rate of the special tax per year would vary by the value of the taxable property
but the tax rate would commence at a rate, for instance, of $850 per parcel per
year for land up to 4,999 square feet or $1444 per commercial parcel from
0-10,000 square feet (tax rates are set forth in full in the text of the measure
printed in this voter pamphlet).

If less than two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote
for approval, the measure will fail and the Piedmont Unified School District
will not be authorized to levy this special tax over the next five years.

s/RICHARD E. WINNIE
County Counsel

PI-2

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

It is a Piedmont tradition to support high standards of educational excellence
through local taxation. Since 1985, Piedmont citizens have overwhelmingly
approved a parcel tax to maintain quality schools. It is time to renew our com-
mitment.

On March 6, 2001, Piedmont voters will have an opportunity to maintain the
quality of education in our schools. Measure A will:

♦	Continue the excellence of Piedmont’s school system

♦	Protect Piedmont’s high property values and quality of community life

♦	Maintain local control and ensure a source of predictable income

This local tax, deductible from state and federal income taxes, has a 5-year
term. It replaces funding for schools currently provided by two measures passed
in 1997. This funding now accounts for 15% of the District’s annual budget.
Measure A will continue funding for smaller class sizes, elementary reading
resource, music and P.E. programs, and technology, counseling and library ser-
vices at all grade levels. These programs distinguish us from many other Cali-
fornia school districts and help our students to achieve at high levels.
California school funding does not fully support the programs Piedmont
believes to be critical for a high quality education. State and federal funding for
Piedmont is less than the state average, which in turn is below the national aver-
age. Parents and other support groups contribute substantial amounts annually
to the District, but we need the continued support of the entire community to
sustain our excellent programs.

Piedmonters demand an outstanding school system; it is Qur community’s com-
mitment to our children and to our future. Please join us in continuing to pro-
vide local funding to keep our schools strong. Vote YES on Measure A.
s/CHUCK CHAKRAVARTULA
President

Board of Education
s/DEWEY WATSON
Vice President
Board of Education
s/RONNIE CAPLANE
Member

Board of Education
s/BETSY GENTRY
Member

Board of Education
s/GRIER GRAFF
Member

Board of Education
NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A WAS SUBMITTED.

PI-3

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

“To maintain the quality of Piedmont’s public education that has benefited
all students and citizens, shall the Piedmont City Unified School District be
authorized to implement a special tax toward providing the following special
instructional programs and services, lower class sizes, technology, and mainte-
nance services commensurate with a superior educational program?

a.	Average class size reduction from 30 students to:

-	An average class size of 20 students for grades K-3 and state desig-
nated high school classes (currently 9th grade English and Science)

-	An average class size of 28 students for grades 6-12.'

-	An average class size of 26 students for elementary grades 4-5.

-	An average of 24 students in English classes for grades 8-12.

b.	Elementary classroom instructional aides.

c.	A seven-class program and diverse curriculum at the middle school and
high school.

d.	Specialized programs at the elementary schools in music, reading
resource, computer instruction, and physical education.

e.	Library and counseling services in grades K-12.

f.	Advisors, directors and coaches for extra-curricular activities and high
school athletic teams.

g.	Support for the District’s technology plan including personnel, training,
software, and equipment purchase and maintenance.

h.	Maintenance of district facilities and grounds.

Said special tax shall commence on July 1, 2001 for a maximum of five

(5)	years assessed against each parcel of land as noted below, and increased
annually at the determination of the Board of Education at a rate not to exceed
5 percent annually.

0-4,999 sq. ft.	$850/parcel

5.000-	9,999 sq. ft.	$966/parcel

10.000-	14,999 sq. ft.	$1,102/parcel

15.000-	19,999 sq. ft.	$l,265/parcel

more than 20,000 sq. ft.	$l,444/parcel

commercial 0-10,000 sq. ft.	$l,444/parcel

commercial more than 10,000 sq. ft.	$2,160/parcel

multi-family dwellings/unit	$565/unit

undeveloped	$431/parcel

multiple parcel dwellings/dwelling	$929/dwelling

For parcels divided by Tax Code Area Line, the payment for
the portion of the parcel within the Piedmont Unified School
District shall be the same as the above square footage rates.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIII B the appropriations limit
for the Piedmont City Unified School District will be increased by the aggre-
gate sum collected by levy of this special tax in each of the years covered by
this Resolution. If any section, sub-section, phrase or clause of this measure or
its application is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portion of this measure.”

PI-4