MEASURE P

Shall the ordinance amending the Burlingame Municipal Code to sustain and continue an increase in the general business license tax rate from $50 per
year to $100 per year within the City of Burlingame be adopted?

FULLTEXT

Measure P: Text of Proposed Ordinance

This ordinance is proposed by the City Council of the City of
Burlingame and continues an increase in the general business tax rate from
$50 per year to $100 per year.

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF BURLINGAME DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Section 6.08.020 is amended to read as follows:
6.08.020 License taxes

The following persons shall pay an annual license tax of $100:

a)	Every person conducting or carrying on the business consisting of
selling any goods, wares and merchandise or commodities, or services, or
conducting or carrying on any profession, trade, occupation, calling or
business not otherwise specifically taxed by this chapter.

b)	Every person not having a fixed place of business within the city
who engages in business within the city, including contractors.

c)	Every person conducting a home occupation as defined by
Section 25.08.350 of this code.

d)	Every person conducting or carrying on the business of selling
Christmas trees, except where such business is conducted in connection
with another regularly established place of business for which a license
has been issued.

Section 2. This ordinance shall be considered adopted on the date
that the City Council declares the vote, and shall go into effect ten (10)
days thereafter.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

The City Council of the City of Burlingame placed this measure on the
ballot to determine whether the increase in the general business license tax
rate from $50 per year to $100 per year that was first adopted by the City in
1992 should be continued. The general business license tax is charged to
each business conducting business in the City of Burlingame with some
narrow exceptions that are specified in the Municipal Code.

The City estimates that the tax increment between $50 per year and
$100 per year generates approximately $230,000 per year, which goes into
the City’s general fund for general government purposes, including capital
improvements, in the City. The tax is collected through the annual business
license process.

Because under the proposed measure, the tax revenue would be put into
the City’s general fund for general City government purposes, a majority
vote of the City’s voters voting in this election is required to approve the
measure. Because the tax would be adopted by a vote of the people, the tax
rate could not be increased except by another vote of the people.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Continue an increase in the general business tax rate from $50 per
year to $100 per year.

Approval of Measure P will confirm the community’s desire to keep our
Business License Tax for the City of Burlingame at the nominal fee of
$100 per year. In 1992 the City Council increased the fee from $50 to
$100 per year. At that time the courts had determined that it was not
necessary to put such an increase to the voters. A recent court decision,
for a case that has been in the court system for many years, indicates that
a vote may be needed to sustain the Business License Tax. Therefore the
Burlingame City Council felt it was prudent to place this measure before
the electorate.

/s/ Joe Galligan  Burlingame Mayor and City Council Member	August 15, 2001
/s/ Mike Spinelli  Burlingame City Council Member and Past Mayor	August 15, 2001
/s/ Bud Harrison  Former Burlingame Mayor and Council Member	August 15, 2001
/s/ Don Lembi  Former Burlingame Mayor and Council Member	August 15, 2001
/s/ Sam Malouf  Burlingame Avenue Merchant	August 15, 2001

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P SUBMITTED