Shall the ordinance amending the Burlingame Municipal Code to sustain and continue an increase in the transient occupancy tax rate from eight percent
(8%) to ten percent (10%) on the rent charged hotel guests within the City of Burlingame be adopted?

FULLTEXT

Measure O: Text of Proposed Ordinance

This ordinance is proposed by the City Council of the City of
Burlingame and continues an increase in the transient occupancy tax rate
from eight percent (8%) to ten percent (10%).

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF BURLINGAME DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Section 4.09.025 is added as follows:

4.09.025 Tax Rate

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to
and shall pay a tax in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the rent charged
by the operator.

Section 2. This ordinance shall be considered adopted on the date that
the City Council declares the vote, and shall go into effect ten (10) days
thereafter.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE 0

The City Council of the City of Burlingame placed this measure on
the ballot to determine whether the increase in the transient occupancy
tax rate from 8% to 10% that was first adopted by the City in 1991 should
be continued. The transient occupancy tax is placed on the room rent
charged to hotel guests in the City of Burlingame.

The City estimates that the tax increment between 8% and 10%
generates approximately $2.8 million per year, which goes into the City’s
general fund for general government purposes, including capital
improvements, in the City. The tax is collected by hotels as part of room
bills.

Because under the proposed measure, the tax revenue would be put
into the City’s general fund for general City government purposes, a
majority vote of the City’s voters voting in this election is required to
approve the measure. Because the tax would be adopted by a vote of the
people, the tax rate could not be increased except by another vote of the
people.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 0

Continue an increase in the transient occupancy tax (Hotel Tax) rate
from eight percent (8%) to ten percent (10%).

Measure O will not increase the 10% hotel tax, which is currently being
assessed, but will simply provide voter confirmation to continue the hotel
tax at the same level that it has been since 1991. In 1991 when the
Council set the rate it was felt that voter confirmation was not required,
however recent court rulings have led the City Council to believe it would
be prudent to place the item before the voters for confirmation. Vote Yes
on Measure O and keep tax revenues fairly distributed to all those who use
our city services. Approval of Measure O will insure that the thousands of
hotel visitors who travel our streets; frequent our restaurants and retail
areas; enjoy our beautiful shoreline trails and open space; as well as rely
daily on our police, fire and medical response services pay their fair share.
Approval of Measure O will prevent a loss of $2.8 million of hotel tax per
year. Failure to approve Measure O would effectively increase
Burlingame’s dependency on revenues collected from the property tax
payers to fund essential city services. Measure O will keep the hotel tax
effectively at the same level as 12 other San Mateo County cities and
below the 14% rate currently charged in San Francisco. The increase in
the hotel tax from 8% to 10% has made it possible to rebuild our Library,
construct the Bayfront bike path, as well as build the Burlingame Bayside
soccer and golf centers. As we approach our 100th year anniversary as a
City, it is important that we ensure our revenue structure continues to
allow for necessary investment in our aging infrastructure. Join with the
Peninsula Hoteliers, the Chamber of Commerce, Burlingame merchants
and all the City Council candidates and current members in supporting
Measure O.

/s/ Joe Galligan

Burlingame Mayor and City Council Member

/s/ Mary Janney

Burlingame City Council Member and Past Mayor

/s/ Stan Moore

President of the Peninsula Hotel Council

/s/ Georgette Naylor	August 15,	2001

President/CEO for the Burlingame Chamber of Commerce

/s/RonAgron	August 15,	2001

General Manager of the Burlingame Hyatt Regency Hotel

August 15, 2001
August 15, 2001
August 15, 2001

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE 0 SUBMITTED