MEASURE B

"To attract and retain highly qualified teachers, develop technology instruction for students, continue to offer specialized programs and maintain small
classes, shall the Burlingame School District be authorized to impose a replacement qualified special tax at a rate of $365.00 per year beginning
7/1/2001, adjusted annually by changes in the Consumer Price Index, to increase the District’s appropriations limit accordingly, with exemptions for
parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age and older.”

FULLTEXT

“To preserve academic enrichment and excellence in Burlingame schools
by attracting and retaining highly qualified teachers, developing
technology instruction for students, continuing to offer specialized programs
and maintaining small class sizes, shall the Burlingame Elementary School
District impose a qualified special tax at a rate not to exceed $365.00 per
year beginning on 7/1/2001, adjusted annually by changes in the Consumer
Price Index (all urban consumers) for the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose
Metropolitan Area, published by the United States Department of Labor,
Bureau of Labor Statistics, by undertaking actions such as:

a)	Attract and retain highly-qualified teachers and other employees

b)	Fund specialized programs and the specialists needed to teach the
programs

c)	Create programs that integrate technology into the core curriculum

d)	Maintain fiscal solvency

This Measure will also increase the District's Gann Appropriation Limit by
an amount equal to the levy of said tax for said year, as allowed by
Article X1IIB. Section 4, of the California State Constitution. This increase
is required to assure that the District may use the revenues generated by the
tax.

A parcel will be defined as any unit of land in the District which now
receives a separate tax bill from the San Mateo County Assessor's Office,
except that only one tax will be assessed to owners whose property includes
one or more contiguous parcels. All property which would otherwise be
exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of said
special tax. An exemption from the assessment shall be made available to
each individual in the District who will attain the age of 65 years prior to
July 1 of the assessment year and who owns a beneficial interest in the
parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of such parcel, and who uses such
parcel as his or her principal place of residence, upon an annual application
to the District on or before June 30, 2001 or June 30 of any succeeding
assessment year. Such annual exemption will be granted upon presentation
of proof of age, ownership and occupancy as principal place of residence in
accordance with regulation adopted by the School Board, and shall remain
in effect for the entire fiscal year at issue. This measure will repeal the
existing $64.00 and $40.00 parcel taxes. A budget advisory committee shall
be appointed by the school board, made up of community experts in the
field of finance who will advise and monitor the expenditures of these funds
by the District and report to the community annually on how the funds were
spent.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

In 1993, the voters in the Burlingame Elementary School District
approved a special tax in an amount of $64 per year per parcel. In 1997. the
voters extended the $64 tax and approved an additional special tax of $40.
both of which expire June 30, 2005. By this measure, the District’s Board
of Trustees propose to repeal the existing special taxes and to levy a new
special tax beginning July 1, 2001. This tax shall be at a rate not to exceed
$365 per year, adjusted annually by changes in the Consumer Price Index
for the Bay Area on all taxable parcels in the District.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District which now
receives a separate tax bill from the San Mateo County Assessor's Office,
except that only one tax will be assessed to owners whose property
includes one or more contiguous parcels. Any person 65 years of age or
older who owns and occupies a parcel may qualify for an exemption from
the special tax. All property which would otherwise be exempt from
property taxes will also be exempt from imposition of this special tax.

The purposes of the special tax are to: attract and retain qualified
teachers and other employees; fund specialized programs; create programs
and the specialists needed to teach the programs; create programs that
integrate technology into the core curriculum and maintain fiscal solvency.

The measure mandates the school board to appoint a budget advisory
committee made up of community experts in the field of finance who will
advise and monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and
report to the community how these funds were spent.

This measure would also increase the District’s appropriations limit per
fiscal year, in an amount equal to the levy of the special tax for that year,
as permitted by Article XI1IB, Section 4 of the California Constitution.

A “yes” vote on this measure would repeal the existing 540 and $64
special taxes and allow a new special tax to be levied on property
within the boundaries of the Burlingame Elementary School
District in an amount of up to $365 per year per taxable parcels in
the District, adjusted annually by changes in the Consumer Price
Index for the Bay Area. It would also allow the appropriations
(spending) limit to be raised,

A “no” vote on this measure would retain the existing special taxes
of $40 and $64, not allow the special tax to be levied and would not
allow the appropriations limit to be raised.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote “yes.”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Excellent schools have been one of the hallmarks that have made Burlingame
special. Burlingame Elementary School District is one of the enviable
districts in California that continues to offer small neighborhood schools,
small class size, excellent music and physical education programs,
credentialed librarians and trained media center aides, special services in
early literacy and English as a Second Language instruction. Unfortunately,
the state does not consider these programs we value to be part of the basic
educational program and therefore does not provide the necessary funding
we need to keep them going.

In addition, we are losing our highly qualified teachers to districts who can
afford to pay them higher salaries. The cost of living has continued to
skyrocket and the funding we receive from the state has not kept pace.

We are fortunate in Burlingame to have state-of-the-art computer labs and
networks in our schools. But the state does not provide us with funding to
train our teachers on how to integrate technology into the curriculum.

We cannot support excellent teachers and provide outstanding education in
Burlingame without the support of parcel tax funds from our community. If
we do not pass Measure B. we will immediately be faced w'ith difficult and
painful decisions. We will need to:

•	Reduce valued programs

•	Increase class size

•	Close schools

Measure B will repeal the prior parcel tax measures and replace it with one
annual tax of S365 per parcel. That amounts to just one dollar per day to
continue our tradition of high quality schools in Burlingame. An exemption
from this parcel tax is available for senior citizens.

A vote for Measure B is an investment in our children’s future and in our
community. We urge you to vote yes on Measure B.

/s/ Clara B. Crook	December 14, 2000
Burlingame Senior Citizen	
/s/ Lisa Rosenthal	December 14, 2000
Burlingame School District Board President	
/s/ Joseph Galligan	December 14, 2000
Burlingame City Mayor	
/s/ John S. Root	December 14, 2000
Burlingame Taxpayer	

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B SUBMITTED