NSB-011.013

General Election

OFFICIAL BALLOT

County of San Bernardino

November 5, 2002

DISTRICT

MORONGO VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT

SPECIAL TAX

H Shall a Special Tax in the annual amount of $113.82 per developed parcel up
to one-half acre and $2.52 per acre of an undeveloped parcel within the
Morongo Valley Community Services District be authorized to fund fire protec-
tion and paramedic services?_____________________________________________

yes 263
NO 264

YOU HAVE JUST COMPLETED VOTING

Groups 189-190,203-204

SB 204-024

MEASURE “H”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL*

The Board of Directors of the Morongo Valley Community Services District (“District”) has
called this election, pursuant to Government Code sections 53724(a) and 53978, to authorize
it to impose a special tax for fire prevention and protection services. The special tax shall
be in the amounts and for the purposes specified in the measure. It shall be imposed on
each parcel of property in the District (except that owned by federal, state, or local
governmental agencies) based upon its acreage, and shall not be measured by the value
of the property.

If two-thirds or more of the voters voting upon the proposition within the District vote YES,
the special tax will be approved.

If less than two-thirds of the voters voting upon the proposition within the District vote YES,
the District will not be authorized to impose the special tax. This measure will not have any
effect on existing law.

* Section 9313 of the Elections Code requires the County Counsel to prepare an impartial
analysis of measures appearing on the ballot.

PR-008.001

SB 204-033

MEASURE “H”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

The Morongo Valley Community Services District has provided fire protection for seven
years. The volunteer staffing that operated the fire department has deteriorated to an average
of only one firefighter/EMT available per 24 hours. The year-round high fire risk that exists
in California and the West has created a high demand for paid firefighters. Cross-trained
firefighter/paramedics are now preferred by most departments. “Potential” qualified
volunteers for Morongo Valley either attend Paramedic School or accept paid positions.

Our emergency medical service is inadequate. The private ambulance/paramedic company
is allowed a 30 minute response time.

The realistic solution is to establish paid firefighter staffing for Morongo Valley with
paramedics.

The CSD is allocated 20% of MV property taxes (approximately $220,000.00/year). Funding
is not adequate to support necessary paid staffing. To provide one firefighter/EMT and one
firefighter/paramedic for every 24-hour period and a Chief/training officer, it will cost the
community approximately $360,000.00 annually.

An annual assessment averaging $10 per month per property owner will ensure the
continuation of a local 24 hour, 7 days a week fire department with the addition of firefighter/
paramedics.

This assessment can only be used for paying firefighter and firefighter/paramedic salaries.
The funds will be maintained in a special account. Every CSD dollar is audited by an
accountant, an independent CPA firm, and State Controller’s Office.

There can be no increase above a 3% cost of living. A request for more funding must go
to vote. You are protected by the State of California Constitution and Proposition 218.

This assessment is essential for reducing the potential loss of life and property as a result
of fire. Local Paramedic advanced emergency medical care is critical for the health and well-
being of all of our residents, especially our elderly residents and school children.

Please vote YES on Measure H.

s/William F. Egan
President, Morongo Valley Chamber of Commerce

s/Denise Breckenridge
President, M.V. Elementary School PTA

s/Theil M. Eastabrook
Pioneer (1911)

s/Tracey L. Madden
Secretary/M.V. Recreation Assoc.

s/Chuck Osborne
Morongo Valley C.S.D. - President

PR-008.002

SB 204-034

MEASURE “H”

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Your NO VOTE is not a vote against the Fire Department but NO to a special tax.

The proponents declared, “You are protected by the State of California Constitution and
Proposition 218.” This oxymoron demonstrates their attempts to deliberately deceive and
proves they lack credibility. Proposition 218 includes articles 13C and D into our Constitution.
So, If you are foolish to decide to raise your property taxes, remember this: the ambulance
is still allowed a 30 minutes response time and this Assessment will not put doctors on the
Fire Trucks!

Our community never authorized a paid office staff and it is a luxury we can’t afford. Lets
bring back the office volunteers and use the office salaries to support our Fire Department.
This will alleviate the friction created by the unqualified CSD personnel who attempted to run
our Fire Department but only succeeded in running off our firemen. VOTE NO!

s/Michael Pueblo
Disabled Veteran

s/Frances Douglas

PR-008.003

SB 204-035

MEASURE “H”

ARGUMENT AGAINST

Neighbors, we shouldn’t be without Fire Protection because the CSD Board has already
received our money. This Board’s irresponsible wasteful spending of our property taxes and
their abolishing of our Volunteer Fire Department is leading to the endangerment of our
community’s health and safety. Your neighbors pleads to stop this relentless wasteful
spending and abide by the Board’s main responsibility of providing Fire Protection, were
ignored. Further this Board chose to disregard the law and submit an unprofessional
Engineer’s Report signed and prepared by a Land Surveyor whose license was suspended,
claiming this is a technicality. This Special Tax is an additional property tax on top of the
property taxes we pay yearly, that’s DOUBLE TAXATION.

Do you really want to give total control over your pocketbook to this or any future CSD
Board? We can’t audit our financial records now-so why trust them with more of our money,
VOTE NO!

Across America 75% of the cities and communities receive their Fire Protection from
VOLUNTEER Firemen. The nine-trapped Pennsylvania miners were rescued with the aid of
Greenville’s Volunteer Fire Department. Morongo Valley isn’t the only community who cannot
afford a paid Fire Department and this assessment is not all-inclusive, some areas of
Morongo will receive Free Fire Service complements of your voting yes.

Renters don’t be deceived in believing that your voting yes will not make your rent go
up. Property Owners will pass this Special Tax with its yearly increases onto you, so you will
be voting to INCREASE YOUR RENT. This Board’s negligent measures fashioned this
dilemma and our NO VOTES will say that we are not going to be deceived!

s/Michael Pueblo
Disabled Veteran

s/Frances Douglas

PR-008.004

SB 204-036

MEASURE“H”

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST

1.	The MV CSD is not abolishing the volunteer fire department. The proposed assessment
will stabilize staffing with a base of paid firefighters.

2.	The CSD has two responsibilities: Fire protection and Parks/Recreation. Parks/Recreation
include: Senior Nutrition, Library, Community Buildings, Ballfields, Tennis and other
recreational facilities.

3.	The assessment is not double taxation. Present funding is 20% of MV property taxes.
3600 parcels supply only $220,000.00 annually. Assessment would pay only firefighters’/
paramedics’ salaries. Assessment could only be increased (above the cost of living raise
of 3%) by another public vote.

4.	No areas will receive free fire service. CSD fire responds to CSD area. Mutual aid with
bordering agencies provides MV with additional equipment for large emergency
incidents. MV Fire in-turn responds to areas outside its jurisdiction when requested by
neighboring agencies. This is standard practice.

5.	Volunteer staffing numbers began decreasing 4 years ago. Presently, there is an average
of 1 firefighter per 24 hours. The private ambulance company is allowed 30 minutes to
respond. With medications available to reduce the negative consequences of many
medical emergencies, it would be irresponsible of the CSD not to request funding for local
paramedic/firefighters. Our residents deserve the best possible opportunity for survival
and recovery.

6.	With an inadequate number of volunteers and insufficient funding to pay salaried
positions, the MVFD cannot continue.

Do you want a local 24/hour staffed Fire Department with Paramedics, or are you willing to

become an Unincorporated County Fire Service Area?

Vote Yes on Measure H.

s/William F. Egan
President - M.V. Chamber of Commerce

s/Denise Breckenridge
President - MV. Elementary School PTA

s/Theil M. Eastabrook
Pioneer - Morongo Valley (1911)

s/Tracey L. Madden
Secretary/MV Recreation Assoc.

s/Chuck Osborne
President - Morongo Valley C.S.D.

PR-008.005

SB 204-037