T

CITY OF BERKELEY MEASURE L	
■ MEASURE L: Shall a special tax of 1.30 per square foot of I improvements on land in Berkeley be authorized to provide ■■■ funding for the installation and maintenance in die City of Berkeley of innovative and enhanced pedestrian safety improvements such as traffic circles and lighted pedestrian crosswalks and impro\ people with disabilities?  Financial Implications: Annual cost for average 1,900 square foot for Fiscal Year 2003-04, adjusted for inflation in future years.	YES
	NO
	ed access for home: $24.70

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

This ordinance would authorize a special tax of 1.30 per square foot of improve-
ments on land in Berkeley to pay for enhanced and innovative pedestrian safe-
ty improvements, such as traffic circles, access upgrades at traffic signals for
people with disabilities, lighted pedestrian crosswalks and other improvements
that increase pedestrian safety in residential neighborhoods and commercial and
industrial areas. The funds would be utilized to address dangerous intersections
throughout the City. The tax will automatically expire in 2013. The tax rate
imposed by this measure may be adjusted by the Council by the increase in the
cost of living in the immediate San Francisco Bay Area, or personal income
growth in the state of California, whichever is greater. The City Council may
repeal this ordinance, or amend it in a manner that does not result in an increase
in the tax imposed herein, without further voter approval.

Financial Implications

The proposed City special tax rate would limit the annual cost for an average

1,900	square foot home to $24.70 in fiscal year 2003-04. This level of funding
is not currently available for pedestrian safety related improvements.

It is estimated that the tax will cost residential taxpayers no more than the fol-
lowing average amounts during FY 2003-04:

Square Feet	Annual Tax

1,200	$ 15.60

1,500	$ 19.50

1,900	$ 24.70

3,000	$ 39.00

10,000	$130.00

s/MANUELA ALBUQUERQUE
Berkeley City Attorney

B-13



ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Berkeley can and must reduce its excessive pedestrian injury rates

Berkeley has a higher per capita pedestrian injury rate than other major Califor-
nia cities and has the two most dangerous intersections in the entire East Bay.
Pedestrian injuries nearly doubled during the nineties, even while walking to
work and school declined.

The citywide pedestrian safety improvements necessary to change this pic-
ture benefit everyone. Reducing conflicts with cars makes walking and driving
safer. Safety improvements for persons with disabilities are essential to ensure
city wide accessibility. Making walking safer encourages the use of public trans-
portation. Walking does not generate noise or air pollution or require parking
space and is healthy! It is in everybody’s interest to make walking safe.
Berkeley has a comprehensive Safety Plan developed by a citizens’ task force
which evaluated 1994-98 injuries, identified vulnerable populations, located
dangerous intersections, and recommended integrating education, enforcement,
engineering and planning solutions. The Safety Plan needs substantial funding.
The engineering solutions are particularly costly, since a set of fully accessible,
new traffic signals for a single intersection costs approximately $200,000. The
City’s budget allows only one new set of signals per year, with nothing for
needed safety improvements.

This special tax provides dedicated funds for appropriate one time only
pedestrian safety improvements such as sidewalk extensions, sidewalk to
crosswalk ramp alignments, traffic circles, lighted crosswalks, as well as other
access and signal upgrades at dangerous locations in every part of the City.

A small tax (less than $25 a year on average") for a limited time (10 vearst can
construct important and lasting safety improvements benefiting the whole com-
munity for generations. Also supported by Councilmembers Kriss Worthington,
Polly Armstrong, Margaret Breland, Linda Maio and Maudelle Shirek.

Make Berkeley a safer place to walk and live. VOTE YES ON MEASURE L.

s/SHIRLEY DEAN, Mayor

s/TOM BATES, Former State Assemblyman

s/MIRIAM HAWLEY, Councilmember

s/DONA SPRING, Councilmember

s/DARRYL MOORE, Trustee, Peralta Community College Board

. B-14

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Vote No on Measure L! Pedestrian safety is a basic service which should be
paid for from the annual dollars which the City receive from its’ many
forms of taxation

The argument in favor of Measure L completely ignores the issue of whether
the tax is the most appropriate one for Berkeley. The tax is based on the square
footage of buildings, as are many of the previous taxes enacted in Berkeley.
Taxes on improvements penalize people for providing more housing, shops, and
productive places to work. This is a needless punishment of better housing and
industry.

The efficient way to pay for better civic projects and services is a tax based on
the land, not on the improvements. The land is already there, so the tax does not
punish folks for providing for social needs. We have a housing crisis, so why
punish housing with an extra tax? Why did this tax measure not instead put the
tax on the ground, based on the square footage of the land?

The Argument Against Measure L makes a good case that we don’t even need
this tax. But even if you think we do need it, we also need the right type of tax.
This measure should not be a tax but paid for from existing city revenues.
Vote No on Measure L!
s/FRED FOLDVARY

s/ART GOLDBERG, former Chair, Citizens Budget Commission

s/GEORGEORAM

s/JOHN G. CECIL

s/ALVIN R. WARWAS, Neighborhood Activist

B-15

Y

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L

There is NO need for a Pedestrian Safety Tax. According to the July 28th, 2002
San Francisco Chronicle, the number of pedestrians injured in Berkeley
declined by over 15% in the last calendar year. Berkeley can continue to
improve pedestrian safety by utilizing existing general fund money.

Under SECTION 4 C of the proposed ordinance “Maintenance” includes pur-
chasing electricity for the illumination of both EXISTING and new street
lights. Yet, Berkeley already has a Street Lighting Tax. This is DOUBLE TAX-
ATION. In fact the current Street Lighting Tax on our property tax bills has a
cost of living escalation clause which allows the Council to increase the tax rate
without going back to the voters AND THEY HAVE INCREASED IT.
Students, tenants and others without property tax bills should realize that city
tax increases will result in rent increases making housing less affordable.

The ballot measure DOESN’T EVEN INFORM VOTERS how much money
will be raised for paying for electricity or pedestrian safety.

Due to rising real estate prices the city collects at least $7 million more each
year in property taxes than was collected four years ago. Where is that money?
It isn’t going to fix streets, sewers, or sidewalks-or provide more police or fire
protection. Demand an accounting before approving more indebtedness.

Vote NO on Measure L.
s/LAURIE V. BRIGHT
s/JOHN G. CECIL

s/ART GOLDBERG, Former Chair, Citizens Budget Commission

s/GEORGE S. ORAM, JR.

s/ALVIN R. WARWAS, Neighborhood Activist



REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L

Berkeley desperately needs a pedestrian safety program. Pedestrian deaths
constitute 47% of all Berkeley traffic fatalities. Police report that pedestrians are
at fault in only one of four collisions involving pedestrians. A recent 15% reduc-
tion in injuries that had doubled previously is not sufficient.

Our intersections, crosswalks and signals need remodeling. They are out-
dated, deteriorated and inaccessible. Constant increases in traffic volumes
require additional safety efforts, including implementation of already approved,
but not funded, safety and area plans. Intensified residential density, job expan-
sions, and cultural and commercial activity require promised safety improve-
ments.

This special safety tax is necessary and appropriate. We are faced with a
mounting budget deficit, declining state and federal funding, many tax-exempt
properties and shifting grant priorities away from safety to homeland security.
Citywide restructuring of the public right-of-way represents a massive capital
outlay that is rightfully a special tax just like other capital projects. This tax will
yield approximately a million dollars for engineering safety projects while the
annual budget will continue financing the Safety Plan’s other essential compo-
nents - education, enforcement and planning.

The City Attorney confirms that the “electricity” sentence in section 4C
was erroneously retained from a prior draft and, further, that the revenue raised
can be spent only for pedestrian safety improvements as defined in section 3B.
Every one can help create a safe pedestrian environment by voting YES on
Measure L.

s/MIRIAM HAWLEY, City Councilmember
s/MARK ABRAHAMS, member. Transportation Commission
s/JOHN CURL, member, Planning Commission
s/NANCY HOLLAND, member. Public Works Commission and
former member. Community Health Commission
s/ALLEN STROSS, member, Commission on Aging

B-17

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE L

ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING SPECIAL TAX
TO FUND MAINTENANCE AND INSTALLATION OF
PEDESTRIAN SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS

BE IT ORDAINED by the People of the City of Berkeley as follows:

Section 1. Findings and purpose.

Pedestrian safety is an issue of increasing concern in the City of Berkeley, espe-
cially for populations such as the disabled, seniors and children, who are par-
ticularly vulnerable. Risks to these populations could be significantly reduced
by accessibility and safety improvements. Accordingly, it is the purpose of this
ordinance to fund pedestrian safety improvements citywide.

Section 2. Special tax.

A.	The tax imposed under this chapter is solely for the purpose of raising of
revenue to pay for the pedestrian safety improvements in Berkeley.

B.	Section 4 of Article XD3A of the California Constitution (Proposition 13)
allows two-thirds of the qualified electors of the City to impose a special tax
within the City, provided the special tax is not an ad valorem tax on real
property or a transaction tax or a sales tax on the sale of real property with-
in the City. The tax imposed by this chapter is a special tax which is autho-
rized for elector approval by Section 4 of Article XIITA of the California
Constitution.

Section 3. Tax authorized - Tax rate - Indexing.

A.	There is imposed a special tax of 1.3$ per square foot on all improvements
in the City, for the purpose of maintaining and installing enhanced pedestri-
an safety improvements in Berkeley.

B.	For purposes of this chapter, “pedestrian safety improvements” means inno-
vative safety devices such as traffic circles, access upgrades at traffic signals
for people with disabilities, lighted pedestrian crosswalks and other
improvements that increase pedestrian safety in residential neighborhoods
and commercial and industrial areas, utilizing the funds to address danger-
ous intersections throughout the City.

C.	The tax imposed by this chapter shall be operative on July 1,2003 and shall
expire on July 1, 2013.

D.	The City Council of Berkeley is authorized and directed to increase the tax
rates authorized by this chapter by the greater of the cost of living in the
immediate San Francisco Bay Area, or personal income growth in the state,
as verified by official United States Bureau of Labor statistics. If either index
is discontinued, the City shall use any successor index specified by the
applicable agency, or if there is none, the most similar existing index then in
existence.

Section 4. Definitions.

For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as set forth
below:

A.	“Building” means any structure having a roof supported by columns or by

B-18

Y

walls and designed for the shelter or housing of any person, chattel or prop-
erty of any kind. The word “building” includes the word “structure.”

B.	“Improvements” means all buildings or structures erected or affixed to the
land.

C.	“Maintenance” includes purchasing electricity for the illumination of both
existing and new street lights.

D.	“Parcel” means a unit of real estate in one ownership as shown on the most
current official assessment role of the Alameda County Assessor.

E.	“Square footage” means the total gross horizontal areas of all floors, includ-
ing usable basement and cellars, below the roof and within the outer surface
of the main walls of buildings (or the center lines of party walls separating
such buildings or portions thereof) or within lines drawn parallel to and two
feet within the roof line of any building or portion thereof without walls
(which includes, notwithstanding subsection 3 of this definition, the square
footage of all porches), and including pedestrian access walkways or corri-
dors, but excluding the following:

1.	Areas used for off-street parking spaces or loading berths and drive-
ways and maneuvering aisles relating thereto.

2.	Areas which are outdoor or semi-outdoor areas included as part of the
building to provide a pleasant and healthful environment for the occu-
pants thereof and the neighborhood in which the building is located.
This exempted area is limited to stoops, balconies and to natural ground
areas, terraces, pools and patios which are landscaped and developed
for active or passive recreational use, and which are accessible for use
by occupants of the building.

3.	Arcades, porticoes, and similar open areas which are located at or near
street level, which are accessible to the general public, and which are
not designed or used as sales, display, storage, service or production
areas.

F.	“Structure” means anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.

Section 5. Authority of the City Manager.

It shall be the duty of the City Manager’s staff to collect and receive all taxes
imposed by this chapter, and to keep an accurate record thereof. The City
Manager is charged with the enforcement of this chapter, except as otherwise
provided herein, and may prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations
relating to the administration and enforcement of this chapter, including provi-
sions for the re-examination and correction of returns and payments. The City
Manager may prescribe the extent to which any ruling or regulation shall be
applied without retroactive effect.

Section 6. Interest and penalties.

A.	The City Council is authorized to have the taxes imposed by this chapter
collected by the county of Alameda in conjunction with the county’s collec-
tion of property tax revenues for the City. In the event that the county of
B-19



Alameda collects the taxes imposed by this chapter, the imposition of penal-
ties, additional fees and interest upon persons who fail to remit any tax
imposed by this chapter, or who fail to remit any delinquent remittance
under this chapter, shall be subject to and governed by the rules, regulations
and procedures utilized by the county in its collection of property taxes for
the City, and in its collection of this additional tax for the City.

B.	Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of
this chapter shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.
Section 7. Refunds.

Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty or interest has been paid more than
once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City under
this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in Chapter 7.20 of the Berkeley
Municipal Code.

Section 8. Collection.

The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any person owing money under
the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of
the City for the recovery of such amount.

Section 9. Savings clause.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any person, association, cor-
poration or to any property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the
City Council to impose the tax herein provided. If any sentence, clause, section
or part of this chapter, or any tax against any individual or any of the several
groups specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such clause, sen-
tence, section or part of this chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other parts of this chapter.
It is declared to be the intention of the City Council of the City of Berkeley that
this chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or
invalid sentence, clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.
Section 10. Violation - Penalty.

Any person who fails to perform any duty or obligation imposed by this chap-
ter shall be guilty of an infraction as set forth in Chapter 1.20 of the Berkeley
Municipal Code. The penalties provided in this section are in addition to the
several remedies provided in this chapter.

Section 11. Increase appropriations limit

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XillB, the appropriations limit for
the City is increased by the aggregate sum authorized to be levied by this spe-
cial tax for each of the four fiscal years from 2003-04 through 2006-07.

B-20