SAMPLE

OFFICIAL

BALLOT

AND VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

Los materiales para votar estan ahora a su disposition en espanol.
Encontrara mas information en el interior.

GENERAL ELECTION
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2002

BSfSS&BBS&t

POLLS OPEN AT 7 AM
AND CLOSE AT 8 PM

PLEASE TAKE THIS PAMPHLET
WITH YOU TO THE POLLS

YOUR POLLING PLACE IS
SHOWN ON THE BACK COVER

If

|i

m

««<

sss



BALLOT TYPE 164

TELEPHONE NUMBER (916) 875-6451

WEB SITE - www.co.sacramento.ca.us/elections
Compiled by County of Sacramento Voter Registration and Elections

CITY OF SACRAMENTO
.	MEASURE	T

Shall Chapter 3.32, of Title 3 of the Sacramento City Code be amended to reduce
the City of Sacramento utility user tax from seven and one-half percent (7.5%) to
two and one-half percent (2.5%) over a four year period; and.to eliminate the age
and disability eligibility requirements of the existing utility user tax refund
procedure?	^

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T
Prepared by the City Attorney

Effect of Measure on Existing Law

- Measure T is an initiative measure that would amend the Utility User Tax
(“UUT”) of the City of Sacramento (“City”).

Currently, the UUT is imposed on City residents’ use of telephone, electricity,
natural gas, and cable television utilities. The tax rate is 7.5% of the charges on
utility bills. The revenue from the UUT is placecfin the City’s General Fund, which is
used to fund police, fire, parks, recreation and other city services.

Measure T would reduce the UUT rate from 7.5% to 2.5% over four years,
beginning July 1,2003.

. Currently, persons who are sixty-two or older or disabled, and whose annual
household income is less than $25,000, are eligible for a partial UUT refund.

Measure T would amend the UUT refund program to eliminate the age and
disability eligibility requirements. The income requirement would remain
unchanged.

Operation of Measure

Measure T would:

•	Reduce the UUT rate from 7.5% to 2.5% over four years, beginning July 1,2003,
pursuant to the following schedule:

•	effective July 1, 2003: 6.5%

■	* effective July 1, 2004: 5.5%

•	effective July 1, 2005: 4.5%

•	effective July 1, 2006: 3.5%

•	effective July 1, 2007 and thereafter: 2.5%

•	Eliminate the eligibility standards of the UUT refund program requiring the
applicant to be over 62 or disabled.

Fiscal impact:

Approval of Measure T will have a fiscal impact. UUT revenue goes into the
City’s General Fund. The General Fund is the principal governmental operating
account, and it funds a variety of City programs and departments, including police,
fire, administrative and legal services, parks, recreation, library and other city
services. UUT revenue in 2001-2002 was approximately 50.5 million dollars,
based upon the current 7.5% UUT rate.

Under Measure T, the UUT rate would be reduced annually in 1 % increments,
from the current 7.5% to 2.5% on July 1,2007. If Measure T is adopted and fully
implemented', the revenue generated by the UUT and placed in the General Fund
will be one-third of the revenue that would have been generated by the UUT if the
current UUT rate remained unchanged.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE T

Initiative measure to be submitted directly.to the voters. The City Attorney has
prepared the following title and summary of the chief purpose and points of the
proposed measure:

An Initiative Measure Amending title 3, chapter 3.32 of the
Sacramento City Code to Reduce the City of
Sacramento Utility User Tax
From 7.5% to 2.5% Over a Four Year Period
and to Amend the Existing Utility User
Tax Refund Procedure to
Eliminate the Age and Disability Eligibility Requirements

This initiative measure, which is a proposed ordinance, would enact certain
changes to the City of Sacramento Utility User Tax, set forth in Title 3, Chapter
3.32 of the Sacramento City Code.

Under existing law, the City of Sacramento imposes its Utility User Tax on city
residents’ use of their telephone, electricity,, natural gas, and cable television
utilities. The tax rate is 7.5% of the charges on residents’ utility bills. The tax is
'collected by the utility companies as a part of the utility bill. The utility company
remits the collected tax revenue to the city.

Under existing law, persons who are sixty-two years of age or older, or who are
disabled, and whose annual household income, as defined, is less than $25,000,
may apply fora refund of the “eligible tax”, as defined. The refund is limited to the
total of the following:

•	the amount of the tax on telephone services, but not to exceed, the tax
on the "lifeline flat rate service" rate charged by the largest local ‘
provider;

•	the amount of the tax on electricity services;

,• the amount of the tax on gas services; and

•	the amount of the tax on cable television services, but not to exceed the
tax on the “economy basic’’ service rate charged by the largest local
provider.

This measure would amend the Utility User Tax by reducing the rate from 7.5%
to 2.5% over a four year period. If adopted, the Utility User Tax will be reduced
annually as follows:

•	effective July 1,2003 to June 30, 2004:	6.5%

•	effective July	1,2004	to June 30,	2005:	5.5%

•	effective July	1,2005	to June 30,	2006:	4.5%

•	effective July	1,2006	to June 30,	2007:	3.5%

•	effective July	1,	2007	and thereafter:	2.5%

This measure would amend the Utility User Tax refund program by eliminating
the eligibility standards which require the applicant to be over the age of 62 or
disabled. It would also impose a duty upon specified city officials to faithfully
implement and diligently defend the ordinance, and adopt a liberal construction
provision.

If adopted, the proposed ordinance could not be repealed or amended except
by a majority of the voters of the City of Sacramento.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

. Vote Yes On Measure T -- The Fair Utility Tax Act

Fact: Sacramento City residents pay a utility tax that’s Three Times Higher than
anywhere else in Sacramento County. Three Times Higher: That’s Not Fair!

Fact: While No One Else In Sacramento County Pays More Than 2.5%, we pay a
7.5% tax on our electricity, natural gas, intra-state telephone and cable television
bills. That’s Not Fair!

Fact: While residents in neighboring cities—including West Sacramento, Folsom,
Davis and Rocklin — pay No Utility Tax At All, We Pay 7.5%.

That’s Not Fair!

Fact: The Sacramento Bee calls the Utility Tax "...a regressive tax that has taken in
25 percent more money over the last three years....” Taxes on necessities of life hit
poor and fixed-income persons hardest, and cost us $55 million a year. That’s Not
Fair!

ft's time for change ... Time To Be Fair!

Measure T — The Fair Utility Tax Act — gradually reduces the 7.5% Utility Tax by
just 1 % a year beginning July 1,2003. Starting July 1,2007 the City tax rate will be
the same as the 2.5% County rate. No Drastic Cuts, Justl % Per Year. That’s Fair!

i

Measure T Permanently expands the existing rebate program to refund All utility
tax payments to 45,000 of the city’s poorest households — seniors, the disabled,
and families with children — up from 7,000 today. That’s Fair!

Sacramento politicians claim a Fair Utility Tax will require cuts in police and fire
services. Nonsense! Truth is, they want to spend our tax dollars on their own pay
raises (like Measure S), political campaigns, $4 million in loans to cover City golf
course losses, and other wasteful, unnecessary spending.

Join Democrats, Republicans, Independents, seniors and families: Say Yes to the
Fair Utility Tax Act.

Yes on T.

Patricia Kelly, Co-author, Fair Utility Tax Act

Joseph H. Fraccola, President, Council of Seniors and Senior Organizations

Alexander Vasquez, Small Business Owner

Richard Mersereau, President, Sacramento County Taxpayers League

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

The outside group asking Sacramento voters to cut funding for police, fire, parks
and other services an average of 18 percent is simply wrong.

Susan Moe, New Era Park Neighborhood Association: “The outsiders pushing this
measure are doing the same in cities throughout California to build their
membership. They don't care about city residents. They refuse to suggest where
to trim costs because they are pursuing a political agenda, not a campaign to help
Sacramento.”

Tom Burruss, Co-founder South Sacramento/Greenhaven. Chamber of
Commerce and Education: “City residents themselves voted to support the utility
tax to make Sacramento stronger through better community services. It is good for
Sacramento businesses and residents. Don’t turn back the clock. Vote No on
Measure T.”

Greta Canon, Senior Citizen: “The City of Sacramento already rebates the utility
tax to seniors and disabled persons with limited incomes."

Phillip Riles, Former President, Sacramento-Public Library Foundation: “Libraries
are about education, literacy and computer access for Sacrameritans Of all ages
and of all incomes. Are the libraries open too many days? Are they open too many
hours? Vote No on Measure T.”

Richard Lewis, Managing Director, Sacramento Music Circus: “Those who love
the arts, homeowners who care about property values — everyone concerned
about making Sacramento a good place for families should reject Measure T.”

Vote No on Measure T. It's a bad idea.

Heather Fargo, Mayor, City of Sacramento
Art Venegas, City of Sacramento Chief of Police
Greta Canon, Senior Citizen
Joseph Yee, Small Business Owner

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T

City residents know how special Sacramento is. That's why we voted over 10
years ago to maintain the utility users tax rate to support essential services that
enhance ourquality of life. Now, a group based outside the city wants Sacramento
voters to cut support for city services by an. average of 18 percent.

Your neighbors and fellow Sacramentans say Vote No on this scheme to
undermine your services -- Vote No on Measure T.

t

Firefighter Brian Rice: “There’s no way to cut $39 million from the city budget and
not affect services. Do the math. It’s a huge amount that surely will lead to
reductions in force for both police and fire protection.”

Randy Paragary, Sacramento restaurant owner: “As a local businessman, I'm
always concerned about the taxes I have to pay. But the utility tax is crucial if we

\

\ ■

:	are to maintain services for businesses and residents. With the economy in

\ turmoil, it’s no time to cut city revenues.”

} Joe and Gavin Maloof, Sacramento Kings owners: “We love this community.
Sacramento is a city of the future. Measure T moves the city backward. We hope
you will Vote No.”

Ted Ternes, community representative: “Measure T would affect every block and
every resident in the city. It will hurt public safety, after-school programs, animal
care, the environment, cultural services, libraries, parks, our business climate and
good community planning - - the things that make Sacramento so special.”

Former NBA star Kevin Johnson: “I make my home in Sacramento because I value
its culture and character. We teach our kids at St. Hope Academy to become
leaders in their community. But the culture and character of Sacramento will be
deeply harmed by Measure T.”

Vote No on Measure T

Brian Rice, President, Sacramento Area Firefighters

Matt Mahood, CEO, Sacramento Metro Chamber of Commerce

Mary Brill, Neighborhood Organization Leader

Jaclyn White, Sacramento Children’s Coalition

Buck Busfield, B Street Theater

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T

Measure T cuts unfair utility taxes, not essential services. Only The Mayor And
City Council Can Vote To Cut Police And Fire Services.

While the politicians opposing Measure T scream “cuts," the Mayor and City
Council approved massive cost overruns on the Freeport building project, City
parking garage, and nearly $1 million for the infamous "golf barn.” Measure T Ends
The Waste, Without Threatening Police, Fire, And Other Vital Programs!

Virtually every person and organization included in the Arguments against
Measure T is a City employee or receives City benefits - - tax breaks, loans; or
direct cash payments - - paid for by Our tax dollars. We Pay Their Bills, But They’re
Fighting To Keep Our Taxes Three Times Higher Than Anywhere In Sacramento
County!

Everyone loves our Sacramento Kings and Paragary restaurants ... but utility
taxes paid by low-income families and seniors should Never be used to provide
loans or subsidies for sports stadiums or new restaurants.

l- Everyone admires Kevin Johnson and St. Hope Academy ... and the same
low-income families he helps so much Will Pay No Utility Tax- - None- -If Measure
T Is Passed.

Measure T means fairness and fiscal responsibility. Davis, West Sacramento and
Folsom provide police, fire, and other essential services without imposing Any
utility tax, while the County utility tax is only 2.5%. It’s not fair that our taxes are
Three Times Higher Than Anywhere In Sacramento County?

Let’s make the politicians live within a budget, just like we do.

Yes on T. It’s only fair.

Patricia Kelly, Co-author, Fair Utility Tax Act

Joseph H. Fraccola, President, Council of Seniors and Senior Organizations
Richard Mersereau, President, Sacramento County Taxpayers League

