O. FICIAL BALLO l

SPECIAL ELECTION
COUNTY SERVICE AREA 85 (CABAZON)
AUGUST 13, 2002

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

To vote on the measure, make a cross (X ) in the voting square to
the right of the word "Yes," or to the right of the word “No."

All other distinguishing marks or erasures are forbidden and make
the ballot void.

If you wrongly mark, tear or deface this ballot, return it to the
Riverside County Registrar of Voters and obtain another.

Keep the top portion of the ballot. Fold the ballot and place it in the
prepaid return envelope. Complete ID section on return envelope.
Voter MUST SIGN return envelope. Remember to include your
residence address. Envelope containing voted ballot may then be
mailed or delivered to the Registrar of Voters, 2724 Gateway
Drive, Riverside, CA 92507-0918. In any event, it must reach the
office of the Registrar of Voters no later than 5 p.m. August 13,
2002.

KEEP TOP PORTION FOR YOUR RECORDS
SEPARATE HERE — RETURN BALLOT BELOW

DISTRICT

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

H

T

Shall the County of Riverside be authorized to;

establish a special tax of $36 77 per parcel,j----

per year on all parcels within CSA 85 (Cabazon); ho
to finance Park and Recreation services?

This special tax will be in addition to the $20 Assessment!
currently paid The special tax will be subject to an annual I
adjustment that is the greater of two percent (2%) or the I
cumulative percentage increase, if any. in the Consumer I
Price Index lor all Urban Consumers (“CPI-U") for the Los I
Angeles-Riverside-Orange County California Standard!
Metropolitan Statistical area (“Index") published by the!
Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Depart-1
ment of Labor

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “H”

The California Constitution prohibits public entities, including counties,
from imposing any special taxes, for themselves or on behalf of County
Service Areas, except by a two-thirds vote of the qualified electors of the
pertinent jurisdiction voting at an election held for that purpose. The
Board of the Supervisors of the County of Riverside have proposed to
the voters that a special tax of $36.77 per parcel per year be imposed
upon all parcels within County Service Area 85 (Cabazon) to finance
park and recreation services.

The special tax will be in addition to the $20.00 assessment currently
paid for each parcel within the Community Service area, and will be
subject to an annual adjustment that is the greater of 2% or the cumula-
tive percentage increase, if any, in the Consumer Price Index for aii
Urban Consumers for the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County,
California Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area published by the
Bureau of Labor Statistics of tire United States Department of Labor.

The proceeds of the tax shall be retained in tie County Service area 85
fund, to be used only for purposes of operating, maintaining, and servic-
ing parks and recreation services, in accordance with the provisions of
Resolution Number 2002-118, adopted by the Board of Supervisors of

the County of Riverside on May 14,2002.

If a two-thirds majority voting on the Measure approve it, the County may
proceed to impose the special tax upon parcels in County Service Area
85, and use those proceeds in accordance with the aforementioned
Resolution.

A “yes” vote on the Measure is a vote to approve and alow the imposition
of the special tax.

A “no” vote on the Measure is a vote against the imposition of the special
tax.

By:	COUNTY	COUNSEL

ARGUMENT th, FAVOR OF MEASURE “H”

CSA 85 SPECIAL TA1 INCREASE ELECTION

County Service Area (CSA) 85 provides the money to operate the
Cabazon Park and Community Center, and brings social, health, and
recreational programs to our residents. The CSA receives funding from a
portion of our property taxes and also from a $20 per year special tax
levied on each property in the community.

For several years, the CSA has been operating at a deficit. This has
resulted in a diminishing cash reserve. At the current rate, our CSA park
and recreation services will be out of cash within a year.

It will take an increase in our annual Special Tax to continue to operate
our Park and Center, The County estimates that increase of $36.77 (to a
total of $56.77) per year is necessary.

However, when you consider toe services provided to the community, it
is a great bargain. Not only is toe park and community center available
for general use by our youth and older folks, but special programs such
as the Children’s summer recreation program, children’s blaster and
Christmas activities, USDA food distribution (80 pounds per month, an
average $72 bargain), senior food sharing (brown.bag) program, and
CaroFs''Ktichih4Unches twice per week are offered, in addition, the
Center is available to host private events, such as weddings, birthday
parties, and meetings of local organizations such as the Cabazon Water
District and the Chamber of Commerce,

This community asset can be tost to us if we do not do our part by helping
to fund the operating cost of these facilities. For the equivalent of 10
cents per day, each property owner can do his/her part.

Let’s do the right thing for our community and support the Special Tax
increase. I urge your “Yes” vote on the Special Tax increase!

By:	Dan	Gordon, Private Investigator

Brandi Cunningham
Louis Selvera

33-50