<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H
Prepared by Sacramento County Counsel

Measure H, if approved by the voters, would add Chapter 3.08 to the
sacramento County Code, allowing the County of Sacramento to continue
collecting a 2% increase (from 10% to 12%) in the transient occupancy tax.

The transient occupancy tax is collected from renters of hotel, motel and other
such temporary lodging accommodations located in the unincorporated area of
Sacramento County and raises revenue for general governmental purposes. 

Measure H requires approval by a majority vote of the qualified voters of the
County of Sacramento voting in the election on the issue.
<impartialend>







<favor>

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

MEASURE H does not raise your taxes—not one penny. It has nothing to do with the taxes you pay. 

This Measure simply continues a small tax paid by visitors to Sacramento County who stay at hotels or motels outside city limits. This hotel/motel tax has been in place for the past eight years, and is similar to hotel/motel taxes levied by other counties throughout California. 

While people living in Sacramento County do not pay this tax, we all benefit tremendously from the money it provides—more than $1.5 million every year. This money is used to help attract new business, jobs and tourism to our county. It promotes healthy economic growth. And it funds programs that help children and enrich our lives. 

By voting “yes” on Measure H, you will protect a vital source of funding for local libraries, the American River Parkway, Boys and Girls Clubs of Greater Sacramento, Sacramento Tree Foundation, Sacramento and Folsom. Zoos, Discovery Museum, Fair Oaks Theater District, Crocker Art Museum, Effie Yeaw Nature Center, Fairytale Town, Music Circus, Olympic Trials and the Sacramento Convention & Visitors Bureau, which brings thousands of tourists and millions of dollars to our county each year. 

Without Measure H, these important programs will suffer noticeable cuts, which will hurt the quality of our lives and make it more difficult to attract business, jobs and visitors to Sacramento County. During these difficult economic times, Measure H is vital to our county’s economic health. It protects needed revenue for worthwhile civic programs. It promotes tourism. And it creates jobs while nurturing healthy economic growth. Measure H does all of this without raising your taxes or imposing any burden on local taxpayers. 

To protect our local economy and quality of life, we ask you to vote “yes” on Measure H. 

<favorend>



<favorsigs>

Steve Hammond, President and CEO, Sacramento Convention and Visitor Bureau
Buck Busfield, Producing Director, B Street Theater
Ben Simmons, President, Friends of the Sacramento Public Library
Madeline MacDonald, President, League of Women Voters of Sacramento
Chris Mellini, President, Sacramento Hotel Association

<favorsigsend>
