CANDIDATE FOR
SHERIFF

NAME: GARY PENROD	AGE:	S3	I

OCCUPATION: Sheriff	-	I

As Sheriff of San Bernardino County, I am excited about the progress we have made as
an organization, and the achievements we can look forward to in the future. As Sheriff, I haye	f

implemented a Strategic Plan, which has established a clear direction for the department 1
as we meet the challenges of serving the nation's largest county.	'

The hard work and dedication of the men and women of the Sheriff’s Department, along
• with- the support ofv our partners throughout the county, has resulted in. remarkable J
accomplishments. The department is committed, to providing highly effective law f
enforcement service iand responding to the opportunities-created by the growth and |
development that effect our county. __	..	„

Although we’ve made great progress, there is stiHTnuch work to be done. My commitment	i

to the citizens of San Bernardino County is to continue my aggressive approach , to	->

investigating crime and arresting those responsible.- Together we can work to make San
Bernardino County a safe place to live and work.

s/Gary Penrod	.

W ® IF

. CS-024	R	SB	053-038	.

MEASURE “N”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY*

program for the. residents of Adelantd/ Revenue raised .'through this assessment shall be
placed jn a special fund to be used only for the purpose of obtaining, providing, operating
and maintaining parks and. recreation service, equipment and personnel.' These funds
cannot be used forany other purpose.	; -	'	:	’''';

The tax imposed by this ordinance shall be placed upon each .parcel of -propei^tejSingle-
family lots and’residences will, pay '$^^b6','|^r'rye^^ *:4njdustiiikl/Cbnivnen»al'^^

Home parks will pay between $100.00 to $150.00 per year based upon the humberp
homes plus $5.00 per unit.	•.	1	'	.	;	'	r	i

The above statement is an' impartial analysis of “Measure N.” If you^desire a coj;
ordinance or measure, please call the elections official at 246-2300‘extSoao and a t
be mailed to you at no cost to you.	.	?	..	~	,!

*. Section 9280 . of the Elections Code requires; the City Attorney to. prepare an j
analysis of "measures appearing oh the ballot

PH-003.001

MEASURED”
ORDINANCE NUMBER 391

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ADELANTO,
COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA LEVYING AN.
ASSESSMENT FOR PARKS AND RECREATION SERVICES

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF ADELANTO, CALIFORNIA DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

' SECTION 1. . Pursuant to the authority of Section 4 of Article Xlll-A of the California
Constitution, there is hereby levied and. assessed a special parks and
recreation tax by the City of Adelanto.on eaich parcel of.property in the City
of-Adelanto for each fiscal'year, commencing with the fiscal year 2002-
2003.	..

SECTION 2. Unless territory is annexed to the City of Adelanto following the date of
adoption of this ordinance by the City Council, the maximum annual
• .amounts of said special tax for each fiscal year shall be as indicated on
■ Exhibit A of this ordinance incorporated herein in its entirety. In the event
' ' territory is annexed to the City of Adelanto following the date of adoption.,
of this ordinance by the City Council, the special tax shall be imposed on
such annexed parcels in the same'amounts as other-parcels in the same
zoning classification, and the maximum amount of said tax for this fiscal
year of such, annexation and each of the fiscal years thereafter shall be
increased'by amounts equal to the special tax imposed on the annexed
parcels.

SECTION 3. A. The special tax zones shall be those designated on the official zone

map- of the City...	*

' B. The records of the San Bernardino County Assessor as of March 1st of
each year preceding the applicable .fiscal year shall determine whether or
not any particular lot is unimproved'for the purposes of this section. The
term “parcel of-property” as used'in this ordinance shall mean any.
contiguous unit of improved or unimproved real property-held in separate
ownership, Including, but-not limited to, any single family residence, or any
other Unit of real property subject to the California Subdivide'Lands-Act
(Business and Professional Code, Section HOOD, et. seq.) , .

C. The tax imposed by this ordinance shall be placed upon each-parcel
' of property,-and the4ax not be measured by the value of the property.

D; The City has determined that one hundred,percent (10Cf%) of such-
special tax shall be-for parks and recreation-services.

SECTION 4. -The tax imposed by this ordinance shall be due in two equal installments
In accordance with the'cbl lection procedures of the San Bernardino County
. Tax Collector, in-the same manner, and on the same.applicable dates as-
established bylaw for the due dates for the other charges and taxes fixed
■ .and- collected by the.County-of San-Bernardino:

■ . SECTION 5. The revenue raised by this ordinance shall be-piaced ina special fund to
be used only.for the purpose of obtaining, providing, operating, and
maintaining parks and recreation service',' park and recreation equipment
•■and paying salaries and benefits to park and recreation personnel..
SECTION 6. The City Council, by three (3) affirmative'votes,*is.empowered:

- A. To establish the amounts of the tax levy annually each fiscal year in the
amounts'not to exceed the maximum amounts specified for each
component of the tax in Section 2 of this ordinance as is required to
provide in the City in accordance with the purposes set'forth in this
ordinance;

PR-003.002'

R SB 053-040

SECTION 7.

SECTION 8. •

SECTION 9.

’ SECTION 10.

SECTION 11.
SECTION 12.

SECTION 13.
. SECTION 14.

. SECTION 15.

SECTION 16,
PR-003.0Q3

B.	To sit-on or appoint a Board of Equalization.under procedures to be
adopted to equalize inequities and reduce hardship's created by literal

• application of this ordinance, and such shall be- deemed an
administrative remedy.	*	.	\

C.	To annually-.provide an official Assessment Book designating the actual;
tax levy on. each parcel, and to place same on file in the Office of the

' City Clerk. .	*.	'	‘	'	•

The City Council shall be empowered to amend this ordinance by three (3)
.votes of the members thereof, for the purposes of carrying out the general
intent of this ordinance, in order to conform to state law that permits the
County Tax Collector, or other proper official, to collect a special tax such'
as is levied by this ordinance in conjunction with County taxes or in .order
to assign duties pursuant to the ordinance.to other Officers.

The tax imposed hereby shall be collected in the same manner, on the •
.same dates, and subject to the same penalties and interest in accordance
with the established dates as, or with, other charges and taxes -fixed and
collected by the County may deduct .its. reasonable costs incurred for such '
services before remittal of the balance to' the City.

The tax hereby imposes shall not be imposed upon, a Federal or State
Government agency or other Local agency or upon any parcel of-property
that is exempt from the special tax imposed„by this ordinance pursuant to •'
any provision of the Constitution or any paramount law.

Pursuant to the California Constitution, Article Xll-B, the appropriation limit
for the" city of Adetanto will be increased by the maximum projected
aggregate collection authorized by levy of this tax, as indicated in section
2, in each of the years covered by the'ordinance plus the .amount,, if any,
by which the appropriations limit-is decreased by lavy-as a result- of the
assessment of-tax set forth in this ordinance. ■	^

Unexpected residue of any money raised'by the. city, under this ordinance .
may only be used in the succeeding year for the purposes'stated in this
ordinance. ’	*	■■	■

If any provisions of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person
or circumstances is held invalid-or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, invalidity or.unconstitutional shall not.affect any-'
other persons,'or applications, and to this 'end the provision of this
ordinance are. declared, to be severable. The City Council, and - the-'
.electorate by referendum, do hereby declare that they would have adopted,
this ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase,
part or portion' therefor,' irrespective of the fact that nay. pne or more
sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, parts or portions- therefor, bfe
declared invalid .or unconstitutional. '■,	..

This ordinance, or any provisions thereof other than those provisions, if any
which provide' for modification by the City Council of the City of Adelaritp,.
may only by amended. pr repealed by approval of two-thirds .(2/3): of the ■
voters voting on the provisions at any initiative or referendum election. .

This ordinance shall be referred to and shall be effective only if approved' ■
as an -initiative or referendum measure, by twri-thirds (2/3) of the voters ■
voting at an election to be held on .March 5, 2002, and igo into' effect feri'
(10) days after the City Council has,- by resolution," declared that such
initiative measure was. approved by twp-third.s (2/3) of "the voters voting
.thereon.	•	-	,

The City Clerk-shall certify to the.passage and adoption of this ordinance -.;
and shall cause same to be published as required by law:	"	'	.	;	•

EFFECTIVE DATE: This Ordinance shall take effect thirty (30) days’ after .
approval. '	.	'L	.	"

R SB 053-041

SECTION 17. POSTING: Withinfifteen (15) days after the passage of this Ordinance, the'.

City Clerk shall cause'it to be posted in three (3) public places designated .
by resolution of the Council.

MEASURE MN”	,

EXHIBIT A

RESIDENTIAL / SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DWELLINGS

Each would be assessed in the amount of $25.00 annually.

INDUSTRIAL / COMMERCIAL _

1.	Businesses'who employ 10 or less employees be assessed in the amount of $50.00.

2.	Businesses who employ 1 i to 20 employees be assessed in the amount of $‘55.00.

3.	Businesses who employ 21 to 50 employees be assessed in the amount of $75.00. ,

4.	Businesses who employ 51 to 100 employees be assessed in the amount of $100.00.

5.	Businesses who employ 101 dr more employees be assessed in the amount of.

$165.00. ,	"

APARTMENTS / DUPLEXES

i: Apartments or Duplexes which have 75 tb 100 units be assessed in the amount of
$60*00 annually, plus $5,00 per unit.

2.	Apartments or Duplexes which have 51 to .74 units be assessed in the amount of.
$60,00 annually, plus.$5.00 per unit.

3.	Apartments, or Duplexes which have 1 to 50 units be assessed in the amount of $35.00
annualiy. plus $5.00 per unit.

MOBILE HOME PARKS

1.	Mobile home.parks which have 75 or more mobile homes shall be assessed in the
amount of $150.00 annually, pius $5.00 per unit.

2.	Mobile home parks which have 50 to 74 mobile homes shall .be assessed in the amount
of $125.00 annually, plus $5.00 per unit. -

3.	Mobile home parks which have 1 to 49 mobile homes shall be assessed in the amount
. of $100.00 annuallyi plus $5.00 per unit.

NO ARGUMENTS FOR OR AGAINST MEASURE MN” WERE FILED'

PR-003.004

R SB 053-042

POLL WOREERS POLLUVG PLACES

Are you interested in serving your community and in making money at
the. same time?. Interested registered voters are needed to serve,on
election boards in this election and future elections. Salary per election
is $100 for Inspectors and $65 for Clerks. An. additional $15 is paid to
clerks if you attend training class and wbFk Election Day; In a number of :
precincts there may'also be the need for polling place facilities. Rental
fee for private facilities is $50.

&XX»X2lIEEBffCX: RrOT EUEQUmEB FOR OUBRES ,

If you are interested Jn. making your services,' home or business
available, please complete the application below and mail as indicated*
or call 909-38.1-2860 or 1-800-881-VOTE (8688),

We will contact you if assistance or facilities .are needed in your precinct.
or area for this-election arid future elections.

; *NOTE: If you have applied to serve in.any election in'this county and-have ndt

*	moved; it is not necessary to return this application.'-We have your name bn file.

*	■	APPLICATION TO SERVE AS POLL WORKER AND/OR POLLING PLACE .LOCATION

' Please fill, out this application and return it to:	.	‘

COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO
REGISTRAR OF VOTERS .

,	777 E. RIALTO AVENUE

SAN BERNARDINO, CA 92415-0770 .

' NAME' ■ .	-

ADDRESS______________________________________ “	'	'	.

■ CITY	  STATE	ZIP'

PHONE: DAYS (______ V	'	'	 EVES	(____^

. Please check:	'■	YES	NO

'! am available to serve on an election board .	□	O

My residence.or business is available as a polling place	□	•	□

I have prior experience as an election official .	□	:	□	‘

I speak the Spanish language . ■	□	,	•	.□

'	OFFICIAL	BALLOT

County of San Bernardino ..	.

Direct Primary Election .	,	■	   March	5,2002

;	CITY	,	.	•’	•

CITY OF ADELANTO
ASSESSMENT FOR PARKS AND RECREATION SERVICES

M

Shall Ordinance No. .391 prepared and proposed by the City Council of the
City of Adeianto be Adopted? •	■	-	.	•

YES 187
NO 188

R SB 053-020

NSB-008.006S