VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF ROHNERT PARK
MEASURE T

Shall the Transient Occupancy Tax paid by hotel and
motel guests in Rohnert Park be increased to 12%
commencing on December 1,2002?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T

The Rohnert Park Municipal Code is the official collection of City of Rohnert Park
local laws. One such law requires that a person who stays in a hotel, motel, or
other lodging in Rohnert Park for thirty consecutive days or less, pay a transient
occupancy tax. The tax is collected from the hotel guest by the hotel operator and
paid to the City of Rohnert Park’s General Fund. Monies in the General Fund are
used for the ordinary and necessary operations of the City and are not earmarked
for a specific purpose. The General Fund is spent according to a budget adopted
by the City Council.

The transient occupancy tax is 11 % of the price for the room or other lodging. If a
hotel room costs $100 per night, for example, then the transient occupancy tax is
$1.10. Measure T would increase the transient occupancy tax to 12%. If Measure T
passes, the transient occupancy tax on a hotel room that costs $100 per night,
would be $1.20. If Measure T does not pass, the transient occupancy tax will
decrease from 11 % to 10%. If Measure T does not pass, the transient occupancy
tax on a hotel room that costs $100 per night, would be $1.00. The decrease
would occur because of a change in the law affecting voter approval for new or
increased taxes.

In 1986 a law was enacted that required voter-approval for increases in general
taxes. By 1991 several courts had ruled that this law, known as Proposition 62,
violated the California Constitution, The City of Rohnert Park increased the
transient occupancy tax from 10% to 11% in 1992. At the time of the increase,
voter approval was not required. In 1995, the California Supreme Court over-
turned those other court decisions and ruled that Proposition 62 was lawful. This
meant that an increase in a general tax requires voter approval. When three years
elapsed from the date of the Rohnert Park increase, it was protected from legal
challenge. However, in 2001, the California Supreme Court decided that each'
time the tax was collected, this three-year period begins again. This means that at
any time three years from payment of the tax, the taxpayer may challenge the
increase from 10% to 11% on the basis that it did not receive voter approval.
Measure T removes this possibility by asking for voter approval of the increase
(and an additional 1% increase to 12%).

A “yes1' vote on Measure T means that the transient occupancy tax will remain at 12%.

A “no” vote on Measure T means that the transient occupancy tax will decrease to 10%.

s/ Betsy Strauss
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

Currently the Transient Occupancy Tax (also known as the “hotel tax”) in Rohnert
Park is 11 %. Measure T on your November Ballot would increase this tax to 12%.

The Transient Occupancy Tax is paid by visitors that come to Rohnert Park and stay
at one of our hotels or motels. Without costing Rohnert Park residents anything
out of their own pockets this tax funds a very important 7% of the City’s services
budget. Services such as police and fire services and recreation programs.

What would your “yes” vote do?

Your “yes” vote would reaffirm the hotel tax at its current level. As a result of a recent
California Supreme Court decision, the City is required to receive voter approval to
maintain the tax at the 11 % level. If this measure is not approved by the voters, the
tax will revert to 10% and the City will lose $150,000 in existing revenue.

Your “yes” vote would increase the Transient Occupancy Tax from 11% to 12%
providing an additional source of revenues for the City.

CONT. NEXT COLUMN

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T, CONT.

Rohnert Park attracts tourists and business travelers from around the world. While
visiting, they provide us with funds through local spending that helps pay for critical
services and programs.

We urge your support of the Transient Occupancy Tax and its continued funding of
essential city services. Please join us in voting “yes” on Measure T.

ROHNERT PARK CITY COUNCIL
si Armando F. Flores, Mayor	s/James J. Reilly, Jr., Vice-Mayor

si Jake Mackenzie, Councilmember si Vicki Vidak-Martinez, Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE T

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE T
ORDINANCE NO. 685

An Urgency Ordinance of the City Council of the City of Rohnert Park
Increasing the Transient Occupancy Tax to
Twelve Percent (12%) of the Rent Charged by the Operator

SECTION ONE. Section 3.24.030 of the Rohnert Park Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read:

3.24.030 Tax Imposed.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall
pay a tax in the amount of twelve percent of the rent charged by the operator. Said
tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city which is extinguished only by
payment to the operator or to the city. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator
of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a
proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax
shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any
reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the tax administrator may
require that such tax shall be paid directly to the tax administrator.

SECTION TWO. The change to the transient occupancy tax proposed in Section
One of this ordinance will be submitted for voter approval as a ballot measure at the
general municipal election held on November 5, 2002. Section One of this
ordinance will not take effect unless and until a majority for those persons voting,
vote in favor of the ballot measure.

SECTION THREE. This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its adoption
as an ordinance relating to an election and relating to taxes for the ordinary and
usual expenses of the City, pursuant to Gov’t Code Section 36937. This ordinance
shall become operative on December 1,2002, provided that prior to said date, the
City Council of the City of Rohnert Paik has accepted the certified results of the
November 5,2002 election confirming that the ballot measure approving the increase
provided in Section One of this Ordinance, has been approved by a majority vote of
the electorate in accordance with California Constitution article XIIIC, § 2(d).

DULY AND REGULARLY PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City
of Rohnert Park this 61” day of August, 2002 by the following vote:

AYES:	Three	(3)	Councilmembers Mackenzie, Vidak-Martinez  and Mayor Flores
NOES:	None	(0)	
ABSENT:	One	(1)	Councilmember Reilly
ABSTAIN:	None	(0)	
VACANCY:	One	(1)	CITY OF ROHNERT PARK  si Armando F. Flores, Mayor
ATTEST:			
s/Judy Hauff, Deputy City Clerk Approved as to form:			
si Betsy Strauss, City Attorney			