

MEASURE M

Shall Merced County voters authorize a transportation expenditure plan directing County
sales tax revenues to the following transportation projects?

© Maintaining and improving local streets and rural farm roads;

® Making improvements to Highway 99, Highway 59, and Highway 152;

•	Providing transportation services for seniors and people with disabilities;

•	Improving access to the new University of California, Merced campus
Approval of the Expenditure Plan authorizes collection of ‘A cent transportation sales tax
during the plan’s implementation.

Dated: July 29, 2002

Ballot Argument in Favor of Measure M

On November 5th, voters have the opportunity to pass Measure M and take charge of
improving the safety of Merced County highways.

Each year the California Highway Patrol reports dozens of deaths, over 1,000
injuries and thousands of dollars in property damage caused by unsafe roads and
highways. These numbers are far too high for the size of our county.

Measure M will make critical safety improvements to our local streets and roads, as well
as the most dangerous and deadly county and state highways.

We must protect our families and children from these deadly auto accidents. Right now,
we are driving on roads and highways that could be made safer. We can help prevent
these accidents.

Measure M will make these critical safety improvements a reality.

In addition, Measure M will improve road maintenance and repave streets that have been
neglected for too long.

California has the nation’s lowest per-capita highway spending and the highest
percentage of substandard roads.

Merced County and its cities annually receive about half the amount of money needed for
routine maintenance; so many of our local roads are needlessly dangerous.

Measure M qualifies Merced County to receive state and federal matching dollars like
Fresno, Madera and San Joaquin counties have used to upgrade their roads and highways.

Measure M will protect voters by requiring our tax money to be spent only for
traffic safety improvements, road and street repaving, transit, and related projects.

Measure M limits administrative costs to no more than 1% and requires a yearly
review of the use of the our tax money by a Citizen’s Watchdog Committee.

Please join with concerned citizens throughout Merced County who believe that we must
take charge of the safety of our roads. Vote Yes on Measure M, by mail, or on
November 5th.

Mark Pazin, Merced County Sheriff-elect

Stan Craig, Merced County Fire Chief

Pat Palazzo, Farmer

Kenny Riggs, Founder: Riggs Ambulance Service
Linda Lopez, Community Activist

*

*Argument Against Measure M

The County of Merced recently spent approximately $24,000 on a poll which
determined that the voters of Merced County did not approve of an additional
sales tax; however, despite this determination, the tax increase was placed
on the November 5th ballot. Spending our tax dollars is easy. Managing it
is what we expect.

Californians pay hefty state and federal excise taxes on every gallon of
gasoline sold in the state, which generates over $5 Billion dollars a year in
revenues. Also, our highway taxes are the third highest in the nation while
expenditures on road repairs and improvements are our nations lowest. Yet,
our leaders spend liberally on polls, ignore the results when they don't
reflect what they want, and then try to reach into our pockets even deeper.
Again, spending is easy; managing it is another matter.

Measure M asks for a 1/2 cent increase in our local sales tax, which,
according to the Merced County Association of Governments, would be used to
meet needs totaling $106,000,000 over the next 20 years. However, according
to the Board of Equalization, and without considering future population
growth and increased revenue levels, this 1/2 cent increase would yield
$9,000,000 a year, or $180,000,000 over 20 years. Why are we being asked to
pony up $74,000,000 more than is needed? With an increasing population and
increasing revenue levels, this excess becomes even larger .	.	and	who	knows

where that excess goes?

Increasing taxes is always the easy thing to do. Better stewardship over
existing tax revenues is what tax payers deserve and expect. Don't allow the
smoke and mirrors facade to trick us into accepting yet another "small" tax
increase. These incremental, creeping tax increases are almost never
repealed. It's time to say "Enough is enough! Manage the money you have!"
Vote NO on Measure M.

1 of 1

8/12/2002 8:49 AM

Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure M

Merced County voters have demanded that the county do something to make our
roads and highways safer and give voters control of our transportation tax
dollars.

In a survey of local voters, commissioned by the Merced County Association of
Governments, not the County, 89% said that improving the safety of our roads
and highways should be a top priority for county transportation funding.

Measure M requires County politicians to spend our sales tax dollars on road and
highway safety and establishes an independent Citizen's Watchdog Committee
to audit expenditures.

Measure M will improve road maintenance and repave streets that have been
neglected for too long.

We need Measure M to get our share of state and federal matching dollars like
Fresno, Madera and San Joaquin counties have used to upgrade their roads and
highways.

Remember, Measure M protects voters by requiring our tax money to be
spent only for traffic safety improvements, road and street repaving and
related projects approved by voters - not for non-transportation spending.

Measure M limits administrative costs to no more than 1% and requires a
yearly review of the use of the our tax money by a Citizen’s Watchdog
Committee.

That’s why our public safety officers, local businesses big and small, labor,
farmers and ranchers, and the Citizens Advisory Committee of the Merced
County Association of Governments all urge Yes on Measure M.

Let’s take control of the safety of our roads. Vote by mail or on November 5th
and vote Yes on Measure M!

Ed Abercrombie- Chairman MCAG Governing Board

Jim Cunningham-Rancher

Ted Falasco-Falasco General and Engineering Contractor

Julius Pekar-Executive Director Merced County Chamber of Commerce

Michael Campbell-Educator

Rebuttal to Argument in Favor of Measure M

Measure M is not a question of whether or not the voters want safer highways and roads. It is a question of
whether or not the voters believe the government collects ands spends our hard earned tax dollars wisely
enough to give them even more.

Our roads are in terrible condition, and are becoming more dangerous everyday. But the conditions of our
roads and highways have not just happened over night. What the proponents fail to mention is that the state
and federal government collects from Californians over $5 billion dollars a year in tax revenues from
gasoline and sales taxes, one of the highest in the nation, and still has the “lowest per-capita highway
spending and highest percentage of substandard roads”. Obviously, MONEY IS NOT THE PROBLEM.

The opponents of Measure M are simply stating that our government needs to show more responsibility
with the money we already give them.

On November 5th voters have an opportunity to call for a more responsible government by voting NO on
Measure M.

William Baker - Local Business Owner
Micky Vitato - Local Business Owner
Ed Benes - Commercial Airline Pilot








MERCED COUNTY SALES TAX
TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN
ORDINANCE # 2002-1

SECTION 1. TITLE. This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Merced County Sales Tax
Transportation Expenditure Plan Ordinance #2002-1 which shall establish and implement a retail transactions
and use tax.

SECTION 2. EXPENDITURE PLAN PURPOSES. This Ordinance provides for the implementation of the
Merced County Transportation Expenditure Plan, as approved and adopted by the Merced County Association
of Governments, which will result in countywide transportation facility and service improvements including
highway improvements, public transit improvements, trail facility improvements, local street and road
maintenance improvements, and related transportation programs. These needed improvements shall be funded
by the retail transactions and use tax provided for in Section 3 of this Ordinance. The revenues shall be
deposited in a special fund and used solely for transportation projects and programs. The specific projects and
programs to be implemented as well as the required growth management program are described in the
Expenditure Plan which is considered a part of this Ordinance and hereby incorporated by reference as if fully
set forth herein.

The revenues received by the Merced County Association of Governments from this Ordinance, after deduction
of required Board of Equalization costs for performing the functions specified in Section 180204 of the Public
Utilities Code, and for the administration of the Merced County Expenditure Plan commencing with Public
Utilities Code Section 180200, in an amount not to exceed one percent (1%), shall be used for transportation
projects and programs countywide as set forth in the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 3. IMPOSITION OF RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX. In addition to any other
taxes authorized by law, there is hereby imposed in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County
of Merced, in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code commencing with Code Section
180000, a retail transactions and use tax at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2%) for a period not to exceed
twenty years in addition to any existing or future authorized state or local transactions and use tax.

A.	Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this Ordinance; provided,
however, that no such amendments shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
Ordinance.

B,	Enjoining Collection Forbidden.No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against the State or the Merced County Association
of Governments, or against any officer of the State, or the Merced County Association of Governments,
to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Page 1 of9

SECTION 4. REQUEST FOR ELECTION. The Merced County Association of Governments hereby
requests that the Merced County Board of Supervisors place this Ordinance before the voters for approval on the
November 5, 2002 ballot.

The measure to be placed on the ballot shall contain a summary of the projects and programs and shall read
substantially as follows:

Shall Merced County voters authorize a transportation expenditure plan directing County sales tax
revenues to the following transportation projects:

« Maintaining and improving local streets and rural farm roads;
o Making improvements to Highway 99, Highway 59, and Highway 152;
o Providing transportation services for seniors and people with disabilities;

<» Improving access to the new University of California, Merced campus;

Approval of the Expenditure Plan authorizes collection of V* cent transportation sales tax during the
plan’s implementation.

SECTION 5. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM PURPOSES. In the allocation of all
revenues made available from the retail transactions and use tax, the Merced County Association of
Governments shall make every effort to maximize state and federal transportation funding to the region. The
Merced County Association of Governments may amend the Expenditure Plan, in accordance with Section 8, as
needed, to maximize the transportation funding to Merced County. The revenues shall be allocated in
accordance with the Expenditure Plan subject to the following provisions:

■ No revenues shall be allocated for any state projects until the Merced County Association of
Governments has certified that Merced County is receiving, at a minimum, its fair share of funds from
state and federal sources for transportation projects and programs. The determination of fair share shall
consider all relevant factors including the degree to which the Merced County is receiving its statutory
county minimum funding for all budgeted, emended, and programmed state funds and federal funds
available for capital projects and operating subsidies. The policies and project approval actions of the
California Transportation Commission, the State Department of Transportation (hereafter referred to as
Caltrans) and the U.S. Department of Transportation (e.g.. Federal Highway Administration and Federal
Transit Administration) will also be reviewed to ensure that Merced County is receiving full
consideration in the allocation of any additional uncommitted state and federal funding. Part of the
certification shall include a finding that the state has not reduced any state fund allocations to Merced
County as a result of the addition of any local revenues as provided herein. The certification shall be
made annually.

•	Ef the Merced County Association of Governments finances the construction of transportation facilities
by the issuance of bonds or any similar finding device, the Merced County Association of Governments
shall first allocate the funds necessary to meet all debt service requirements.

•	The Merced County Association of Governments may use the proceeds of this Ordinance to accelerate
projects which are anticipated to be funded through the State Transportation Improvement Program
(STIP). It must be demonstrated by Caltrans that a meaningful acceleration can be accomplished using
Merced County Association of Governments’ funds and the state must commit to refunding those
proceeds in dollars or in the acceleration or completion of other Expenditure Plan Projects and Programs
and/or ST3P projects.

•	Any local funds already allocated, committed or otherwise included in the financial plan for any project
on the Expenditure Plan shall be made available for project development and implementation as required

Page 2 of 9

in the project's financial and implementation program. All local jurisdictions and special districts are
encouraged to cook all available funding from private and public sources to further the purposes of the
Expenditure Plan and this Ordinance.

The Merced County Transportation Expenditure Plan is composed of four elements. Each of these elements will
have a dedicated portion of the annual sales tax revenues, Transportation Projects of Countywide Significance
(50%), Local Street and Road Maintenance(44.5%), Transit Service hnpxovements(4.5%) and Program
Management and Audit (1.0%)

Transportation Projects of Countywide Significance

The Merced County Association of Governments Regional Transportation Plan defines the highway and road
network and priority transportation projects that optimize the transportation system, connect our communities,
reduce congestion, permit our agricultural products to reach their market, and facilitate economic development.
Fifty percent (50%) of the Transportation Expenditure Plan funds will be allocated to transportation projects of
countywide significance. These include projects on the State Highway System and on local arterials and/or
expressways that will connect employment centers and industrial areas. Projects funded under the
Transportation Expenditure Plan along with the target program amounts are listed in Section 18.

Within 90 days of the end of the fiscal year, the Merced County Association of Governments shall publish in a
newspaper of general countywide circulation a summary report of the projects and their costs funded through
this program.

Local Street and Road Maintenance

Maintenance and safety improvements to our local street and road network are a major priority for the use of
Transportation Expenditure Plan funds. Forty-four point five percent (44.5%) of the funds will be allocated to
this program. Funds made available for local street and road purposes shall be allocated annually to all local
jurisdictions on a formula basis for transportation projects. Funds shall be allocated annually to each local
jurisdiction, provided that the Merced County Association of Governments finds the jurisdiction in compliance
with the provisions of Section 16. Available funds will be allocated to eligible jurisdictions as follows:

1.	Merced Countv will receive one-half f50%i of the available funds. The remaining funds will be allocated
to the cities with each city receiving a basic allocation of $75,000 and the remaining funds allocated by
formula based two-thirds (66.67%) on current population and one-third (33.33%) on maintained
centerline street and road mileage.

2.	Population figures used shall be the most current figures available from the Department of Finance.
Road mileage figures shall be the most current figures from the State Controller's Annual Report of
Einancial Transactions for Street and Roads.

3.	Any new incorporation or annexations which take place after July 1 of any fiscal year shall be
incorporated into the formula beginning with the subsequent fiscal year, providing there is full
compliance with all other sections of this Ordinance. The Merced County Association of Governments’
population estimates of such new incorporation or annexations shall be used until such time that
Department of Finance population estimates are available.

Page 3 of 9

Each jurisdiction shall independently determine the transportation projects for which their annual allocation of
will he uaad. Prior to thio determination a public hearing will be held that has been noticed in a newspaper
of general circulation within its jurisdiction. The notification will be published at least 10 days and no more than
30 days prior to the public hearing.

Within 90 days of the end of the fiscal year, the Merced County Association of Governments will publish in a
newspaper of general circulation within its jurisdiction, a summary report of the projects and their costs funded
through the Local Street and Road Maintenance allocation.

Transit Service Improvements

Transit service, transit vehicle purchase, and related transit capital improvements are an essential element of the
county’s transportation system. Extension of service periods, new and extended routes, new and alternative fuel
transit vehicles, transit stops and transfer facilities, and maintenance/fueling facilities are eligible projects that
would be funded with 4.5% of the Transportation Expenditure Plan funds dedicated to transit. The use of the
funds will be consistent with the Short-Range Transit Plan and Annual Transit Service Plan.

Transportation Expenditure Plan transit funds will be programmed by the Merced County Transit Joint Powers
Authority. Prior to this determination, a public hearing will be held that has been noticed in a newspaper of
general circulation within County of Merced. The notification will be published at least 10 days and no more
than 30 days prior to the public hearing.

Within 90 days of the end of the fiscal year, the Merced County Association of Governments will publish in a
newspaper of general circulation within its jurisdiction a summary report of the projects and their costs funded
through the Transit Service allocation.

SECTION 6. TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM PROCEDURES. It is the intent of this
Ordinance that the revenue raised through this measure be used to supplement existing revenues being used for
transportation improvements and programs. Each local jurisdiction receiving Local Street and Road
Maintenance and Improvements funds pursuant to Section 5 shall meet the requirements in that section.

Under state enabling legislation, a jurisdiction cannot redirect monies currently being used for transportation
purposes to other issues, and then replace the redirected funds with Local Street and Road Maintenance and
Improvements dollars from the retail transactions and use tax. To meet the requirements of state law, a
jurisdiction must demonstrate the maintenance of a minimum level of local street and road expenditures in
conformance with one of the requirements below.

A.	The same level of local discretionary funds expended for street and road purposes as was reported in the
State Controller's Annual Report of Financial Transactions for Streets and Roads - Fiscal Year 2000-01.

B.	y any local jurisdiction had extraordinary local discretionary fund expenditures during FY 2000-01, it
3iay use, as a base for determining the minimum level of local discretionary funds:

1.	The average amount of such funds reported to the State Controller for the three-year period
FY 1998-99 through FY 2000-01; or

2.	The net contribution obtained by subtracting those extraordinary expenses (including but not

Page 4 of 9

limited to SB 300 funds, assessment district contributions, development impact funds,
redevelopment agency contributions, or other non-recuning contributions) from its total
expenditures; or

3.	May petition to the Merced County Association of Governments for special consideration. A
local jurisdiction may need to revise its minimum expenditure base beyond the subtraction of
extraordinary expenses. In this instance, the Merced County Association of Governments
may allow the establishment of a new base for that jurisdiction's maintenance of effort
requirement. A local jurisdiction petitioning the Merced County Association of
Governments under this provision must supply evidence of the need for special consideration.

The use of provisions B. 1, 2, or 3 of this Section by a local jurisdiction shall be subject to Merced County
Association of Governments approval.

The Merced County Association of Governments shall annually update the base year and preceding three year
base period for the establishment of an annual minimum based on the information available from the State
Controller's Annual Report of Financial Transactions for Streets and Roads.

An annual independent audit may be conducted to verify that the maintenance of effort requirements were met
by the local jurisdictions. Any local jurisdiction which does not meet its maintenance of effort requirement in
any given year may have its Local Street and Road Maintenance and Improvements funding reduced in the
following year by that amount which the jurisdiction did not meet its required maintenance of effort. Such funds
shall be redistributed to the remaining eligible jurisdictions.

SECTION 7. AMENDMENTS TO THE MERCED COUNTY TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE
PLAN. The Merced County Association of Governments may annually review and propose amendments to the
Expenditure Plan to provide for the use of additional federal, state and local funds to account for unexpected
revenues, or to take into consideration unforeseen circumstances. The Merced County Association of
Governments shall establish a process for proposed Expenditure Plan amendments) which ensures that the
county and the affected cities participate in the development of the proposed amendment(s). Upon completion of
this process, amendments) to the Expenditure Plan must be passed by a roll call vote entered in the minutes and
must have a majority of the Merced County Association of Governments concurring with the proposed
aniendment(s). Subsequently, the Merced County Association of Governments shall notify the Board of
Supervisors, the City Council of each city in the county and the Mayor's Conference and provide each entity
with a copy of the proposed amendments). Pursuant to Public Utilities Code 180207, proposed amendment(s)
shall become effective 45 days after notice is given, unless appealed under the process outlined in the following
paragraph. The Merced County Association of Governments shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
amendment(s) within this 45 day period.

In the event that a local jurisdiction does not agree with the Merced County Association of Governments’
amendments), the jurisdiction's policy decision-making body must, by a majority vote, determine to appeal and
shall within 45 days after notice is given by the Merced County Association of Governments, formally notify the
Merced County Association of Governments of its intent, in writing via registered mail, to obtain an override of
the Association of Governments’ amendments). The appealing jurisdiction will have 45 days from the date of
its determination to appeal the proposed amendments) to obtain resolutions supporting its appeal for an
override of the amendment(s) from a majority of the cities representing a majority of the population residing in
the incorporated areas of the county and from the Board of Supervisors. If a jurisdiction does not obtain the

Page 5 of9

necessary resolutions supporting its appeal, the Merced County Association of Governments’ amendment(s) to
the Expenditure Plan -will stand.

SECTION 8. AMENDMENTS TO THE ORDINANCE. With the exception of Section 3, which requires a
two-thirds vote of the electors of the County of Merced to be amended, this Ordinance may be amended to
further its purposes. The Merced County Association of Governments shall establish a process for proposed
Expenditure Plan amendments) which ensures that the county and the affected cities participate in the
development of the proposed amendments). Upon completion of that process, amendments) to this Ordinance
must be passed by a roll call vote entered in the minutes and must have two-thirds of the Merced County
Association of Governments Governing Board concuixing with the proposed amendments).

In the event that a local jurisdiction does not agree with the Merced County Association of Governments'
amendments), the jurisdiction's policy decision-making body must, by a majority vote, determine to formally
notify the Merced County Association of Governments of its intent, in writing via registered mail, to obtain an
override of the Association of Governments' amendments). The appealing jurisdiction will have 45 days from
the date the Merced County Association of Governments adopts the proposed amendments) to obtain
resolutions supporting its appeal for an override of the amendments) from a majority of the cities representing a
majority of the population residing within the incorporated areas of the county and from the Board of
Supervisors. If a jurisdiction does not obtain the necessary resolutions supporting its appeal, the Merced County
Association of Governments' amendments) to the Ordinance will stand.

SECTION 9. PRIVATE SECTOR FUNDING. Revenues provided from this Ordinance shall not be used to
replace private developer funding which has been or will be committed for any project

SECTION 10. BONDING AUTHORITY. "Pay as you go" is the preferred method of financing transportation
improvements and programs. However, the Merced County Association of Governments may use bond
financing as an alternative method in the event that the scope of planned expenditures makes "pay as you go"
financing unfeasible. Upon voter approval of the Ordinance, the Merced County Association of Governments
shall have the authority to issue bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax for the construction of needed
transportation facility improvements. The Merced County Association of Governments, in allocating the annual
revenues from the Ordinance, shall meet all debt service requirements prior to allocating funds for other
projects.

SECTION 11. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. Revenues may be expended by the Merced County
Association of Governments for salaries, wages, benefits, overhead, auditing and those services including
contractual services necessary to administer the Ordinance; however, in no case shall the annual expenditures
for the salaries and benefits of the staff of the Merced County Association of Governments exceed one percent
of the annual revenues provided by the Ordinance. Costs of performing or contracting for project related work
shall be paid from the revenues allocated to the appropriate purpose as set forth herein.

An annual independent audit shall be conducted to assure that the revenues expended by the Merced County
Association of Governments under this section are necessary and reasonable in carrying out its responsibilities
under the Ordinance.

SECTION 12. ESTABLISHMENT OF SEPARATE ACCOUNTS. The Merced County Association of
Governments shall allocate funds to Expenditure Plan Projects and Programs as necessary to meet contractual
and program obligations. The Merced County Association of Governments may allocate funds as described, but
may reserve the right not to disburse monies until needed to meet contractual project or program obligations,

Page 6 of9

exclusive of the Local Street and Road Maintenance and Improvement Funds. Each agency receiving funds
from tills Ordinance shall deposit said funds in a separate interest bearing Transportation Improvement Account.
Any interest earned on funds allocated pursuant to this Ordinance shall be expended only for those purposes for
which the funds were allocated or shall be returned to the Merced County Association of Governments. The
Merced County Association of Governments reserves the right to audit such accounts.

SECTION 13. IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCES. Upon approval of this Ordinance by the voters, the
Merced County Association of Governments shall, in addition to the local rules required to be provided pursuant
to this Ordinance, adopt implementing ordinances, rules and administrative procedures, including Merced
County Association of Governments terms of office, and take such other actions as may be necessary and
appropriate to carry out its responsibilities to implement the Merced County Transportation Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 14. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES. This Ordinance shall become effective on April 1,
2003 only if a two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the Ordinance at the election held on November 5,
2002 vote to approve the Ordinance.

SECTION 15. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Article Xffi (B) of the California Constitution
requires the establishment of an annual appropriations limit for certain governmental entities. The maximum
initial annual appropriations limit for the Merced County Association of Governments is established as fifteen
million dollars. The appropriations limit is subject to adjustment as provided by law.

SECTION 16. To receive local street maintenance and improvement funds, each jurisdiction must adopt a
development mitigation program ensuring that new growth pays its share of costs associated with that growth.

Local jurisdictions, for the most part, already impose fees for a variety of purposes including site specific traffic
improvements. Only a few jurisdictions impose fees for regional traffic mitigation.

To meet the requirements of this Section, each jurisdiction shall:

1)	Ensure that revenue provided from this measure shall not be used to replace private developer funding
which has been or will be committed for any project

2)	Adopt a development mitigation program to ensure that development is paying its share of costs
associated with that development.

In addition, the Merced County Association of Governments shall:

1)	Develop a program of regional traffic mitigation fees, assessments or other mitigations as appropriate to

fund regional and subregional transportation projects, as determined in the Comprehensive
Transportation Plan of the Merced County Association of Governments.

2)	Consider such issues as jobs/housing balance, carpool and vanpool programs and proximity to transit
service in the establishment of the regional traffic mitigation program.

3)	The development mitigation program will be implemented with the participation and concurrence of
local jurisdictions in determining the most feasible methods of mitigating regional traffic impacts.
Existing regional traffic impact fees shall be taken into account by the Merced County Association of
Governments.

Page 7 of 9

SECTION 17. LOCAL ROADS. It ie the intent of the authority that local jurisdictions give priority to the
following Local Street and Road Maintenance and Improvement projects:

In Atwater

q Maintenance, repair and resurfacing streets in the city as needed
o Construction of sidewalks and curbs at various locations
o Storm drainage improvements near Bellevue Road and Buhach Road

In Dos Palos

o Improving and maintaining Blossom, Center and Valeria Streets.

*	Maintain/resurface all local streets

s Reconstruct bridges over CCID canal

In Gu stine

o Resurfacing and reconstruction of existing streets.

° Construction of sidewalks and curbs at various locations
o Construct/improve Kniebes Road, Carnation Road, and Sullivan Road

•	Implement critical elements of the Aiiport Master Plan

In Livingston.

•	Repairing and resurfacing streets in Livingston as needed

•	Construction of sidewalks and curbs at various locations
° Construct Winton Parkway Over-crossing

•	Reconstruct First Street from J Street to Peach Street

In Los Banos

o Extend Page Avenue from 11th Street to SR 165 (Mercy Springs Road)
o Extend Pioneer Road from SR 165 to Ward Road

© Widen SR 165 to 4-lanes with sidewalks and bike lane from Pioneer Road to SR 152
© Maintain and improve existing city streets and roads

In Merced

© Street repair and resurfacing in the city as needed

•	Improving Bellevue Rd from G Street to Campus Parkway

© Constructing and improving local roads to serve the new U.C. campus site
© Construction/improvement of Mission Road between SR 99 and SR 59
° Replacement of Bradley Overhead at SR 140 and improvements to SR 140 east to Kibby Road

In Merced County

© Maintaining, resurfacing, and reconstructing streets and roads throughout Merced County
° Reconstructing Bradbury Blvd from SR 99 to SR 165
© Reconstructing W estside Blvd from SR 99 to Lincoln
Increase the miles of County Roads with edgeline striping.

« Increase the miles of County Roads with centerline reflective pavement markers

Page 8 of 9

SECTION 18. PROJECTS OF COUNTYWIBE SIGNIFICANCE. It is the intent of the authority that the
following projects are of countywide significance.

Project

Plan Expenditure

1.	Bellevue Road Connection From Highway 99 to Atwater	$	1,000,000

2.	Widen Bellevue Road from Highway 59 to the Campus Parkway	$	8,000,000

3.	Bradbury Boulevard Reconstruction	$	2,000,000

4.	Bradley Overhead Replacement	$	8,000,000

5.	Realign Highway 59-Castle Parkway	$35,526,521

6.	Dos Palos Arterial and Canal Crossing Reconstruction	$	3,000,000

7.	Gustine Truck Route-2 lane Arterial	$	2,000,000

8.	Gustine Airport Master Plan Improvements	$	1,000,000

9.	Los Banos Interior Loop Connections	$	1,000,000

10.	Mission Ave. Reconstruction to 4-lane arterial	$	4,000,000

11.	Pioneer Road Extension in Los Banos	$	1,000,000

12.	Highway 140 Widen to 4-lanes from Santa Fe. To Campus Parkway	$10,000,000

13.	Highway 165 Widen to 4-lanes from Henry Miller Rd. to Pioneer Rd.	$	5,000,000

14.	North Highway 59 Widen to 4-lanes from 16th St. to Black Rascal Cr.	$	8,000,000

15.	South Highway 59 Widen to 5-lanes from Childs Ave. to Mission Ave.	$	5,000,000

16.	Westside Boulevard Reconstruction	$	3,000,000

17.	Winton Parkway Extension in Livingston	$	3,500,000

18.	Yosemite Avenue Widening and Extension	$	5,000,000

Passed and adopted by the Merced County Association of Governments on May 23,2002 on a motion by
Mayor Westfall, seconded by Councilman Abercrombie, passed 8-1.

Executive Director

Page 9 of9