IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

PREPARED BY COUNTY COUNSEL

AYES VOTE on Measure B will authorize the County of Humboldt
to continue to collect a ten percent (10%) Transient Occupancy Tax
from persons staying in motels, hotels or similar accommodations
within the unincorporated area of Humboldt County.

A NO VOTE will result in the Transient Occupancy Tax being
reduced to eight percent (8%), the level at which it had been set
prior to 1993.

This measure will not become effective, and the Transient
Occupancy Tax will be reduced to 8%, unless a majority of the voters
voting upon the measure approve the measure by voting YES.

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT FOR
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX MEASURE
COUNTY OF HUMBOLDT

MEASURE B

The transient occupancy tax is a tax imposed by the County of
Humboldt on persons renting rooms and other accommodations at
motels, hotels and similar establishments in the unincorporated areas
of Humboldt County.

In 1993, the County increased the transient occupancy rate from
8% to 10%. The legality of this increase has been questioned and
the County seeks voter approval to satisfy legal concerns. Approval
of this ballot measure will allow the County to continue the current
rate of 10%. This will permit the County to continue to collect the
approximately $140,000 generated by the 2% rate in question.

Transient occupancy tax revenue is considered general purpose
revenue and can be used to support such activities as Sheriff, District
Attorney, Health, Mental Health, Social Services, Recreation and
Parks, Library and tourism promotional agencies. There is no fiscal
impact on County residents unless they stay at a motel or hotel in
the unincorporated area of the County.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B
COUNTY OF HUMBOLDT

SPECIAL TAX MEASURE
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

Measure B is fair.

Tourists and business people who visit our County should pay
their fair share of the costs for services the County provides. Measure
B will enable the Transient Occupancy Tax to continue to be
collected at the rate of 10% in the unincorporated areas of Humboldt
County. This is the same rate that has been collected since 1993.

Measure B is reasonable.

Measure B will continue to allow for the collection of a 10%
transient occupancy rate in the unincorporated areas of the County
of Humboldt. Compare this to Mendocino County at 10%, Napa
County at 10.5%, Shasta County at 10% and Sacramento County
at 12%.

Measure B is necessary.

After almost a decade of collecting this tax on hotel and motel
accommodations at the rate of 10%, a court ruling has determined
that without a majority approval of Measure B, the rate would need
to be reduced to 8%. Without this approval, more than $140,000
per year will need to be cut from a broad range of services in
Humboldt County, such as:

Sheriff patrol and investigation
Tourism promotion
Juvenile Hall
County Parks
Farm Advisor

District Attorney operations
Animal Control

Measure B is good government.

Measure B is fair, it’s reasonable and it’s necessary. We ask
you to join us in voting YES to continue to provide for essential
services to the citizens in Humboldt County. Please VOTE YES
ON MEASURE B.

si Jimmy Smith,

District 1 Supervisor

si Roger Rodoni,

District 2 Supervisor

si John Woolley,

District 3 Supervisor

si Bonnie Neely,

District 4 Supervisor

si Paul Kirk,

District 5 Supervisor

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

12503