IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASU. ,c “C”

The City of Riverside administers the City’s public library system. The
published mission of the Riverside Public Library is to foster the growth of
an informed community by providing books and other library resources,
promoting personal competency in seeking and evaluating information
and presenting quality programs in a welcoming environment.

The Library is primarily funded by a combination of property tax revenues
received by the City from the State and the City's genera! fund. Accord-
ing to commonly used public library standards and the City’s adopted
General Plan standards, the current libraries within the City, which
collectively are 85,320 square feet, are undersized for the City’s popula-
tion.

If approved, this measure will authorize the City Council of the City of
Riverside to annually levy a special tax on or with respect to parcels of
property in the City of Riverside in an amount not to exceed $19 per
parcel for a period not to exceed 10 years. The funds generated would be

solely used to provide additional funding to the Library to increase the
operating hours of the Library’s current five branches by at lease twelve
hours per week, increase after-school programs for children by at least
forty hours per week, provide at least 5,000 more books and printed
material every year, provide 100 more computer stations and provide
matching funds to establish the City’s eligibility for State of California
Library Construction and Renovation Bond funds for the construction of
new library facilities.

The Riverside County Tax Collector, using the property tax rolls, would
collect the special tax beginning in the 2002-2003 fiscal year. The Tax
Collector would provide a report of the revenues generated to the City of
Riverside. The City estimates that the proposed measure would gener-
ate approximately $1,254,400 each year. When this money is trans-
ferred to the City, the funds would be segregated from the other funds of
the City and would not be part of its general fund. Under state law, the
City could use the funds generated only for the Library purposes outlined
above.

By:	City	Attorney

City of Riverside

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “C.” if you
desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the City
Clerk’s office at (909) 826-5557 and a copy will mailed at no cost to
you.

ARGUMENT IK . hVOR OF MEASURE “C”

Measure “C” deserves your support.

Measure “C” will fund library services Riversiders identified in recent
surveys as most wanted:

•	more books

•	more open hours

•	more children’s programs

•	expanded adult literacy program

•	more computer access and training for children and adults

•	improved neighborhood libraries

Measure “C" will also allow Riverside to establish eligibility for its share of
$350 million from California library construction bonds before the 2002
deadline. Without Measure “C”, state funds that could have been River-
side’s will go elsewhere.

Since 1991, Riverside’s population has grown 35,000 but Library funding
has remained flat. No new library has been built in Riverside since 1975.
Seventy-three percent of Riversiders hold library cards, an increase of
21% over 1991. To keep up, the Library turned to fundraisingtand today
raises 27% of its budget from non-City sources.

Riverside’s Main Library and La Sierra, Arlington, Marcy and Casa
Blanca neighborhood libraries, plus the Eastside Cybrary and Nichols
Park Homework Center

•	lend over a million books yearly

•	answer over 360,000 reference questions yearly

•	serve over 2,000 people daily

•	reach 7,400 children under four years old through story times

•	provide free computer and Internet access and training

•	present programs to 27,000 adults and children

•	teach illiterate adults to read

•	offer special services to seniors and the disabled

Measure “C” will collect $19 a year per parcel and will end after 10 years.
The average home owner will pay $1.58 per month, less than a video
rental.

Public libraries contribute Importantly to the traditions and ideals of a
democratic society. Free to all, they are an integral part of public educa-
tion, lifelong learning, and the quality of life in our community.

Vote Yes on Measure “C".

By:	Frances	J. Vasquez,

Representative for Nell Soto, California State Senator
Trustee, Riverside Public Library

Honorable Victor Miceii

(Ret) Riverside County Superior Court

Chair, Renew Your Library Committee

Rose Mayes,

Executive Director,

The Fair Housing Council of Riverside County, Inc.

Secretary, Riverside Public Library Board

Salvatore G. Rotelia,

President, Riverside Community College

Paul Fick,

President, Riverside Public Library Board







RESOLUTION NO. 20035

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RIVERSIDE,
CALIFORNIA, ORDERING, CALLING, PROVIDING FOR AND GIVING NOTICE OF A
SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE HELD IN THE CITY OF RIVERSIDE ON
THE 5TH DAY OF MARCH, 2002, FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO THE
QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF RIVERSIDE A SPECIAL TAX TO BE
USED FOR CITY LIBRARY SERVICES, AND GIVING NOTICE AND ORDERING
THAT SAID SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION IS CONSOLIDATED WITH ALL
OTHER ELECTIONS BEING HELD IN THE SAME TERRITORY ON THE SAME
DATE.

WHEREAS the City of Riverside’s Public Library provides life-long learning services to the

entire community and has been funded historically by a portion of the property tax revenues

received by the City and the City's general fund; and

WHEREAS beginning in 1992, the State's Educational Revenue Augmentation Fund shifted
property tax dollars away from the City of Riverside and the Library to meet the State’s obligation

to K-12 schools; and

WHEREAS the population of the City has grown by 72% since 1977 when the last City
library, the La Sierra Neighborhood Library, was built, and existing libraries including the new Casa

Blanca Family Learning Center provide only 58% of the General Plan standard for library service;
and

WHEREAS there have been no local mitigation and/or impact fees for providing library
services to new populations; and

WHEREAS on March 7, 2000, the voters of the State of California approved Proposition 14,
the California Reading and Literacy Improvement and Public Library Construction and Renovation
Bond Act of 2000, which authorized three hundred and fifty million dollars ($350,000,000) for the
funding of eligible library construction projects; and

WHEREAS eligibility requires the local jurisdiction to provide matching funds equal to one-
third of the construction costs plus a commitment to operate the proposed project as a public library
for 20 years; and

WHEREAS on January 26, 2001, in his State of the City Address, the Mayor pledged his

support for a ballot measure to augment funding for the public library; and

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

\ o

reet

l 92!

WHEREAS the Board of Library Trustees, appointed by the City Council to advise them of
library needs, identified a special tax, to wit, a parcel fee as the only means by which both capital
and increased operating costs could be met, and

WHEREAS on February 26, 2001, the Board of Library Trustees voted to recommend to the
City Council that the City Council place such special tax on the ballot at the earliest feasible
election; and

WHEREAS on August 14, 2001, the City Council approved in concept a library ballot
measure to go to the voters on March 5, 2002; and

WHEREAS California Election Code Section 9222 authorizes the City Council to submit to
qualified electors of the City a ballot measure by ordinance or resolution; and

WHEREAS the State of California will conduct an election on March 5, 2002.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Riverside, as
follows:

Section 1: The City Council, pursuant to its right and authority under Elections Code
Section 9222, hereby orders that the following question be submitted to the qualified electors of the
City at a special election on March 5, 2002:

City of Riverside Public Library:

Shall the voters of the City of Riverside increase public library service hours and after
school programs for children, and provide matching funds to establish the City of
Riverside’s eligibility for State of California Library Construction and Renovation Bond
funds by authorizing the City of Riverside to establish a special tax within the City of
Riverside in the amount of nineteen dollars ($19) per parcel for the duration of ten years
only, with such revenues being lawfully restricted for library purposes only?

Section 2: The City Clerk is hereby authorized, instructed and directed to take all action
necessary to place the measure described herein on the special municipal election ballot for the
special municipal election on March 5, 2002.

Section 3: That in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the City of Riverside and

2

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

\s O

rcct

, 92f

the Constitution and election laws of the State of California, a special municipal election be held
and the same is hereby called and ordered to be held in the City of Riverside on March 5, 2002, for
the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of the City of Riverside a special tax to be used
for City library services.

Section 4: That the polls for said election shall be opened at 7:00 a.m. of the day of said
election and shall remain open continuously from said time until 8:00 p.m. of the same day, when
the polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section 14401 of the Elections Code.

Section 5: That the City Council consents to the consolidation of the special municipal
election hereby called with all other elections being held in the same territory on March 5, 2002, and
said elections, where possible, shall be held in all respects as if there were only one election within
the City of Riverside and only one form of ballot shall be used and the precincts, polling places and
officers of election for said elections shall be the same as provided for the State-wide municipal
election.

Section 6: That for the purpose of holding said special municipal election there shall be and
hereby are established consolidated voting precincts, consisting of a consolidation of the regular
election precincts in the City of Riverside established for the holding of State and County elections
as said regular election precincts exist on the date of this resolution.

Section 7: That the form and contents of the ballots to be used at the said election shall be as
provided by law.

Section 8: That in accordance with Section 10002 of the Elections Code, the Board of
Supervisors of Riverside County is hereby requested to consent to the Registrar of Voters rendering
election services to the City of Riverside as may be requested by the City Clerk of said City, the
County of Riverside to be reimbursed in full for such services as are performed.

Section 9: That the election services which the City of Riverside requests the Registrar of
Voters, or such other official as may be appropriate, to perform, and which such officer is hereby
authorized and directed to perform if the said Board of Supervisors consents, include: the
preparation, printing and mailing of sample ballots and polling place cards; the establishment or

ICC

3

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

18

19

20

21

22

23

24

25

26

27

’sOf

reet

. 925

appointment of precincts, polling places, and election officers, and making such publications as are

requested by law in connection therewith; the furnishing of ballots, voting booths and other

necessary supplies or materials for polling places; the canvassing of the returns of election and the

furnishing of the results of such canvassing to the City Clerk of the City of Riverside; and the

performance of such other election services as may be requested by said City Clerk.

Section 10: That the City Clerk of said City shall receive the canvass of the Special

Municipal Election and shall certify the results to this City Council, as required by law.

ADOPTED by the City Council and signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk this 13th

*.

day of November, 2001.

-	,	, V*	Ui'l	/ C	"

Mayor of the City of Riverside

Attest:

City of Riverside

I, Colleen J. Nicol, City Clerk of the City of Riverside, California, hereby certify that the
foregoing resolution was duly and regularly introduced and adopted at a meeting of the City Council
of said City at its meeting held on the 13th day of November, 2001, by the following vote, to wit:

Ayes:	Councilmembers	Beaty, Moore, Defenbaugh, Kane, Adkison, Thompson,

and Pearson.

Noes:	None.

Absent:	None.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the official seal of the City

