IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OP MEASU ,c “B”

CITY OF LA QUINTA

The Ordinance presented to the voters of the City of La Quinta for
their adoption would authorize the City Council to annually levy a fire
protection and paramedic special tax, if approved by two-thirds of the
voters voting on March 5, 2002, in accordance with Article XIIIC of the
Constitution of the State of California (“Proposition 218") and Govern-
ment Code Section 53720 and following. If approved, the Ordinance
would amend Chapter 3.19 of the City's Municipal Code to delete the
previous Chapter 3.19 and put in its place a new Chapter 3.19 in the form
set forth in the ballot pamphlet.

The fire protection and paramedic services special tax would be
imposed on all parcels of property in the City which are zoned or used for
residences, commercial, industrial buildings, hotels and golf courses.
The rates of annual taxation range from $10 per acre per year for
undeveloped land zoned for residential or commercial/industrial uses to
$610 per acre per year for parcels with commercial/industrial structures.
For single-family residential parcels, the maximum special tax is $85 per
unit fr the 2002-2003 Fiscal Year. Section 3.19.040 of the Ordinance
which is set forth in the voters' pamphlet contains the full details of rates
for each category of property. The maximum rates for each category of
property will be increased 3$ each fiscal year after the 2002-2003 Fiscal
Year, compounded. As explained below, these maximum rates set the
ceiling on what may be levied by the City Council. The actual amount of
the levy would be sit annually by an action of the City Council and would
not exceed the maximum rate set by the Ordinance. The special tax will
not be imposed on any parcel which is exempt from ad valorem property
taxes. Such as the property of a church or nonprofit corporation. The
special tax will be collected on the regular County property tax bills and
will be due in two equal installments in December and April.

The City Council would levy the special tax each fiscal year in an
amount not exceeding the maximum special tax for that fiscal year on
each category of property, so as to provide {with other City funds) an
adequate level of fire protection and paramedic services in the City. The
revenue produced by the special tax may only be used for providing fire
protection and paramedic services in the City and for no other purpose.
The unexpended residue of any revenue raised by the special tax may
be used by the City Council in the succeeding fiscal year for additional
fire protection services or used to lower the next year’s tax levy by the
amount unexpended.

By:	M.	Katherine	Jenson,

City Attorney, City of La Quinta

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “B”. If you
desire a copy of the ordinance or measure, please call the City
Clerk’s office at (760) 777-7000 and a copy will mailed at no cost to
you.

ARGUMENT It,, AVOR OF MEASURE “B”

The City of La Quinta currently has two fire stations manned 24 hours.
Both stations 'nave two full time paid fire fighters. A third station located at
Adams and Miles is under design and will commence construction in
early 2002. It will also have two full time paid fire fighters. La Quinta also
has an efficient, effective and dedicated volunteer fire department to
augment the paid staff.

However, optimal service would be one additional paid fire
fighter/paramedic at each of the three stations and a dedicated City-wide
paramedic squad for a total of five additional professional fire
fighter/paramedic staff and a paramedic vehicle, 24 hours a day. Many of
our neighboring cities have long had a special tax to provide these
essential services. For this enhanced service in La Quinta a single family
dwelling would pay a maximum of $85.00 for the 2002 - 2003 fiscal year.
That’s $7.08 per month or less than twenty-five cents per day for each
family. The rate maybe increased a maximum of 3% per year if approved
by the City Council.

The revenue produced by this special tax can only be used for this
enhanced fire/paramedic service and will be maintained in a Special fund
for this purpose only. All parcels of property in the City, residential or
commercial, will be taxed. Please see the voters pamphlet for full details.

The City Council, after careful consideration and evaluation, voted
unanimously to support this special tax. We need your support to provide
these essential services for our community.

Please VOTE YES on Measure “B” for the SAFETY of your family,
friends and community.

By: TERRY HENDERSON, COUNCIL MEMBER

33-50

MEASURE “B’

EXHIBIT A

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LA QUINTA, CALIFORNIA, REGARDING THE AMENDMENT OF CHAPTER 3.19 OF THE
CITY OF LA QUINTA MUNICIPAL CODE AUTHORIZING THE LEVY OF FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES SPECIAL TAX

WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority ot California Government Code Section 53970, et seq., the City is authorized to levy special taxes for the

provision of fire protection and paramedic services in accordance with the provisions of California Government Code Section 53720, et seq. and
Article XIIIC of the Constitution of the State of California; and

WHEREAS, in order to accomplish the foregoing it is necessary to amend Chapter 3.19 to the City of La Quinta Municipal Code;

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LA QUINTA, CALIFORNIA DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The City of La Quinta Municipal Code is hereby amended by deleting in its entirety the existing Chapter 3.19 enacted by Ordinance
No. 186 on March 6,1990 and amending Chapter 3.19 to read as follows;

Section 3.19.010. Special Tax For Fire Protection and Paramedic Services.

This Chapter shall be deemed to provide a supplemental and additional authority for the levy of special taxes for fire protection and paramedic
services and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to those powers conferred by California Government Code Section 53970, et seq.
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained in said provisions, the City may utilize annual escalators or inflators in prescribing the
maximum special tax to be levied in each succeeding fiscal year in which it is levied.	*%.

Section 3.19.020. Imposition of Tax.

Pursuant to the authority of the Charter of the City of La Quinta and California Government Code Section 53970, et seq., there is hereby levied and
assessed a fire protection and paramedic services special tax by the City of La Quinta on each parcel of property within the City of La Quinta. For
purposes of this ordinance a “parcel of property” shall mean any contiguous unit of improved or unimproved real property, including, but not limited
to any vacant property, commercial/industria! property, single family residence, multifamily residential units, any condominium unit as defined in
California Civil Code Section 783, or any other unit of real property subject to the California Subdivided Lands Act (Business and Professions
Code Sections 1 1000, et seq.).

Section 3.10.030. Use of Revenue.

(a)	The purpose of this ordinance is to raise revenue only for the purposes of obtaining, providing, operating and maintaining fire protection and
paramedic services, facilities and equipment, for paying the salaries and benefits to fire protection and paramedic personnel, and for such other
necessary fire protection and paramedic services expenses of the City of La Quinta as such services shall be made available throughout the entire

City.

(b)	The proceeds from this ordinance shall be used only for the purposes identified in subsection (a) of this Section.

(c)	Upon the effective date of this ordinance, the City Finance Director shall create a separate account into which all revenue raised by this
ordinance shall be placed.

(d)	The City’s Finance Director shall file a report with the City Council no later than January 1,2003, and at least once a year thereafter which
shall contain both of the following: (i) the amount of funds collected and expended under this ordinance; and (ii) the status of any project required
or authorized to be funded to carry out the purposes set forth in subsection (a) of this Section 3.19.030.

Section 3.19.040. Calculation of Amount.

(a)	The tax imposed by this ordinance shall be a tax upon each parcel of property and the tax shall not be measured by the value of the property.

(b)	For fiscal year 2002-2003, the maximum annual amount of said fire protection and paramedic services special tax shall be imposed upon

each parcel of property in the City in accordance with the following schedule of amounts (the “Base Year Amount”):

Residential Parcels
Multifamily Residential Parcels
Commercial/lndustrial Parcels
Hotel Parcels

Residential Undeveloped Land
Commercial/industria! Undeveloped Land
Golf Course Parcels

$85.00 per unit per year
$50,00 per unit per year
$610.00 per acre per year
$65.00 per room per year
$10.00 per acre per year
$10.00 per acre per year

$15.00 per acre per year

(c)	For each fiscal year after fiscal year 2002-2003, the maximum annual amount of said fire protection and paramedic services special tax for
each category of property shall be determined by multiplying the Base Year Amount for each iot within such parcel of property by an inflation factor
of Three Percent (3.0%). In succeeding years, the maximum annual amount of the fire protection and paramedic services special tax for each
category of property shall be determined by multiplying the preceding fiscal years maximum special tax by an Inflation factor of Three Percent
(3.0%).

33-51

Section 3.19.050. Determination of Lots and Building Improvements.

The records of the City of La Quinta shall be utilized to determine the number of parcels of property and the land use or zoning thereof for purposes
of classification under Section 3.19.040(b).

Section 3.19.060. Exempt Property,

The fire protection and paramedic services special tax shall not be imposed upon a federal or state governmental agency, any local public agency,
or any parcel of property which is exempt from ad valorem taxes under any other applicable law.

Section 3.19.070. Time and Method of Payment of Special Tax.

The fire protection and paramedic services special tax shall be due in two equal installments in accordance with the collection procedures of the
Riverside County Tax Collector and the California Revenue & Taxation Code provisions for secured property tax collection, and shall be collected
in the same manner, subject to the same penalties and interest, and on the same applicable dates as established by law for the due dates for the
other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the County of Riverside on behalf of the City of La Quinta. The County of Riverside may deduct its
reasonable costs incurred for such services before remittal of the balance to the City of La Quinta.

The fire protection and paramedic services special tax, together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall constitute a lien upon the parcel of
property upon which it is levied until it has been paid, and said special tax, together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall, until paid, consti-
tute a personal obligation to the City of La Quinta by the person(s) who own the parcel of property on the date said special tax is due.

Section 3.19.080, Administration of Tax.

The City Council by not less than three (3) affirmative votes, is empowered:

(a)	To establish the amount of the fire protection and paramedic services special tax levy annually each fiscal year in amounts not to exceed the
maximum amounts specified in Section 3.19.040 of this ordinance as is required to provide an adequate level of fire protection and paramedic
service in the City in accord with the purposes set forth in this ordinance.

(b)	To sit as a Board of Equalization under procedures to be adopted by the City Council to equalize inequities and reduce hardships created by
the literal application of this ordinance, and such shall be deemed an administrative remedy.

(c)	To annually provide an official Levy Book designating the actual tax levy on each parcel of property and to place the same on file in the office

of the City Clerk.

(d)	To amend this ordinance as necessary to permit the Riverside County Tax Collector or any other duly designed public official to collect a
special tax such as is levied by this ordinance in conjunction with other County taxes, or in order to assign duties established by this ordinance to
other officers as otherwise permitted by law, or to modify procedures required by this ordinance, for the sole purpose of levying and/or collecting a
special tax in an amount not to exceed that permitted by Section 3.19.040 of this ordinance to be used solely for the purposes permitted by Section

3.19.030	of this ordinance.

Section 3.19.090. Unexpended Revenue.

The unexpended residue of any money raised by the City under this ordinance may in the discretion of the City Council only be (i) used in the
succeeding year for the purposes stated in this ordinance; or (ii) used for lowering the next year’s tax levy by the amount unexpended.

Section 3.19.100. Severance Provisions.

If any provision(s) of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect any other provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
ordinance are declared to be severable. The City Council and the electorate by referendum do hereby declare that they would have adopted this
ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, part or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, clauses, phrases, parts or portions thereof be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 3.19.110. Effective Date.

This Chapter 3.19 shall be effective only if approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting at an election to be held on March 5,2002, and shall go
into effect only at such time as the City Council has, in accord with the procedures required by law, declared that the special tax measure to be
voted on at said election was approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting thereon. Except as provided in Section 3.19.080(d), upon becoming

effective, Chapter 3.19 may only be amended or repealed by approval of two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on such amendment or repeal at a
duly called initiative or referendum election.

AYES:	Council Members Adolph, Henderson, Perkins, Sniff, Mayor Pena

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

By JOHN J. PENA, Mayor, City of La Quinta, California
ATTEST: JUNE S. GREEK, CMC, City Clerk, City of La Quinta, California
APPROVED AS TO FORM: M. KATHERINE JENSON, City Attorney, City of La Quinta, California