4

4

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF WOODLAND MEASURE G

Measure G proposes to raise additional revenue for general City
of Woodland purposes by extending the current % cent sales tax
within the City of Woodland. The tax would be paid in addition to
other current State and local sales taxes during the extension period
and would be collected at the same time and in the same manner
as the existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7286.52 authorizes
the City Council to levy a transactions and use (i.e.. a “sales”) tax
at certain rates, including a 0.5 percent (i.e., V2 cent) rate, if the tax
is approved by a majority of the voters in an election on that issue.
A majority of Woodland voters approved a Vi cent sales tax in the
March 2000 election. That sales tax will expire June 30.2006, unless
the voters approve an extension. If Measure G is approved, the
existing sales tax would be extended to June 30, 2012, an additional
six years. The tax would expire at the end of the six-year period
unless it is (1) terminated earlier by action of the City Council or
(2) reauthorized for an additional period of time by a majority of the
voters in a subsequent election.

Measure G states that the V2 cent sales tax is to be used “for
city facilities, services and programs.” Because this sales tax would
be a “general tax,” the City would be able to use tax proceeds for
any legal governmental purpose without restriction. The City would
not be legally bound in any way to use the tax monies for any special
purpose or for any particular facilities, program, or service.

The measure requires the City annually to prepare a detailed
report of income and expenditures of sales tax revenues and to
present the report to the public and to publish it in local newspapers.

The “mandatory restriction’ to annually present and publish a
report of income and expenditures does not legally restrict in any
way the scope of the City's right to use the tax proceeds for general
City purposes.

si Ann M. Siprelle
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance
or Measure G. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or
measure, please call the elections official’s office at
(530) 661-5806 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

A “YES" vote will:

✓	Solve Woodland's flooding problem

✓	Safeguard the public from flooding

✓	Save millions in insurance premiums

✓	Eliminate property damage due to flooding in Woodland

Cache Creek can flood Woodland according to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. New flood maps will be imposed
on the citizens of Woodland on April 2, 2002. The new flood maps
will put 35% of the city in the flood zone, including approximately
3000 residences, public schools, city and county public facilities and
much of the city's industrial area. Current estimates are that in
excess of $2 million will be paid in flood insurance per year by
certain property owners effective April 2. 2002. A “YES” vote will
provide sufficient funds to cover the city share of constructing either
a flood barrier or a set back levee. Either solution will eliminate the
risk of flooding, loss of property and will eliminate the need for
Woodland citizens, businesses and public agencies to pay expensive

flood insurance.		
si Steve E. Borchard		si David M. Flory
Mayor		Vice Mayor
si Neal D. Peart	si Martie L. Dote	si Jeff W. Monroe
Councilmember	Councilmember	Councilmember

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

A yes vote would not solve Woodlands flooding problems.
Woodland has never flooded severely. The industrial area would be
measure G s primary beneficiary, since it would receive 65% of flood
protection benefits. Measure G asks all Woodland residents to fund
flood protection for the industrial area.

The projected $2 million is an unsubstantiated estimate and most
likely an inflated flood insurance cost. The sales tax would go into
the city’s general fund with no commitment where it is spent. We
already face an additional Vt% state sales tax increase Jan 1, 2002.
Measure G taxes all Woodland residents, the majority of whom aren't
in the flood zone. We don’t need additional burdens from ill-conceived
schemes.

Constructing a floodwali or levee offers no guarantee that
affected residential property owners will not pay flood insurance.
Individual mortgages may require flood insurance even if flood
protection is in place.

Additionally, Woodland relies on our agricultural community for
economic stability. Placing 6500 acres into a bypass compromises
this stability. This tax is unnecessary and unfair to Woodland residents
and threatens our agriculture and open spaces. If the floodwali is
built. Department of Water Resources has not committed to
maintaining Cache Creek, thereby creating true flood concerns for
our community.

Measure G is premature because it dcnsn't designate funds for
flood protection. Measures E. F are "advisory”; our sales tax money
could be spent on anything, with no guarantee of flood protection.
Vote “NO” on Measure G.

si Frank Sieferman, Jr.	si	A! Eby

Candidate, 3rd District County Supervisor

si Ivan Schmauderer
Merchant-Owner

57-514

	

57514

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

Choose “No” vote on Measure G. This unnecessary tax is unfair
to Woodland residents and threatens agriculture and open spaces.
Originally our current sales fax increase was to pay street repairs,
police station, senior center and Parks-Recreation. It was to end in
2006. Why are we asked to extend it? Has the city mismanaged our
money? If the city is asking to extend this tax to pay for flood
protection, they need to say so and tel! us why.

Measure G is a blank check for the city and does not guarantee
flood protection.

Measure G does not designate funds for flood protection. This
money could be spent on anything.

This request to extend our sales tax increase is premature. We
don't know yet what type of flood protection we might need or what
might be approved, nor do we know what it would cost to construct.

The proposed flood protection is politically motivated. Woodland
relies on agriculture for economic stability. Either flood protection option
(floodwall/barrier set-back levees) mentioned in Measures E and F
will allow urban sprawl on prime agricultural land in Woodland. There
has been no severe flooding by Cache Creek north of Woodland in
the past. A floodwall would benefit the industrial area, which was
built in current flood zone. A floodwall to protect this industrial area
puts vast tracts of prime agricultural land into a permanent bypass,
potentially flooding and devaluing land and impairing viability of
farming in North County Woodland. If constructed, it compromises
land owned and farmed by generations of families and compromises
a national landmark.

It makes no sense to vote on funding for flood control until the
Army Corp of Engineers completes the feasibility study, environmental
impact and makes recommendations. Please vote no on measure “G”.

si Lorenza Gillham	si	Ivan	Schmauderer

si Frank Sieferman, Jr.	s/	Thomas	E.	Reiff

si Wallace Beard

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF WOODLAND MEASURE H

Measure H proposes to amend the Woodland City Code to provide
that each member of the city council would receive a salary of four
hundred fifty dollars per month. Currently each council member
receives a salary of two hundred fifty dollars per month. This salary
was established in 1986 by an initiative ordinance approved by the
voters. City staff has provided a report to the city council comparing
council salaries in similar cities. This report shows that the current
Woodland council salary is 80 percent below the average salary in
those cities.

California State Government Code (Section 36516) authorizes
council salaries to be established by ordinance approved by a majority
vote at an election on the issue. Section 36516 provides the option
of setting council salaries according to a schedule based on the
city’s population. Pursuant to this schedule, salaries could be set
at four hundred dollars per month in cities over 35,000 and up to
50,000 in population, and five hundred dollars per month in cities
over 50,000 and up to 75,000 in population. The City of Woodland’s
population in 1986 was less than 34,000. According to the latest
census data, its population today is approximately 50,600. Measure
H would establish the council’s salary as four hundred fifty dollars
per month, less than the five hundred dollars suggested by the
schedule set forth in the Government Code for cities with Woodland's
population.

si Ann M. Siprelie
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance
or Measure H. If you desire a copy of the ordinance or
measure, please call the elections official's office at
(530) 661-5806 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

Measure G protects our community: our homes, businesses, land,
jobs, families, and our future.

The need for flood protection is real. More than 1/3 of our
community, including numerous schools, health care and emergency
response facilities, homes and industries, are threatened by
floodwaters.

Those against Measure G say it is unnecessary. Without this
flood protection, families and businesses will have to buy flood
insurance. A flood insurance policy does not stop floodwaters, only
flood protection will. And that is what Measure G provides.

Those against Measure G claim the current & cent sales tax is
being mismanaged. Wrong again! That sales tax was approved by
Woodland voters to repair roads, and for a new police station,
community center and soccer fields. Street repair projects are
everywhere, the police station construction and new soccer fields
will break ground this year, and site selection for the new community
center is well under way.

Those against Measure G feel this vote is premature. Both state
and federal budget climates are austere; the best way to ensure
Woodland will receive state and federal support - amounting to 85
percent of the cost of the project - is to have our local portion
funded. We need this local money to receive state and federal funding.

Those against Measure G insist the proposed flood protection
is politically motivated. This argument makes no sense. The measure
will fund our cost-share of the best flood protection measure: it
preserves our options.

Yes on Measure G is “Good for Woodland.*

si Steve E. Borchard
Mayor

si Martie L. Dote
Council Member

si Jeff W. Monroe
Councilman

si David M. Fiory
Vice Mayor

si Neal D. Peart
Councilman

I am asking that you vote ‘YES' on Measure H. I am not running
for re-election, and therefore, will not get the salary increase if this
measure is approved. I only ask that you read what I have to say
and then I trust you will vote YES.

The City Council’s $250 salary was set in 1986-over 15 years
ago! In 1986, Woodland's population was less than 34.000; today it
is over 50,600. Since 1986, the population has increased nearly 50
percent while the complexities of issues and demands have multiplied
even faster.

The City Council’s salary is 80 percent below that of like cities.
Measure H would increase the monthly salary to $450 per month.
California Government Code allows a monthly salary of $500 for
our size city - Measure H is for a salary that is less than permitted.
The only way the Council’s salary can be adjusted in Woodland is
by a vote of its Citizens and this will not change.

I have a young family, and during the eight years on the City
Council, I have sacrificed a lot to serve the citizens of Woodland. I
gladly made those sacrifices because I worked hard to improve our
community and our quality of life. Nevertheless, the impact of serving
on the Council was real.

Many weeks I would spend more than 20 hours working as a
Council Member; this is in addition to a full time job. Most Council
Members have full time jobs and businesses. Therefore, time away
from work require hiring extra staff to cover the absence or require
using vacation time —thus reducinq the vacation time available for
family.

As you can see, other FORMER Mayors have joined me in
supporting this measure; that is because it is an issue of equity and
fairness.

si Steve £. Borchard
Mayor

si Dudley Holman
Former Mayor

si Harry O. Walker
Former Mayor

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

si Melton M. Losoya
Former Mayor

si Gary Sandy
Former Mayor

57-515

57515