VENTURA

OF

■ >

4t

r

GUBERNATORIAL
GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2002

iFQjl;

simple Ballot

and

Voter Information Pamphlet

AVISO / NOTICE

Se puede obtener una traduccidn en espanol del folleto
de informacion para el elector, llamando al 654-2664.

A Spanish translation of the voter information pamphlet
is available by calling 654-2664.

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR ABSENT
VOTER BALLOT ON BACK COVER

RICHARD D. DEAN, COUNTY CLERK AND RECORDER

Out



/>/acZ fot ;fee

THE LOCATION OF YOUR
POLLING PLACE

IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

• POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M. •

SAVE THIS SAMPLE BALLOT TO HELP YOU LOCATE
YOUR POLLING PLACE ON ELECTION DAY

56-FC-E-64254	56-FC-E

SAMPLE BALLOT

E

OFFICIAL BALLOT

GUBERNATORIAL GENERAL ELECTION
COUNTY OF VENTURA

November 5, 2002

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

*•	SCHOOL			
	FILLMORE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT			
	For Governing Board Member	Vote for no more than Three		
	MARTHANN M. BEATTY  Administrative Assistant			+
	DAVID DOLLAR  Retired Financial Analyst			+
	CLARK L. JOHNSON  Rancher			+
	ROBERT TALON  Parent			+
	SCOTT LEE  Economics Teacher			+
				+
				+
				+
	CITY			
	CITY OF FILLMORE			
	For Member of the City Council	Vote for no more than Two		
	PAUL G. HARDING  Business Owner			+
	ERNEST VILLEGAS  Electric Utility Manager			+
	NICK DALTON  Home Restoration			+
	KEN SMEDLEY  Businessman			+
				+
				+
	MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS			
	CITY			
	CITY OF FILLMORE			
	Shall the ordinance proposing a special tax of _ $15 per parcel per year, to be used only for		Yes	+
	G maintenance and operations of a swimming pool, be adopted?		No	+
				

56-557EX-	E

56-SB451

56SB451

CITY OF FILLMORE
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY*

MEASURE"G"

The City Council of the City of Fillmore ("City") proposes to purchase
the existing swimming pool property, located on the Fillmore High School
campus, 555 Central Avenue, Fillmore, California, from the Fillmore Unified
School District and construct a new swimming pool on the property. The
stated purpose of the Ordinance is to impose a maximum special tax of
Fifteen Dollars ($15.00) per year for each single-family residence,
condominium, apartment unit and non-residential parcel for swimming pool
maintenance and operating costs. Mobile homes are exempt from the tax.
The tax will end exactly one (1) year after the life of the pool ends. Each
fiscal year the tax shall be calculated based on the annual maintenance and
operations costs of the swimming pool for that fiscal year divided by the
number of residential units and non-residential parcels within the City. The
annual tax rate cannot exceed the maximum rate of Fifteen Dollars
($15.00). The annual tax rate shall be reduced if the annual maintenance
and operating costs of the swimming pool do not require the maximum rate.
The tax will be imposed annually unless the City Council determines by
June 30 before the next fiscal year not to impose the tax for that fiscal year.

The tax rate cannot exceed the maximum established by the
Ordinance without the approval of a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electors of
the City of Fillmore or such percentage as required by current law. The tax,
if approved by the voters, shall be placed in a special fund and can only be
used to pay for the maintenance and operating costs of the swimming pool
and limited administrative expenses required to collect and account for the
tax. If the voters do not approve the Ordinance, the City will not purchase
the existing swimming pool property or build a new swimming pool.

'Section 9280 of the California Elections Code allows the City Attorney to prepare an impartial analysis for each
city measure appearing on the ballot.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “G"

The only public pool in the City of Fillmore, located at Fillmore High
School, was permanently closed in 2000 because of significant health am
safety concerns. This pool, originally constructed in 1965, will remain closed
unless major renovations are undertaken.

A YES vote on Measure G will provide the funds needed for the future
maintenance and operation of a new community pool complex. If Measure
G is approved by two-thirds of the voters in the City, the City of Fillmore will
use existing redevelopment funds to purchase the old pool and tennis
courts from the Fillmore Unified School District. The City would build a new
pool complex that would include a heated pool, showers, bathrooms and
iocker rooms. The City would also renovate the existing tennis courts and
provide off-street parking and landscaping.

Under Measure G, each residential unit and non-residential parcel of
land in the City of Fillmore will be assessed a maximum of $15.00 annually
or $1.25 per month. Owners of mobile homes are exempt from this
assessment. These funds can only be used for the maintenance and
operation of the new pool complex and will not be considered part of the
City’s general fund.

Fillmore needs facilities that can provide healthy recreation for all of
its residents. A new heated pool would enable residents to participate year
round in recreational swimming and swimming lessons, as well as classes in
water aerobics, water conditioning, and water safety and lifeguard skills. In
addition, through a joint use agreement with the City, the School District
would be entitled to use the new pool complex to offer swimming classes,
water safety classes and competitive swimming for all of its students.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE G.

s/Scott Lee, Resident

s/Norma Perez-Sandford, Resident

s/Ralph P. Rees, Fillmore High School Teacher Ret.

s/Debra A. Louth, Fillmore Pool Committee Member

s/Bill Herrera, Resident

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

9212eia

9212eaf

5656

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE"G"

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FILLMORE, CALIFORNIA
IMPOSING A SWIMMING POOL MAINTENANCE AND OPERATIONS
SPECIAL TAX SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF TWO-THIRDS OF THE
70TES UPON THE PROPOSAL WITHIN THE CITY OF FILLMORE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF FILLMORE, CALIFORNIA DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter 3.33 ot Title 3, Finance and Revenue, is hereby
added to the Fillmore Municipal Code to read as follows:

"Chapter 3.33. Swimming Pool Maintenance and Operations Special Tax

"Sec. 3.33.010. Definitions.

"For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:

"(a) 'Apartment' means a dwelling unit rented or leased which is a
part of a larger building with two (2) or more such units.

"(b) ‘Building’ means any structure having a roof supported by
columns or walls for the housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
chattels or property of any kind.

"(c) ‘Condominium project’ means a condominium, as defined in
Section 1351 of the Civil Code, a community apartment project, as defined
in Section 11004 of the Business and Professions Code, or a stock
cooperative, as defined in Section 11003.2 of the Business and Professions
Code.

"(d) ‘Director of Finance’ means the Director of Finance of the City of

Fillmore.

"(e) ‘Dwelling unit’ means a unit which is used as a principal residence.
"(f) ‘Swimming pool’ means the Fillmore Municipal Swimming Pool,
as the same may exist from time to time, together with any additions or
betterments thereto, or improvements, extensions or expansions thereof.

"(g) ‘Maintenance and operating costs’ of the swimming pool means
all reasonable and necessary costs expended or incurred by the City of
Fillmore for maintaining and operating the swimming pool, calculated in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles including, but not
limited to:

“(1) the reasonable expenses of management and repair
and other expenses necessary to maintain and preserve the swimming pool
in good repair and working order; and

“(2) depreciation, replacement and obsolescence charges
or reserve therefor; but shall not be construed to mean costs of major
capital improvements.

"(h) ‘Life of pool’ means as long as the pool can be used as a
swimming pool.

"(i) ‘Multiple family residential’ means any building which contains
more than one (1) dwelling unit.

“(j) ‘Parcel’ means a unit of real property identified by a separate and
distinct number or other designation on a plat recorded in the office of the
Ventura County Recorder.

"(k) ‘Single family residential' means the same as dwelling unit.

“(I) ‘Maximum Tax Rate’ means the greatest amount of Special Tax
that may be levied in any Fiscal Year on each residential unit and
non-residential property.

"Sec. 3.33.020. Exemptions.

"(a) Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon
any person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in
violation of either the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of
the State of California.

"(b) The tax imposed by this article shall not be levied upon the
federal government, the state government, any state agency or any local
governmental agency.

"(c) The tax imposed by this article shall not be levied upon a parcel
of property or improvement to property which is owned by a house of
worship or charitable or community service organization which qualifies for
an exemption from ad valorem taxation under California law.

(d) Mobile homes shall be exempted from the levy based on the
definition that mobile homes are not considered residential units or real
'operty rather mobile homes are considered personal property.

“Sec. 3.33.030. Special tax.

"(a) There is hereby imposed a special tax on each residential
dwelling unit or non-residential parcel within the City of Fillmore for the
purposes set forth in this article at the rate specified herein.

“(b) This tax is enacted under the authority of Sections 37100.5 and
50075 of the California Government Code.

"Sec. 3.33.040. Purpose.

"(a) This special tax revenue shall be placed in a special fund to be
used by the City only to pay for:

“(1) Maintenance and operating costs of the swimming pool;
"(2) Administrative expenses incurred in implementing this
Chapter 3.33, including refunds involved in the collection of the special tax
provided for herein.

"(b) The City may provide for the collection of the special tax in the
same manner and subject to the same penalties as, or with, other charges
and taxes fixed and collected by the City, or by the County of Ventura on
behalf of the City. If the special tax is collected by the County on behalf of
the City, the County may deduct its reasonable costs incurred in such
service.

"(c) Any money raised by the special tax, including any interest
accrued thereon, that remains unencumbered at the end of any fiscal year
shall only be used in a succeeding fiscal year for the purposes stated in this
article. The availability of a surplus for any succeeding year shall be
considered by the City when levying the tax for that year.

"Sec. 3.33.050. Tax rate; contingency.

"(A) Unless, prior to June 30 of the first and each ensuing fiscal year,
the City Council by resolution determines not to impose this special tax, an
annual special tax is hereby levied in the following manner: the Finance
Director shall cause the Special Taxes to be apportioned and levied in each
Fiscal Year as follows:

(1)	For Tax-Exempt Parcels, no Special Tax shall be apportioned or

levied.

(2)	For each residential unit and non-residential property, Special
Taxes shall be apportioned and levied as follows:

'Property categories:	Maximum Tax rate:
'(1) Single family residential or	
condominium (per unit)	$15.00
'(2) Apartment (per unit)	$15.00
'(3) Non-residential property (per parcel)	$15.00

"(a) determine the aggregate Maximum Special Tax for all residential
units and non-residential properties.

"(b) determine the Annual Maintenance and Operations Costs of the
swimming pool for such Fiscal Year.

"(c) levy on each residential unit and non-residential property an
amount equal to the Maximum Special Tax for such residential unit and
non-residential property determined pursuant to paragraph (A)(2) above;
provided that if the amount determined in (a) above is greater than the
amount determined in (b) above, reduce the levy on each Taxable Parcel
proportionately, based upon the Maximum Special Tax (determined
under(A)(2) above) for each respective Taxable Parcel, compared to the
Maximum Special Tax for all Taxable Parcels (determined under (b) above),
so that the total levy on all Taxable Parcels is equal to the Annual Costs for
such Fiscal Year.

"(3) Prepare the Tax Collection Schedule for each Taxable Parcel and
send it to the Auditor of the County of Ventura requesting that it be placed
on the general, secured property tax roll for such Fiscal Year. The Tax
Collection Schedule shall be sent not later than the date required by the
Auditor for such inclusion.

"(4) In no event shall the amount of the tax rate to be levied under this
article exceed the amount established by this article without the approval of
a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electors of the City or such percentage as
required by current law voting upon such change at a municipal election
called for such purpose in accordance with applicable law. That is, there is
no built in cost of living adjustment as part of this ordinance. The $15 annual
levy will remain as such unless an increase is approved by two-thirds (2/3)
vote of the electors of the City.

“Sec. 3.33.060. Term.

"The annual special tax provided for herein shall be and hereby is
levied in consecutive fiscal years, commencing with the first fiscal year in
which there is a levy pursuant to this Chapter 3.33, unless the City Council
determines not to impose the special tax for a particular year pursuant to
Section 3.33.050. Such levy may only be changed or amended with the
approval of the voters by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electors of the City or
such percentage as required by current law voting upon such change at a
municipal election called for such purpose in accordance with applicable

56561

law.

Notwithstanding the abovewritten section 3.33.060, the life of the levy
shall end exactly one year after the life of the pool ends.

"Sec. 3.33.070. Adjustments and refunds.

"(a) Requests for adjustments involving imposition of this special tax
shall be filed with the Director of Finance. Upon applicant’s production of
reasonably sufficient evidence of error in the computation of the tax or
exemption therefrom, the Director of Finance, or his/her designee, shall
cause the tax to be recalculated, and shall so advise the Ventura County
Tax Collector or other appropriate official.

"(b) Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any tax has been
overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the City under this article, the refund procedure
shall be as follows:

"(1) No claim for refund of tax payment shall be allowed in
whole or in part unless filed with the City Clerk within a period of three (3)
years from the date of the claimed overpayment. All such claims for refund
of the amount of the overpayment must be filed on forms furnished and in
the same manner prescribed by the Finance Department of the City. Refunds
may be made solely from the special tax revenues collected under this article.

"(2) In the event the Director of Finance denies the claim,
he/she shall notify the claimant pursuant to California Government Code Section 913.

"(c) The Director of Finance shall have the power to settle claims
involving the special tax, and the power to accept and record
underpayments or overpayments of such tax. The Finance Director shall
have the authority to make refunds of this tax.

“(d) If the County of Ventura does not collect any tax due under this
article, the Finance Director shall have the power and duty to enforce all of
the provisions of this article. In such cases, an assessment may be made
against the owner of a parcel in the manner provided by law. Any unpaid tax
due under this article shall be subject to all remedies provided under the
Fillmore Municipal Code and as provided by law.

"(e) The special tax shall be due in two (2) equal installments in
accordance with the collection procedures of the Ventura County Tax
Collector, with the first installment due November 1 and the second
installment due in the next succeeding February 1, each fiscal year. The
owner of land, at the time set forth in California Revenue and Taxation Code
Sections 405 and 2192 for each fiscal year, shall have a personal obligation
to the City until the tax is paid for such fiscal year.

"(f) The Finance Director may prepare a questionnaire to be served
on the owner of a parcel subject to this special tax. The questionnaire may
request information which would be useful to the Finance Director in the
enforcement or administration of this Chapter 3.33. The failure by an owner
to provide the information requested within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
request, or the act of an owner in knowingly providing false information,
shall be a misdemeanor.

"Sec. 3.33.080. Amendments.

"Procedural provisions of this article may be amended by ordinance
duly enacted by the City Council."

SECTION 2. If any portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to
be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this Ordinance, it being expressly declared that this Ordinance
and each portion hereof would have been adopted irrespective of the fact
that any portion would be declared invalid.

SECTION 3. All ordinances and parts of ordinances of the City in
conflict herewith to the extent of such conflict and no further are hereby repealed.

SECTION 4. This Ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days
after the date on which the City Council has declared the voters of the City
of Fillmore approved this Ordinance by a vote of not less than two-thirds
(2/3) of the votes cast by the electors voting on the special tax proposal set
forth in the Ordinance.

SECTION 5. The City Attorney is hereby designated and directed to
prepare a summary of the Ordinance. A certified copy of the full text of the
Ordinance shall be posted and available in the office of the City Clerk.

SECTION 6. The City Clerk shall cause the City Attorney’s summary
of this Ordinance to be published once, within fifteen (15) calendar days
after the date on which the City Council has declared the voters of the City
of Fillmore have approved this Ordinance, in the Fillmore Gazette, a
newspaper of general circulation, printed, published and circulated in the
City, and shall cause a copy of this Ordinance and her certification, together
with proof of publication, to be entered in the Book of Ordinances of the City.

92126ft

56562