
<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “X”

Prepared by: Yuba County Counsel

Approval of this Measure by a majority of the voters voting in
this election will impose a Visitor’s Surcharge of ten percent in the
unincorporated areas of Yuba County. This surcharge is imposed on
persons who pay to occupy rooms in hotels, motels, inns, or other
similar establishments and is based on the room rate. The surcharge
is collected by the operator of the establishment at the same time
that payment is collected for the room.

The revenue collected from this surcharge will be deposited into the
County’s General Fund, and may be spent for new services or
increases in existing services, if approved, this surcharge may be

amended or repealed only by another measure adopted by the voters.

A “yes" vote is in favor of passage of the Measure.

A “no" vote is against passage of the Measure.

Prepared by: <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> s/ Daniel G. Montgomery, County Counsel <impartialsigsend>







<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE X
Yuba County Visitors Surcharge

Voter approval of Measure X will implement a surcharge on renting
motel/hotel rooms within unincorporated Yuba County. Only people
who stay at motel rooms in unincorporated Yuba County will pay
this surcharge. It is not a surcharge paid by our residents. The City
of Marysville currently has a 10% Visitors Surcharge also paid by
people who stay at its motels.

In an effort to maintain the quality and level of County services
provided to the residents of unincorporated Yuba County, the County
Supervisors are seeking voter approval to implement a Visitors
Surcharge.

With increased tourism activities from the Auto West Amphitheatre,
Dried Plum and Peach Festivals, increased development interest in
the Sports/Entertainment Zone, as well as many other local and
regional events, the County has seen a greater interest in tourism-
based activities. Visitors impact the County’s services by using parks
and recreational areas, roads, police, and fire services. The Visitors
Surcharge represents a fair method for reimbursing the County’s
increased costs related to these activities. Visitors could then help
pay for services provided by the County.

Motel owners do not pay the surcharge, it is an additional fee paid
by people renting rooms. All significant jurisdictions within the Yuba-
Sutter Region, including Marysville, Yuba City, and Sutter County,
have implemented a 10% Visitors Surcharge. This Measure does
not include charging additional fees for private or public campground
stays in Yuba County.

The revenue from the Visitors Surcharge represents discretionary
funding for Yuba County which can be used for economic
development, County parks and recreation, tourism, and improved
or increased services.

Yuba-Sutter Chamber of Commerce <favorend>






<favorsigs> s/ Doug Sloan, Chairman
August 6, 2002 <favorsigsend>






NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED
