SAMPLE BALLOT

Note: It will be faster at the polls to mark your sample ballot

am? this with you to your polling location.

'ONL OAi _ ^t*ERAL ELECTION

RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

NOVEMBER, 5, 2002

PROPOSITION tt

DAY VOTER REGISTRATION.

voter prauo mmLmm,

I ATIVE STATUTE.

Mms legally eligible persons to renter to on
election day. increases cnminat geo*t#®« for voter
end voter regte&etton fraud, CrMnaiizes

conspiracy to mmmA. vote# fraud. Fiscal impact-
Annual stele costs of about $6 mHfcn to fand
counties for election day voter registration
activities. Mo anticipated red county coal*. Minot
state admfntefrMhw costs and unknown, but
probably minor, state costs to enforce new afectlon
fraud olfense.

o

o

COUNTY

MEASURE A

To relieve traffic congesbon, improve safety and air
quality shall Measuie A (Riverside County

Transportation Commiseion Ordinance No. 02*061)
be approved to emend for thirty (30) years die
current 1/2 cent safes tax fo.

*	mOMn/Improve mutes 10, IS, 60. 71. ft. 86,
91, 111 and to# ISAM and 1060
fifarchanges

« Maintain community streets

*	Expand transit for mnmm and persons wth
disabilities

*	Expand MetroUnk commuter raif

*	Conduct independent fotandal audfts and
authorize bonds tip to $500 fWlion?

Ye*		O
No		o
		

CITY	
G% of La Quinta	
MEASURER	
Shall Initiative Ordinance 2002-1	the
levy of a special tax on each eSpible parcel in Ifre	
City to fond enhanced ire protection and paramedic	
services, be adopted?	
Ye*	o
No	o

33-SB152-1

llllllllllllllllllllll

MEASURE"M”

EXHIBIT A
INITIATIVE ORDINANCE NO. 2002-1

AN INITIATIVE ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF LA QUINTA, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING CHAPTER 3,19 OF THE CITY OF LA QUINTA
MUNICIPAL CODE TO AUTHORIZE THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX FOR FIRE PROTECTION AND PARAMEDIC SERVICES

WHEREAS, pursuant to the. authority of California Government Code Section 53970, et seq.. the City is authorized to levy special taxes for the
provision of fire protection and paramedic services in accordance with the provisions of California Government Code Section 53720, et seq. and
Article XIIIC of the Constitution of the State of California: and

WHEREAS, in order to accomplish the foregoing it is necessary to amend Chapter 3.19 to the City of La Quinta Municipal Code;

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF LA QUINTA, CALIFORNIA DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1, The City of La Quinta Municipal Code is hereby amended by deleting in its entirety the existing Chapter 3.19 enacted by Ordinance
No. 166 on March 6,1990 and amending Chapter 3.19 to read as follows:

Section 3,19,010, Special Tax For Fire Protection and Paramedic Services.

This Chapter shall be deemed to provide a supplemental and additional authority for the levy of special taxes for fire protection and paramedic
services and shall be regarded as supplemental and additional to those powers conferred by California Government Code Section 53970, etseq.

Section 3.19.020. Imposition of Tax,

Pursuant to the authority of the Charter of the City of La Quinta and California Government Code Section 53970, et seq., there is hereby levied
and assessed a fire protection and paramedic services special tax by the City of La Quinta on each parcel of property within the City of La Quinta. For

purposes of this ordinance a “parcel of property" shall mean any legal parcel of improved or unimproved real property within the current or future
boundaries of the City of La Quinta, including, but not limited to any vacant property, commercial/industrial property, single family residence, multi-
family residential units, any condominium unit as defined in California Civil Code Section 783. or any other unit of real property subject to the Califor-
nia Subdivided Lands Act (Business and Professions Code Sections 11000, et seq.).

Section 3.10.030, Use of Revenue.

(a)	The purpose of this ordinance is to raise revenue only for tie purposes of obtaining, providing, operating, maintaining and enhancing fire
protection and paramedic services, facilities and equipment, for paying the salaries and benefits to fire protection and paramedic personnel, and
for such other necessary fire protection and paramedic services expenses of the City of La Quinta as such services shall be made available

throughout the entire City.

(b)	The proceeds from this ordinance shall be used only for the purposes identified in subsection (a) of this Section.

(c)	Upon the effective date of this ordinance, the City Finance Director shall create a separate account into'which all revenue raised by this

ordinance shall be placed.

(ci) The City’s Finance Director shall file a report with the City Council no later than January 1,2005, and at least once a year thereafter which
shall contain both of the following: (i) the amount of funds collected and expended under this ordinance; and (ii) the status of any project required

or authorized to be funded to carry out the purposes set forth in subsection (a) of this Section 3.19.030.

Section 3.19.040. Calculation of Amount,

(a)	The tax imposed by this ordinance shall be a tax upon each parcel of property and the tax shall not be measured by the value of the
property.

(b)	For fiscal year 2003-2004, the maximum annual amount of said fire protection and paramedic services special tax shall be imposed upon
each parcel of property in the City in accordance with the following schedule of amounts (the “Base Year Amount”):

Residential Parcels
Multifamily Residential Parcels
Commercial/industrial Parcels

Hotei Parcels

Residential Undeveloped Land
Commercial/industrial Undeveloped Land
Golf Course Parcels

185.00	per unit per year
$50.00 per unit per year

1610.00	per acre per year
$65.00 per room per year
$10.00 per acre per year
$10,00 per acre per year
$15.00 per acre per year



3376

(c) For the fiscal year 2004-2005, the maximum annual amount of said fire protection and paramedic services special tax for each category of
property shall be determined by multiplying the Base Year Amount for each lot within such parcel of property by an inflation factor of Three
Percent (3.0%). For each succeeding fiscal year, the maximum annual amount of the fire protection and paramedic services special tax for each
category of property shall be determined by multiplying the precedino fiscal year’s maximum special tax by an inflation factor of Three Percent
(3.0%),

Section 3.19.050. Determination of Lots and Building Improvements.

The records of the City of La Quinta shall be utilized to determine the number of parcels of property and the land use or zoning thereof for

purposes of classification under Section 3.19.040(b).

Section 3.19.000. Exempt Property.

The tire protection and paramedic services special tax shall not be imposed upon a federal or state governmental agency, any local public
agency, or any parcel of property which is exempt from ad valorem taxes under any other applicable law.

Section 3.19.070. Time and Method of Payment of Special Tax.

The fire protection and paramedic services special tax shall be due in two equal installments in accordance with the collection procedures of the
Riverside County Tax Collector and the California Revenue & Taxation Code provisions for secured property tax collection, and shall be collected in
the same manner, subject to the same penalties and interest, and on the same applicable dates as established by law for the due dates for the other

charges and taxes fixed and collected by the County of Riverside on behalf of the City of La Quinta. The County of Riverside may deduct its reason-
able costs incurred for such services before remittal of the balance to the City of La Quinta.

The fire protection and paramedic services special tax, together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall constitute a lien upon the parcel of
property upon which it is levied until it has been paid, and said special tax, together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall, until paid, constitute a
personal obligation to the City of La Quinta by the person(s) who own the parcel of property on the date said special tax is due.

Section 3.19.080. Administration of Tax.

The City Council by not less than three (3) affirmative votes, is empowered:

(a)	To establish the amount of the fire protection and paramedic services special tax levy annually each fiscal year in amounts not to exceed
the maximum amounts specified in Section 3.19.040 of this ordinance as is required to provide an adequate level of fire protection and paramedic
service in the City in accord with the purposes set forth in this ordinance.

(b)	To sit as a Board of Equalization under procedures to be adopted by the City Council to equalize inequities and reduce hardships created
by the literal application of this ordinance, and such shall be deemed an administrative remedy.

(c)	To annually provide an official Levy Book designating the actual tax levy on each parcel of property and to place the same on file in the

office of the City Clerk,

(d)	To amend this ordinance as necessary to permit the Riverside County Tax Collector or any other duly designated public official to collect a
special tax such as is levied by this ordinance in conjunction with other County taxes, or in order to assign duties established by this ordinance to
other officers as otherwise permitted by iaw, or to modify procedures required by this ordinance, for the sole purpose of levying and/or collecting
a special tax in an amount not to exceed that permitted by Section 3.19.040 of this ordinance to be used solely for the purposes permitted by
Sectwn 3.19.030 of this ordinance.

Section 3.19.090. Unexpended Revenue.

The unexpended residue of any money raised by the City under this ordinance may in the discretion of the City Council only be (i) used in
succeeding years for the purposes stated in this ordinance; or (ii) used for lowering the next year’s tax levy by the amount unexpended.

Section 3.19.100. Severance Provisions.

if any provisions) of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionaiity shall not affect any other provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this
ordinance are declared to be severable. The City Council and the electorate do hereby declare that they would have adopted this ordinance and each
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, part or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses,
phrases, parts or portions thereof be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 3.19.110. Effective Date.

This Chapter 3.19 shall be effective only if approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting at an election to be held on November 5,2002, and
shall go into effect only at such time as the City Council has,In accord with the procedures required by law, declared that the special tax measure to be
voted on at said election was approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting thereon. Except as provided in Section 3.19.080(d), upon becoming
effective, Chapter 3.19 may only be amended or repealed by approval of two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on such amendment or repeal at a duly
called initiative or referendum election.

33-77

|| tuiiPff •( j

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF idieEASURE “M”

CITY OF LA QUINTA

If passed at the November 5,2002 election, this Initiative Ordinance
would authorize the La Quinta City Council annually to levy a special tax
to maintain and enhance fire protection and paramedic services within
the City of La Quinta, Under the California Constitution, this Ordinance
requires the approval of two-thirds of the voters voting at the election in
order to take effect.

The Ordinance authorizes tie la Quinta City Council to place the
fire protection and paramedic services tax on all parcels of land within La
Quinta that are zoned or used for residential, commercial, industrial,
hotel or golf course purposes. However, land that is exempt from
property taxes, such as land owned by religious institutions and
non-profit corporations, is exempt from the tax. The Ordinance estab-
lishes the maximum tax rate that the City Council may impose annually
for each type of land use. These maximum annual tax rates range from
$10 per acre for undeveloped land zoned for residential or commer-
cial/industrial uses, to $610 per acre for parcels developed with commer-
cial or industrial structures. For single family residential parcels, the
Ordinance sets a maximum annual tax rate of $85 per parcel for the
2003-2004 fiscal year (July 1, 2003 through June 30, 2004). After the
2003-2004 fiscal year, each of the maximum tax rates increases by 3%
per year, compounded.

Under the Ordinance, the City Council may levy the fire protection
and paramedic services tax each year at a rate that does not exceed the
maximum rate then in effect under the Ordinance. The City Council may
set the annual rates at levels less than or equal to, but not greater than,
the maximum annual tax rate authorized by the Ordinance. The
Ordinance -provides that the special fire protection and paramedic
services tax be itemized and collected with the regular County property
tax bills. Payment of this tax will be due in two equal installments, in
December and April.

The revenue raised by the fire protection and paramedic services
tax may only be used for maintaining and enhancing the provision of fire
protection and paramedic services to the residents, businesses and
properties within La Quinta, and for no other purpose. Any revenues from
this tax that are not expended in a given year for fire protection and
paramedic services may be used by the La Quinta City Council in
succeeding fiscal years to expand or enhance fire protection and/or
paramedic services, to reduce the tax levied on real property parcels in
La Quinta, or a combination of increased services and reduced tax rates.

If passed by two-thirds of the voters voting on November 5, 2002,
this Ordinance will take effect ten days after the La Quinta City Council

declares the results of the special tax election,

By:	M.	Katherine	Jenson,

City Attorney, City of La Quinta

.. - —   • ——--------------------------------——————~~

ARGUMfiiT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “M"

As a former Volunteer Fire Fighter I am proud to urge La Quinta citizens
to vote for Measure “M.” Why do we need a third Firefighter/Paramedic?
When our firefighters reach the scene of an emergency, it often takes
more than two people to provide immediate medical care. Your life may
depend on that third person. Many of our neighboring cities have long
had a special tax to provide f«se essential services. The City currently
has adequate funding for all our fire stations including the new fire station
in North La Quinta at the current 2-person level. Supporters for Measure
“M” are asking you to fund a third Firefighter/Paramedic at each of our
three stations. Measure “M" will also fund a dedicated La Quinta
paramedic rescue squad 24 hours a day.

We are asking for less than 25 cents a day per family to provide more
ttian just the basic emergency services we currently have. The rate may
be increased a maximum of 3% annually if approved by the City Council
after public hearings. The money collected will be maintained in a special
fund for public safety purposes only. Ail parcels in the City, residential or
commercial, will contribute.

This measure was just 8 votes short of passing in the last election. Your
vote counts. Don’t let La Quinta fall behind other cities when itbomes to
emergency fire/paramedic services. Please vote yes for public safety.
Vote yes on Measure “M.”

By:	John	J. Pena, Mayor, City of La Quinta

NO ARGUMENT FILED AGAINST MEASURE “M”

13-78



3378