IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE EE

By Lloyd W. Pellman, County Counsel

Approval of Measure EE would authorize the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified
School District to levy a special tax of up to $300 per year, adjusted annually on a
cumulative basis for inflation, on each parcel of land located within the District.

The tax would be used to improve student achievement, attract and retain
teachers and improve teaching skills, reduce class size, provide safe and well-
maintained facilities, enhance athletic, music and arts programs, improve student
accessibility to programs regardless of the student’s ability to pay, upgrade
computer technology and instruction, improve student career and counseling
services, provide rigorous and challenging course work, and provide early
childhood, family support and after-school programs.

The tax would be levied for twelve (12) years commencing on July 1, 2003. Prior
to each year, the Board of Education of the District (“Board”) will conduct a
public hearing to establish the rate per parcel for the following tax year. The rate
per parcel would be adjusted annually in accordance with the Consumer Price
Index (CPI-U) for All Urban Consumers (Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange areas).
Any tax levied shall become a lien upon the properties against which taxes are
assessed.

An expenditure plan (the “Annual Plan”) shall be developed annually for the
succeeding fiscal year by District staff with input from the Citizens’ Financial
Oversight Committee (“Committee”). The Annual Plan, together with regular
financial and audit reports, shall be made available to the Committee and the
public. As part of this reporting, the chief fiscal officer of the District shall file a
report with the Board and the Committee at least once per fiscal year clearly
identifying the amount of funds collected and expended, together with the status
of any project required or authorized to be funded.

Each year, the District shall retain an independent auditor to review District
records to determine that funds generated by this Measure have been
maintained and expended in compliance with the Annual Plan and that other
conditions of this Measure have been satisfied.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE EE

Vote YES on Measure EE.

Your YES vote will preserve Educational Excellence and improve safety at our
local schools!

Santa Monica and Malibu schools strongly contribute to our community’s values
and desirability.

We have one of the finest school districts in Southern California. Our test scores
are among the highest in Los Angeles County. All of our schools have reported
improved reading and math scores over the past three years. Two of our schools
are recognized National Blue Ribbon Schools of Excellence. Our high school
drop-out rates are at an all-time low.

Yet, continued educational excellence at our schools is in jeopardy!

We cannot count on the State of California for sufficient funding to ensure local
educational excellence, especially during times of recurring state budget crises.
California ranks 38th in state expenditure per student - $1,000 below the national
average.

Our schools are facing significant cutbacks due to unavoidable rising costs and
inadequate state funding. Wg must step up locally to ensure excellence in
education for our community’s children.

Our most dramatic academic improvement has been through class size reduction
in kindergarten through third grade.

Measure EE will maintain reduced class size for these grades and enable us to
implement reduced class size in other grades.

Our local teachers are outstanding! 55% of our teachers have a Master’s Degree,
compared to the County average of 36%.

Measure EE will help us continue to attract and retain highly qualified classroom
teachers.

Measure EE will help fund improved safety and security on our campuses and
enhance educational programs in our classrooms.

Measure EE requires strict accountability and an annual report to ensure that
funds are used to help our students succeed.

(Continued on next page)

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE EE (Continued)

Help preserve Educational Excellence and safety at Santa Monica and Malibu
schools!

Vote YES on Measure EE!

JAMES T. BUTTS, JR.

Chief of Police

MICHAEL RICH

Chair, SMMUSD Financial Oversight Committee
RALPH MECHUR

President, Santa Monica-Malibu Education Foundation
LAURE STERN

President, Malibu Foundation for Youth

NATHANIEL TRIVES
Former Mayor of Santa Monica

One thing recent corporate bankruptcies have shown us is more money doesn’t
cure bad management. EE backers want us to reward District incompetence with
a three-fold increase in taxes.

But, NOTHING in EE guarantees reduced class size, improved safety or any of
the other claims proponents make.

All school districts contend with budget realities, but few fail as badly as ours.
We pass bond issues repeatedly, have increased our taxes and City contributions,
yet a new “crisis” occurs every year. To blame it on the state or “rising costs”
shifts the blame from where it really belongs: blatant District mismanagement.

Don’t let them blackmail you or use our children as pawns. For example, after we
passed the last parcel tax, a first order of business for administrators was a pay
raise for themselves.

Problems are largely self-created. More than 20% of district students are
nonresidents with “guest permits”. This causes overcrowded classes and forces
our kids to compete with nonresidents. And, you pay ever increasing taxes.

EE is at least twice what they claim they need because “consultants”
recommended they “shoot for the moon.” But, how much EE money will trickle
down to our children? Revenues, like the last parcel tax, go into the general fund
and are spent with minimal accountability.

Credit goes to the achievements of students and teachers. But, ongoing
bureaucratic squandering of resources only endangers our school’s good
reputation and our children’s future.

SAVE OUR SCHOOLS. It’s right to Vote No on EE.

MATHEW L. MILLEN
Santa Monica Homeowner

DONALD GRAY
Santa Monica Resident

POLLY BENSON-BROWN
Santa Monica Homeowner

WILLIAM H. BAUER
Renter

If Prop. EE fixed the problems plaguing our Santa Monica-Malibu Unified
School District it would deserve your vote. But it doesn’t. It throws good money
after bad, in fact it quadruples the Parcel Tax increase you just passed in 2000. If
EE passes, you’ll pay: $498 in parcel taxes -- on top of payments for $300,000,000
in school and college bonds.

And, with this $300 increase, school board representatives opted for a ballot
taxation option that was 50% larger than needed. Their rationale? You wouldn’t
notice the difference.

Recommendations to make the school district more efficient and responsible
were developed two years ago. Since then, none of them have been instituted!
However, the district has opted to waste money on such boondoggles as hiring a
public relations officer at $100,000 a year.

Yearly deficits, raises for administrators, bond construction disasters, bogus
public opinion polls, legally suspect home loans to administrators and unrealistic
promises to teachers -- this is how they’ve been spending funds for our children’s
education!

Despite our student’s needs, none of the proposed additional funding is slated to
deal with the problems such as racial profiling and discrimination, nonresident
permit preference, resistance to off-hour playground access, or the cost overruns
for campus improvements.

Contrary to district claims, there is money available: the City of Santa Monica’s
budget is over $370,000,000 this year. A reduction in the millions spent on
nonresident “services” to outsiders and making the City of Malibu pay their fair
share for the school services they utilize would solve our school’s financial
problems without heavier tax burdens or pass-along rent hikes for tenants.

Doesn’t it make more sense to mandate real school reform, first, and demand
our city support our schools rather than indulge and reward ongoing district
mismanagement?

Show them they’re wrong.

Vote “NO” on Proposition EE!

DON GRAY
Santa Monica Resident

BILL BAUER
Santa Monica Renter

MATHEW L. MILLEN
Santa Monica Homeowner

Vote YES on Measure EE.

Opponents’ claims submitted against Measure EE are simply false. Opponents
wildly overstate the cumulative parcel tax if this measure passes, falsely claim the
District has hired a public relations officer, falsely claim the District has given
home loans to administrators, and run yearly deficits. All false!

The opponents of this measure are wrong on the facts and wrong on the issues.

Our schools have earned our trust.

Measure EE will allow our schools to avoid dramatic cutbacks in academic
programs because of a crisis in the state budget.

Measure EE will enable the schools to reduce class size and help ensure safe
campuses.

Santa Monica and Malibu residents value quality schools. Our schools are
among the best in the state. They regularly qualify for highly competitive state
and national grants and earn national recognition.

Our schools are strong through good management. Systems of review and
accountability are leading to reduced costs and increased accountability.

Measure EE requires an annual audit available to the public.

Measure EE will improve property values and the quality of life for our
communities.

Among others, Measure EE is endorsed by local teachers, the PTA, League of
Women Voters, homeowners, renters, business people, elected officials, Santa
Monica Police Chief James Butts, Santa Monicans for Renters’ Rights, seniors,
and thousands of local families.

Measure EE is the unanimous recommendation of the School Board and the
District Financial Oversight Committee.

Our schools and our children deserve our support.

Vote YES on Measure EE!

NATHANIEL TRIVES
Former Mayor of Santa Monica

RALPH MECHUR

President, Santa Monica-Malibu Education Foundation

JAMES T. BUTTS, JR.

Chief of Police

LAURE STERN

President, Malibu Foundation for Youth & Families
MICHAEL RICH

Chair, SMMUSD Financial Oversight Committee

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE EE

SANTA MONICA-MALIBU UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT AND SAFETY ACT OF 2002

To provide academic achievement and safety for school children, shall the Santa
Monica-Malibu Unified School District be authorized to levy a special tax
limited to $300 per parcel per annum for a 12 year period, adjusted annually
using the CPI-U? Revenues will be used to improve access and raise
achievement for all students, attract outstanding teachers, reduce class size,
provide materials, equipment, and well-maintained safe schools, with citizens’
oversight and annual financial audits.

1.	TITLE AND PURPOSE

The revenues raised by this Measure, the “Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School
District Academic Achievement and Safety Act of 2002,” are to be used to
provide programs in promotion of academic achievement, necessary classroom
and school-site materials and equipment, and the operation of safe and well-
maintained school facilities for the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District
(“District”).

2.	DEFINITION OF PURPOSE

A.	The revenues raised by this special tax shall be exclusively used for the
following purposes.

i.	To improve student achievement;

ii.	To attract and retain outstanding teachers and improve teacher skills
through professional development;

iii.	To reduce class size;

iv.	To provide safe and well-maintained facilities;

v.	To enhance athletic, music and arts programs;

vi.	To reduce costs associated with athletic, music, arts and other programs in
order to improve accessibility for all students, regardless of their ability to

pay;

vii.	To upgrade computer technology and instruction in classrooms and school
libraries;

viii.	To improve student career and academic counseling services;

ix.	To improve access for all students to rigorous, challenging course work;

x.	To provide increased access to early childhood, family support and after-
school programs; and

(Continued on next page)

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE EE (Continued)

xi.	To protect the taxpayer’s investment in education by providing financial
oversight and accountability for District spending.

B.	The revenues raised by this Measure shall be deposited into a separate
account in accordance with Government Code Section 50075.1 (or
applicable successor law) and shall be expended according to a plan
developed annually by the District staff and adopted as approved by the
Board of Education of the District (the “Board”).

3.	THE TAX LEVY

A.	Tax Base. The special tax shall be levied on each parcel of land within the
boundaries of the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District. The special
tax shall be in the amount of up to $300 per parcel per annum, subject to
adjustment as hereinafter set forth. The Board of Education of the District
may periodically set the amount of the special tax at a lesser amount per
parcel than is authorized hereunder.

B.	Cost of Living Adjustment. Prior to levying of the special tax for any given
tax year, the Board will conduct a public hearing on the matter on or before
January 31 of the prior tax year. Notice of the time, date and place of
hearing shall be published in accordance with applicable laws, posted at least
twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the District, posting shall
commence at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. Within one month
following said hearing each year, the Board shall adopt a resolution
establishing the amount of tax to be raised for the following tax year and the
rate per parcel, not to exceed $300 per year for each parcel adjusted annually
on a cumulative basis for inflation in accordance with changes to the CPI-U.
CPI-U as used in this Measure shall refer to the Consumer Price Index or
All Urban Consumers (Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange area), base year 1982-
84 =100, or its equivalent should this Index be revised or cease to exist in its
current format. The annual CPI-U adjustment shall be a percentage
calculated by reference to the increase in the CPI-U during the full calendar
year which precedes the tax year for which the calculation is being made.
Any tax levied shall become a lien upon the properties against which taxes
are assessed and collectable as herein provided.

C.	Term. This special tax shall be authorized to be levied each year for twelve
years, beginning in the tax year commencing on July 1,2003.

(Continued on next page)

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE EE (Continued)

D.	Constitutional Apportionment Limit. Pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIB
of the California Constitution, the apportionment limit of the District is
hereby increased in each of the four tax years commencing with the date of
approval of this Measure by the levy of this special tax, and the Board shall
increase the District’s appropriations limit as necessary in each year during
which proceeds of this special tax are available, to ensure that proceeds of
this special tax may be spent for the authorized purposes, pursuant to
Section 7902.1 of the Government Code, or any successor thereto.

E.	Collection. The District may request that the special tax be collected by the
County of Los Angeles, or other lawfully designated agency. The collection
of taxes under this Measure, including the imposition of penalties, additional
fees and interest upon persons who fail to remit the special tax imposed by
this Measure, or who fail to remit any delinquent remittance, shall be subject
to and governed by the rules, regulations and procedures authorized by law.
Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of
this Measure shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

F.	Savings Clause. The provisions of this Measure shall not apply to any
person, association or corporation or to any property as to whom or which it
is beyond the power of the District to impose the tax herein provided. If any
sentence, clause, section or part of this Measure or any tax against any
individual or any of the several groups specified herein is found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality or
invalidity shall affect only such clause, sentence or part of this Measure and
shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses,
sections or other parts of this Measure. It is hereby declared to be the
intention of the Board and of the electorate that this Measure would have
been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause,
section or part thereof, not been included.

4.	PLANNING, PUBLIC INFORMATION AND COMPLIANCE REVIEW
PROVISIONS

A.	Annual Plan. An expenditure plan (the “Annual Plan”) shall be developed
annually for the succeeding fiscal year by District staff with input from the
citizens’ Financial Oversight Committee. The Annual Plan will recommend
expenditures of the tax proceeds that are consistent with the intent of the
Measure. The assumptions associated with the recommended expenditures
shall be included in the Annual Plan. The Plan shall be presented for Board
action each fiscal year in conjunction with the District’s annual budget
adoption process for the following fiscal year.

To facilitate public discussion, the recommended Annual Plan shall be made
available for public review two weeks prior to Board action.

(Continued on next page)

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE EE (Continued)

B.	Oversight. The citizens’ Financial Oversight Committee was constituted by
Board action on August 10,2000 to evaluate the financial resources and uses
of resources by the District; and to monitor the formulation and completion
of a strategic plan with long-term action steps as well as recommendations
for short-term specific and measurable operational changes and functions in
the District. The Committee is further charged with a regular review and
evaluation of the District’s financial management. The charge of the
committee shall be expanded to include review of the District’s
administration of and compliance with the terms of this Measure. The
Annual Plan together with regular Financial and Audit Reports shall be
promptly distributed to the citizens’ Financial Oversight Committee.

C.	Public Comment Process. Members of the public may comment on the
plans, reports and conditions of the Measure during the public comment
period of any citizens’ Financial Oversight Committee meeting and any
Board meeting.

D.	Financial Reports. The District shall make available to the citizens’
Financial Oversight Committee and the public, updated budget and financial
expenditure reports concerning the separate account holding the proceeds of
this special tax in conjunction with the regular interim budget reporting
required by the State. As part of this reporting, the chief fiscal officer of the
District shall file a report with the Board and the Committee at least once
per fiscal year clearly identifying the amount of funds collected and
expended pursuant to this Measure, together with the status of any project
required or authorized to be funded hereunder. All of the foregoing reports
shall be organized to display clearly how the expenditures relate to the
Annual Plan approved by the Board.

E.	Independent Auditors Report. Each year, an independent auditor retained
by the School District shall review District records to determine that funds
generated by this Measure have been maintained and expended in
compliance with the Annual Plan and that other conditions of this Measure
have been satisfied. Said audit shall be conducted in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, the Standard and Procedures for
Audits of California K-12 Local Educational Agencies and this Measure.

The independent auditor shall transmit a “Finding of Violation” to the
Board if:

(1)	Funds raised by this Measure have been spent for Purposes other than
those specified in Section 2.

(2)	Other conditions of this Measure have not been satisfied.

F.	Civil Remedies Available at Law. The above provisions are in addition to
civil remedies available at law for assuring compliance with the terms of this
Measure.