VALLEY CENTER PARKS AND RECREATION DISTRICT
Proposition GG

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

bkbkabk	To aid in maintaining and improving the quality of life

MHljy fjfj in Valley Center by financing a portion of the cost of
1 1 v M w acquiring open space and park land and facilities,
providing park and recreation programs and services and operating and
maintaining park and recreation facilities, shall the Valley Center Parks and
Recreation District be authorized to levy special taxes not to exceed $14 per
Assessor’s Parcel per unit per year pursuant to Resolution No. 75?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

As a registered voter within the boundaries of the Valley Center Parks and Recreation District
(District), you are asked to Vote on the levy of a special tax in the maximum amount of $14.00 per
Assessor’s Parcel.

Revenue raised by the special tax may be used solely to pay for the “Special Tax Requirement.’’
The Special Tax Requirement means the unfunded amount required in a fiscal year to pay for
(a) acquisition of open space and other land for recreation and park purposes, (b) the acquisition
or construction of recreation and park facilities and equipment (c) the operation and maintenance
of recreation and park facilities, equipment, property, programs and services and
(d) administrative expenses, as defined.

Proceeds of the special tax will be placed in a specific account and the District must annually
prepare a report stating (a) the amount of funds collected and expended and (b) the status of any
project authorized to be funded by the special tax.

The special tax will be levied on all “Taxable Property” in the District. “Taxable Property” means
all Assessor’s Parcels in the District except those parcels that are owned by a public agency or for
which the net value is equal to zero. The special tax will be levied in proportion to the Special Tax
Requirement, but not to exceed $14.00 per assessor’s parcel.

The tax will go into effect if approved by two-thirds of those voting at this election.

A "yes” vote is a vote in favor of the special tax.

A "no” vote is a vote against the special tax.

PR-22L0-1

SD 034-036

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION GG

Valley Center Parks and Recreation District operates and maintains eight facilities for the use of
approximately 20,000 citizens of Valley Center.

To pay for these services'the citizens of Valley Center Parks District pay less than one half of one
cent out of each tax dollar. In the past fiscal year, those tax revenues generated a mere $63,319.23.
Not nearly enough in a budget of approximately $250,000. The shortfall has been covered by
donations and user fees. For example, Little League pays $26 per game per field and weddings
bring in $600. Thus, the District runs a "break even” operation at best and lacks the funds to plan
for Valley Center’s future.

To place the District on sound economic footing, greater revenues are essential. Your approval of
this special tax will cost your family $14.00 per year on each parcel you own in the district. This
investment in your community of 26 cents a week will allow the District to purchase property for
additional parks and open space. It will fund a new community/senior center. It will ensure your use
( of existing parks, community hall, tennis courts, pool and ball fields for many years to come.

In conclusion, over the years the citizens of Valley Center have made a considerable investment in
money, material, and donated time and labor to create the existing facilities. It is the District’s
responsibility to keep them in good repair. Also, it must look to the future and begin now to acquire
additional park land to meet the needs of growing community.

Please help to keep the areas of our town open and usable for all of our citizens. Vote Yes on GG.

RON LAMB

Director

VC Parks & Recreation

ERIC JOCKINSEN
President, Board of Directors
VC Parks & Recreation

JEFF MULFORD
Superintendent, Valley Center/
Pauma Unified School District

CLIFF KRUEGER
Owner, Krueger Realty

MERLE J. ALESHIRE, Ph.D.

Director, Valley Center Municipal Water District

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION GG

No argument against the proposition was filed in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-22L0-2

SD 034-037

EXHIBIT A

VALLEY CENTER PARKS AND RECREATION DISTRICT
PROVISIONS FOR LEVY OF SPECIAL TAX

A Special Tax as hereinafter delined shall be levied on all Assessor's Parcels in the Valley Center
Parks and Recreation District ("District") and collected each Fiscal Year, commencing in Fiscal
Year 2003-04, in an amount determined by the Board through the application of the appropriate
Special Tax for “Taxable Property" as described below. All of the real property in District, unless
exempted by law or by the provisions hereof, shall be taxed for the purposes, to the extent and in
the manner herein provided.

A.	DEFINITIONS

The terms hereinafter set forth have the following meanings:

“Administrative Expenses” means the following actual or reasonably estimated costs
directly related to the administration of District: the costs of computing the Special Tax and
preparing the annual Special Tax collection schedules (whether by the District or designee thereof
or both); the cost of collecting the Special Taxes (whether by the County or otherwise); the costs
associated with preparing Special Tax disclosure statements and responding to public inquiries
regarding the Special Taxes; the costs of the District, District or any designee thereof related to an
appeal of the Special Tax; and the District's annual administration fees and third party expenses.

“Assessment Roll” means the most recent available assessment roll for property within
District, as defined in Article 6 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State, and as provided by
the Assessor.

“Assessor” means the Office of the Assessor of the County.

“Assessor’s Parcel” means each property included on the Assessment Roll with a distinct
ten (10) digit Assessor’s Parcel number.

"Board” means the Board of Directors of,the District.

“County” means the County of San Diego.

“District" means the Valley Center Parks and Recreation District.

“Fiscal Year” means the period starting July 1 and ending on the following June 30.

"Maximum Special Tax” means the maximum Special Tax, determined in accordance with
Section C below, that can be levied in any Fiscal Year on any Assessor’s Parcel.

“Net Value" means for any Assessor's Parcel, the assessed value of the land and
improvements to such Assessor’s Parcel, less any exemptions, as shown on the Assessment Roll.

“Public Property” means, for each Fiscal Year, all property within the boundaries of District
that is owned by the federal government, the District, the State, the County or any other public
agency.

“Special Tax" means the special tax to be levied in each Fiscal Year on each Assessor’s
Parcel of Taxable Property to fund the Special Tax Requirement.

“Special Tax Requirement" means that unfunded amount required in any Fiscal Year for
District to pay for: (a) the acquisition of open space and other land for recreation and park
purposes, (b) the acquisition or construction of recreation and park facilities and equipment and
(c) the operation and maintenance of recreation and park facilities, equipment, properties,
programs and services and (d) Administrative Expenses.

“State” means the State of California.

“Taxable Property” means all of the Assessor's Parcels within the boundaries of District
which are not Public Property or Zero Value Property.

“Zero Value Property” means, for each Fiscal Year, all Assessor’s Psrcels, excluding Public
Property, for which the Net Value is equal to zero.

B.	ASSIGNMENT TO LAND USE CATEGORIES

Each Fiscal Year, all Assessor’s Parcels within District shall be classified as Taxable
Property, Public Property, or Zero Value Property, and shall be subject to Special Taxes in
accordance with the rate and method of apportionment determined pursuant to Sections C and D
below.

SD 034-038

C.	MAXIMUM SPECIAL TAX

The Maximum'Special Tax for Taxable Property is $14.00 per Assessor's Parcel.

D.	METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT OF THE SPECIAL TAX

Commencing with Fiscal Year 2003-04 and for each following Fiscal Year, the Board shall
levy the Special Tax proportionately on each Assessor’s Parcel of Taxable Property at up to 100%
of the Maximum Special Tax as needed to satisfy the Special Tax Requirement.

E.	EXEMPTIONS

No Special Tax shall be levied on Public Property and Zero Value Property. However,
should an Assessor’s Parcel no longer be classified as Public Property or-Zero Value Property,
such Assessor's Parcel shall no longer be exempt from the Special Tax.

F.	MANNER OF COLLECTION

The Special Tax shall be collected in the same manner and at the same time as ordinary ad
valorem property taxes; provided, however, that District may directly bill the Special Tax, may
collect Special Taxes at a different time or in a different manner if necessary to meet its financial
obligations, and may covenant to foreclose and may actually foreclose on delinquent Assessor's
Parcels as permitted by the Act.

G.	ACCOUNTABILITY

The proceeds of the Special Tax shall be applied only to fund the Special Tax Requirement.
The District shall create an account into which the proceeds of the Special Tax shall be deposited.
The District shall prepare an annual report as required pursuant to Government
Code Section 50075.3.

PASSED, APPROVED and ADOPTED by the Valley Center Parks and Recreation District
Board of Directors at its regular meeting held the 25th day of July, 2002.

PR-22L0-4

SD 034-039