MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		
CITY		
CITY OF PALM SPRINGS		
Shall the City Municipal Code be amended to (J repeal the City’s 5% utility tax on users of telephone, electricity and gas services?	Yes	
	No	

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		
CITY		
CITY OF PALM SPRINGS		
Shafl the City Municipal Code be amended w concerning the tax currently collected on per- * sons occupying hotel rooms so that the tax rate will vary from 10% to 12.5% based on the number of rooms in the hotel, with monies raised by th be spend solely to encourage local tounsm. and not for City services?	Yes  No  etax  other	

MEASURES“U” & “V”
EXHIBIT A — MEASURE “U

Title 3. Section 3.33 Utility User Tax of the City of Palm Springs Municipal Code is added as follows:

Section 3,33 UTILITY USER TAX.

3.33.010	Provisions

The City of Palm Springs shall not impose a utility user tax on the citizens or businesses in the City of Palm Springs. No utility user tax, or any
other similar tax, fee or other monetary assessment upon utilities, may be assessed or levied upon any person or business within the City of Palm
Springs, unless such tax, fee or assessment has been approved by the City of Palm Springs electorate. The term “utility user tax” shall include,
but is not limited to, a rate or consumption tax on users of electricity, cogenerated electricity, gas, telecommunications, water, television
(irrespective of means of transmission), refuse collection or sewer service.

Sections 3.32.030, 3.32.040, 3.32.050, 3.32.080 are rescinded.

(Text of Measure submitted by initiative petition)

BALLOT QUESTION

Shall the City Municipal Code be amended concerning the tax currently collected on persons occupying hotel rooms so that the tax rate will vary from
10% to 12.5% based on the number of rooms in the hotel with monies raised by the tax to be spent solely to encourage local tourism and not for other
City services?	’’A

EXHIBIT B-MEASURE “V”

Title 3, Section 3.24 Transient Occupancy Tax of the City of Palm Springs Municipal Code is amended as follows:

Section 3.24 TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX,

3.24.030	Tax imposed.

(a)	For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel with no more than forty-nine (49) rooms, each transient is subject to, and shall pay a tax in the
amount of ten percent (10%) of the rent charged by the operator or otherwise payable by the transient. Insofar as the transient is
concerned, said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city.
For purposes of this section, the rent deemed payable on account of time-share occupancy by a transient shall be the rental value of the
unit or room(s) which accommodated such occupancy, which rental value shall be computed by determining the pro rata share of the total
purchase price of the time-share right or entitlement (whether or not involving an estate or any ownership in real property), which share is
allocable to the period of transient occupancy currently involved, and adding thereto the total applicable operating costs including, but not
limited to, the applicable real and personal property taxes, plus the total amount of any and all fees, assessments, charges and expenses
(not including the previously referred to taxes) charged by the operator as attributable to the time-share occupancy of the transient by
whatever name such fees, assessments, charges or expenses may be denominated, whether “occupying fee,” “maintenance or operations
charge,” “per diem fee,” “management fee” or like name or otherwise. In making the computation referred to above of the pro rata share of
the total purchase price, in any case wherein the time-share right or entitlement is in perpetuity or for life or otherwise not for a definite or
ascertainable term, such pro ration shall be made upon an assumed term of forty (40) years, f he tax assessed and collected pursuant to
this section shall be subject to all of the provisions of Section 3.24.310.

(b)	In addition to the tax imposed by Section 3.24.030(a), for the privilege of occupancy in any hotel with at least fifty (50) rooms, but no more
than one hundred twenty-four (124) rooms, each transient is subject to and shall pay an additional tax in the amount of one and one-half
percent (1.5%) of the rent charged by the operator. The additional tax imposed by this section shall be administered and collected in the
same manner, and is subject to all of the same definitions, exemptions, rules and regulations as the tax imposed by Section 3.24.030(a).

(c)	In addition to the taxes imposed by Sections 3.24.030(a) and 3.24.030(b), for the privilege of occupancy in any hotel with at least one
hundred twenty-five (125) or more rooms, each transient is subject to and shall pay an additional tax in the amount of one percent (1 %) of
the rent charged by the operator. The additional tax imposed by this section shall be administered and collected in the same manner, and is
subject to all of the same definitions, exemptions, rules, and regulations as the tax imposed by Section 3.24.030(a).

(d)	For purposes of this section, “rooms” shall include, but not be limited to, any lot, parcel, space, unit, room or any other similar type of accom-
modation.

Section 3.24.038

3.24.038 Credit for payments of tax imposed by community redevelopment agency.

(a) Pursuant to Section 7280.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, a community redevelopment agency is authorized to levy a
transient occupancy tax for its purposes if such transient occupancy taxes are by ordinance credited against the city’s transient occupancy
taxes. Any person subject to the transient occupancy tax under this section is entitled to credit the amount of transient occupancy taxes
due to the community redevelopment agency of the city pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7280.5 against the payment of
taxes otherwise due under this chapter. Upon the effective date of an ordinance passed by the community redevelopment agency of the
city, the amount of any tax due pursuant to said ordinance by any transient occupying a hotel subject to such ordinance, and collected and

33-91

remitted to the community redevelopment agency of the city, levying a transient occupancy tax pursuant to Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall be credited against any transient occupancy tax otherwise due by the transient under Section 3.24.030.

(b) In the event that the community redevelopment agency of the city adopts an ordinance pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Section
7280.5 imposing a transient occupancy tax, such ordinance shall be codified in the Palm Springs Municipal Code as Section 3.24.039, to
provide ready access to such ordinance for all persons reviewing this chapter of the Palm Springs Municipal Code.

Section 3.24.039(a)

3.24.039 Tax imposed—Community redevelopment agency.

(a)	There is imposed by the community redevelopment agency of the city of Palm Springs upon those hotels identified in subsection (c) of this
section, a transient occupancy tax in the amount of twelve and one-half percent (12.5%) of the rent charged by the operator. The tax
imposed by this section shall be administered and collected in the same manner, and is subject to all the same definitions, exemptions,
rules and regulations as the taxes imposed by Section 3.24.030.

(b)	In addition to ail other administrative mechanisms provided for in this chapter, the community redevelopment agency of the city of Palm
Springs may enter into an agreement with any operator subject to the tax imposed under this section for collection and administration of the
tax so imposed.

(c)	The hotels subject to the tax imposed by this section are the following:

1)	The Spa Resort Casino.

2)	Canyon Park Resort and Spa, but only if the community redevelopment agency enters into a disposition and development agreement
or owner participation agreement relating to development to occur under the Canyon Park Resort and Spa specific plan and such
hotel is actually constructed and operated.

3)	Any other hotel made subject to the provisions herein by ordinance or resolution of the community redevelopment agency.

(d)	Proceeds from the taxes imposed hereunder may be used for the payment of principal and interest on any bond, may be used to pay any
obligation of the community redevelopment agency under any owner participation agreement or other agreement, including any owner
participation agreement or other agreement with the owner, or successors in interest of any owner, of any interest in real property located in
a project area, or of the hotels listed in subsection (c) of this section, may be the subject of collateral for any pledge, may be the subject of
any covenant, may be applied to any special fund, may be the subject of any pledge of revenues, may be the subject of any contractual
obligation or may be applied to any other redevelopment purpose as may be authorized or permitted under the community redevelopment
law,

(e)	No tax imposed by this section shall be effective unless the tax so imposed may be credited against the amount of transient occupancy
taxes otherwise imposed by the city of Palm Springs.

Section 3.24.310

3.24.310 Use of proceeds—Restricted.

The net proceeds from any tax imposed herein shall be placed in a restricted special fund to be known as the Community Promotion Fund,
and shall only be used for the advertising, marketing, publicity and promotion of the City of Palm Springs; for the acquisition, construction,
expansion, improvement, maintenance and operating costs, debt retirement, and all other expenses of the Palm Springs Convention
Center; for the acquisition, construction, expansion, improvement, maintenance and operating costs, debt retirement, and all other
expenses of any public sports, entertainment or recreational facility, course or park within the city; for the acquisition, construction, expan-
sion, improvement, maintenance and operating costs, debt retirement, and all other expenses of providing reasonable and convenient
parking within the city; for the acquisition, construction, expansion, improvement, maintenance and operating costs, debt retirement, and
all other expenses of any public library within the city; for support of the Palm Springs Desert Resorts Convention & Visitors Bureau; for
support of the Palm Springs Bureau of Tourism; for support of senior, youth and other beneficial community programs and facilities within
the city; for hotel, resort and golf course development agreements; for support of public art programs within the city; for special events
which take place within the city; and for all other reasonable efforts and expenses to encourage local tourism and for no other purpose.

Section 3.24.311

The city may not collect a transient occupancy tax (TOT), or any other similar tax for the privilege of occupancy, for its own general fund, or
any other purpose, except as authorized in Section 3.24.310.

Section 3.24.312

The city may not borrow funds held in the Community Promotion Fund for use by any other department or program of the city, except as
authorized in Section 3.24.310, or except in the case of a declared emergency pursuant to Section 3(c) of Article XIIIB of the California
Constitution.

Sections 3.24.035, 3.24.036, 3.24.037, 3.24.037(a), 3.24.300 are rescinded.

(Text of Measure submitted by initiative petition)

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF k. jURE “V!

This initiative Municipal Code amendment, if passed, would change
the City’s Transient Occupancy Tax (“TOT”) so that: (1) the tax collected
from hotel occupants is based on number of rooms in the hotel, not
whether the hotel is a group meeting hotel, (2) the tax collected will vary
from 10% to 12,5% based on the number of rooms, and (3) monies
raised by the tax will be spent solely to encourage projects related to
local tourism, and not for general City services. Your “yes” vote means
that the City’s TOT would be changed in the way described. Your “no”
vote means there would be no change to the current law.

The TOT, established by the City in 1967, applies to guests who stay
at hotels for less than 30 days. TOT rates vary by city including, for

example, La Quinta-11%, Palm Desert-9%, Los Angeles-14%, and
Anaheim-15%, Currently, in Palm Springs TOT of 12,5% is charged to
guests of Group Meeting Hotels and 11,5% is charged to guests of all
other hotels.

Group Meeting Hotels are those with at least 125 rooms which
benefit directly from City tourism promotional activities. Currently, there
are 15 Group Meeting Hotels in the City, This measure would replace
the current TOT with a graduated TOT as follows: 10% for hotels with
less than 50 rooms, 11.5% for hotels with 50 to 124 rooms, and 12.5% for
hotels with 125 or more rooms.

As to how TOT is spent, currently the first 7% of the TOT collected is
allocated to the City’s Community Promotion Fund and used to promote
the Palm Springs tourism industry, All other TOT collected is allocated to
the City's general fund and may be used for City operational expenses.

This measure would require that all TOT collected be allocated to
the City’s Community Promotion Fund, Such funds could be spent only
for specified uses, including: promoting the Palm Springs tourism indus-
try; maintenance or operation of the Palm Springs Convention Center;
maintenance, operation, capital improvements or other costs related to
public parking, libraries, parks, and senior or youth facilities and
programs; public arts programs; and special events. Furthermore, the
cost to collect TOT funds are currently derived from TOT revenue,
however, this measure would prohibit TOT revenue to pay for collection
costs, shifting such costs to the general fund.

According to the City’s Finance Department, this measure would
cost the City approximately $500,000 annually in administrative costs
resulting from the change to a per-room accounting method. Also,
approximately $5 million would be shifted away from the City general
fund to the Community Promotion Fund,

Under Proposition 218, enacted by the voters in 1996, a tax imposed
for specific purposes is a special tax and requires approval by 2/3 of the
voters. Since this measure, which can only be amended by the voters,
places TOT collected into a Community Promotion Fund and restricts
how those funds are spent, this measure will likely require approval by
2/3 of the voters to take effect.

By:

CITY ATTORNEY

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF k. jURE “V”

Help improve the quality-of-life in Palm Springs. Vote YES on
Measure “V.”

« Increase tourism and protect our quality-of-life in Palm Springs

•	Help fund senior and youth programs

•	Improve our parks and libraries, and help built the skate park.

•	Secure funding for the expansion of the convention center

•	Don’t let the politicians fool you with their usual false claims of
doom and gloom

•	Provide funding for public parking

•	Clamp a lid on the raiding of tourism dollars by politicians and
special interest groups

Currently Palm Springs imposes an 11.5% to 12.5% Transient
Occupancy Tax (TOT) on all short-term hotel guests within the city.
Measure “V” helps our historic small hotels compete with larger conven-
tion hotels.

•	MEASURE “V" PROMOTES A BETTER PALM SPRINGS

Measure “V” protects our quality-of-life by insuring funding for senior and
youth programs, parks and libraries, expansion of the convention center,
support of tourism, additional public parking and more.

•	MEASURE “V” PROTECTS TOT REVENUES

Measure protects TOT revenues from misuse by some greedy politi-
cians and bureaucrats,

•	MEASURE “V” STOPS THE MISUSE OF FUNDS

In November 2001 voters approved an increase in the TOT rate to fund
the expansion of the convention center. Instead of expanding the
convention center, the politicians have raided those funds for enormous
increases city employee wages and a 50% increase in city employee
retirement benefits.

•	MEASURE V IS REVENUE NEUTRAL
Measure “V” doesn’t cost our city or its citizens a penny.

VOTE YiS ON MEASURE “V” if you want to improve Palm Springs.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE “V” if you want to help seniors,

VOTE YES ON MEASURE “V” if you don’t like some of our politicians
raiding our tourism funds.

Measure “V" is fair and equitable. It deserves your support.

By:	KENT	HINCKLEY,	owner-operator of the San Marino Hotel

VERNON E, SORENSEN, JR., owner-operator of the
Morningside Inn
E. ALAN PETTY, owner-operator of the Desert Hills Hotel
LEE CHANDRASENA, publisher of Best Buys
RICK RAID, chairperson of United Neighbors PAC

33-97

ARGUMENT AGAINST ME, RE “V”

TOT

The Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) on short-term rentals of hotel
rooms has been a significant revenue source to the City since 1967.
Revenues raised from TOT are used to pay for essential city services like
police and fire protection, traffic improvements, and other public
services. Visitors to our community pay this tax - NOT RESIDENTS.

Now a citizen’s group wants to change the way the City collects and uses
TOT. Before you cast your vote, consider the following facts:

•	Measure “V” establishes a complicated rate structure based on
the number of hotel rooms rather than type of hotel. This will
result in an estimated decrease of $500,000 per year in TOT
revenues, as well as create additional administrative complexi-
ties to TOT collections resulting in higher costs to the City.

•	Measure “V” will require that all TOT collected be allocated to
the City’s Community Promotion Fund, resulting in a loss of
$5,000,000 annually to the General Fund. This is the equivalent
to the annual cost to employ 50 police officers and firefighters or
to pay for street maintenance, animal control, DARE and other
essential city services.

•	Under Measure “V” the City could only spend TOT on a specified
number of uses including tourism, the convention center, public
arts, and several other restricted uses. This is a loss of money
that is currently spent on public safety, traffic improvements and
other general public services and cannot be easily replaced with
other revenue sources.

Measure “V” is totally dangerous, damaging and unnecessary. It will hurt
residents and businesses by barring the City Council from using TOT to
pay for police, fire and other city services.

Let’s continue to enjoy our quality of life and send the bill to the visitor!
Please join your City Council in voting NO on Measure “V,”

By:	Deyna	L, Hodges, Councilmember

Chris Mills, Councilmember
Ron Oden, Councilmember
William G. Kleindienst, Mayor
Jeanne Reiler-Spurgin, Mayor Pro-Tem

33