

PROPOSITION L

Shall the City increase its tax on the sale or transfer of real estate worth $1,000,000 or
more from $3.75 to $7.50 for each $500 of value?

Digest

by Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: When real estate is sold or transferred, the
City charges a tax. If the property is worth $1,000,000 or more, the
tax is $3.75 for each $500 of value. If the property is worth less
than $1,000,000, lower tax rates apply.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition L is an ordinance that would double
the tax on the sale or transfer of real estate worth $1,000,000 or
more. The tax would be $7.50 for each $500 of value. The tax rates
for properties worth less than $1,000,000 would remain
unchanged.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote "Yes," you want to increase
the tax on the sale or transfer of real estate worth $1,000,000 or
more from $3.75 to $7.50 for each $500 of value.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote "No," you do not want to
increase this tax.

Controller’s Statement on “L’

City Controller Edward Harrington has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition L:

Should the proposed charter amendment be approved by the
voters, in my opinion, revenues to the City will increase. Had this
Proposition been in effect the last five years, the resulting rev-
enues would have increased by approximately $31,000,000 annu-
ally.

How “U’ Got on the Ballot

On August 7, 2002 the Department of Elections received a pro-
posed ordinance signed by Supervisors Ammiano, Gonzalez,
Maxwell, and Peskin.

The City Elections Code allows four or more Supervisors to
place an ordinance on the ballot in this manner.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 50%+1 AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE P-148.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE P-3.

PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION L

VOTE YES ON PROP L TO SAVE VITAL CITY SERVICES

San Francisco is in fiscal crisis, facing a $150 million budget
deficit. Vital city services are at risk - including 911 emergency
dispatcher training, care at San Francisco General Hospital,
homecare services for seniors, housing and support for people
with HIV/AIDS, and programs for disadvantaged youth.

We need to act now to prevent these services from being lost.

That's why a coalition of citizens, non-profit organizations and
community leaders asked Supervisors to put Proposition L on the
ballot.

Prop L will replace the revenue lost when many of San
Francisco's largest corporations sued the city, struck down the
business tax, and stopped paying their fair share for the infra-
structure, transit, police and fire protection services they receive.

Prop L will increase the top rate of the real estate transfer tax on
the sale of properties worth $1 million or more. It won't impact
middle class or low income families, and will affect barely 10% of
all real estate transactions in the city - primarily downtown com-
mercial buildings, large landlords, and multimillionaires.
According to a recent analysis by the San Francisco Chronicle, the
vast majority of property owners in the city won't be affected.

The new tax rate is well in line with other major American
cities, and would keep San Francisco below the rates in New York,
Oakland and Berkeley.

Prop L alone isn't the answer - we need to cut waste, especially
at the top levels of city government. But we also need Prop L - to
save vital city services.

Please join us in voting YES on L.

San Franciscans to Save our Services

Supervisor Sophie Maxwell, Chair, Budget Committee
Supervisor Aaron Peskin, Chair, Finance Committee
Margaret Brodkin, Coleman Advocates for Children and Youth
Margaret Griffin, Senior Action Network
Jonathan W. Frank, Paramedic, San Francisco Fire Department

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION L

Don't Be Hoodwinked

San Francisco's 2002-2003 budget is a whopping $5 BILLION.
Yet the four supervisors who put Proposition L on the ballot are
telling voters that the city needs $20 million from an increase in
the transfer tax to maintain vital city services. Don't believe them.

The very same supervisors admit in the official ballot argument
supporting Proposition L that they need to cut waste, especially at
the top levels of city government. Why didn't they do it a few
months ago before adopting the 2002-2003 city budget?

Vital city services can and will be maintained in San Francisco,
even in a weak economy. It is the responsibility of your elected
representatives, though, to figure out how that can be done,
instead of proposing tax increases. They know that the answer lies
in cutting waste but they will never do it unless you vote NO on
tax increase proposals, like Proposition L.

Vote NO on L.

San Francisco Apartment Association

OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION L

Stop a Doubling of the Tax

Proposition L proposes increasing the real property transfer tax
for properties selling for $1 million or more to 1.5 percent of the
sale price. The proposition should be opposed for the following
reasons:

•	The doubling of any tax is outrageous. If the voters approve
Proposition L, San Francisco will have one of the highest real
property transfer taxes in the country. And, the tax will be
levied on the property's total value-regardless of how much
or how little the seller makes from the sale.

•	The tax increase is not needed to balance the 2002-2003 fis-
cal year budget.

•	Rather than increasing taxes, the Board of Supervisors should
reduce the city's overpaid and bloated bureaucracy.

With only 750,000 residents, San Francisco's 2002-2203 fis-
cal year budget is a whopping $5 billion. One reason for the
outlandish size of the city's budget is the fact that San
Francisco has the highest ratio of city workers to residents of
any city of comparable size in the country. But despite the
billions being spent on city services, San Franciscans rank the
quality of city services, according to a recent survey conduct-
ed by the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, as "Fair" or
"Poor".

The voters should send a message to the four supervisors who
are proposing Proposition L that government needs to do what its
citizens are doing. Government needs to cut back!

Vote NO on Proposition L.

San Francisco Apartment Association

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION L

The big commercial landlords and corporate property own-
ers who oppose Proposition L have a simple solution for our
fiscal crisis.

They want YOU to pay for it.

Instead of contributing their fair share for the services we pro-
vide, they propose drastic budget cuts that could severely weaken
police, fire, emergency and hospital services while hurting our
most vulnerable residents.

Don't let them get away with it. Before you vote, please consid-
er these facts: •

•	Prop. L applies ONLY to properties worth one million dollars
or more.

•	90% of the property owners in San Francisco will NOT
be affected.

•	Landlords CANNOT pass this tax on to their tenants.

•	Under Prop. L, San Francisco's real estate transfer tax will
still be LOWER than Oakland, Berkeley and New York City.

One of the reasons we face a huge deficit is because San
Francisco's largest corporations sued to strike down our long-
standing business tax.

Prop. Lisa fair and necessary replacement for that lost revenue.
It ensures that our largest landlords and property owners pay their
fair share for the services we provide them.

To protect our city and save vital services, please join police,
firefighters, paramedics, HTV/AIDS care providers, neighbor-
hood and community leaders and vote YES on L.

Jane Morrison

Chair, San Francisco Democratic Party

Gordon Chin

Executive Director, Chinatown Development Corporation

Larry Bradshaw

Paramedic Chapter, Local 790, San Francisco Fire Department

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION L

Proposition L will generate much-needed revenue to support
our important programs, but will have no impact on the majority
of home sales - those under $1,000,000.

Vote Yes on L

San Francisco Tomorrow

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Tomorrow.

VOTE YES ON L TO PROTECT PUBLIC SAFETY

Proposition L will help to ensure that the public safety services
you depend on - police, fire, medical - are there when you need
them.

Commissioner Wayne Friday, San Francisco Police Commission* *
* For Identification Purposes Only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

YES ON L TO SAVE SENIORS SERVICES

Without Prop L, seniors may lose essential community services
they need to live independently. Please vote Yes on L to save sen-
ior services.

Jim Illig, President, CASE, Coalition of Agencies Serving the
Elderly*

Margaret Griffin, Senior Action Network
* For Identification Purposes Only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

PRESERVE OUR PARKS - VOTE YES ON L

Prop. L stands for Livable City - it will help ensure funding for
key environmental programs that keep San Francisco's environ-
ment healthy and beautiful. Don't let special interests avoid pay-
ing their fair share to protect our environment. Yes on L.

Amandeep Jawa, President

San Francisco League of Conservation Voters

Milton Marks III, Trustee, San Francisco Community College

District*

* For Identification Purposes Only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

YES ON L TO PROTECT AIDS SERVICES

Next year's project $150,000 deficit will put HIV/AIDS treat-
ment, support and prevention services at risk. Proposition L must
pass to provide the funding that HIV/AIDS programs need to
serve more people living with AIDS.

Jim Illig, President, HIV/AIDS Provider Network*

JeffSheehy, Founder, Equal Benefits Advocates

* For Identification Purposes Only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

STOP HEALTH CUTS - YES ON L

This year, the Mayor proposed eliminating $150,000 from
homecare funds used to help middle-income seniors find and pay
for the care they need to remain at home. This is outrageous
because we should be expanding vital homecare programs, not
cutting them. Vote Yes on Prop L to provide the funding we need
to make homecare available.

Margaret Baran, In-Home Supportive Services Consortium*

* For Identification Purposes Only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

SAVE OUR STREET FAIRS - YES ON L

San Francisco's Pride Celebration and 26 other street fairs were
threatened this year by the city's budget crisis. Don't let the street
fairs shut down because large commercial landlords aren't willing
to pay their fair share for the city services they use. Vote Yes
on L.

Debra Walker, President, Harvey Milk G/L/B/T Democratic Club

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION L

tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

Renters say Yes on L

Yes on L to ensure that millionaire commercial landlords pay
their fair share for city services. Prop. L will in no way affect
renters - the transfer tax increase is a one-time payment and can-
not be passed through to renters.

SF Tenants Union
Housing Rights Committee
St. Peter's Housing Committee
Tenderloin Housing Clinic
Senior Housing Action Collaborative
Affordable Housing Alliance

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

PROP L FOR BETTER HOUSING

San Francisco's nonprofits are the lifeline for the city's poor and
vulnerable. That's why we need Proposition L - to stop the budg-
et cuts that are brutally slashing housing programs for the
mentally ill and others who need them the most. Please vote Yes
on Prop L.

Steve Collier, Tenderloin Housing Clinic

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

LABOR SUPPORTS PROP. L

Don't let the biggest corporations in San Francisco get away
with refusing to pay their fair share for vital city services while
children's health programs, senior housing, and 911 emergency
services get cut. Vote Yes on Proposition L.

San Francisco Labor Council, AFL-CIO

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

The SAN FRANCISCO DEMOCRATIC PARTY recom-
mends a YES Vote on L - Real Property Transfer Tax

Jane Morrison, Chair, San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is The San Francisco Democratic Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Nancy Pelosi 2. Carole Migden 3. Tom Lantos.

San Francisco Labor Council urges you to vote yes on Prop L,
Real Property Transfer Tax. In these difficult financial times, it is
important for all parts of society to share in solving the problem.
With this in mind, we urge a Yes vote on Prop L, which will guar-
antee that those who are in the upper strata of our financial world
will bear some of the responsibility helping to eliminate our budg-
et shortages.

San Francisco Labor Council, AFL-CIO

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Labor Council, AFL-CIO.

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION L

Vote NO on Proposition L, to protect the City's economic future.
The Supervisors developed this tax increase behind closed
doors absolutely with no public input in the process. Proposition
L is a hastily developed tax increase that threatens the economic
health of the San Francisco. It increases the cost of living in and
operating a business in the City.

Local politicians refuse to control their spending when the eco-
nomic downturn has caused families to control theirs. Our sky-
rocketed taxes enabled a spending spree, doubling the government
budget to $5 billion in just 5 years!

Join Citizens for a Better San Francisco in Voting NO on
Proposition L.

Edward Poole, Chair, CBSF
Joel Springer III
Christopher Bowman
Honor Bulkley
Harold Hoogasian
Darcy Linn
Rodney Leong
Josh Kriesel
Howard Epstein
Christopher Wright

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Citizens for a Better San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Biaggini Trust 2. 21st Century PAC 3. William Brady

No on L. Still another tax increase! This will further dampen
investment and job development. San Francisco doesn't need
higher taxes — it needs less spending.

San Francisco Republican Party

Mike DeNunzio, Chairman

Officers of the San Francisco Republican Party:

Elsa Cheung, Vice Chairman, Political Action
Sue C. Woods, Treasurer
Barbara Kiley, Secretary

Republican Candidates for the Congress and Assembly:

G. Michael German, 8th Congressional District
Howard Epstein, 12th Assembly District
Gail Neira, 13th Assembly District

Members-Elect, San Francisco Republican Party:

Mike Antonini

Christopher L. Bowman

Janies Fuller

Sheila Hewitt

Dave Katz

Joel Springer

Joe Yew

Presidents, San Francisco Republican Volunteer Clubs:

Raymond G. Choy, Chairman, California Chinese American
Republican Association

Leo Lacayo, National Hispanic Republican Assembly, San
Francisco Chapter

Grace Norton-Fitzpatrick, Nob Hill Republican Women,
Federated

Ronald Konopaski, Vice President, San Francisco Republican
Assembly

The true sources of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
are the signators and the San Francisco Republican Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Committee on Jobs 2. George W. Rowe 3. George F.
Jewett, Jr.

No on L

Prop. L is a regressive tax that will come back to hurt small
businesses and working families in the City. If Prop. L passes San
Francisco will have one of the highest real estate transfer taxes in
the country. This will further increase the cost of doing business
and burden middle class homebuyers in San Francisco.

This measure is a flawed attempt to deal with the realities of a
new economy. San Francisco should focus on cutting costs in gov-
ernment rather than running business and business owners out of
town.

Please Vote No on Proposition L.

Supervisor Gavin Newsom

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Newsom 2002.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Ruth E. Werner 2. Anne Scherer 3. Christine Murray.

Members, San Francisco Republican Party:

Dr. Cynthia Amelon
Albert C. Chang
Terence Faulkner
Harold M. Hoogasian
Joshua Kriesel
Darcy Linn
Nick Van-Beek

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION L

Now Is Not The Time For More Taxes

In tough economic times, households and businesses tighten
their belts. They don't go asking for more! Given the current
economic climate, this is not the time to increase taxes and make
San Francisco an even MORE expensive place to live and work.

This measure was put on the ballot at the last minute with NO
PUBLIC INPUT. That is not the way to craft tax policy.

Now is not the time to raise taxes. Vote No on L.

A. Lee Blitch, President & CEO, San Francisco Chamber of
Commerce

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.

Increased Tax Will Affect Everybody—Sooner or Later

If you own real property in San Francisco and plan to sell it
some day, chances are, with property appreciation what it is, you
will end up paying the city 1.5 percent of its value in taxes, if
Proposition L passes. And, when you pay those taxes, they will be
due on the total value of the property—regardless of how much
or how little you make on the sale.

And, at 1.5 percent, San Francisco will have close to the high-
est transfer tax rate in the State. And the city cannot even tell you
how the money will be used!

Proposition L is taxation for taxation's sake. Vote NO on L.

San Francisco Homeowners Council

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

UNFAIR and SHORTSIGHTED

I urge my fellow voters to reject Proposition L. Reasonable and
carefully considered tax increases are fair. This tax increase is not
fair. Prop L will increase the cost of housing in San Francisco. For
renters this increase will be passed down to tenants. For those
seeking to buy, sellers will pass down the costs. This tax increase
will unfairly tax new home buyers, Asians, new immigrants and
certain neighborhoods, like the Richmond district where the cost
of housing is quickly escalating. We should reject this proposition.

Alicia Wang

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Sooner or Later, Everyone Will Have to Pay

Proposition L proposes doubling the transfer tax on properties
valued at $1 million or more. It was placed on the ballot without
a public hearing by four zealous supervisors intent on soaking the
"rich". What these supervisors fail to realize is that, with property
values increasing the way they have been in San Francisco, it's just
a matter of time before everyone will have to pay the increased
tax.

Doubling any tax is outrageous. Vote NO on Proposition L.
Tom A. Hsieh

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Vote NO on L

The four supervisors who put Prop L on the ballot are asking
voters to increase the property transfer tax for more expensive
properties without ever having had a public hearing on the issue.
The City's budget is balanced and does not need the extra money.
Why increase taxes without a purpose? Will special interest
groups use this tax money for pet projects? From a good govern-
ment point of view, the effort to enact tax increases without pub-
lic hearings is akin to a sneak attack. San Francisco Taxpayers &
Homeowners Association emphasizes that voters should demand
that government take action on high profile fraud, and wasteful
and low priority spending within local government before asking
voters to increase taxes. Asking voters to increase taxes without
incorporating the tax increases into a balanced budget and without
conducting public hearings violates fundamental legislative
processes. Those processes should include the public review of
proposals, including noticed hearings and draft language, before
any proposals are referred to the voters. Vote No on Prop L.

San Francisco Taxpayers and Homeowners Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION L

Vote No on L

Doubling the sales tax on real estate worth $1,000,000.00 or
more certainly sounds like a harmless way to raise money. This
measure seems only to harm 'big' property owners, not 'small fry'
and certainly not tenants. But does it really?

$1 million doesn't buy much in San Francisco these days. A
two-family home in the Inner Mission runs about $1 million. Do
we really want to punish regular homebuyers?

And what of the tenants? Will property owners really just
absorb the cost of this tax increase without passing it through to
tenants? If nothing else, owners will certainly hold out for the
highest possible rent rates in their new buildings.

Vote No on Proposition L and tell the city to find a more rea-
sonable source of income.

Professional Property Management Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Don't Trust Them

Supervisors Ammiano, Gonzalez, Maxwell and Peskin placed
Proposition L on the ballot to double the property transfer tax rate
that applies to the sale of more expensive properties in San
Francisco. They say the city needs another $20 million from a
doubling of the tax to maintain vital city services. They say that if
you think things are bad this year, they will get worse next year.

So, what is likely to happen next year when things get worse?
Will the same supervisors be back with another proposition that
will double the property tax rate that applies to your property?
Don't give them that chance. Vote NO on Proposition L.

Committee to Stop Double Taxation

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Are They Out of Their Minds?

The Proposal: Doubling the tax property owners have to pay if
they sell real estate valued at more than $1 million in San
Francisco. As outrageous as this proposal seems, that is what four
supervisors—Tom Ammiano, Matt Gonzalez, Sophie Maxwell
and Aaron Peskin—are proposing to the voters.

Real estate—residential and commercial—has continued to
increase in value in San Francisco. The property you bought years
ago could be valued at $1 million or more today. And, if not now,
maybe in a few years.

You've worked hard to be able to own real estate in San
Francisco, and you've worked hard to be able to keep it up. But, if
Proposition L passes, and you sell real estate valued at $1 million
or more, you will have to pay the city 1.5 % of its value in taxes—
regardless of how much or how little you make on the sale.

Proposition L is an attack on people who own real estate. Vote
NO on L.

BOMA San Francisco
Ken Cleaveland

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Vote NO on L

Increasing the transfer tax will further dampen real estate activ-
ity in an already struggling market in San Francisco. It will
increase the prices at which buildings are sold, with the increased
prices being reflected in higher rents for tenants, both residential
and commercial.

You don't have to own a $1 million property to be affected by
Proposition L. Vote NO on L.

David Gruber

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Government Needs to Cut Back

While private sector employment has shrunk in San Francisco,
the size of city government continues to expand. In fact, in the last
five years, the size of city government has doubled. Now, four
supervisors are proposing the doubling of a tax property owners
pay to provide even more money for the city's bloated and over-
paid bureaucracy. Enough is enough!

Vote NO on Proposition L.

J. Timothy Falvey, President, Hanford-Freund & Co.

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Small Business Network Opposes L

Proposition L is bad for small business and bad for San
Francisco's economy!

Proposition L will raise the cost of doing business in San
Francisco. Proposition L is a significant tax increase to feed the
city's bloated bureaucracy and it was rushed on to the ballot at the
last minute by a few supervisors without any public hearing to
consider the impact on our economy.

When economic times are tough, City government should do
what we all do, reduce spending. Raising taxes will only hinder
economic recovery and eliminate jobs.

Vote No on Proposition L

San Francisco Small Business Network

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION L

Say NO to Back Room Deals

The manner in which four supervisors—Tom Ammiano, Matt
Gonzalez, Sophie Maxwell and Aaron Peskin—placed
Proposition L on the November ballot is an outrage and violates
the notion of fair and open government. These supervisors, behind
closed doors and in only two days—without public notice, public
hearings or public debate—decided to sign the proposition to
place it before the voters in November.

The supervisors conducted extensive public hearings on other
measures placed on the ballot—such as the water bond and the
affordable housing bond. And, extensive public hearings were
conducted on another proposed ballot measure—an increase in
the business tax—which the supervisors decided not to place on
the ballot because of strenuous public opposition. Why wasn't the
transfer tax proposal treated similarly?

The truth is, the four supervisors were influenced to place the
proposal on the ballot by a special interest group which will ben-
efit if the proposal is approved. The statement that the four super-
visors make in their official argument that the $20 million is need-
ed to preserve essential services is patently ridiculous since the
city's budget is a whopping $5 BILLION!

Don't be hoodwinked by these four supervisors. Proposition L
is an outrage and a total abdication of their responsibilities as leg-
islators. Vote NO on L.

Committee to Stop Double Taxation

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

How Does Doubling a Tax Grab You?

As outrageous as it seems, the proponents of Propositon L are
asking you to double an important city tax. Why? They believe
government should be immune from the effects of an econom-
ic downturn. That's right! You're worrying about how you're
going to make ends meet and they are proposing doubling a tax
on property owners to maintain the city's bloated and overpaid
bureaucracy. What do they think they're doing?

Send a message to Proposition L proponents that government
needs to do what citizens are doing. Government needs to
cut back!

Vote NO on Proposition L.

Supervisor Tony Hall

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Think It Won’t Affect You?

Proposition L proposes doubling the real property transfer tax
for properties valued at $1 million or more. If the voters approve
Proposition L, the increased tax is likely to become reflected in
higher prices for this class of properties, making them more
expensive. But there is a trickle down effect in real estate markets.
If the value of properties in one price category increases, the value
of properties in other price categories increases, as well.

San Francisco already has the most expensive real estate in the
country. Do we need to make it still more expensive?

Vote NO on Proposition L.

John L. Molinari, Former President, San Francisco Board of
Supervisors

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

TEXT OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE
PROPOSITION L

Ordinance amending Sections 1101 and
1102 of the San Francisco Business and Tax
Regulations Code, to eliminate a reference to
the California Revenue and Taxation Code
and to increase the the real property trans-
fer tax for property valued at $1,000,000 or
more, from $3.75 for each $500 of value to
$7.50 for each $500 of value.

Note: Additions are single-underline italics.

Deletions are strikethrough italics.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and
County of San Francisco:

Section 1. The San Francisco Business and
Tax Regulations Code is hereby amended by
amending Section 1101, to read as follows:

SEC. 1101. SHORT TITLE.

This Article shall be known as the "Real
Property Transfer Tax Ordinance." It is adopted
pursuant to the authority contained in Part 6.7
(commencing with Section 11901) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

Section 2. The San Francisco Business and
Tax Regulations Code is hereby amended by
amending Section 1102, to read as follows:

SEC. 1102. TAX IMPOSED.

There is hereby imposed on each deed,
instrument or writing by which any lands, ten-
ements, or other realty sold within the City and
County of San Francisco shall be granted,
assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed to,
or vested in, the purchaser or purchasers, or any
other person or persons, by his or her or their
direction, when the consideration or value of
the interest or property conveyed (not exclud-
ing the value of any lien or encumbrances
remaining thereon at the time of sale) (i)
exceeds $100 but is less than or equal to
$250,000, a tax at the rate of $2.50 for each
$500 or fractional part thereof; or (ii) more than
$250,000 and less than $1,000,000, a tax at the
rate of $3.40 for each $500 or fractional part
thereof for the entire value or consideration,
including, but not limited to, any portion of
such value or consideration that is less than
$250,000; or (iii) $1,000,000 and above, a tax
at the rate of $7.50 $3.75 for each $500 or frac-
tional part thereof for the entire value or con-
sideration, including, but not limited to, any
portion of such value or consideration that is
less than $1,000,000.

P-148