IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE LOCAL AGENCY
FORMATION COMMISSION
SOUTH SUTTER RECREATION AND PARK DISTRICT
MEASURES A AND B

\l the request of the South Sutter Recreation Association, the Sutter
bounty Board of Supervisors initiated a request to the Local Agency
:ormation Commission (LAFCO) of Sutter County requesting the
ormation of the South Sutter Recreation and Park District.The District
vouId be an independent district governed by an elected board of
lirectors consisting of five registered electors residing within its
'oundaries and elected at large by the registered voters of the
listrict.

'he purpose of the district would be to provide a community activity
enter and other recreational programs to the community.

'he boundaries of the proposed district would comprise all of south
Sutter County lying south of Yuba County and easterly of the Feather
nd Sacramento Rivers, excepting out those lands within the South
Sutter County Specific Plan. A copy of the map is on file at the
Sutter County LAFCO office for review at 1160 Civic Center
ioulevard, Suite E, Yuba City CA. This area contains approximately
■0,293 acres and approximately 2,696 persons. ^

he district is proposed to be financed by a combination of user
ses and, if approved by two-thirds of the registered voters of the
listrict, by a special tax which is initially proposed in the annual
mount of $35.00 per parcel and may be increased by the district
oard by an annual amount no greater than the percentage Increase
f the Consumer Price Index-U (CPI-U) from the prior year. An
dministrative procedure would be established by the district to
xempt from the tax, if requested, owners of non-residentially zoned
roperty and property not developed with a dwelling unit. It has
een estimated that the initial year of tax revenue would total
68,000.00+ dollars. The monies collected could be used to pay for
ie continued use and maintenance of existing recreational facilities
lat have been maintained by the South Sutter Recreation Association
nd monies could be used to invest in additional recreational facilities
epending upon the decisions made by the board of directors for
re district. The district may also seek funding through applying for
rant monies that may be available.

i simple majority vote of the registered voters voting in the election
■> required to form the district and an affirmative vote of two-thirds
f the registered voters voting in the election is required to approve
f the special tax proposed; however, LAFCO conditioned the proposal
o that the district will only be formed If both the district and special
ix are approved by the voters.

NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF OR AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

51501