ORDINANCE NO. 2074
CITY OF DAVIS MEASURE D

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DAVIS AMENDING
ARTICLE 15.14 OF CHAPTER 15 OF THE DAVIS CITY CODE
TO CONTINUE A PARK MAINTENANCE SPECIAL TAX TO
FUND MAINTENANCE OF PARKS, OPEN SPACE, SWIMMING
POOLS, PUBLIC FACILITIES, LANDSCAPING AND PUBLIC
LIGHTING SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE VOTERS

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
DAVIS, as follows:

Section 1. Article 15.14 of Chapter 15 of the Davis City
Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

ARTICLE 15.14. PARK MAINTENANCE TAX

15.14.010. Findings.

The Park Maintenance Tax currently provides funding to
supplement the General Fund for the maintenance of community
parks, greenbelts, open space, street lighting, swimming pools and
related public facilities. The Park Maintenance, which was approved
by the voters in 1998, will expire in June of 2002. This special tax,
if approved by voters, will continue the Park Maintenance Tax for
an additional four years to provide funding for the maintenance of
these facilities and amenities.

Our parks and greenbelts reflect the very character of Davis and
are instrumental in making Davis the type of community that its
citizens appreciate and support. The City Council strongly believes
that it is in the public interest to continue funding maintenance of
the parks, greenbelts, open space, street lighting, swimming pools
and public facilities. The special tax levied herein, if approved by a
two-thirds vote of the voters, will continue the existing Park
Maintenance Tax. This tax, if approved, will also provide for revenue
which may be used to maintain and operate property owned by the
Davis Joint Unified School District or other public agencies so long
as the property is available, on a joint use basis, for use by the
residents of the City for park, open space and recreational uses.

15.14.020. Legal Authority.

This special tax is levied under each of the following legal
authorities: Government Code section 37100.5 which authorizes
general law cities to levy any tax that may be levied by charter
cities, subject to voter approval; Government Code section 50075
through section 50077 which authorizes cities to impose special
taxes. This tax is a special tax authorized under Article 13A, section
4 of the California Constitution and Proposition 218. This tax is an
excise tax and is based, to the extent practicable, upon the use to
which a property is put and the benefit that the use of property
receives from the public facilities supported by this tax. This tax is
based, among other things, on the benefit that different land uses
of property receive from the availability of properly maintained parks,
open space, greenbelts, medians, public facilities and public lighting.
This tax is not a property tax; it is not based on the status of
ownership of property; nor is it based on the value of property.

15.14.030. Definitions.

The following terms shall have the following definitions when
used in this article:

“Assessor’s Parcel” or “Parcel” means a lot or parcel shown in
an Assessor’s Parcel Map with an assigned Assessor’s Parcel
number.

“Assessor’s Parcel Map” means an official map of the County
Assessor of the County of Yolo designating parcels by Assessor’s
Parcel Number.

“City” means the City of Davis as its jurisdictional boundaries
exist on July 1 of each year that this tax is in effect.

“Commercial Property” means all Parcels that are used for non-
residential land uses that do not classify the Parcel as Industrial
Property or Day Care Property, as defined below.

“Common Area” means a separate legal or Assessor’s Parcel

owned by a common interest development association or as tenants
in common by the owners of separate interests in a common interest
development provided that the common area: (1) in the case of
residential property, cannot be used as an independent residential
dwelling unit; or (2) in the case of commercial or industrial property
is not improved building space.

“Day Care Property” means all property that is used as a
commercially-operated day care center and is not used as a
residence.

“Developed Property" means, in any Fiscal Year, all Parcels of
Taxable Property with a structure that has been cleared for occupancy
before March 1 of the prior Fiscal Year. For purposes of levying the
Special Tax, each Parcel of Developed Property shall be assigned
to one of the Land Use Classes identified in Table 1 below.

“Fiscal Year” means the period starting on July 1 and ending the
following June 30.

“Group Living Property" means all Parcels of Developed Property
that have been issued conditional use permits from the City’s Planning
Division for a group living use.

“Improved Building Space” means the greater of (i) gross building
area as shown on building permits issued for any property, or (ii)
gross building area as measured or determined by an engineer
retained by the City.

“Industrial Property” shall generally include but not be limited to,
all Parcels of Developed Property with a building or structure that
is used for assembling, disassembling, fabricating, finishing,
manufacturing, packaging, repair or processing operations, as
classified by the City's Planning Division.

“Land Use Class” means any one of the six classes listed in
Table 1 below.

“Maximum Special Tax” means the maximum Special Tax,
determined in accordance with Section 15.040, that can be levied
by the City Council in any Fiscal Year.

“Multi-Family Residential Property” means all Parcels of
Developed Property with a residential structure or structures
consisting of five or more residential units on a single Parcel.

“Public Improvements” means those facilities, improvements and
amenities that will be constructed, installed, operated, serviced,
maintained and repaired from proceeds of the Special Tax and shall
include, but not be limited to the following: public lighting, landscaping,
parks, public areas, recreational facilities, open space, and bike
trails.

“Public Property” means property owned by a public agency,
public rights-of-way, unoccupied public utility property and property
encumbered with a public or utility easement that makes impractical
utilization of the property for other than the public or utility purpose
set forth in the easement.

“Single Family Residential Property” means all Parcels of
Developed Property with a residential structure or structures
consisting of less than five residential units on a single Parcel.

“Special Tax" means that tax levied pursuant to application of
the special tax formula set forth below to pay for the construction,
installation, operation, servicing, maintenance, and repair of the
Public Improvements.

“Taxable Property” means all Assessor's Parcels within the City
of Davis as the boundaries of the City exist on July 1 of each year
which are not exempt from the Special Tax pursuant to law or Section

15.14.080	below.

“Vacant Land” means all Parcels of Taxable Property that have
either no structures or a structure or structures that have not been
cleared for occupancy.

15.14.040. Park Maintenance Tax.

A.	If approved by the voters, commencing July 1,2002 for fiscal
year 2002-2003, the City shall continue collecting funding for parks,
open space, public lighting and related public facilities in the form of
a special park tax in the manner and at the rates set forth herein.

ill iiiiiiii'iiii mill

1. Developed Property. The maximum Special Tax for all
Parcels of Developed Property shall be determined by reference to
Table 1 below:

Table 1  Maximum Special Tax Rates		
Land Use Class	Description	Maximum Special Tax
1	Single Family Residential	$49 per unit
2	Multi-Family Residential	$49 per unit
3	Group Living	$20 per resident
4	Commercial	$40 per 1,000 square feet of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet
5	Industrial	$12.80 per employee up to a maximum of 30 employees
6	Day Care	$14.30 per 1,000 square feet of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet

2.	Vacant Land. The Maximum Special Tax Rate for Vacant
Land shall be $49 per Assessor’s Parcel.

B.	Method of Apportionment of the Special Tax.

1.	For Fiscal years 2002-2003 and 2003-2004, the City shall
levy the Special Tax at the maximum tax rates set forth above. For
fiscal years 2004-2005 and 2005-2006, the City Council shall set
the actual tax rate for the applicable fiscal year, not to exceed the
maximum tax rates set forth above, and the special tax shall be
levied at the amount set by the City Council,

2.	The Special Tax shall be levied on each parcel of land in
the amount determined by reference to this Section 15.040:

a.	On each Parcel of Taxable Property in Land Use Classes
1 through 6, inclusive.

b.	If there is more than one Land Use Class on a Parcel,
the Special Tax shall be determined by separately applying
the appropriate Special Tax for each Land Use Class on
the Parcel and levying the sum total of the combined Special
Taxes.

15.14.050. Collection.

The Park Maintenance Tax shall be collected in the same manner
and at the same time as ordinary ad valorem property taxes and
shall be subject to the same penalties for non-payment. If necessary
to meet financial obligations or if it becomes more cost-efficient, as
determined by the City Council, the City may collect the Park
Maintenance Tax in the same manner and at the same time as City
taxes, fees and/or charges provided that the total annual tax imposed
shall not exceed the maximum amounts set forth in this Article.

15.14.060. No Adjustment of Tax Rate.

The tax rates set forth in this Article shall be the maximum
allowable tax rates permitted unless modified or changed by a further
vote of the electorate of the City. There shall be no cost of living
or COLA permitted.

15.14.070. Limitation on Disposition of Revenue.

Revenues collected under the provisions of this Article shall be
deposited in a special fund called the Park Maintenance Special
Tax fund and shall be used only for the operation and maintenance
of landscaping, park, open space, median, greenbelt, swimming pools,
recreational and public facility and public lighting improvements, within

the City and for the incidental expenses incurred in the administration
of this tax, including, but not limited to the cost of elections, and
the cost of collection. Revenues may be used to, operate and maintain
property owned by the Davis Joint Unified School District or other
public agencies so long as the property so maintained is available
for use by the residents of the City for the purposes set forth herein,

15.14.080. Exemptions.

A.	Public Property. No special tax shall be levied against
public property.

B.	Low-Income Exemption. To avoid undue hardship, the City
Council shall continue the existing low-income refund program subject
to such terms and conditions as the City Council may, from time to
time, determine.

C.	Common Areas. No special tax shall be levied against
common areas.

15.14.090. Effective Date: Sunset Provision.

A.	This Article shall take effect immediately upon its approval
by a two-thirds vote of the voters voting in the election called to
approve this ordinance.

B.	This Article shall remain in effect only until June 30, 2006
and as of that date this Article is repealed unless an extension or
re-authorization of this Article is approved by the voters of the City
at an election called for that purpose.

C.	It is the current intent of the City Council to replace this
Park Maintenance Tax with another type of revenue measure. In the
event that another type of revenue measure is approved by the
voters prior to the expiration of the Park Maintenance Tax, and the
ordinance that implements the new revenue measure declares that
it shall replace or supercede this Park Maintenance Tax, the City
shall cease collecting this Park Maintenance Tax consistent with the
provisions of the replacement measure as approved by the voters.

15.14.100. Appeals.

The imposition of this tax and/or the amount of the tax imposed
based on the use of property may be appealed to the City Council
under such procedures as the Council shall, by ordinance, adopt.
The City Council may modify the appeals process from time to time
in order to facilitate the hearing and resolution of appeals.

15.14.110. Severability.

If any sentence, clause, article, section, subsection, phrase or
portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this
Ordinance. The voters of the City hereby declare that they would
have adopted the remainder of this Ordinance, including each
sentence, clause, article, section, subsection, phrase or portion of
this Ordinance, irrespective of the invalidity of any other sentence,
clause, article, section, subsection, phrase or portion of this
Ordinance,

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY
OF DAVIS ON NOVEMBER 28, 2001, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

AYES: Boyd, Freeman. Greenwald. Wagstaff.

NOES: Harrington.

ABSENT: None.

s/ Ken Wagstaff, Mayor

ATTEST:

si Bette E. Racki. City Clerk

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF DAVIS MEASURE D

Measure D, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
measure, will extend for four (4) years, at the current tax rates, the
Park Maintenance Tax, a special tax adopted by the Davis voters
in June 1998. Unless extended by the voters, the existing 1998 Park
Maintenance Tax will expire in June 2002. If Measure D is adopted,
it will replace the 1998 Park Maintenance Tax beginning July 1,
2002.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

The passage of Measure D will renew the existing parks
maintenance tax for four years, allowing the city to continue to pay
for parks and greenbelt maintenance, streetscapes and street tree
planting and maintenance, swimming pool, open space and habitat
maintenance, and vandalism repair. It costs $4.09 per month, which
is $49.00 per year per housing unit. First approved by voters in
1998, it will expire in June of this year unless it is renewed on March
5.

Measure D, the extended Park Maintenance Tax, as set forth in
Ordinance No. 2074, will continue to provide funding for the
maintenance and operation of community parks, greenbelts, open
space, street and public lighting, swimming pools, and related public
facilities. As a special tax, the tax revenue must be placed in a
special fund and can only be used for these purposes and incidental
expenses related to these purposes.

The Park Maintenance Tax will continue to be imposed on parcels
of property within the City based on the use of the property. The
maximum tax per parcel per fiscal year (July 1-June 30) under
Measure D will be calculated as follows:

Single-family residential
Multi-family residential
Group Living
Commercial

Industrial

Commercial Day
Care Facilities

Vacant Land

$49.00 per unit
$49.00 per unit
$20.00 per resident
$40.00 per 1,000 square feet of
Improved Building Space up to
a maximum of 10,000 square
feet

$12.80 per employee up to a

maximum of 30 employees
$14.30 per 1,000 square

feet of Improved Building
Space up to a maximum of
10,000 square feet
$49.00 per Assessor’s Parcel

If approved by the voters, the tax would be imposed at the rates
set forth above for the first two years of the extended tax. For the
third and fourth years of the tax, the City Council may set the tax
rate at an amount not to exceed the maximum tax rate. In the event
that the voters approve another type of revenue measure, or tax,
to replace this park tax prior to the expiration of this park tax, the
City will cease collecting this park tax consistent with the provisions
of the replacement measure.

Measure D includes several exemptions to the tax including an
exemption for public property and the requirement to continue the
existing exemption for low income persons.

The Park Maintenance Tax would continue to be collected with
the ad valorem property taxes for each parcel, unless the City later
decided to collect the tax with other City taxes and charges.

Measure D would sunset and be repealed on June 30, 2006 and
could not be collected after that time unless two-thirds of the voters
voting in an election approved an extension or re-authorization of
the tax.

Think of the reasons why you enjoy living in Davis. Surely among
the reasons are the parks, greenbelts, and recreational programs
and services provided by this tax. Without Measure D, these
amenities, along with other General Fund services, will face severe
cutbacks. Even with Measure D, some service reductions will be
necessary.

Measure D is necessary primarily because, for the past decade,
the state has been shifting away a large share of our local property
taxes. At the beginning of the last decade, the state returned about
27% of local property taxes to the city. Today approximately 18% is
returned.

Cities throughout the state have been forced to rely on
supplementary local taxes. In fact, most residents of California cities
pay supplementary city taxes.

Davis currently spends less revenue per capita on its police, fire,
and general government services than average for California cities.

Only in parks do we pay a little more than average, because we
have more parks per capita than the average city in California.

This is a renewal of an existing tax with no increase. Although
it will not cover all of our needs, without it services will be drastically
reduced.

Please join us in voting for Measure D on March 5.

s/ Jim Gross, President	si

Davis Sports Foundation

si Julie Partansky	si

Former Mayor

si Bobby Weist, President
Davis Firefighters, Local 3494

Charlie Russell, Former
A.Y.S.O. Regional Soccer
Commissioner

Bill Sims, Chair

City of Davis Senior Commission

si Harriet A. Steiner
Davis City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance
2074, Measure D. If you desire a copy of the Ordinance or
Measure, please call the elections official’s office at
(530) 757-5648 and a copy will be mailed to you.

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

