MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF ROHNERT PARK
MEASURE U

u

Shall the increases in the Business License Tax - that have
been paid by certain businesses in Rohnert Park since
1992 and not increased since then - remain in effect?

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

Your 'Yes” vote on Measure U would simply maintain the Rohnert Park Business
License Tax at its current level.

The Rohnert Park Business License Tax was increased in 1992 to its current level
and has not been increased since that time. However, a recent court decision
requires that for this Business License Tax rate increase to remain in effect the City
of Rohnert Park must obtain voter approval.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

The Rohnert Park Municipal Code is the official collection of City of Rohnert Park
local laws. One such law requires that every business in Rohnert Park pay a
business license tax to the City’s General Fund. The tax is paid into the City’s
General Fund. Monies in the General Fund are used for the ordinary and
necessary operations of the City and are not earmarked for a specific purpose.
The General Fund is spent according to a budget adopted by the City Council.

Different types of businesses pay differing amounts of tax. For example, an
architect pays $200 for each professional and semi-professional in the architect’s
office. A general building contractor pays $250 per year; an electrical or plumbing
contractor pays $150 per year. A retail store, such as a grocery store or clothing
store pays a tax of $50.00 for the first employee, and $15.00 for each additional
employee, up to a maximum of $5,000 per year.

In 1994, the City increased the business license tax for most businesses. Each
increase was slightly different, depending upon the type of business. A 25%
increase was the highest increase. Voter approval is required to continue to
collect the business license tax at the current rates. This is because the law
requiring voter approval of general taxes was re-instated in 1995; and the law that
allows a taxpayer to challenge a tax was changed in 2001. In 1986 a law was
enacted that required voter-approval for increases in general taxes. By 1991
several courts had ruled that this law, known as Proposition 62, violated the
California Constitution. However, in 1995 the California Supreme Court
overturned those court decisions and ruled that Proposition 62 was lawful. This
meant that an increase in a general tax requires voter approval. When the City
increased the business license tax in 1994, voter approval was not required.
When three years elapsed from the date of the Rohnert Park increase, it was
protected from legal challenge. However, in 2001, the California Supreme Court
decided that each time the tax was collected, this three-year period begins again.
This means that a business license taxpayer may challenge the increase any time
within three years of each time the tax is paid on the basis that it did not receive
voter approval. Measure U removes this possibility by asking for voter approval of
the 1994 increase.

A “yes” vote on Measure U means that businesses in Rohnert Park will continue to
pay the same amount of business license tax after the election as they have since
1994.

Measure U will reaffirm the increase that has been in place for 10 years. It is not a
new tax. It is not a tax increase.

The Rohnert Park Chamber of Commerce fully supports Measure U. At its current
level, Rohnert Park’s business taxes are significantly lower than the similar taxes in
Petaluma and Santa Rosa.

Without voter approval, this tax will drop by 25% and the City will lose more than
$100,000 in existing annual revenue. This is equivalent to the amount the City
budgets each year to maintain our neighborhood streets.

Your ’Yes” vote on Measure U would maintain the business license tax at its current
level and avoid the need to cut additional services or programs.

Please join the business leaders and us in supporting Measure U.

ROHNERT PARK CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
s/John E. Borba, Chairman, Board of Directors

s/ Ira M. Freed, CPA	si	R.	Marraffino

Rohnert Park Chamber of Commmerce	Rohnert Park Chamber of Commerce

si Patricia R. Savage
Rohnert Park Chamber of Commmerce

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE U

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE U

ORDINANCE NO. 550

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ROHNERT PARK AMENDING CHAPTERS
5.08 AND 5.12 OF THE ROHNERT PARK MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO
BUSINESS LICENSE TAX

The City Council of the City of Rohnert Park does ordain as follows:

Section 1. Effective January 1, 1992 Chapter 5.08 of the Rohnert Park
Municipal Code is hereby amended to read and provide as follows:

Chapter 5.08

A “no” vote on Measure U means that businesses in Rohnert Park will pay the
same amount of business license tax after the election as they did before the
increase in 1994.

si Betsy Strauss
City Attorney

LICENSE TAX - BUSINESSES IN GENERAL

Sections:

5.08.010

5.08.020

5.08.030

5.08.040

5.08.050

Classification

Classification

Classification

Classification

Subcontractor.

Classification

A— Retail Sales.

B — Services.

C — Professional and Semi-professional.
D — General Building Contractor or

E — Wholesalers.

5.08.010 Classification A — Retail Sales. Every business engaged in
selling to the general public at retail in the goods, wares, merchandise or
commodities, including restaurants and other food dispensers, unless otherwise
provided for in this chapter and Chapters 5.04 and 5.12 shall pay an annual license
tax based upon the average number of persons employed within the city during the
previous calendar year at the following rates:

One employee	$	50.00

Each additional employee	15.00 each

Maximum	$	5,000.00

CONT. NEXT PAGE

91

VOTER’S PAMPHLET  MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE U, CONT.  5.08.020 Classification B — Services. Every person engaged in the business of providing a service or similar business or occupation in the city shall pay an annual license tax based upon the average number of persons employed within the city in such service or similar business or occupation during the previous calendar year as set forth in the following schedule:  One employee $ 50.00  Each additional employee 15.00 each  Maximum $ 5,000.00  The businesses referred to in this classification include the following plus any similar business or occupation: appliance repair, art galleries, auto rentals, bail bonds, barbershops, beauty salons, blueprinting, bookkeeping services, business schools, car wash, catering, cleaners, collection agencies, correspondence schools, credit service, dance studios, day care centers, dental laboratories, draftsman, employment agencies, estimators, finishing schools, furniture refinishing, gardening, golf courses, grinding service, handyman, hostess service, hydraulic jack service, income tax service, janitorial service, lapidaries, leatherette repair, locksmiths, manicurists, masseuses, medical laboratories, mobile home service, music instruction, nursery schools, parking lots, photography, piano tuners, pool service, publishers, realtors, real estate brokers, real estate salespersons, rental service, rototilling, sawshops, secretarial service, security service, sewer cleaning, shoe repair, sign painters, silver shop repair, swim centers, soft water service, tailoring and dressmaking, taxidermist, telephone answering service, title companies, travel agencies, tree service, wig styling.  5.08.030 Classification C—Professional and Semi-professional. Evety person engaged in professional, semi-professional and connected businesses in the city shall pay an annual license tax based upon each professional and semi-professional engaged within the city in such business during the previous calendar year, according to the following schedule:  Each professional and semi-professional $ 200.00  The business referred to in this classification are as follows: advertising, auditors, appraisers, architects, assayers, attorneys, bacteriologists, business or investment counselors, brokers of all types (excluding real estate brokers which are included in Classification B), certified public accountants, chemists, chiropodists, chiropractors, computer programmers, computer consultants, dentists, designers, decorators, electrologists, engineers, engravers, family counselors, geologists, health service facilities, insurance or claim adjusters, landscape architects, management and planning consultants, morticians, oculists, opticians or optometrists, orthodontists, orthopedic surgeons, osteopaths, pathologists, psychiatrists, psychologists, physical therapists, physicians, podiatrists, radiologists, surgeons, surveyors, veterinarians or any similar business or occupation.  Each business licensed under this section shall pay an additional fifteen dollars for each nonprofessional employee, engaged within the city in the operation of the business.  5.08.040 Classification D — General Building Contractor or Subcontractor.  Every person who conducts the business of general building contractor or subcontractor in the city shall pay an annual license tax based upon the following schedule:  A.	General contractor $ 250.00 a year  150.00 one half-year  B.	Electrical, plumbing, and $ 150.00ayear other subcontractors not 100.00 one half-year specified  'Half year licenses are from January to June or July to December.  5.08.050 Classification E — Wholesalers. Every business engaged in selling goods, wares or merchandise at wholesale except for wholesale salesmen as defined by Business and Professions Code Section 16002, within	the city, and every business engaged in manufacturing, processing or fabricating goods, wares or merchandise, shall pay an annual license tax based upon the average number of persons employed within the city during the previous calendar year at the following rates:  One employee $ 50.00 Each additional employee 15.00 each Maximum $ 5,000.00  Section 2. Effective January 1,1992, Chapter 5.12 of the Rohnert Park Municipal Code is hereby amended to read and provide as follows:  Chapter 5.12  LICENSE TAX - SPECIFICALLY ENUMERATED BUSINESSES  Sections:  5.12.010	License and Tax Payment Required.  5.12.020	Utilities.  5.12.030	Hospitals.  5.12.040	Rentals.  5.12.050 Trailer Parks and Mobile Home Parks.  5.12.060 Taxicabs.  5.12.070 Motor Vehicle Delivery.  5.12.080 Peddlers and Solicitors.  5.12.090 Astrologers.  5.12.100 Weighing and Coin-operated Machines.  5.12.110 Laundry Equipment.  5.12.120 Junkyards.  5.12.130 Circuses, Tent Shows and Sideshows.  5.12.140 Auctioneers.  5.12.150 Liquidators.  5.12.160 Theaters.  5.12.170 Self Storage Rentals.  5.12.180 Seasonal Vendors.  5.12.010	License and Tax Payment Required. Every person trans- acting and carrying on the businesses herein enumerated shall obtain a license and pay a license as set out in this chapter.  5.12.020	Utilities. Every person in the business of operating a public utility within the city, shall obtain a license and pay an annual license tax based upon the average number of persons employed within the city during the previous calendar year at the following rates:  One employee $ 50.00 Each additional employee 15.00 each Maximum $ 5,000.00  5.12.030	Hospitals. Every person carrying on the business of con- ducting, managing or operating a hospital, rest home, sanitarium, convalescent home or other similar establishment or institution within the city shall pay an annual license tax in the amount of fifty dollars for the first bed and five dollars for each additional bed; provided, however, that any such hospital or sanitarium conducted or carried on by the city or any other political subdivision shall be exempt from the payment of the license tax specified in this section.  5.12.040	Rentals. A business license tax is imposed upon the business of renting living accommodations as follows:  Single Family, condominium, duplex, triplex, fourplex:  For the first unit per year $ 50.00 For each additional unit per year 25.00 each  Apartments, hotels and motels:  For the first unit per year $ 50.00 For each additional unit per year 5.00 each The minimum rate applies to each separate location.  CONT. NEXT PAGE

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE U, CONT.

Laundry equipment

.5% of gross receipts
with no maximum.

For the purpose of the imposition of the tax hereby imposed, an
owner-occupied unit shall not count as a taxable unit. Units shall mean the
smallest rental unit let for rent or lease in hotels, motels, apartments, single family
homes, duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes, condominiums, mobile homes, or any
other structure in which people are housed.

5.12.050	Trailer Parks and Mobile Home Parks. For the business of
renting or letting parking space for recreational vehicles, automobile trailers or
mobile homes which are used for living quarters or housekeeping purposes, or
conducting an automobile trailer park or mobile home park for such trailers, a
license fee shall be paid according to the number of trailer spaces within the city
for rent or to let as follows: at the rate of fifty dollars per year for the first unit and
five dollars for each additional unit.

5.12.060 Taxicabs. For the business of operating a taxicab or
taxicabs, which shall include the picking up and/or delivering of passengers within
the limits of the city, a charge shall be made for each person or firm engaged in
such business which shall be determined by the number of taxicabs operated,
and the rate for each such taxicab so operated shall be the sum of seventy five
dollars per year for one taxicab and fifty dollars for each additional taxicab.

5.12.070 Motor Vehicle Delivery. Every person who collects, gathers,
picks up, loads, or delivers goods, wares or merchandise within the city from orto
a point inside or outside the city, by means of a motor vehicle, four or more times
within any twelve month period, shall pay a license of seventy five dollars.

A vehicle delivering to or from a licensed person with a fixed place of
business within the city is exempt when the vehicle is the property of the licensed
person.

5.12.080 Peddlers and Solicitors. Each peddler or solicitor for retail
orders for services, goods, wares, merchandise, property of all kinds, books,
maps, pictures, photographs or enlargements of pictures or photographs,
provided such peddler is not dealing in items involved in interstate commerce,
shall pay a license tax base upon the duration of activity as follows:

A.	Fifteen dollars a day, per person;

B.	One hundred dollars for six months, per person;

C.	Two hundred dollars a year, per person.

This classification includes vendors who sell items on private property
belonging to others.

5.12.090 Astrologers. For every person who, within the city, carries
on, practices or professes to practice the business or art of astrology, palmistry,
phrenology, life readings, fortune-telling, cartomancy, handwriting analysis,
chirography, clairvoyance, ciairaudience, crystal gazing, hypnotism, mediumship,
prophecy, augury, divination, magic, necromancy, numerology, or similar
business, trade or calling, and who shall not be prohibited from doing or
conducting any of these practices, professions, businesses or callings by any
statute of this state, ordinance of the city, or by any other law, and who demands
or receives a fee or exhibition thereof at any place where an admission fee is
charged, four hundred dollars per quarter or fraction thereof. The provisions of
this subsection shall not apply to those persons providing bona fide and incidental
entertainment and amusement for the guests and patrons of and on the premises
of any other business duly licensed by the city for which no separate or additional
charge or consideration shall be paid by the guests and patrons or received or
accepted by the persons who perform or practice such business or arts.

5.12.100 Coin-operated Machines. Every person who rents, leases
or operates any coin-operated weighing, amusement, mechanical or electronic
play device, vending or other coin-operated machines (excluding coin-operated
car washes and coin or bill operated service stations) in the city shall pay a license
fee on gross receipts, directly attributable to the business activities conducted
within the city, pursuant to the following:

All applicable machines or play 2% of gross receipts

devices other than laundry with no maximum

machines

5.12.110 Laundry Equipment. Every person who rents, leases or
operates any laundry equipment, whether or not coin-operated, in the city, shall
pay a license fee on his gross receipts, directly attributable to the business
activities conducted within the city, pursuant to the schedule applicable to weighing
and coin-operated businesses.

5.12.120 Junkyards. Junkyards and wrecking yards shall pay a tax of
five hundred dollars per year.

5.12.130 Circuses, Tent Shows and Sideshows. Circuses, tent shows,
and sideshows shall pay a tax of four hundred dollars per consecutive 24 hours.

5.12.140 Auctioneers. Every person who auctions property within the
city shall pay a license fee of one hundred dollars for the first day and fifty dollars
for each additional day during the year; provided, however, no license fee for the
privilege of auctioning real estate shall be collected from any real estate
auctioneer, whose business is limited exclusively to auctioning real estate, unless
he maintains a permanent place of business within the city.

5.12.150 Liquidators. Liquidators, or any business specializing in
conducting “going-out-of-business” sales shall pay the following tax:

First day	$ 150.00

Each additional day	75.00

5.12.160 Theaters. Theaters shall pay the following tax:

A.	Indoor:	
	1. 200 seats or smaller	$ 100.00
	2. 201 seats or greater	200.00
B.	Outdoor:	
	1. Less than 100 spaces	150.00

5.12.170 Self Storage Rental. Every person who rents space to the
public for storage shall pay one dollar per space per year with a minimum fee of
one hundred dollars.

5.12.180 Seasonal Vendors. Any person engaged in seasonal vending
to the public (Christmas tree, pumpkin patch or any similar activity) shall pay a
business license fee of one hundred dollars per activity.

Section 3. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect on January 1,
1992. The City Clerk is directed to post the ordinance in accordance with the
requirements of law.

DULY AND REGULARLY ADOPTED this 26th day of November, 1991.

CITY OF ROHNERT PARK

si Dave Eck, Mayor

ATTEST:

si Lorraine Roberts, Deputy City Clerk

HOLLINGSWORTH ABSENT HOPKINS ME REILLY Mi SPIRO Mi ECK ME
AYES: _4_ NOES: _Q_ ABSENT: _!_ ABSTAIN: _0_