
General Election

OFFICIAL BALLOT
County of San Bernardino

November 5, 2002

CITY

CITY OF SAN BERNARDINO
CITY CHARTER AMENDMENT
(SALARY OF MAYOR)

C Approve a Charter Amendment to set the annual salary of the Mayor
on January 1, 2003 at 50% of the salary for a Superior Court Judge,
County of San Bernardino, State of California, which was in effect on
July 1, 2002, thereafter adjusted and implemented January 1 of each sub-
sequent year to 50% of the salary for said Superior Court Judge then in
effect on that January 1 date.____________________________________________

FOR THE ooq
AMENDMENT

AGAINST THE onn
AMENDMENT

CITY CHARTER AMENDMENT
(SALARY OF COUNCIL MEMBERS)

D Approve a Charter Amendment to set the annual salary of Council

members on January 1, 2003 at 12 1/2% of the salary for a Superior	^

Court Judge, County of San Bernardino, State of California, which mM. CUT 291
was in effect on July 1, 2002, thereafter adjusted and implemented January »icnufflB(ll__

1 of each year to 12 1/2% of the salary for said Superior Court Judge then	AMENDMENT	292

in effect on that January 1 date. The annual salary would be received in	AMtNUMtNI

twelve (12) equal monthly payments.

_______________________TRANSIENT	LODGING	TAX

E Shall the ordinance repealing Chapter 3.54 and adding Chapter 3.55 to the YES 293
San Bernardino Municipal Code be approved so as to permit the City of San —‘u.,	■—

Bernardino to continue to collect and use the transient lodging tax?	NO	294

YOU HAVE JUST COMPLETED VOTING


NSB-OI 2.001 S

MEASURE “E”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY*

Chapter 3.54 of the San Bernardino Municipal Code contains the City's Transient Lodging
Tax provisions. It is substantially similar in wording to the Transient Lodging Tax Ordinances
of numerous California cities and counties.

Despite the general uniformity of municipal law in this area, the Fourth District Court of
Appeal has strongly indicated in a recent court decision that the City’s Transient Lodging
Tax as set forth in Chapter 3.54 of the San Bernardino Municipal Code is legally suspect for
vagueness and inconsistency, thus rendering it unconstitutional when challenged.

As a result of the passage of Proposition 218 by the voters of the State of California on
November 6,1996, Article XIIIC and D of the California Constitution was amended to include,
among other conditions, the following: “No local government may impose, extend or
increase any general tax unless and until that tax is submitted to the electorate and approved
by a majority vote.”

On July 15, 2002, in response to that recent Court of Appeal decision, the City of San
Bernardino adopted a new transient lodging tax ordinance codified in Chapter 3.55 of the
San Bernardino Municipal Code which, if approved by a majority vote of the electorate, would
permit the City to continue to collect and use the revenues from its room tax on hotel
occupants.

The City of San Bernardino’s transient lodging tax imposes a ten percent (10%) room tax
on hotel occupants. The tax is normally paid to the operator of the hotel at the time payment
for the room rental is made. The hotel operator is required to collect the tax and the operator
remits the tax to the City of San Bernardino on a monthly basis. “Hotel” is defined as any
commercial establishment furnishing lodging space in exchange for monetary
compensation. “Lodging space” is defined as meaning one or more rooms used or intended
to be used for dwelling or sleeping purposes. “Transient” is defined as any person who, for
a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, exercises occupancy or is entitled
to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or contract.

The estimated amount of money to be received by the General Fund of the City of San
Bernardino for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2002 as a result of the transient lodging tax
is approximately Two Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,500,000.00).

A “yes” vote would approve the measure and permit the City to continue to collect and
use its ten percent (10%) room tax on hotel occupants.

A “no” vote would reject the measure and would mean that the City’s expected General
Fund revenues for the fiscal year beginning July 1,2002 would be subject to being reduced
by approximately Two Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($2,500,000.00).

* Section 9280 of the Elections Code requires the City Attorney to prepare an impartial
analysis of measures appearing on the ballot.

PR-005.001

SB 052-042

MEASURE “E”

IMPARTIAL FISCAL ANALYSIS

Currently, the San Bernardino Municipal Code allows the City to impose a 10% room tax,
which is paid by hotel occupants. This tax is known as the Transient Lodging Tax. The City
of San Bernardino receives approximately $2,500,000 per year in revenue from the Transient
Lodging Tax.

The Transient Lodging Tax revenue is a General Fund revenue. The General Fund is used
to pay for general City services such as police, fire, parks and recreation, libraries, code
enforcement, and other general government services.

A “yes” vote will approve the measure, and the City of San Bernardino will continue to collect
approximately $2,500,000 per year in revenue from the Transient Lodging Tax.

A “no" vote would mean that the City’s expected general fund revenues would be subject
to being reduced. This could mean the loss or decrease of some City services such as police,
fire, parks and recreation, libraries, or code enforcement, in order to balance the City budget.

s/Fred Wilson
City Administrator

s/Barbara Pachon
Finance Director

PR-005.002

SB 052-043

MEASURE “E”

ORDINANCE

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SAN BERNARDINO REPEALING CHAPTER 3.54
OF THE SAN BERNARDINO MUNICIPAL CODE AND ADDING CHAPTER 3.55 TO THE
SAN BERNARDINO MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO TRANSIENT LODGING TAX.

THE MAYOR AND COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN BERNARDINO DO

ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:	
SECTION 1. Chapter 3.54 of the San Bernardino Municipal Code is hereby repealed. SECTION 2. Chapter 3.55 is hereby added to the San Bernardino Municipal Code to read	
as follows:	Chapter 3.55
	TRANSIENT LODGING TAX
Sections:	
3.55.010	Definitions.
3.55.020	Tax imposed - Rate - Revenue measure.
3.55.030	Collection of tax.
3.55.035	Exemptions.
3.55.040	Reports and remittances.
3.55.045	Refunds.
3.55.050	Penalties.
3.55.060	Determination of tax by City Clerk.
3.55.065	Appeal.
3.55.070	Records.
3.55.080	Hotel registration.
3.55.090	Immediate payment of tax on cessation of business.
3.55.100	Sale or ownership transfer of hotel.
3.55.110	Liens.
3.55.120	Action to collect.
3.55.130	Retention and Inspection of records.
3.55.140	Violation-Penalty.
3.55.150	Enforcement-Citing authority.
3.55.160	Prerequisite for suit.
3.55.170	Amendments.
3.55.180	Severability.

3.55.010 Definitions.

The words and phrases set out in this section, when used in this Chapter, shall, for the

purposes of this Chapter, have the following respective meanings except where the context

clearly indicates a different meaning:

A.	“Hotel” means a commercial establishment furnishing lodging space in exchange for
monetary compensation. Every such establishment shall constitute a “hotel” for purposes
of this Chapter notwithstanding any advertising describing the facility as a hostelry, inn,
motel, rooming house, tourist home or similar enterprise.

B.	“Lodging space” means one or more rooms used or intended to be used for dwelling
or sleeping purposes.

C.	“Occupancy” means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession, of a
lodging space.

D.	“Operator” means the person who is the proprietor of a hotel. If an operator utilizes a
managing agent who is not an employee, then such agent shall also constitute an
“operator” for purposes of this Chapter. Compliance with this Chapter by either the
principal or the managing agent shall constitute compliance by both.

E.	“Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social club,
fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.

PR-005.003	SB	052-044

F.	“Room rental” means the total charge for lodging space.

G.	“Transient" means a person who, for a period of thirty consecutive calendar days or less,
exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right
of access, license or contract. Every such person shall constitute a “transient” for
purposes of this Chapter until expiration of the thirty-day period unless such person has
executed a written contract with the operator to provide for occupancy in excess of thirty
consecutive calendar days and the contract cannot be terminated without providing at
least thirty days advance notice. In determining whether a person is a transient, portions
of calendar days shall be counted as full days and uninterrupted periods of time extending
both prior and subsequent to the effective date of this Chapter may be considered.

H.	“Transient lodging tax” means the tax levied pursuant to this Chapter.

3.55.020	Tax imposed - Rate - Revenue measure.

A.	For the privilege of occupancy in a hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay a
transient lodging tax in the amount of ten percent of the room rental charged by the
operator.

B.	The transient lodging tax is levied for revenue purposes and is necessary for the usual
financial operation of the City. When collected, the tax shall be made a part of the general
funds of the City.

3.55.030	Collection of tax.

A.	Each operator receiving a room rental payment that is subject to the transient lodging
tax, at the time of receipt of the room rental payment, shall collect the amount of the tax
imposed. The operator shall provide a receipt for payment of the transient lodging tax
to the transient.

B.	If the monetary compensation received by an operator from a transient includes any
charge for services or accommodations besides lodging space, then the room rental
portion of such compensation shall be billed to the transient as a separate item.

C.	Transient lodging taxes collected by an operator shall be held in trust until remitted to
the City.

D.	No operator shall represent to the public that the transient lodging tax will not be added
to the room rental charge, will be absorbed by the operator or will be refunded in a manner
contrary to this Chapter.

E.	In lieu of paying the transient lodging tax to an operator, a transient may remit the tax
directly to the City Clerk. Any transient who opts to remit the transient lodging tax directly
to the City Clerk shall provide written proof of such remittance to the operator.

3.55.035 Exemptions.

A.	Grounds. No transient lodging tax shall be imposed upon:

1.	Any officer or employee of the United States Government or the State of California for
lodging space utilized by that officer or employee in the discharge of official
government business.

2.	Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of express
provision of federal law or international treaty.

3.	Room rental payment made to any hospital, medical clinic, convalescent home or
home for aged people.

4.	Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the power of the
City to impose the tax.

B.	Procedure. Each transient desiring an exemption from the transient lodging tax must file
a tax exemption certificate with the hotel at the time room rental payment is made to the
operator. The tax exemption certificate shall indicate the basis for the exemption and shall
be signed under penalty of perjury. Tax exemption certificate forms shall be prescribed
by, and may be obtained from, the City Clerk.

3.55.040 Reports and remittances.

PR-005.004

SB 052-045

A.	General Deadline. Except as provided in subsection B, on or before the twenty-fifth day
of each month, each operator shall deliver to the City Clerk a lodging information report
for the prior month and shall remit to the City Clerk the transient lodging tax collected
during the prior month. The lodging information report shall indicate the amount received
for room rental and the amount of transient lodging tax required to be collected, and shall
be signed under penalty of perjury. Lodging information report forms shall be prescribed
by, and may be obtained from, the City Clerk.

B.	Alternate Deadline. An operator of a hotel open year-round may, with the written consent
of the City Clerk, deliver lodging information reports and remit transient lodging taxes on
a quarterly basis. Applications to use the quarterly deadline shall be made in writing.

3.55.045 Refunds.

A.	Operator Grounds. An operator who has remitted a transient lodging tax to the City may
obtain a refund of all or a part of such remittance in the following circumstances:

1.	The tax was collected from a person who was not a transient.

2.	The amount of tax collected from a transient exceeds the amount due.

3.	The amount of tax remitted by the operator exceeds the amount due.

4.	The City lacked the authority to impose the tax.

B.	Transient Grounds. A transient who has remitted a transient lodging tax directly to the
City, rather than indirectly by means of payment to an operator, may obtain a refund of
all or a part of such remittance in the following circumstances:

1.	The tax was collected from a person who was not a transient.

2.	The amount of tax remitted by the transient exceeds the amount due.

3.	The City lacked the authority to impose the tax.

C.	Procedure. Each person desiring a refund must file a refund claim with the City Clerk
within three years of the date of remittance of the transient lodging tax. The refund claim
shall indicate the basis for the refund and shall be signed under penalty of perjury. Refund
claim forms shall be prescribed by, and may be obtained from, the City Clerk. No refund
shall be paid unless the claimant produces written records demonstrating entitlement to
the refund. An operator who receives a refund of tax improperly paid by another person
shall forward the refund to such person within five days of receipt.

3.55.050 Penalties.

A.	Delinquency.

1.	An operator who remits a transient lodging tax between the first day and the twenty-
ninth day following the deadline for such remittance shall pay, in addition to the
amount of the tax, a delinquency penalty of twenty-five percent of the amount of the
tax.

2.	An operator who remits a transient lodging tax between the thirtieth day and the sixtieth
day following the deadline for such remittance shall pay, in addition to the amount of
the tax, a delinquency penalty of fifty percent of the amount of the tax.

3.	An operator who remits a transient lodging tax after the sixtieth day following the
deadline for such remittance shall pay in addition to the amount of the tax the following
penalties: (i) a delinquency penalty of one hundred percent of the amount of the tax;
and (ii) interest on the total of the tax and the delinquency penalty. Interest shall be
at the rate of eighteen percent per annum and shall be computed from the sixty-first
day of delinquency until the date of remittance of the tax and delinquency penalty to
the City Clerk.

B.	Fraud. If the City Clerk determines that the nonpayment of a transient lodging tax is due
to fraud of the operator, then the operator shall pay, in addition to the amount of the tax,
a fraud penalty of twenty-five percent of the amount of the tax.

3.55.060 Determination of tax by City Clerk.

A. Determination. If an operator fails to collect and remit the transient lodging tax in
accordance with this Chapter, then the City Clerk shall determine the amount of tax owed
by such operator. The City Clerk may make such determination based on an estimate
of the amount due based on the information available.

PR-005.005

SB 052-046



B.	Notice. Upon determining the amount of transient lodging tax and penalty due, the City
Clerk shall notify the operator in writing. If the operator does not request a hearing on
such amount in writing within ten days of the date of issuance of the notice, then the
amount shall be conclusive and shall be remitted to the City on or before the deadline
specified in the notice.

C.	Hearing. If a timely hearing request is made, then the City Clerk shall notify the operator
in writing of the date, time and place of a hearing on the amount of transient lodging tax
and penalty owed to the City at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing. At such
hearing, the operator may offer evidence to rebut the determination of the City Clerk. After
such hearing, the City Clerk shall revise the initial determination as deemed appropriate
and shall notify the operator in writing of the final determination of the transient lodging
tax and penalty that is due. Such amount shall be remitted to the City within fifteen days
from the issuance of the notice, unless an appeal is filed as provided in this Chapter.

3.55.065. Appeal.

Any operator who is aggrieved by a City Clerk decision regarding the amount of transient
lodging tax or penalty owed by the operator may appeal to the Common Council in
accordance with the provisions of Chapter 2.64 of this Code. Any transient who is aggrieved
by a City Clerk decision regarding the amount of transient lodging tax owed by the transient
may appeal to the Common Council in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 2.64 of
this Code. Any amount that the Common Council determines is owed to the City shall be
remitted to the City Clerk on or before the deadline set by the Common Council.

3.55.070	Records.

A.	Registration Cards. Each operator shall complete and maintain a transient registration
card for every transient that is provided lodging space in the operator's hotel. At a
minimum, transient registration cards shall list the following information:

1.	The name of a person who will occupy, or who is entitled to occupy, the lodging space.

2.	The total number of people who will occupy, or who are entitled to occupy, the lodging
space.

3.	The identification of the lodging space by number.

4.	The date the occupancy will commence and the expected date of termination.

5.	The room rental to be charged for the lodging space.

Transient registration cards shall bear consecutive numbers that shall be preprinted on
the cards by a print shop or manufacturer of the cards. Voided cards shall be kept for
audit purposes.

B.	Daily Summary Sheets. Each operator shall maintain a daily summary sheet for each day
its hotel is open for business. At a minimum, daily summary sheets shall contain the
following information:

1.	The name of a person who will occupy, or who is entitled to occupy, each lodging
space that is provided to a customer that day.

2.	The identification by number of each lodging space provided to a customer.

3.	The daily room rental charge and amount paid for each lodging space provided to a
transient.

4.	The number of the transient registration card applicable to each lodging space
provided to a transient.

3.55.080	Hotel registration.

Within thirty days after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this Chapter, or within
thirty days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of a hotel providing
lodging space to transients shall register such hotel with the City Clerk. Upon registration,
the City Clerk shall issue the operator a “Transient Lodging Registration Certificate” that at
a minimum states the following:

A.	The name of the operator.

B.	The address of the hotel.

PR-005.006

SB 052-047



C.	The issuance date of the certificate.

D.	This Transient Lodging Registration Certificate signifies that the person named on the face
thereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Transient Lodging Tax Ordinance by
registering with the City Clerk for the purpose of collecting from transients the Transient
Lodging Tax and remitting said tax to the City Clerk. This certificate does not authorize
any person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful business in an
unlawful manner, nor to operate a hotel without strictly complying with all local applicable
laws, including but not limited to those requiring a permit from any board, commission,
department or office of this City. This certificate does not constitute a permit.

Each operator shall at all times conspicuously post its Transient Lodging Certificate on
the premises of its hotel.

3.55.090 Immediate payment of tax on cessation of business.

Any operator who ceases providing lodging space to transients shall deliver to the City
Clerk a final lodging information report and shall remit to the City Clerk any transient lodging
tax owed the City. Such delivery and remittance shall be performed within twenty-five days
of the operator’s cessation of such activity.

3.55.100 Sale or ownership transfer of hotel.

If an operator sells or otherwise transfers ownership of its hotel, then the operator’s
successor shall be responsible for remittance of any transient lodging tax and penalty owed
by the operator to the City.

3.55.110 Liens.

A.	The City Clerk shall periodically prepare for the Common Council a report showing: (i)
delinquent transient lodging taxes and penalties that have not been received by the City;
and (ii) the corresponding parcel number designations and addresses of the properties
on which the hotels are operated. The Common Council shall consider such report and
hear any objections thereto at a hearing for which no less than a ten-day advance written
notice has been provided to the subject operators and property owners. The Common
Council may modify the report as deemed necessary and shall confirm the final report
by resolution.

B.	The City Clerk shall file a certified copy of the confirmation resolution with the Auditor of
the County of San Bernardino, State of California, directing that the unpaid transient
lodging taxes and penalties be entered as lien charges against the respective properties
as they appear on the current assessment rolls. Liens will be collected at the same time
and in the same manner, subject to the same penalties and interest upon delinquencies,
as the general taxes for the City of San Bernardino are collected. The City Clerk shall
present for recording appropriate notices of the imposition of these liens with the County
Recorder.

3.55.120 Actions to collect.

A.	Responsibility for Debt. Any transient lodging tax required to be paid by a transient under
the provisions of this Chapter shall constitute a debt owed by the transient to the City.
Any such tax that has been collected by an operator but has not been paid to the City
shall constitute a debt owed by the operator to the City. Any person owing money to the
City under the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable in an action brought in the name
of the City for the recovery of such amount.

B.	Obligation of Operator. Each operator shall be obligated to pay to the City all transient
lodging taxes actually collected, as well as the amount of any such taxes that were lawfully
imposed but not collected by the operator. This obligation includes the duty to pay to the
City all penalties and interest specified by law.

3.55.130 Retention and inspection of records.

A.	Retention. Each operator shall retain, for no less than three years, the records required
to be maintained by this Chapter. The three year period shall commence on the date of
the deadline for remittance of the transient lodging tax to which the record pertains.

B.	Inspection. City representatives may inspect, upon voluntary production by the operator
or compelled production pursuant to subpoena, the records required to be maintained
by this Chapter.

PR-005.007

SB 052-048

3.55.140 Violation-Penalty.

A.	Any person who willfully violates this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

B.	Any person who knowingly makes any fraudulent representation on a document required
by this Chapter to be maintained or delivered to the City shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

C.	Any person who willfully aids another person to violate subsection B shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.

D.	A prosecution for violation of this Chapter shall be instituted within five years after the
commissions of the offense, or within two years after the discovery of the violation,
whichever is later.

3.55.150 Enforcement-Citing authority.

It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, or his or her authorized representatives, to enforce
the provisions of this Chapter. The City Clerk and his or her authorized representatives are
hereby authorized and empowered to issue citations and notices to appear for violations of
the provisions of this Chapter.

3.55.160 Prerequisite for suit.

No suit or proceeding shall be maintained in any court for the recovery of any amount
alleged to have been erroneously or illegally determined or collected unless a refund claim
has been duly filed.

3.55.170 Amendments.

Any increase of the amount of the tax that is imposed by this Chapter, which is set forth
in Section 3.55.020 A, shall be approved by a majority vote of the voters at an election, in
accordance with applicable provisions of state law. Any other amendments to the provisions
of this Chapter shall be adopted by the Common Council.

3.55.180 Severability.

If any part or provision of this Chapter is in conflict or inconsistent with applicable
provisions of federal or state statutes, or is otherwise held to be invalid or unenforceable by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such part or provision shall be suspended and
superseded by such applicable law or regulations, and the remainder of this Chapter shall
not be affected thereby.

SECTION 3. This Ordinance shall only take effect if approved by a majority of the voters
voting in an election held on or before December 31,2002.







MEASURE “E”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Friends, Neighbors, and Fellow Residents,

Vote YES on Measure E! Measure E is not a new tax, and it isn’t a tax increase. Measure
E will simply let the City keep EXISTING revenues that are paid ONLY by visitors to San
Bernardino. These revenues are not paid by San Bernardino residents.

The Transient Lodging Tax is paid only by visitors who rent hotel/motel rooms in San
Bernardino. These visitors use our streets, enjoy our parks, and receive the protection of our
police and fire departments. Shouldn’t visitors pay for those services and amenities so that
San Bernardino residents do not have to foot the bill?

Measure E keeps the Transient Lodging Tax at 10%, which is the same rate it is today. Without
Measure E, the city may lose $2.5 million per year in General Fund revenue. Many programs
paid for by the General Fund, such as your police and fire protection, recreation, libraries,
and senior services would be likely targets for budget cuts.

Our city is at an important crossroads. We need quality city services to bring jobs back, clean
up blight, keep gangs off the streets, and make San Bernardino safe again. We have made
progress - violent crime is down and things are looking brighter. We urge you to CONTINUE
YOUR SUPPORT and VOTE YES ON MEASURE E.

s/Judith Valles
Mayor of the City of San Bernardino

s/Wendy McCammack
Business Owner/CFO
s/Jerry Atkinson

Member of San Bernardino Convention & Visitor’s Bureau, Board of Directors
s/David Kennedy
CPA

s/Florentino Garza
Attorney at Law

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “E” WAS FILED





