3J^/o

conditioned upon the special tax receiving approval by not less than two-thirds of the voters voting
on a corresponding ballot measure; and

WHEREAS, should this ballot measure not receive the requisite approval by not less than
two-thirds affirmative vote of the voters, the current TOT rate of ten percent (10%) shall remain in
full force and effect; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to conduct a special election throughout the entire
City of Merced on March 5, 2002, to determine whether said special tax shall be adopted.

NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Merced does resolve as follows:
SECTION 1. Pursuant to the provisions of the California Constitution, Article XIIIA,
Section 4, Article X1HC, Section 2, Article XlllD, Section 3, and Section 50075, et. seq. of the
California Government Code, a special election shall be held on March 5, 2002, throughout the
entire area of the City of Merced located within the boundaries of the County of Merced, State of
California, submitting to the voters the following measure:

f)\QCisaee B

“Shall the City of Merced’s transient occupancy tax (TOT) be	YES
increased from ten percent (10%) to twelve percent (12%),	
through the enactment of a two percent (2%) special tax to	
provide dedicated funding for equipment, operation and	
maintenance, for a proposed aquatic complex to be constructed	
near Joe Herb Park and Golden Valley High School and for City	NO
recreational programs, subject to fund availability?”	

SECTION 2. Pursuant to Sections 53722 and 50077 of the California Government Code,
the above measure shall become effective only upon the affirmative vote of two thirds of those
electors voting on the measure. Failure to adopt this measure shall not affect the current provisions
of Chapter 3.08 and the enforcement and applicability of the current tax rate of ten percent (10%)

3

contained therein.

CITY FINANCE OFFICERS IMPARTIAL
ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The two percent (2%) increase would first provide funding for equipment, operation and
maintenance of an aquatic complex and any remaining funds would be used for City
recreational programs. Currently a two percent (2%) increase would generate between
$125,000 and $135,000 annually. Preliminary estimates indicate that initially all revenue
generated from the two percent (2%) increase would be used for the operation and
maintenance of the aquatic complex. At this time there is no commitment from the City
of Merced to provide any capital or operating funds for the complex.

Passage of this Measure will require approval by two-thirds of the voters voting.

Passage of this measure will not increase or decrease the cost of City Government.

Bradley R. Grant

City of Merced Finance Officer

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
CITY OF MERCED CITY MEASURE B

The City Council of the City of Merced has placed Measure B on the ballot to ask
voters to approve a special tax to provide funding for equipment, operation and maintenance of a
proposed aquatic complex to be constructed near Joe Herb Park and Golden Valley High School.
Any remaining funds are to be used for funding City recreational programs, as determined by the
City Council. Voter approval of the Measure is required by Proposition 218, a statewide
initiative approved by the voters in November 1996.

The City Council has determined that the development of an aquatic complex would
compliment existing public facilities and enhance the value of the surrounding recreational and
school sites. In addition, the Council determined that development of an aquatic complex would
benefit local hotels, restaurants and other businesses and would enhance tourism in the City by
attracting aquatic events and other regional and statewide aquatic activities to the complex.

Non-city financial resources will be used to construct the aquatic complex facility. The
revenue generated as a result of this special tax will be used exclusively for the funding of
equipment, operation and maintenance of the facility. A joint operation agreement will be
entered into between the City and the Merced School District that will set forth the terms and
conditions of the shared used of the facility by the City and the School District and the
expenditure and use of the City’s funds. In the event there are available funds remaining, those
funds shall be used to finance City recreational programs, as determined by the City Council.

The City Council has proposed an Ordinance to amend Section 3.08.030 of the Merced
Municipal Code to increase the transient occupancy tax rate by the enactment of a 2% special tax,
subject to a two-thirds vote of the voters of the City of Merced.

This special tax would increase the existing 10% transient occupancy tax rate by 2%, for
a total tax rate of 12%, charged by the hotel operator on the transient for the privilege of
occupancy in any hotel, as defined. The revenue generated from the 2% tax increase would be
used to fund equipment, operation and maintenance of the proposed aquatic complex. Any
remaining funds would be used for the funding of City recreational programs, as determined by
the City Council. The special tax increase would not go into effect until completion of the
construction of the complex as evidenced by the filing with the City’s finance officer of a
properly issued Notice of Completion. The City will collect the additional 2% tax and the funds
will be administered by the finance officer and deposited in a special account to be used
exclusively for the purposes so stated.

Should the voters not adopt this Measure by a two-third vote, the current transient
occupancy tax rate of 10% shall continue to be in effect

Gregory G. Diaz, Merced City Attorney

479 Words

Measure B

Rebuttal Statement	Cl	Crr'	_	7

Copy 237 Words	‘	'	*	C;]

r • ,

VOTE NO ON MEASURE B. Because it DOES NOT guafariteFtp^ephance the quality
of recreational activities in the city:	f

1.	There is NO AGREEMENT between the city and the high school.

2.	We don’t know if the facility will be available for public use or if it will be
available for seniors and children (IS THERE A SHALLOW END?).

VOTE NO ON MEASURE B. Because it DOES guarantee:

1.	A 20% Increase in local city tax.

2.	The tax will be paid by Merced tax payers and their visitors, every time a family
comes to town for a reunion or a wedding.

3.	Few waterpolo players (15 per team) even the ones not residing in the city will
consume more then $135, 000 of city taxes EVERY YEAR!

VOTE NO ON MEASURE B. Because it is a LOOSE-LOOSE-LOOSE proposition.

1.	City taxpayers will LOSE by increasing city taxes with no plan, no agreement, no
guarantee for public benefit

2.	High School will LOSE by getting an unsupportable facility whose maintenance,
equipment and operation will exceed $175,000 (the smaller pool at Merced
College exceeds that amount!!!)

3.	The community will LOSE by spending City’s Tax dollars on a high school pool.
More then $135, 000/ year in perpetuity.

Your NO vote on Measure B will save jobs and keep tourists and visitors coming to
Merced.

Say NO to unfair and discriminatory taxes, say NO to measure B.

J.

Print Name: Anatol Shliapnikoff
Sign Name:

Vice President - Merced HotePand Motel Association
Print Name:

Sign Name:

/zA

"7

0! DEC-7

^: 08

LL Rebuttal to Argument Against Measure B

The; dpjbdhents ofMeasure B are misinformed.

The residents and property owners within the city of Merced do not pay this tax. The tax
is paid by those who stay overnight in local hotels. To suggest that city residents pay this
tax is misleading. However, there is no doubt that the residents of Merced will directly
benefit from this first class facility.

The maintenance and operation cost projections are provided by the professional design
firm retained for this project based on their considerable experience with other such
facilities in California. The opponent’s contention that these costs would climb to some
imagined and arbitrary figure in 10 years assumes compounded annual inflation of 30%!
This ridiculous notion is nothing more that a scare tactic and should be dismissed.

The High School District has expressed tremendous support of the aquatic complex to be
built at Joe Herb Park and Golden Valley. They have committed the 1.5 acre site for the
location of the complex.

An agreement between the City and the High School District has been drafted governing
the maintenance, use and operation of the pool.

The pool will be complete with steps and a ramp to allow easy access for children,
seniors and those with physical handicaps. There is a large shallow end for swimming
lessons, aerobics and physical therapy.

This project will not compete with any other city recreational program for funds. In fact,
programs such as senior services and the Boys & Girls Club will benefit from the excess
funds raised.






ATTACHMENT A

ORDINANCE NO.______

AN ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY 2/3 VOTE OF THE VOTERS OF THE
CITY OF MERCED AMENDING SECTION 3.08.030 OF THE MERCED
MUNICIPAL CODE TO INCREASE THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
RATE BY ENACTMENT OF A 2% SPECIAL TAX FOR THE FUNDING
OF EQUIPMENT, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR AN
AQUATIC COMPLEX TO BE CONSTRUCTED NEAR JOE HERB PARK
AND GOLDEN VALLEY HIGH SCHOOL AND FOR CITY
RECREATIONAL PROGRAMS, SUBJECT TO AVAILABILITY OF

FUNDS

THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF MERCED DO ORDAIN BY A TWO-THIRDS
VOTE OF THE VOTERS AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. PURPOSES. The City desires to provide a dedicated source of revenue by

increasing the current Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) rate by two percent (2%) to be used to fund

the equipment, operation and maintenance for a proposed aquatic complex to be constructed near
Joe Herb Park and Golden Valley High School and for City recreational programs, subject to City

Council approval and the availability of funds;

SECTION 2. AMENDMENT TO CODE. Chapter 3.08 of the Merced Municipal Code
dealing with Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) is hereby amended as follows:

“Section 3.08.030 Amount and Payment

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and
shall pay a tax in the amount of ten percent (10%)of the rent charged by the operator.
Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city that is extinguished only
by payment to the operator or the city. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator
of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a
proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax
shall be due upon the transient’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If, for any
reason the tax due is not paid the operator of the hotel, the finance officer may
require that such tax shall be paid directly to the finance officer.

An aquatic complex is proposed to be constructed in the City of Merced near Joe
Herb Park and Golden Valley High School for the shared use by the City, the
Merced Union High School District and the general public. Effective on the date of
completion of the aquatic complex as evidenced by the filing with the finance officer

of a properly issued Notice of Completion, the total amount of the Transient
Occupancy Tax shall increase to an amount equal to twelve percent (12%) of the
rent charged by the operator. An amount equal to two percent (2%) of the amount of
the tax shall be deposited by the city in a special account to be used exclusively for
the funding of equipment, operation and/or maintenance associated with the
proposed aquatic complex and for funding of City recreational programs as
determined by the City Council, subject to availability of funds. This account
shall be administered by the finance officer and the amounts appropriated and
specific use of the designated account funds shall be subject to approval by the City
Council. “

SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon
passage by a vote of two-thirds of the voters of the City of Merced at a special election to be held on
March 5,2002, and the rates established herein shall be in force from and after that date, unless
otherwise provided herein.

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance is found by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, or if the application of this ordinance to
any person or circumstances is found to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not effect the other provisions or application of this ordinance which can be
given effect without the invalid or unconstitutional provision or application.

The foregoing ordinance was adopted by a two-thirds vote of the voters of the City of
Merced at a special election held on the 5th day of March 2002 by the following vote:

YES:

NO:

ATTEST:	APPROVED:

JAMES G. MARSHALL, CITY CLERK

BY:____________________________ ____________________

Deputy City Clerk	Mayor

(SEAL)

01 /T OTbal lotord2. lmk

(Revised 11/13/01)