Sample Ballot

r

SIDE 1	CARD	D____________SIDE	2

OFFICIAL BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED
GENERAL ELECTION

COUNTY OF EL DORADO

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2002

I HAVE VOTED-HAVE YOU?

~\

This ballot stub shall be removed
and retained by the voter.

	BEFORE AND AFTER SCHOOL PROGRAMS. 43 STATE GRANTS. INITIATIVE STATUTE.  Increases state grant funds available for before/after school programs, providing tutoring, homework assistance, and educational enrichment. Requires that, beginning 2004-05, new grants will not be taken from		
	education funds guaranteed by Proposition 98. Fiscal Impact: Additional annual state costs for before and after school programs of up to $455 million, beginning in 2004-05.	YES	+
		NO	+
	CA WATER QUALITY, SUPPLY AND SAFE  3U drinking water projects, coastal  WETLANDS PURCHASE AND PROTECTION. BONDS. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Authorizes $3,440,000,000 general obligation bonds to fund a variety of specified water and wetlands projects. Fiscal Impact: State cost of up to $6.9 billion over 30 years to renav hnnris Reduction in local orooertv tax		
	revenues, up to roughly $10 million annually; partially offset by state funds. Unknown state	YES	+
	and local operation and maintenance costs.	NO	+
	CH TRANSPORTATION. DISTRIBUTION OF 3 • EXISTING MOTOR VEHICLE SALES AND USE TAX. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Redistributes portion of existing state motor vehicle sales/lease revenues from General Fund to Trust Fund for transportation, environmental, and highway and school bus safety programs. Fiscal Impact: Redirects specified General Fund revenues to transportation-related purposes,		
	totaling aDout a>4zu minion in zuuz-ua, $yiu million in 2003-04, and increasing amounts annually thereafter, depending on increases in motor vehicle sales and leasing.	YES	+
		NO	+
	CO ELECTION DAY VOTER REGISTRATION.  VOTER FRAUD PENALTIES. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Allows legally eligible persons to register to vote on election day. Increases criminal penalties for voter and voter registration fraud. Criminalizes conspiracy to commit voter fraud. Fiscal Impact: Annual state costs of		
	voter registration activities. No anticipated net county costs. Minor state administrative costs and unknown, but probably minor, state costs to enforce new election fraud offense.	YES	+
		NO	+
	COUNTY		
	EL DORADO COUNTY MEASURE V		
	W Shall the adoption of Ordinance No. 4262 V by the Board of Supervisors, increasing	YES	+
	the transient occupancy tax (hotel/motel tax) from 8% to 10% be approved and ratified?	NO	+

	MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		
	STATE		
	AC HOUSING AND EMERGENCY SHELTER 40 trust FUND ACT OF 2002. This act provides for the Housing and Emergency Shelter Trust Fund Act of 2002. For the purpose of providing shelters for battered women, clean and safe housing for low-income senior citizens, emergency shelters for homeless families with children, housing with social services for the homeless and mentally ill, repairs and accessibility improvements to apartments for families and handicapped citizens, homeownership assistance for military veterans, and security improvements and repairs to existing emergency shelters, shall the state create a housing trust fund by issuing bonds totaling two billion one hundred million dollars ($2,100,000,000), paid from existing state funds at an average annual cost of one hundred fifty seven million dollars ($157,000,000) per year over the 30-year life of		
	the bonds, with the requirement that every city and county is eligible to receive funds as	YES	+
	specified in the measure and with all expenditures subject to an independent audit?	NO	+
	47 KINDERGARTEN-UNIVERSITY PUBLIC 4f EDUCATION FACILITIES BOND ACT OF 2002. This thirteen billion fifty million dollar ($13,050,000,000) bond issue will provide funding for necessary education facilities to relieve overcrowding and to repair older schools. Funds will be targeted to areas of the greatest need and must be spent according to strict accountability measures. Funds will also be used to upgrade and build new classrooms in the California Community Colleges, the California State University, and the University of California, to provide adequate higher education facilities to accommodate the growing student enrollment. These bonds may be used only for eligible projects. Fiscal Impact: State cost		
	OT aDoui vdb.z Dimon over ju years to pay on both the principal ($13.05 billion) and interest ($13.15 billion) costs on the bonds. Payments of about $873 million per year.	YES	+
		NO	+
	4Q COURT CONSOLIDATION. LEGISLATIVE 40 CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Amends Constitution to delete references to the municipal courts, which references are now obsolete due to the consolidation of suDerior and municiDal trial		
	courts into unified superior courts. Fiscal Impact: No additional cost to state or local	YES	+
	government.	NO	+

09-407D

►►over ►►

09-404D

VOTE BOTH SIDES D



09-SB704

Sample Ballot

09SB704

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE V

A transient occupancy tax, sometimes called a hotel/motel
tax, is a tax paid by persons staying in a hotel, motel or other
lodging for a period of 30 days or less, and is based on a
percentage of the room charge. It is paid by the occupant of
lodging to the proprietor of the hotel or motel who in turn remits
the money to the county, which may spend it for any lawful county
purpose.

The County hotel/motel tax can only be levied on the
occupants of lodgings located in the unincorporated area of the
County, and not on occupants of lodgings located within the
boundaries of the cities of Placerville or South Lake Tahoe.
(California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7280). Typically,
incorporated cities have their own hotel/motel tax which is only
applied to lodging within the city limits and which is separate
and apart from the county tax. There is no geographic overlap
between a county hotel/motel tax and any city hotel/motel tax.
Therefore Measure V would not affect lodging rates within, or
occupancy tax revenues received by, the cities of Placerville or
South Lake Tahoe.

El Dorado County first enacted a hotel/motel tax of 8% of
the room charge in 1965. In 1992, by Ordinance No. 4262, the
Board of Supervisors raised the county hotel/motel tax from 8%
to 10%, effective January 1, 1993. This 2% increase was not
submitted for voter approval at that time because the law as it
then existed did not require voter approval for such an increase.
The 10% rate has been collected since January 1993.

In 1995, the California Supreme Court decision in the case
of Santa Clara Local Transportation Authority v. Guardino (1995)
11 Cal 4th 220 cast doubt on whether the 2% increase was valid
without voter approval. More recent court decisions have continued
to suggest that Ordinance 4262 may require voter ratification.

Measure V seeks voter approval for the 2% increase in the
hotel/motel tax on the occupants of lodgings in the unincorporated
area of the county enacted by the Board of Supervisors in 1992.
Voter approval would not increase the tax rate from that which
has been collected since January 1993. Measure V requires a
simple majority vote to pass. The underlying 8% hotel/motel tax
rate would remain in effect even if this measure fails to pass by
majority vote.

A “yes” vote is a vote to ratify and approve the 2% increase
in the hotel/motel tax enacted in 1992, thus validating the previous
action by the Board of Supervisors.

A “no” vote is against approving and validating that 2%
increase.

si Louis B. Green
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V

Measure V would keep the County’s existing 10% hotel/motel
tax in place. It does not affect the motel/hotel tax rates in the cities
of South Lake Tahoe or Placerville. The tax is paid mostly by tourists
and travelers who stay in our County hotels, motels, country inns,
and short-term lodgings. It is fair for visitors to pay a tax to offset
their impacts on County roads, facilities, and services.

The County has been charging a 10% hotel/motel tax since 1993.
Measure V will not increase the tax, it will just maintain it at the
present rate. There would be no new expenses for the businesspeople
who own and run our hotels, motels, and inns, or for their guests.
Measure V is needed because recent court decisions have thrown
the County’s 1993 action into doubt.

The hotel/motel tax is an important source of County revenues,
and one that has little impact on County residents. For example,
when the Board of Supervisors increased County funding to our
local fire districts last year, the dollars that Measure V will protect
helped to finance the program.

Recently, the Board has been asked by County veterans to support
their efforts to renovate and maintain the Veterans' Memorial Building.
We agreed to help them in any way we could. If Measure V passes,
we will have the dollars we need to fulfill that commitment.

We need your support for Measure V. Measure V will not increase
taxes, but if it does not pass, we will lose 20% of our hotel/motel
tax dollars. El Dorado County has already endured too many
cutbacks and money grabs from the state government. In these
uncertain times, we can’t afford to lose another revenue source -
especially one that taxes tourists for their fair share of impacts.
VOTE YES ON MEASURE V.

si Dolly Wager, President
El Dorado County Chamber of Commerce

s/ Rod Barton, Director of Veterans Services

si Chief Michael Chandler, President
El Dorado County Fire Chiefs’ Association

si Carl Borelli, Board of Supervisors
District III
Veteran, USMC

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

09510

CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE
MEASUREZ

EXHIBIT A

CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE
PROPOSED ORDINANCE

A PROPOSED ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 28A-13 OF THE
SOUTH LAKE TAHOE CITY CODE CONCERNING
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX RATES

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Section 28A-13 of the South Lake Tahoe City Code
is hereby amended to add the following paragraph to the end of
that Section:

In addition to the transient occupancy tax set forth above, for
the privilege of occupancy in any transient lodging facility within
the City, each transient shall pay $1.00 for each night of
occupancy. Up to an additional 500 per occupied room night may
be assessed by resolution of the City Council if, after holding a
public hearing, the City Council finds that the additional tax is
needed as a result of events which result in revenue losses or
expenses to the City caused by circumstances such as natural
or man-made disasters, or state funding cuts in any fiscal year
exceeding $200,000. This paragraph shall be of no further force
and effect on October 31, 2006.

Section 2. Section 28A-15 of the South Lake Tahoe City Code
is hereby amended to read as follows:

Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this Article to the
same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from
every transient. Each transient shall receive a receipt for payment
from the operator indicating the room rate and the amount of
transient occupancy tax assessed based upon the percentage
assessed in Section 28A-13. The additional $1.00 - $1.50 per
occupied room night fee imposed pursuant to the last paragraph
of Section 28A-13 may either be reflected separately on the
receipt, or included in the rent.

Section 3. To the extent the provisions of this ordinance are
substantially similar to previous provisions of the City of South Lake
Tahoe City Code amended hereby, they shall be construed as
continuations of those earlier provisions, and not as new enactments.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of
this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remainder of the Ordinance. The people of the
City of South Lake Tahoe hereby declare that they would have adopted
this Ordinance, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of that fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions
be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 4. This ordinance shall be published one time in the
official City newspaper within fifteen (15) days after its adoption.
This is an ordinance relating to taxes for the usual and current
expenses of the City and therefore may take effect immediately upon
approval pursuant to Government Code Section 36937(d). It shall
take effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City
Council. Sections 1 and 2 of this Ordinance shall be of no further
force and effect after October 31, 2006.

Section 5. The City Council is hereby authorized to amend
this Ordinance and other provisions of the transient occupancy tax
ordinance of the City by three (3) affirmative votes of its members
to carry out the general purposes of this Ordinance, to conform the
provisions of this Ordinance to applicable state law, to permit the
City Manager or his/her designee to collect the tax levied by this
Ordinance, or to re-assign the duties of public officials under this
Ordinance. In no event, however, may the City Council increase the
tax rate as adopted by this Ordinance or extend the sunset of Sections
1 and 2 hereof without the approval of a majority of the voters of
the City voting on the question.

EXHIBIT B

CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE
PROPOSED ORDINANCE

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 15-28 OF THE
SOUTH LAKE TAHOE CITY CODE CONCERNING
BUSINESS AND PROFESSIONS TAX RATES

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE
DOES HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 15-28 is hereby amended to read as follows:

Businesses classified within the following schedules shall pay
business license fees per One Thousand Dollars ($1,000) of

gross receipts as follows:

Schedule A:	1.04

Schedule B:	1.56

Schedule C:	2.08

Schedule D:	2.60

Schedule E:	3.12

Business taxes (license fees) imposed by this section and
administrative fees assessed pursuant to section 15-4.1 shall not
exceed in total the sum of Three Thousand Dollars ($3,000) for any
business location in any calendar year. Penalties and interest shall
be in addition to business license fees and administrative fees.

Business taxes (license fee) rates shall be applicable to every
business made subject to a tax based upon gross receipts by this
Code. The business license fee rates, administrative fees and
maximum rates specified herein shall increase annually on July 1st
by an amount equal to the lesser of three percent (3%) or the change
in the San Francisco/Oakland All Urban Consumer Price Index
published by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, or any successor
to that index, between the previous April and March of the year in
which the calculation is performed.

The City Manager or his/her designee shall annually calculate
the increased amounts authorized by this section and shall publish
those calculations in the manner required by law.

Section 2. Section 15-4.2 of the South Lake Tahoe City Code
is hereby repealed.

Section 3. To the extent the provisions of this ordinance are
substantially similar to previous provisions of the City of South Lake
Tahoe City Code amended hereby, they shall be construed as
continuations of those earlier provisions, and not as new enactments.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of
this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remainder of the Ordinance. The people of the
City of South Lake Tahoe hereby declare that they would have adopted
this Ordinance, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of that fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases or portions
be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 4. This ordinance shall be published one time in the
official City newspaper within fifteen (15) days after its adoption.
This is an ordinance relating to taxes for the usual and current
expenses of the City and therefore may take effect immediately upon
approval pursuant to Government Code Section 36937(d). It shall
take effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City
Council.

Section 5. The City Council is hereby authorized to amend
this Ordinance and other provisions of the business license fee
ordinance of the City by three (3) affirmative votes of its members
to carry out the general purposes of this Ordinance, to conform the
provisions of this Ordinance to applicable state law, to permit the
City Manager or his/her designee to collect the tax levied by this
Ordinance, or to re-assign the duties of public officials under this
Ordinance. In no event, however, may the City Council increase the
tax rates, inflation adjustment formula or maximum tax amount as
adopted by this Ordinance without the approval of a majority of the
voters of the City voting on the question.

09-508

09508