November 5, 2002
General Election

Total Yes Votes: 2,457 39.89%

Total No Votes: 3,703 60.11%

CITY OF TULARE

(required to pass: majority of votes cast)

MEASURE C

Shall the City Code pertaining to the charging of a Utility User’s Tax be
amended to increase the maximum amount of tax for each utility service that a
larger utility customer must pay in any calendar year?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY TULARE CITY ATTORNEY

MEASURE C

The City of Tulare imposes a Utility User’s Tax on persons, including individuals
and businesses, who receive telephone, electricity, natural gas, water and/or
cable television utility services within the City limits. The applicable tax is 7% of
the user’s utility bill. This percentage will not change as a result of this
Measure.

However, the current maximum tax any one party can be required to pay on any
individual utility service in a given calendar year is $560.00. This maximum
amount was set more than 20 years ago and has not been increased since
then.

The Tulare City Council is seeking voter approval to increase this maximum
amount by $150.00 per year until it reaches the amount of $2,060 per year in
2012 and to allow the City Council to increase the maximum tax thereafter as it
deems appropriate and necessary.

This increase is expected to affect only a small percentage of the largest utility
users within the City and is intended by the City Council to have such larger
utility customers pay their “fair share” when compared to the Utility User’s Taxes
paid by other utility customers.

s/ S.L. Kabot
City Attorney
City of Tulare

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

On November 5, 2002, you will be voting on a matter of fairness in our
community. We encourage you to vote YES on election day.

About 70 utility users pay the maximum tax of $560 per utility, the same since
1978. This means as the rates rise, they pay no more tax even though the rest
of us do. State law now requires any change in taxes to be approved by the
voters.

To bring the maximum closer to its value in 1978, this measure increases the
maximum over a ten-year period to $2,060. It ensures that everyone, including
big utility users, pay an appropriate amount towards city services. This is
particularly true for our streets and new library proposal. The Council agreed to
not suspend 1% of the utility user tax, as it has in past years. This caused the
tax to go from 6% to 7% on July 1, 2002 for ten years to pay for those unmet
needs. By voting YES on Measure C large utility users also will help pay for
improvements to our streets and library systems.

Having noticed big utility users of this change and receiving only five responses,
we believe this measure will not have a significant effect on business. It will
provide some additional city revenues and make sure all that benefit also
contribute.

Based on these facts, we strongly encourage a YES vote on Measure C.

Tulare City Council
s/ William R. Cooke, Mayor

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED






ORDINANCE NO. 02-1904

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF TULARE
AMENDING CHAPTER 5.76 OF THE CITY CODE PERTAINING TO

UTILITIES TAX

BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Tulare that Sections 5.76.020,
5.76.030, 5.76.040, 5.76.050, 5.76.060, and 5.76.150 of Chapter 5.76 of Title 5 of the
Tulare City Code be amended and a new Section 5.76.180 be added to Chapter 5.76 of
Title V of the Tulare City Code to read as follows:

SECTION 1. 5.76.020: TELEPHONE TAX is hereby amended and shall read as
follows:

5.76.020: TELEPHONE TAX

(A)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person who uses telephone
communication services in the City, other than a telephone corporation. The tax imposed
by this Section shall be at the rate of seven percent (7%) of all charges made for such
telephone communication services and shall be collected from the service user by the
telephone communication services supplier or its billing agent. To the extent allowed by
law, the tax on telephone communication services shall apply to a service user if the billing
or service address of the service user is within the City's boundaries. If the billing address
of the service user is different from the service address, the service address of the service
user shall be used.

(B)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may issue and disseminate to
telecommunication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements
of this ordinance, an administrative ruling identifying those telecommunication services that
are subject to the tax of subsection (a) above. This administrative ruling shall be
consistent with legal nexus and the federal excise tax rules, regulations, and laws
pertaining to "communications services." In the event that the federal excise tax on
telecommunications is repealed, this administrative ruling shall refer to the federal excise
tax law on telecommunications that existed immediately prior to the date of repeal.

(C)	As used in this Section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any other
services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the telephone communication services. If a non-taxable
service and a taxable service are billed together under a single charge, the entire charge
shall be deemed taxable unless the service supplier can reasonably identify charges not
subject to the utility users tax based upon its books and records that are kept in the regular
course of business, which shall be consistent with generally accepted accounting
principles. As used in the Section, the term "charges" shall not include charges for
services paid for by inserting coins or coin operated telephones except that where such
coin operated telephone service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid
under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be included in
the base for computing the amount of tax due.

(D)	Except as otherwise provided herein, the words "telephone communication
services" shall mean "communication services" as defined in Sections 4251 and 4252 of

1

the Internal Revenue Code, and the regulations thereunder, regardless of the means or
technology used to provide such services. "Telephone communication services" shall not
include "private mobile radio service" [as defined in Part 20 of Title 47 of the Code of
Federal Regulations], which is not interconnected to the public switched network. The tax
imposed under subsection (a), above, shall not be imposed upon any person for using
telephone communication services to the extent that, pursuant to Sections 4252 and 4253
of the Internal Revenue Code, the amounts paid for such communication services are
exempt from or are not subject to the tax imposed under Section 4251 of the Internal
Revenue Code. In the event that the federal excise tax on "communication services" as
provided in Sections 4251, 4252 and 4253 of the Internal Revenue Code is subsequently
repealed, any reference in this section to such law, including any related federal
regulations, private letter rulings, case law, and other opinions interpreting these sections,
shall refer to that body of law that existed immediately prior to the date of repeal.

(E)	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telephone communication
services subject to tax under this Section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax
Administrator that the service user has previously paid the same tax in another state or city
on such telephone communication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax
imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state or city;
profiled, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this
Section. For purposes of establishing sufficient legal nexus for the imposition and
collection of utility user's tax on charges for telephone communication services pursuant to
this Chapter, "minimum contacts" shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition
and collection of the utility users' tax to the fullest extent permitted by California and
federal law, and as it may change from time to time.

(F)	The tax on telephone communication services imposed by this Section shall be

collected from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one

(1)	month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax
Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month. If a service
supplier of telephone communication services uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to
bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall:	i)	provide to the Tax

Administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing
aggregator currently authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect and/or remit the tax to
the City; and, ii) upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver or effect the delivery of, any
information or records in the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in
the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application,
calculation, collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

SECTION 2. 5.76.030: ELECTRICITY TAX is hereby amended and shall read as

follows

5.76.030: ELECTRICITY TAX

(A)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using electricity in the City.
The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of seven percent (7%) of the charges
made for such electricity, and for any supplemental services or other associated activities
directly related to and/or necessary for the provision of electricity to the service user, which
are provided by a service supplier or non-utility service user. The tax shall be collected

2

from the service user by the service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing
agent.

(B)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, shall survey service that they
commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the
charges therefore, including those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory
agencies as a condition of providing such electric service. The Tax Administrator,
thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such electric service suppliers an administrative
ruling identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary or common to the
receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service, or, ii) currently, or historically have been,
included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by a local distribution company to a
class of retail customers. Unbundled charges for such components and items shall be
subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(C)	As used in this Section, the term "charges" shall include:

(1)	energy charges;

(2)	distribution or transmission charges;

(3)	metering charges;

(4)	stand-by reserve, firming, ramping, voltage support, regulation,
emergency, or other similar minimum charges for services;

(5)	customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power exchange charges,
independent system operator (ISO) charges, stranded investment or competitive transition
charges (CTC), public purpose program charges, nuclear decommissioning charges, trust
transfer amounts (bond financing charges), franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annuai
and monthly charges, and other charges, fees and surcharges which are necessary to or
common for the receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service; and,

(6)	charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or programs, which
are mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, whether or not such charges, fees , or surcharges appear on a
bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

(D)	As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by
the service user in exchange for the electricity or services related to the provision of such
electricity. If a non-taxable service and a taxable service are billed together under a single
charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the service supplier can
reasonably identify charges not subject to the utility users tax based upon its books and
records that are kept in the regular course of business, which shall be consistent with
generally accepted accounting principles.

(E)	As used in this section, the term "using electricity" shall not be construed to
include electricity used in water pumping by water corporations; nor shall the term include
the mere receiving of such electricity by an electrical corporation at a point within the City
of resale.

(F)	The tax on electricity provided by a non-utility service supplier not under the
jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be collected and remitted in the manner set forth in
Section 5.76.045 of this Chapter. All other taxes on charges for electricity imposed by this
Section shall be collected from the service user by the electric service supplier or its billing
agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth
(20th) day of the following month; or, at the option of the person required to collect and/or

remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax
billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service user, which must
be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following
month. If an electric service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill,
collect, and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax Administrator
the name, address and telephone number of each agent and billing aggregator currently
authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and ii)
upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or
records in the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of
the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation collection
and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

SECTION 3. 5.76.040: GAS TAX is hereby amended and shall read as follows

5.76.040: GAS TAX

(A)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using the City
gas which is delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The tax imposed by this
Section shall be at the rate of seven percent (7%) of the charges made for such gas,
including all services related to the storage, transportation and delivery of such gas. The
tax shall be collected from the service user by the service supplier or non-utility service
supplier, or its billing agent.

(B)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, shall survey the gas service
suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components of gas retail service that
they commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and
the charges therefore, including those items that are mandated by state or federal
regulatory agencies as a condition of providing such gas service. The Tax Administrator,
thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such gas service suppliers an administrative
ruling identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary or common to the
receipt, use and enjoyment of gas service, or, ii) currently, or historically have been,
included in a single or bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a
class of retail customers. Unbundled charges for such components and items shall be
subject to the tax of subsection (a) above.

(C)	As used in this Section:, the term "charges" shall include:

1.	the commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas owned
by the service user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lifting,
storage, gathering, trunk line, pipeline, and other operating costs associated with the
production and delivery of such gas), which is delivered through a gas pipeline distribution
system;

2.	gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent
not included in commodity charges);

3.	storage charges; provided, however, that the service supplier shall not
be required to apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services when the service
supplier cannot, as a practical matter, determine the jurisdiction where such stored gas is
ultimately used; but it shall be the obligation of the service user to self-collect the amount
of tax to the appropriate jurisdiction;

4.	capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, transition charges, customer charges, minimum charges, annual

4

and monthly charges, and any other charges, which are necessary or common to the
receipt, use and enjoyment of gas service; and,

5.	charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs, which are
mandated by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or
line item basis on the customer billing.

(D)	As used in this section the term "charges" shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by
the service user in exchange for the gas or services related to the delivery of such gas. If
a non-taxable service and a taxable service are billed together under a single charge, the
entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the service supplier can reasonably identify
charges not subject to the utility users tax based upon its books and records that are kept
in the regular course of business, which shall be consistent with generally accepted
accounting principles.

(E)	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this
Section is computed: 1) charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through
a pipeline distribution system, 2) charges made for gas to be used in the generation of
electricity by an electrical corporation; 3) charges made by a gas corporation for gas used
and consumed in the conduct of its business; and 4) charges made for gas used in water
pumping by water corporations.

(F)	The tax that is calculated on charges for gas provided by self-production or
by a non-utility service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be collected
and remitted in the manner set forth in Section 5.76.045 of this Chapter. All other taxes on
charges for gas imposed by this Section shall be collected from the service user by the gas
service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be
remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator, on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month; or , at the option of the person
required to collect and/or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax
measured by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the
service user, which must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth
(20th) day of the following month. If a gas service supplier uses a billing agent or billing
aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the
Tax Administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent and
billing aggregator currently authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit
the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the
delivery of, any information or records in the possession of such billing agent or billing
aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper
application, calculation collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

SECTION 4.5.76.050: WATER TAX is hereby amended and shall read as follows

5.76.050: WATER TAX

(A)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using the City water which is
delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The tax imposed by this Section shall be
at the rate of seven percent (7%) of the charges made for such water and shall be paid by
the person paying for such water.

5

(B)	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this Section
is computed charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered through mains or
pipes and charges made by a water corporation for water used and consumed by such
water corporation in the conduct of its business.

SECTION 5. 5.76.060 VIDEO TAX SECTION 2. is hereby amended and shall read
as follows

5.76.060 VIDEO TAX

(A)	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using video service in the City
from a video service supplier. The tax imposed by this Section shall be at the rate of seven
percent (7%) of the charges made for such video services. The tax shall be collected from
the service user by the video service supplier, or its billing agent.

(B)	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, shall survey the video service
suppliers in the City to identify the various components of video service that are being
offered to customers within the City, and the charges therefor. The Tax Administrator,
thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such video service suppliers an administrative
ruling identifying those components: i) that are necessary or common to the receipt, use
and enjoyment of video service; or, ii) which currently are, or historically have been,
included in a bundled rate for video service by a local distribution company. Charges for
such components shall be subject to the tax of subsection (A) above.

(C)	As used in this Section, the term "charges" shall include charges made for:

1.	franchise fees and access fees (PEG), whether designated on the
customer's bill or not;

2.	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of
video services;

3.	late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

4.	activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

5.	all programming services (e.g., basic services, premium services,
audio services, video games, pay-per-view services, and electronic program guide
services);

6.	equipment leases (e.g., converters, remote devices);

7.	service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of
services, and special services (e.g., no promotional mail); and

8.	the leasing of channel access (e.g., home shopping) to the extent that
the service user is subject to an additional direct or indirect charge for programming or
communications over the leased channel; provided that, in the absence of evidence of
direct payment by the service user, the indirect payment of the service user(s), which is
subject to the utility user's tax, shall be deemed to be the lease payment to the video
service supplier by the party leasing the channel access.

(D) As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by
the service user in exchange for the video services. If a non-taxable service and a taxable
service are billed together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed
taxable unless the service supplier can reasonably identify charges not subject to the utility
users tax based upon its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business,
which shall be consistent with generally accepted accounting principles.

6

(E) The tax imposed by this Section shall be collected from the service user by
the video service supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of such services. In the case of
video service, the service user shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk video
service (e.g., an apartment owner), unless such service is resold to individual users, in
which case the service user shall be the ultimate purchaser of the video service. The
amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and
must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the
following month. If a video service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill,
collect, and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax Administrator
the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator
currently authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City;
and, ii) upon request of the Tax Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any
information or records in the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in
the opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application,
calculation, collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

SECTION 6. 5.76.150 REFUNDS is hereby amended and shall read as follows:

5.76.150: REFUNDS

(A)	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or
has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this
Chapter, it may be refunded as provided in this Section.

(B)	The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid, paid more
than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax
Administrator under this Chapter, provided that no refund shall be paid under the
provisions of this Section unless the claimant or his or her guardian, conservator, executor
or administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax Administrator within one year of
the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim must clearly
establish claimant's right to the refund by written records showing entitlement thereto.
Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

(C)	The submission of a written claim, which is acted upon by the City Council, shall
be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. (See Government Code Section 935). The City
Council shall act upon the refund claim within the time period set forth in Government
Code Section 912.4. If the City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the
time prescribed by Government Section 912.4, the claim shall be deemed to have been
rejected by the City Council on the last day of the period within which the City Council was
required to act upon the claim as provided in Government Code Section 912.4.

(D)	A service user who desires to obtain the benefits of the maximum tax limitations
in Section 5.76.180, shall file a claim for refund with the Tax Administrator and the claimant
must establish his right to a refund by written records or other relevant evidence.

(E)	Notwithstanding other provisions of this Section, whenever a service supplier,
pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent
jurisdiction, makes a refund to service users of charges for past utility services, the taxes
paid pursuant to this Chapter on the amount of such refunded charges shall also be
refunded to service users, and the service supplier shall be entitled to claim a credit for
such refunded taxes against the amount of the tax which is due upon the next monthly

7

returns. In the event this Chapter is repealed, the amounts of any refundable taxes will be
borne by the City.

(F)	It is the intent of the City Council that the one year written claim requirement
of this subsection be given retroactive effect; provided , however, that any claims which
arose prior to the commencement of the one year claims period of this Section, and which
are not otherwise barred by a then-applicable statute of limitations or claims procedure,
must be filed with the Tax Administrator as provided in this subsection within ninety (90)
days following the effective date of this ordinance.

(G)	Notwithstanding subsections (B) and (D) above, a service supplier shall be
entitled to take any overpayment as a credit against an underpayment whenever such
overpayment has been received by the City within the three years next preceding a notice
of tax deficiency or assessment by the Tax Administrator, or during any year for which the
service supplier, at the request of the Tax Administrator, has executed a waiver of the
defense of the statute of limitations with regard to any claim the City may have for a utility
users tax.

SECTION 7: . Section 5.76.180 MAXIMUM ANNUAL TAX IMPOSED, shall be
added to Chapter 5.76 of Title 5 of the Tulare City Code to read as follows:

5.76.180: MAXIMUM ANNUAL TAX IMPOSED

Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter to the contrary, the tax
imposed upon any person for any one utility service, for any one calendar year of
service, shall not exceed the following:

Calendar Year________Amount

2003	$	710

2004	860

2005	1,010

2006	1,160

2007	1,310

2008	1,460

2009	1,610

2010	1,760

2011	1,910

2012	2,060

Commencing in year 2012 for calendar year 2013, and then each year thereafter,
the City Council may choose to increase the maximum amount for the next succeeding
calendar year by resolution; provided that the City Council shall use as a guideline for the
determination of the new maximum rate for the next succeeding calendar year, the
preceding year’s Annual Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the San
Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, California area or any successor index. Any such
Resolution adopted by the City Council shall be adopted at a regular City Council meeting
on or before the second regular Council meeting of the month of June of the preceding
year.

8

SECTION 8. This Ordinance shall only become effective if, and when, the voters of
the City of Tulare approve said Ordinance by a simple majority vote of those voters casting
votes at the November 5, 2002, general municipal election. In the event that voters shall
approve this Ordinance, it shall become effective as of January 1, 2003.

PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this	day

2002.

Chief Deputy City Clerk and Clerk of the
Council of the City of Tulare

9

I, KEVIN NORTHCRAFT, City Clerk of the City of Tulare and Clerk of the

Council of said city, do hereby certify that at a regular meeting of said City Council held on
the 2nd day of July, 2002, the foregoing Ordinance No. 02-1904 was duly and regularly
introduced, passed-to-print and ordered published in the Tulare Advance Register, a
newspaper of general circulation published in the City of Tulare, by the following vote:

AYES:

COUNCIL MEMBERS:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

COUNCIL MEMBERS
COUNCIL MEMBERS
COUNCIL MEMBERS

Richard Ortega
Nettie Washington
Brenda Hastings
William Cooke

None

None

David Macedo

KEVIN NORTHCRAFT, CITY CLERK ,
Y:

ief Deputy City Clerk and Clerk of
Chief Deputy City Clerk of
the Council of the City of Tulare

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

COUNTY OF TULARE ) S3

CITY OF TULARE

I, KEVIN NORTHCRAFT, City Clerk of the City of Tulare and Clerk of the
Council of said city, do hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 01-1904 was duly
adopted by the City Council of said city and was signed by the President of said council,
at a regular meeting of said City Council held on the 16thday of July, 2002 and was
approved by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:	David	Macedo

Brenda Hastings
Richard Ortega
Nettie Washington
William Cooke

NOES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:	None

ABSTAIN

COUNCIL MEMBERS:	None

ABSENT

COUNCIL MEMBERS:	None

Chief Deputy City Clerk and Clerk of
the Council of the City of Tulare