GENERAL ELECTION

FFICIAL
SAMPLE
BALLOT

AND VOTER
INFORMATION

758

CONNY B. McCORMACK
LOS ANGELES COUNTY
REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK
12400 IMPERIAL HIGHWAY, NORWALK, CA 90650

(800) 815-2666 OR (562)466-1323
INTERNET - www.lavote.net OR http://regrec.co.la.ca.us

PAGE

CITY

WHITTIER CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

:

lif Shall Ordinance No. 2811 be approved to increase the existing utility user yy tax from 5% on all utilities, as established by the City in 1970, to 7.5% on all ■ • utilities for the funding of general city services and programs and to ratify Ordinance No. 2804 enacted May 28, 2002?		209 yes-*g
		o  t  o  o  CM
DISTRICT  CENTRAL BASIN MUNICIPAL WATER DISTRICT		
Member, Board of Directors, Division 2 Vote for One	LARRY GREGORY GALLEGOS Oilm*  Teacher A10"*?	
	MANUEL JIMENEZ 01 /WO  Retired Journalist t lH^ ‘	
	ROBERT 0. APODACA OIRmvO  Member, Board Of Directors, Division 2 c 1Q	
	DAVID KEITH COOPER 01fi«*r%  Research Chemist 110 vJ	




FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE W

The People of the City of Whittier do ordain as follows:

The existing City of Whittier Utility Users’ Tax, originally enacted by the City
Council in 1970 by Ordinance No. 1895 and as last amended in 2002 by
Ordinance No. 2804, is hereby modified by this measure.

The original ordinance instituted a 5% tax on electricity, fucl/natural gas, water,
cable television, and telephone services to fund general municipal services, and
has subsequently been amended from time to time.

To provide for general fund municipal services of the City of Whittier, the tax
rate on all utilities subject to the Whittier Utility Users’ Tax shall be increased by
2.5%, from 5% to 7.5% effective upon approval of this measure, and Ordinance
No. 2804 enacted May 28, 2002 to take account of and implement the federal
Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act, is ratified and affirmed. To effectuate
this measure, Ordinance No. 2811 is approved and adopted and shall become
effective upon certification that this measure has been approved by a majority of
qualified electors voting in the election at which it is considered.

IF YOU DESIRE A COPY OF UTILITY USERS’ TAX ORDINANCE NO. 2811,
PLEASE CALL THE WHITTIER CITY CLERK’S OFFICE AT (562) 464-3330
AND A COPY WILL BE MAILED AT NO COST TO YOU.

1

PR-900248-1

LA 758-048

............ .,»««*#*

' -• *'*** ■ ' " .........................................

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE W

This measure seeks voter approval of an increase in the Utility Users' Tax rate
from 5% to 7.5% to be implemented by Ordinance Number 2811, and voter
affirmation and ratification of Ordinance No. 2804 enacted May 28, 2002 to take
account of and implement the federal Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act.
The original Utility Users’ Tax was adopted in 1970 and imposes a 5% tax on the
use of utilities by Whittier residents. The tax applies to electricity, natural gas,
water, cable television, and telephone services. The tax rate has never been
increased. The ordinance contains provisions for the exemption of low income
persons and procedures for seeking such exemptions. It also contains provisions
relating to calculation and payment of the Utility Users’ Tax, administration of
the tax, and requests for refunds.

The Utility Users’ Tax currently provides approximately $6.6 million of the City’s
general fund revenue, or approximately 16% of the City’s general fund operating
budget.

A “yes” vote on this'measure would approve the increase in the Utility Users’
Tax, and ratify Ordinance 2804 which implemented the Federal Mobile
Telecommunications Sourcing Act. Although the Council approved ordinance
2804 to implement the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (which was
enacted with the support of the wireless telephone industry'), voter approval is
being sought to confirm consistent treatment of wireless telephone service with
traditional wired telephone service, and to avoid litigation threatened by one
wireless carrier that would potentially cost Whittier taxpayers hundreds of
thousands of dollars.

Approval of the measure would generate additional general fund revenue in the
approximate amount of $3.36 million annually, which can be used to fund all
general services and programs, including high priority capital improvement
projects. The new tax rate would begin to be collected no later than March 1,
2003.-In addition, the City Council has introduced an ordinance to raise the
existing household income limitation from $12,500 to $19,300 to qualify for
exemption from the Utility Users’ Tax if Measure W is approved by the voters.
This would allow more persons to qualify for the low income exemption. Those
who qualify for exemption from the existing tax would also qualify for exemption
from the increase. The City Council has also approved formation of a Citizen’s
Oversight Committee to advise the City Council as to the recommended use of
the increased general fund revenue from the proposed increase and to evaluate
actual expenditures of the increased revenues.

(Continued on next page)



/

PR-900248-2

LA 758-049

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE W (Continued)

A “no” vote on this measure would leave the tax rate at 5%. If there is no
increase in general fund revenue, the City Council will have to determine what
programs, services or projects would have to be reduced, postponed or
eliminated in coming budgets. If the measure does not pass, the income
threshold for exemption from the tax will not be raised, but those currently
eligible for the exemption would continue to qualify for it. In addition, the City
will likely be exposed to a lawsuit and its attendant costs if Ordinance 2804 is not
ratified.

RICHARD D. JONES
City Attorney

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE W.
IF YOU DESIRE A COPY OF THE UTILITY USERS’ TAX ORDINANCE,
PLEASE CALL THE CITY CLERK’S OFFICE AT (562) 464-3330, AND A
COPY WILL BE MAILED AT NO COST TO YOU.

PR-900248-3

LA 758-050

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W

To fund vital sendees and promote a strong local business economy, Whittier
urgently requires new general fund revenue.

The Council’s decision to establish a Citizens’ Watchdog Committee to monitor
Measure W spending will ensure accountability.

Public Safety Crisis

While protecting our community from crime and violence is more important
than ever, state and federal reductions have forced our police department to cut
officers and eliminate vital services.

Our police facility/emergency operations center, built 47 years ago for 20
officers, cannot accommodate our current 92 officers and their support staff. In
an earthquake or terrorist attack, our emergency center would be overwhelmed
and inadequate to efficiently serve our community.

Education Crisis

While education revitalization efforts are moving ahead, our City cannot fulfill

its education partnership responsibilities. Our library lacks enough space for
literacy tutoring and an after-school homework assistance center. . The
overcrowding restricts children’s reading programs and limits access for persons
with disabilities.

Crisis Solution: Measure W

Measure W will cost the average Whittier household approximately $5 monthly,
and low-income families will be exempted altogether.

Whittier residents need Measure W to meet citizens’ many needs, including:

-	Strengthening public safety and emergency preparedness by constructing a new
police facility' and filling vacant public safety positions.

-	Increasing literacy for children and adults by building a new library with the
state paying 2/3 of the cost. Whittier can receive these State library construction
funds only if we can fund the balance. If not, those funds will go to other
communities.

-	Improving streets and access to city facilities for seniors and the disabled,
expanding after-school programs, and improving other vital services.

Vote Yes for a Safer Whittier. Vote Yes for Literacy and Learning. Vote Yes for
Increasing Citizen Oversight of City Spending. Vote Yes on Measure W.








ORDINANCE NO. 2811

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF
WHITTIER AMENDING CHAPTER 3.24 OF THE WHITTIER
MUNICIPAL CODE

WHEREAS, the City of Whittier has insufficient genera! fund revenues to meet its
general fund needs, including but not limited to capital improvement projects,
community service programs, public safety, and street and parks maintenance;

WHEREAS, an increase in the utility user tax is necessary to meet the City’s
general fund needs now and in the future;

WHEREAS, effective on August 1, 2002, federal law provides that a tax by a city
whose territorial limits encompass a customer’s place of primary use, regardless of
where the mobile telecommunication services originate, terminate, or pass through, has
the authority to tax all such charges for mobile telecommunications services; and

WHEREAS, the people of the City desire to ensure that the utility users’ tax is
applied equally to both wired and wireless telephone services and to have the utility
users’ tax applied to wireless services consistent with the Mobile Telecommunications
Sourcing Act, which is effective as of August 1, 2002.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF WHITTIER DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Section 3.24.040 of Chapter 3.24 of the Whittier Municipal Code is
repealed and replaced in its entirety with the following:

There is imposed a tax upon every person in the city using cable television
service. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of seven and one-
half percent of the charges made for such service and shall be paid by the
person paying for the service.

SECTION 2. Subsection A of Section 3.24.050 of Chapter 3.24 of the Whittier
Municipal Code is repealed and replaced in its entirety with the following:

There is imposed a tax upon every person in the city using electrical
energy in the city. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of seven
and one-half percent of the charges made for the energy and shall be paid by the
person paying for the energy. “Charges,” as used in this section, shall include
charges made for metered energy and minimum charges for the service,
including customer charges, service charges, demand charges, standby charges,
and annual and monthly charges.

SECTION 3. Subsection A of Section 3.24.060 of Chapter 3.24 of the Whittier
Municipal Code is repealed and replaced in its entirety with the following:

Ordinance No. 2811

Page 2

There is imposed a tax upon every person using, in the city, gas which is
delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate of seven and one-half percent of the charges made for the gas and shall be
paid by the person paying for the gas.

SECTION 4. Subsection A of Section 3.24.070 of Chapter 3.24 of the Whittier
Municipal Code is repealed and replaced in its entirety with the following:

There is imposed a tax upon every person in the city, other than a
telephone corporation, using intrastate, interstate, intercontinental, cellular and
wireless telephone communications services in the city. The tax imposed by this
section shall be at the rate of seven and one-half percent of all charges made for
such services and shall be paid by the person paying for such services.

SECTION 5. Subsection A of Section 3.24.080 of Chapter 3.24 of the Whittier
Municipal Code is repealed and replaced in its entirety with the following:

There is imposed a tax upon every person using, in the city, water which
is delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this section shall be at
the rate of seven and one-half percent of the charges made for the water and
shall be paid by the person paying for the water. “Charges,” as used in this
section, shall include charges made for:

1.	Metered water; and

2.	Minimum charges for services, including customer charges, ready to
serve charges, standby charges, and annual and monthly charges.

SECTION 6. The provisions of Ordinance No. 2804 approved by the City Council
on May 28, 2002 are hereby affirmed and ratified.

SECTION 7. Should any section, subsection, clause or provision of this
ordinance for any reason be held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this ordinance, it being hereby expressly declared that this
ordinance, and each and every section, subsection, sentence, clause and phrase hereof
would have been prepared, proposed, approved, adopted and/or ratified irrespective of
the fact that any one or more section, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases of
this ordinance be declared invalid.

SECTION 8. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
ordinance and shall cause the same to be published in the manner required by law.
This ordinance shall become effective immediately from and after its approval by the
voters. All service suppliers shall commence collection of the increased tax rate
provided for herein no later than March 1,2003.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 5th day of November 2002,

Ordinance No. 2811

Page 3

ATTEST:

DAVID O. BUTLER, Mayor

KATHRYN A. MARSHALL
City Clerk-Treasurer