VENTURA

V

- „ %. '% J

GUBERNATORIAL
PRIMARY ELECTION

TUESDAY, MARCH 5, 2002

C7^

and

Voter Information Pamphlet

AVISO / NOTICE

Se puede obtener una traduccion en espanol del folleto
de informacion para el elector, llamando al 654-2664.

A Spanish translation of voter information pamphlet is
available by calling 654-2664.

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR ABSENT
VOTER BALLOT ON BACK COVER

V*°

RICHARD D. DEAN, COUNTY CLERK AND RECORDER	£olHnc,

n9e.

P/9l

ce

THE LOCATION OF YOUR
POLLING PLACE

IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER



POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M. •

SAVE THIS SAMPLE BALLOT TO HELP YOU LOCATE
YOUR POLLING PLACE ON ELECTION DAY

56-FC-E-64038	56-FC-E

SAMPLE BALLOT

D

OFFICIAL BALLOT

NONPARTISAN BALLOT
COUNTY OF VENTURA

March 5, 2002

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

CITY

CITY OF FILLMORE

Yes	+
No	+

The City Council of the City of Fillmore ("City")

Q proposes to purchase the existing swimming
v* pool property, located on the Fillmore High
School campus, 555 Central Avenue, Fillmore,

California, from the Fillmore Unified School District and construct a
new swimming pool on the property. This purchase and construction
of the swimming pool is contingent on the voters of the City
authorizing the City Council to adopt an ordinance imposing a
special tax of Fifteen Dollars ($15.00) per year per parcel for
swimming pool maintenance costs.

56-501D-N-P

D

56-SB413

56SB413

56SB413

CITY OF FILLMORE CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS* MEASURE "Q"	ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "Q"  The community of Fillmore is in great need of a recreational facility that can be used by people of all ages. Currently, the Fillmore High School pool (the
The City Council of the City of Fillmore ("City") proposes to purchase the existing swimming pool property, located on the Fillmore High School campus, 555 Central Avenue, Fillmore, California, from the Fillmore Unified School District and construct a new swimming pool on the property. The stated purpose of the Ordinance is to impose a special tax of Fifteen Dollars ($15.00) per year per parcel for swimming pool maintenance costs. The tax will be imposed annually unless the City Council determines by June 30 before the next fiscal year not to impose the tax for that fiscal year.	only public pool in Fillmore) is closed due to health and safety concerns. Past repairs had temporarily reopened the pool but major renovations are now necessary. Upon approval of Measure Q, city redevelopment funds would be used to demolish the old pool and build a new facility, which would be owned by the city. The new pool would include a locker room facility with showers and restrooms that would comply with county requirements for community pools. Measure Q is to provide funding for maintenance and upkeep of the new pool complex. These funds would not be considered part of the city’s general fund. The new pool would be heated for use throughout the year, expanding the scope of programs available to the citizens of
The tax rate cannot exceed the maximum established by the Ordinance without the approval of a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electors of the City of Fillmore. If the voters do not approve the Ordinance, the City will not purchase the existing swimming pool property or build a new swimming pool.  Dated: December 14,2001.  J. Roger Myers,  Fillmore City Attorney	Fillmore. City programs could include swimming lessons, classes in water aerobics, conditioning, water safety and lifeguard skills. Individuals and families could access the pool for recreational swimming activities throughout the year. A joint use agreement between the city and the school district would make the pool available for swimming, water safety classes and aquatic competitions for elementary, middle and high school students. The cost to the citizens of Fillmore for Measure Q is $15.00 per parcel of land per year. This is approximately $1.25 per month for each parcel owner to ensure proper upkeep and maintenance of a new pool complex. A vote to approve Measure Q would ensure healthy aquatic recreational activities for the citizens of Fillmore. VOTE YES ON MEASURE "Q".
The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure "Q." The full text of Measure "Q" is reprinted in this Voter Information Pamphlet.	s/Susan E. Merry,  Member Fillmore Community Pool Foundation  s/Barbara A. Smith,  Resident of El Dorado Estates
•Section 9280 of the California Elections Code allows the City Attorney to prepare an Impartial Analysis for each city measure appearing on the ballot.	s/Norma Perez-Sandford,  Fillmore/Piru Youth Task Force Facilitator Ventura Co. Juvenile Justice/Delinquency Prevention Commissioner Fillmore/Piru Boys and Girls Club Board Member  s/Donald Gunderson,  Mayor, City of Fillmore  s/Max S. Pina,  Retired  NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED
9200eia	9200eaf

5616

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE "Q"

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FILLMORE, CALIFORNIA IMPOSING
A SWIMMING POOL MAINTENANCE SPECIAL TAX SUBJECT TO THE
APPROVAL OF TWO-THIRDS OF THE VOTES UPON THE PROPOSAL
WITHIN THE CITY OF FILLMORE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF FILLMORE, CALIFORNIA DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter 3.33 of Title 3, Finance and Revenue, is hereby
added to the Fillmore Municipal Code to read as follows:

"Chapter 3.33. Swimming Pool Maintenance Special Tax

of the California Government Code.

"Sec. 3.33.040. Purpose.

"(a) This special tax revenue shall be used by the City only to pay for:

"(1) Maintenance and operating costs of the swimming pool;

"(2) Administrative expenses incurred in implementing this Chapter 3.33,
including refunds involved in the collection of the special tax provided for
herein.

"(b) The City may provide for the collection of the special tax in the same
manner and subject to the same penalties as, or with, other charges and
taxes fixed and collected by the City, or by the County of Ventura on behalf
of the City. If the special tax is collected by the County on behalf of the City,
the County may deduct its reasonable costs incurred in such service.

"Sec. 3.33.010. Definitions.

"For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:

"(a) 'Apartment’ means a dwelling unit rented or leased which is a part of a
larger building with two (2) or more such units.

"(b) ‘Building’ means any structure having a roof supported by columns or
walls for the housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or
property of any kind.

"(c) 'Condominium project' means a condominium, as defined in Section
1351 of the Civil Code, a community apartment project, as defined in
Section 11004 of the Business and Professions Code, or a stock
cooperative, as defined in Section 11003.2 of the Business and Professions
Code.

"(d) ‘Director of Finance’ means the Director of Finance of the City of
Fillmore.

“(e) 'Dwelling unit’ means a unit which is used as a principal residence.

“(f) ‘Swimming pool' means the Fillmore Municipal Swimming Pool, as the
same may exist from time to time, together with any additions or
betterments thereto, or improvements, extensions or expansions thereof.

“(g) 'Maintenance and operating costs’ of the swimming pool means all
reasonable and necessaty costs expended or incurred by the City of
Fillmore for maintaining and operating the swimming pool, calculated in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles including, but not
limited to:

“(1) the reasonable expenses of management and repair and other
expenses necessary to maintain and preserve the swimming pool in good
repair and working order; and

"(2) depreciation, replacement and obsolescence charges or reserve
therefor; but shall not be construed to mean costs of major capital
improvements.

“(h) ‘Multiple family residential’ means any building which contains more
than one (1) dwelling unit.

“(i) ‘Parcel’ means a unit of real property identified by a separate and
distinct number or other designation on a plat recorded in the office of the
Ventura County Recorder.

"(j) ‘Single family residential’ means the same as dwelling unit.

"Sec. 3.33.020. Exemptions.

"(a) Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation
of either the Constitution of the United Slates or the Constitution of the State
of California.

"(b) The tax imposed by this article shall not be levied upon the federal
government, the state government, any state agency or any local
governmental agency.

"(c) The tax imposed by this article shall not be levied upon a parcel of
property or improvement to property which is owned by a house of worship
or charitable or community service organization which qualifies for an
exemption from ad valorem taxation under California law.

"Sec. 3.33.030. Special tax.

"(a) There is hereby imposed a special tax on each residential dwelling unit
or non-residential parcel within the City of Fillmore for the purposes set forth
in this article at the rate specified herein.

"fbi This tax is enacted under the authority of Sections 37100.5 and 50075

"(c) Any money raised by the special tax, including any interest accrued
thereon, that remains unencumbered at the end of any fiscal year shall only
be used in a succeeding fiscal year for the purposes stated in this article.
The availability of a surplus for any succeeding year shall be considered by
the City when levying the tax for that year.

“Sec. 3.33.050. Tax rate; contingency.

"(a) Unless, prior to June 30 of the first and each ensuing fiscal year, the
city Council by resolution determines not to impose this special tax, an
annual special tax is hereby levied on the following categories of property in
the jurisdiction of the City:

"Property categories:	Maximum Tax rate:

"(1) Single family residential or condominium (per unit) $15.00

"(2) Apartment (per unit)	$15.00

"(3) Non-residential property (per parcel)	$15.00

"(b) In no event shall the amount of the tax rate to be levied under this
article exceed the amount established by this article without the approval of
a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electors of the City voting upon such change at
a municipal election called for such purpose in accordance with applicable
law.

"Sec. 3.33.060 Term.

"The annual special tax provided for herein shall be and hereby is levied in
consecutive fiscal years, commencing with the first fiscal year in which there
is a levy pursuant to this Chapter 3.33, unless the City Council determines
not to impose the special tax for a particular year pursuant to Section 3.33.
Such levy may only be changed or amended with the approval of the voters
by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electors of the City voting upon such
change at a municipal election called for such purpose in accordance with
applicable law.

"Sec. 3.33.070. Adjustments and refunds.

"(a) Requests for adjustments involving imposition of this special tax shall
be filed with the Director of Finance. Upon applicant’s production of
reasonably sufficient evidence of error in the computation of the tax or
exemption therefrom, the Director of Finance, or his/her designee, shall
cause the tax to be recalculated, and shall so advise the Ventura County
Tax Collector or other appropriate official.

"(b) Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any tax has been overpaid or
paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or
received by the City under this article, the refund procedure shall be as
follows:

"(1) No claim for refund of tax payment shall be allowed in whole or in part
unless filed with the City Clerk within a period of three (3) years from the
date of the claimed overpayment. All such claims for refund of the amount
of the overpayment must be filed on forms furnished and in the same
manner prescribed by the Finance Department of the City. Refunds may be
made solely from the special tax revenues collected under this article.

"(2) In the event the Director of Finance denies the claim, he/she shall notify
the claimant pursuant to California Government Code Section 913.

"(c) The Director of Finance shall have the power to settle claims involving
the special tax, and the power to accept and record underpayments or
overpayments of such tax. The Finance Director shall have the authority to
make refunds of this tax.

"(d) If the County of Ventura does not collect any tax due under this article,
the Finance Director shall have the power and duty to enforce all of the

5617

provisions of this article. In such cases, an assessment may be made
against the owner of a parcel in the manner provided by law. Any unpaid tax
due under this article shall be subject to all remedies provided under the
Fillmore Municipal Code and as provided by law.

"(e) The special tax shall be due in two (2) equal installments in accordance
with the collection procedures of the Ventura County Tax Collector, with the
first installment due November 1 and the second installment due in the next
succeeding February 1, each fiscal year. The owner of land, at the time set
forth in California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 405 and 2192 for
each fiscal year, shall have a personal obligation to the City until the tax is
paid for such fiscal year.

"(f) The Finance Director may prepare a questionnaire to be served on the
owner of a parcel subject to this special tax. The questionnaire may request
information which would be useful to the Finance Director in the
enforcement or administration of this Chapter 3.33. The failure by an owner
to provide the information requested within thirty (30) days of receipt of the
request, or the act of an owner in knowingly providing false information,
shall be a misdemeanor.

“Sec. 3.33.080. Amendments.

"Procedural provisions of this article may be amended by ordinance duly
enacted by the City Council."

SECTION 2. If any portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
this Ordinance, it being expressly declared that this Ordinance and each
portion hereof would have been adopted irrespective of the fact that any
portion would be declared invalid.

SECTION 3. All ordinances and parts of ordinances of the City in conflict
herewith to the extent of such conflict and no further are hereby repealed.

SECTION 4. This Ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the
date on which the City Council has declared the voters of the City of
Fillmore approved this Ordinance by a vote of not less than two-thirds (2/3)
of the votes cast by the electors voting on the special tax proposal set forth
in the Ordinance.

SECTION 5. The City Attorney is hereby designated and directed to prepare
a summary of the Ordinance. A certified copy of the full text of the
Ordinance shall be posted and available in the office of the City Clerk.

SECTION 6. The City Clerk shall cause the City Attorney’s summary of this
Ordinance to be published once, within fifteen (15) calendar days after the
date on which the City Council has declared the voters of the City of
Fillmore have approved this Ordinance, in the Fillmore Gazette, a
newspaper of general circulation, printed, published and circulated in the
City, and shall cause a copy of this Ordinance and her certification, together
with proof of publication, to be entered in the Book of Ordinances of the City.

92008ft

5618