Digest

by Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: San Francisco's water system supplies
drinking water to about 2.4 million people in San Francisco and the
Bay Area. This water is stored at Hetch Hetchy Reservoir and in
other reservoirs in the Sierra and in Alameda and San Mateo
counties. Some of the water is piped more than 150 miles to reach
the Bay Area. Many of the water system's pipelines, tunnels and
other facilities are in need of repair or replacement. Some of these
are located on or near fault lines, and are vulnerable to damage in
an earthquake.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition A is a revenue bond that would
authorize the City to borrow $1,628,000,000 to pay for improve-
ments to its water system. The money would be used to:

•	Upgrade and strengthen the system's pipelines, tunnels and
other facilities against earthquakes;

•	Upgrade the system used to store water and pipe it to the
Bay Area;

•	Upgrade the water distribution system in San Francisco;

•	Meet future water quality standards; and

•	Increase water system capacity.

Rates charged to water system customers in San Francisco
would be increased over time to repay these bonds. San Francisco
landlords could pass on to tenants in rent-controlled units half the
increase in water rates resulting from the bond. Suburban water
system users would finance and pay for their share of improve-
ments to the water system.

If in the future the San Francisco Board of Supervisors deter-
mines that it is cheaper to pay for water system improvements by
joining with suburbs to create a Regional Water Financing
Authority, then a surcharge will be imposed on San Franciscans to
cover the additional costs including to pay for the operating
expenses of the Authority.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote "Yes," you want the City to
borrow $1,628,000,000 to make water system improvements, to be
paid for with increased water rates.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote "No," you do not want the City
to borrow $1,628,000,000 for these purposes.

Controller’s Statement on “A”

City Controller Edward Harrington has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition A:

In my opinion, should the proposed bond issue of
$1,628,000,000 be authorized and bonds issued at current inter-
est rates, based on a single bond sale and level redemption
schedules, the cost would be approximately $85,000,000 annual-
ly for thirty (30) years for a total approximate cost including debt
service of $2,551,000,000.

This bond amount represents increases ranging between 5%
and 12% annually between 2003 and 2015 in water rates for San
Francisco consumers, the source of repayment for these bonds.
For the average single family residential service in San Francisco
this cost is equivalent to an increase of approximately $26.42 per
month above the current rate of $14.43 per month, for a total of
$40.85 per month by 2015.

The City typically does not issue all authorized bonds at one
time; if these bonds are issued over several years, the actual debt
service may be somewhat less than the maximum amount shown
herein.

Before the bonds are issued, the City will need to amend the
Residential Rent Stabilization and Arbitration Ordinance. This
amendment is to provide landlords the ability to pass through 50%
of the costs resulting from increased water rates to residential ten-
ants. Under current financing assumptions, the average tenant
in a four unit building would pay approximately $10.56 per month
by 2015.

How Supervisors Voted on "A"

On July 22, 2002 the Board of Supervisors voted 8 to 3 to place
Proposition A on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

Yes: Supervisors Ammiano, Daly, Gonzalez, Leno, Maxwell,
McGoldrick, Newsom, and Peskin.

No: Supervisors Hall, Sandoval, and Yee.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 50%+1 AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.____________________

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE P-19.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE P-3.

P-6

PROPOSITION A

WATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT REVENUE BONDS AND IMPOSITION OF SURCHARGE
ON RETAIL WATER CUSTOMERS. Shall the Public Utilities Commission, or any succes-
sor thereto, issue revenue bonds and/or other forms of revenue financing in a principal
amount not to exceed $1,628,000,000 (the "Bonds"), to finance the acquisition and con-
struction of improvements to the City's water system; provided that the bonds may not
be issued unless Administrative Code Chapter 37 (Residential Rent Stabilization and
Arbitration Ordinance) is amended to provide that landlords may pass through to resi-
dential tenants 50% of the water bill costs attributable to water rate increases resulting
from issuance of the Bonds where a unit is in compliance with any applicable laws
requiring water conservation devices, tenants may file hardship applications with the
Rent Board for relief from all or part of the cost passthrough and their affected landlords
may utilize any available Public Utilities Commission low-income rate discount program
or similar program for water bill reduction based on the tenants' hardship status; and fur-
ther provided that the principal amount of the Bonds may be reduced if the City's Board
of Supervisors determines the greatest economic value to San Francisco ratepayers will
derive from having the San Francisco Bay Area Regional Water System Financing
Authority finance, in whole or in part, those projects designed and intended in substan-
tial part to improve the reliability of the City's regional water system, and if the Authority
does finance such projects, shall the Public Utilities Commission be authorized to
impose a surcharge on retail water rates for San Francisco customers' to pay the retail
water customer's share of the debt service on bonds issued by the Authority and the
operating expenses of the Authority?

Notice to Voters:

The “Digest,” “Controller’s Statement,” and “How Supervisors Voted” information
on this measure appear on the opposite (facing) page.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 50%+1 AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE P-19.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE P-3.

P-7

PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Should a major earthquake strike San Francisco's Hetch Hetchy
water system must be ready.

If a serious quake were to occur today, there is a high probabil-
ity that water delivery to San Francisco could be interrupted for
more than two months. This would threaten our ability to fight
fires after an earthquake and lead to an economic disaster as we
attempted to recover without a stable water supply.

When San Franciscans came together in common purpose to
build Hetch Hetchy nearly 100 years ago, we showed we were a
city that knew how to do things right. Now, it is time for our gen-
eration to show that we know how to safeguard this civic treasure.

After years of study and rigorous review, the city is going for-
ward with Proposition A to seismically-strengthen and repair the
deteriorated system.

Hetch Hetchy brings more than vital water; it provides tremen-
dous financial benefits to the people of San Francisco. Because of
our ownership of the system, San Francisco will pay for just 30
percent of the cost of regional repairs. Our suburban customers
will pay the rest - $2 billion. And our water rates will be compet-
itive with neighboring counties in the Bay Area. Hetch Hetchy
also provides San Francisco free water and power for critical city
needs such as the Municipal Railway, Public Schools, San
Francisco General Hospital and other city facilities.

Now is the time to safeguard this civic treasure. The system
crosses three major earthquake faults and is vulnerable.

A city cannot live without water. That's why Board President
Tom Ammiano and Supervisors Peskin, Maxwell, Daly, Leno and
McGoldrick have joined with the Chamber of Commerce, envi-
ronmental activists and leaders from throughout San Francisco to
support Proposition A.

Please Vote YES on Proposition A.

Supervisors Tom Ammiano, Aaron Peskin, Sophie Maxwell, Chris
Daly, Mark Leno and Jake McGoldrick

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Proposition A triples water rates, raises rents and gives away
control of our water system to the suburbs.

Don't fall for the scare campaign. Though our water delivery
system must be made seismically safe, there is an alternative plan
that would cost 75% less - and keeps San Francisco voters, not
suburban politicians, in control of our water system.

The political establishment supports this measure because it
helps to create a new bureaucracy called The Regional Water
Finance Authority. This Authority will control spending and set
your water rates. You the ratepayer or renter will pay the costs of
this new bureaucracy.

Current law requires a vote of the public to increase water rates.
This important decision must remain in the hands of voters and
certainly not the hands of politicians.

Please read the ballot question and you will see that the devil is
in the details. See through the fear campaign and keep what
Congress gave San Francisco more than 80 years ago.

Please join us in saying NO to THE WATER GRAB. Vote No
on Prop A!

The Coalition for San Francisco Neighborhoods

San Francisco Taxpayers & Homeowners Association

San Francisco Hotel Council

The Residential Builders Association

The Coalition for Better Housing

The San Francisco Association of Realtors

San Francisco Apartment Association

Professional Property Management Association of San Francisco
Golden Gate Restaurant Association

OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Nobody wants to be without water and everybody agrees that
San Francisco's water delivery systems must be made seismically
safe. The only question is - on whose terms and at what price?

Proposition A would triple water bills, raise rents, threaten the
environment and give control of our water system to the suburbs.

Nearly 100 years ago Congress deeded ownership and control
of this national treasure to the City and County of San Francisco -
The Raker Act.

Why should the City now turn over control of this great asset to
the suburbs?

Why should suburban politicians and their representatives set
future rate increases when today only San Francisco voters have
that power?

Why should home owner's water bills triple?

Why should tenants pay 50% of landlords new water bills?

Can San Francisco's Public Utility Commission - appointed by
the Mayor - really handle a $4 Billion dollar water works project?
The same Commission that mismanaged the City Sewer Project?
A PUC with three managers in four years?

For nearly 20 years local politicians ripped-off water revenues,
balancing the City's budgets while neglecting essential repairs.
No wonder these same politicians and political establishments
support this bond.

Two years ago a Public Utility Infrastructure Task Force was
established to review and solicit input on these water projects.
Their June 18, 2002 final report states, "a majority of the Task
Force feels that the PUC cannot successfully implement a huge
capitol improvement project". They advocated a plan with one-
fourth the pricetag.

Water, like air, is essential. The system must be fixed - not
given away. Don't let scare tactics prevail. Federal Law preempts
State Law.

Finally, let's protect the environment by demanding an EIR as
part of the plan!

No on Prop A.

Catherine R. Svirsky
Concerned Tenant

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Even the opponents agree - our water system must be made
seismically safe.

Proposition A is the result of three in-depth studies that show an
immediate threat to Hetch Hetchy. Many of the pipes that bring
water to San Francisco are over 80 years old and they run over
three major earthquake faults.

The science is clear. The studies are sound. The delays the
opponents ask for will only increase our risk and the ultimate
costs of repair.

Some facts to remember:

•	If Proposition A fails, pending legislation (AB 1823) enables
the California Department of Health Services to take over the
system.

•	If we lose the system, we will almost certainly lose the tens
of millions of dollars of revenue it brings to San Francisco.

•	Our water rates are some of the lowest in the region - and
they will remain competitive with those in the region
because Proposition A will enable us to retain control of
Hetch Hetchy.

•	Proposition A includes "lifeline" rates for seniors and low-
income tenants, so we can fix the system without undue eco-
nomic hardship.

•	Proposition A includes additional citizens oversight to make
sure funds are spent efficiently.

The threat is so great, and the costs of delay are so high, that we
must put aside the battles between landlords and tenants to unify
for Proposition A. Don't let politics get in the way of public safety.

Please join Supervisors Ammiano, Daly, Gonzalez, Leno,
Maxwell, McGoldrick and Peskin in support of Proposition A.

Supervisors Tom Ammiano, Chris Daly, Matt Gonzalez, Mark
Leno, Sophie Maxwell, Jake McGoldrick and Aaron Peskin

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

SENIORS SUPPORT THE REPAIR AND RENEWAL OF
OUR WATER SYSTEM! PAY NOW OR PAY MUCH MORE
LATER. VOTE YES ON PROP A.

Margaret Griffin, Vice-President, SENIOR ACTION NETWORK
Denise D'Anne, Treasurer, SENIOR ACTION NETWORK

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is SENIOR ACTION NETWORK.

Hetch Hetchy is the largest source of high quality drinking
water in California. It delivers water to all San Franciscans and
several peninsula communities — about 3 million people
are served.

The Hetch Hetchy water system needs overhauling: new pipes
that are seismically upgraded to meet modern safety standards;
reinforcement of city reservoirs, such as in the Sunset, that pro-
vide water to 60% of San Francisco and serve as emergency sup-
ply; and modernized pump stations that move water throughout
the city.

It would be foolhardy not to repair this system. Throughout
California, there are communities searching for high quality
drinking water. We have it and we must keep it.

I urge you to vote "Yes" on Proposition A.

Dianne Feinstein, U.S. Senator, former Mayor, former Supervisor

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

State Senator Jackie Speier says "it is not a question of if a
major earthquake will strike the Bay Area. It is a question of
when." I agree.

Hetch Hetchy's aging pipes cross three active earthquake faults:
the Calaveras, the Hayward, and the San Andreas. A 7.0 earth-
quake could cut water to 2.4 million residents of the Bay Area for
up to 60 days. Emergency crews would be unable to fight fires,
and hospitals would be unable to function properly. This is a risk
that we cannot afford to take.

Senator Speier and I speak with passion borne of a love of this
great city when we implore you to help Save Hetch Hetchy for our
generation and for generations to come.

History will judge us by our vote on November 5.

Please, vote yes on A.

Jane Morrison, Chair, San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

Join the San Francisco Democratic Party in Voting YES
on A.

Proposition A is a vital public safety priority for all San
Franciscans. We must protect our water supply and preserve the
Hetch Hetchy system.

A major earthquake will strike sooner, or later.

We must be ready.

Don't Delay. Vote YES ON A!

San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

The San Francisco Chamber of Commerce Urges YES on A.

As representatives of the business community, we know that our
economy will wither if we cannot protect our water supply. A
major earthquake will knock out water to our city for months.
That will create an immediate danger as we fight fires in the after-
math of an earthquake, and a long-term disaster as we try to
rebuild our economy without water.

We have waited too long already. Now is the time for the entire
city to unite behind Proposition A.

A. Lee Blitch, President and CEO, San Francisco Chamber of
Commerce

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

The Harvey Milk Democratic Club Urges Yes on A.

Rebuilding Hetch Hetchy is a priority that must be shared by
every San Francisco community. For our health, for our safety and
for the economic security of our city - VOTE YES ON A.

Harvey Milk Democratic Club

p-io

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

It’s a sound plan. Vote Yes on Prop A.

A Blue Ribbon Panel made up of experts in water supply, plan-
ning, finance and the environment met to independently evaluate
the Prop A Capital Improvement Program.

We found the plan to be solid, well designed and achievable. We
urge San Franciscans to support this long overdue measure.

Restoring the Hetch Hetchy water supply system is necessary to
protect the public health and is good for all San Franciscans.
Please vote YES on A.

Jim Chappell, President, SPUR (San Francisco Planning & Urban
Research Association), Blue Ribbon Panel Convener

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

The Hetch Hetchy system was an engineering marvel when it
was constructed nearly 90 years ago. However, now it does not
meet modern earthquake safety requirements. Many of the water
system's pipelines and structures are at the end of their useful life
and require replacement or rehabilitation before they fail.

Water from the dam in the Sierra Nevada flows across three
major earthquake faults as it travels in pipelines over 167 miles to
the City of San Francisco and the Bay Area. The risk of a signifi-
cant earthquake is high. Furthermore, there are system compo-
nents without redundancy. Standards and technology have
improved dramatically since construction in 1914, and should be
implemented to help protect this vital system and assure all City
users of a constant water supply.

We mush rehabilitate and/or replace pipelines and structures as
well as incorporate modern seismic safety standards to protect our
water supply system.

Please join the American Society of Civil Engineers, San
Francisco Section, in support of Proposition A.

Jennifer Webber

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

Vote Yes on Prop A.

The Hetch Hetchy water system is the pride of our city, but all
agree that it is in need of repair.

We San Franciscans must demonstrate that we won't neglect
one of our most precious possessions by protecting Hetch Hetchy
from earthquakes and collapse. Proposition A will help preserve
this vital system and keep it in the hands of San Francisco while
maintaining our partnership with our suburban customers. The
economic benefits that San Francisco enjoys will continue.
Proposition A should be a priority for everyone.

Please Vote Yes on Prop A.

Jim Lazarus, Former Deputy Mayor

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

Vote Yes on Prop A!

We work in San Francisco to keep your lights on, but we know
it's just as important to have water come from the tap.

Please join us in supporting Proposition A it's about protecting
a vital resource, it's about clean water, and it's about jobs.

Yes on A.

IBEW Local 1245

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is IBEW Local 1245.

Proposition A will allow San Francisco to produce recycled
water for the first time. This can help recharge the Westside
Basin Aquifer and reduce our dependence on the Hetch Hetchy
reservoir.

Vote Yes on A!

San Francisco Tomorrow

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Tomorrow.

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

The Hetch Hetchy water system is San Francisco's life line.
SPUR believes that Proposition A is a well researched, well-pre-
pared investment in the long term future of our water system.

Improvements to the system will be paid for over time.
Customers who live outside the city will pay their share up front.
The plan puts the most important work first, in the interests of
shoring up the system's ability to withstand earthquakes.

Because this is a revenue bond, it will be paid for out of cus-
tomers' fees; it will not raise taxes.

Together with Proposition E, a companion measure that gives
the Public Utilities Commission the tools it needs to get the job
done on time and on budget, we can protect our water supply for
the next century.

SPUR recommends a yes vote on Prop A.

For the full ballot analysis, see www.spur.org

SPUR

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is SPUR Urban Issues Committee.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. John Weeden 2. Frankie Lee 3. Vince Hoenigman.

Join me in voting Yes on Prop A.

The Hetch Hetchy water system is part of what makes San
Francisco a unique place to live, but the system is aging and in
need of repair.

Proposition A would direct our money to where it is needed to
fix the rusting and decaying pipelines. These repairs will keep our
water clean and make sure an earthquake will not leave us with-
out water.

Now is the time to cast a vote that will keep San Francisco a
one-of-a-kind city.

Please, vote yes on A.

Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

San Franciscans Unite to Preserve Hetch Hetchy - Vote YES
on A.

San Francisco has always been a city of great vision. Proposition
A is our chance to renew that vision by preserving our water system.

Nearly 80 years ago, our city united to create the world-class
Hetch Hetchy water system. Now, we must unite again to invest in
system repairs and to ensure San Francisco's continued ownership
of this vital utility.

Please join us in voting YES on A.

Senator John Burton
Assemblyman Kevin Shelley

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

Proposition A will ensure that we take the necessary steps to fix
our water system. The repair of Hetch Hetchy will guarantee us
clean water for years to come.

The rebuild will also create jobs and give people skills to con-
tinue in the industry after the Hetch Hetchy project is completed.

We must support Proposition A. The clean water and jobs are a
win-win for all San Franciscans.

Please vote Yes on A.

Supervisor Sophie Maxwell

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

Help Keep San Francisco Safe - Vote Yes on A.

San Francisco didn't just fall down in 1906 - it burned down.
One of the major reasons was lack of water in the aftermath of the
earthquake.

Our Hetch Hetchy system is now more than 80 years old.
Experts say it will not withstand a major quake. That is why we
must unite and Vote Yes on A.

Sheriff Michael Hennessey

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Proposition A is needed to protect one of the City's most valu-
able assets: Hetch Hetchy and our City's water supply. Failure to
protect our water supply would place this City at great economic
risk. Prop A will also make ecological improvements to our water
system that is long overdue.

I ask all San Franciscans to join me in supporting Proposition A.

City Treasurer Susan Leal

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Susan Leal.

Join District 11 Democrats and Vote Yes on Prop A.

Water is a precious resource that must be safeguarded, and fix-
ing our our unique Hetch Hetchy water system will help do that.

Proposition A will allow San Francisco's entry into the use of
recycled water - a much needed conservation measure.
Proposition A is a fair proposal.

Vote Yes on A.

District 11 Democrats

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

Organized Labor Supports Prop A.

Making prudent investment in vital infrastructure is the basis of
a strong community.

Proposition A is a fair and balanced measure that creates jobs
for working men and women and will allow us to upgrade our
water system so it can withstand a major earthquake.

Please join us in voting Yes on Prop A.

Operating Engineers Local 3

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

The San Francisco Labor Council Urges Yes on Prop A.

Proposition A will create thousands of jobs and help preserve
millions of dollars of city revenue we need to fund basic services.
Organized labor urges all working people to join with us in sup-
porting Proposition A.

Save Hetch Hetchy!

Robert Boileau, Vice President, San Francisco Labor Council

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Save Hetch Hetchy Committee - Yes on A: A Business & Labor
Coalition to Safeguard Our Water Supply.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. California Alliance for Jobs 2. Engineering and Utility
Contractors Association 3. San Francisco Chamber of Commerce
21st Century Committee.

In life, until some unforeseen loss, we take for granted the
commonplace - such as air, water, the social and physical infra-
structure around us, and parenthetically, the municipal profes-
sionals who help support that network.

Our members kept Hetch Hetchy water flowing despite years of
unconscionable deferred maintenance; Prop A provides the tools
to repair and retrofit San Francisco's water-related infrastructure
to safe, 21st Century standards.

Yes on Prop A.

Professional & Technical Engineers, Local 21 (IFPTE/AFL-CIO)

Howard Wong, A.I.A., President

Kathleen Price, P.E., San Francisco Vice President

Ron K. Dicks, Vice President, Legislative & Political Action

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Professional & Technical Engineers, Local 21 (IFPTE/AFL-CIO).

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION A

This measure will significantly raise rates and rents.

Alternative funding sources can be utilized to pay for necessary
infrastructure improvements.

Joel Ventresca, District 4 Candidate for Supervisor

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Ventresca for Supervisor.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Joel Ventresca 2. Dante Ventresca. 3. Dianne Ventresca.

Fiscal Management Needed before we spend!

Everyone agrees that our Hetch Hetchy water system must be
repaired. The issue is how much money should be authorized at
one time since rebuilding will take a decade. Let's be honest, the
Public Utilities Commission does not have a good record bringing
projects in on time and on budget. Why write them such a big
check all at once? It would be more prudent to issue revenue
bonds in smaller increments and demand accountability for how
the money is spent before we authorize more.

A supposed tripling of water rates a 300% increase will hit our
industry especially hard because we use a lot of water in running
our restaurants. The best way to assure the money is spent wisely
is not to give it to the PUC all at once. In addition to exorbitant
rates, businesses have to pay a 7.5% utility tax on the water we
use. A tripling of our water rates means a tripling of our tax. With
so much money at stake, we should proceed cautiously and issue
revenue bonds in increments so bureaucrats have an incentive to
spend our tax dollars prudently.

We urge a NO vote on A. Let the PUC establish trust with San
Lranciscans before we give them such a huge check.

Golden Gate Restaurant Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is GGRA PAC.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Charles Fusari 2. Mill Valley Insurance 3. Pritchard
Promotional Group.

Proposition A Will Triple Your Water Bill and Raise
Your Rent

The San Francisco Apartment Association is against this billion
dollar bond measure. It is ill-conceived, poor fiscal public policy
and is bad for all of us.

Water rates will triple. While this is terrible for homeowners
and apartment owners alike, tenants should also be clear that
Proposition A will raise their rents. Landlords can and will
passthrough half of this increase to tenants and there is nothing the
Rent Board can do to stop this legal rent increase.

Warning: Passage of this bond means that rents could be
increased as much as $120 annually.

Hey, but, don't take our word for it, please read the measure
for yourself!

Before they triple our rates and raise rents, City Hall should
at the very least conduct independent studies of the impact this
huge project will have on San Francisco, San Franciscans and
the environment.

Vote No on Proposition A

San Francisco Apartment Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is S FA A-PAC.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. West Coast Property Management 2. Gaetani Property
Management 3. Property Management Merchandise.

Repairing the old pipes of the Hetch Hetchy water system is
necessary. However, RESTORE HETCH HETCHY opposes
Proposition A because it would require a huge expansion of a Bay
Area reservoir and greatly increase the amount of water coming to
the Bay Area. We asked the City to do an unbiased feasibility
study on the environmental impacts of these expansions and find
ways to provide safe, reliable water WITHOUT a dam and reser-
voir in Yosemite National Park's Hetch Hetchy Valley. However,
because the City did not make commitments for this important
feasibility study, we urge voters to oppose Proposition A. It's time
for San Francisco to figure out how to restore Hetch Hetchy
Valley, the place John Muir called "one of Nature's rarest and most
precious mountain temples."

Tim Molinare, Co-Chair, Government Committee, Restore
Hetch Hetchy

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Restore Fletch Fletchy.

No on A. If past profits from Hetch Hetchy had been used for
maintenance, this bond would not be necessary. Yes, the system
needs rebuilding, but first the PUC must show that bonds will be
used efficiently. This proposition fails that requirement.

San Francisco Republican Party

Mike DeNunzio, Chairman

Officers of the San Francisco Republican Party:

Sue C. Woods, Treasurer
Barbara Kiley, Secretary

Republican Candidates for the Congress and Assembly:

G. Michael German, 8"1 Congressional District
Howard Epstein, 12th Assembly District
Gail Neira, 13"1 Assembly District

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Members, San Francisco Republican Party:

Dr. Cynthia Amelon
Albert Chang
Terence Faulkner
Harold M. Hoogasian
Darcy Linn

Members-Elect, San Francisco Republican Party:

Sheila Hewitt
Dave Katz

Presidents, San Francisco Republican Volunteer Clubs:

Raymond G. Choy, Chairman, California Chinese American
Republican Association

Leo Lacayo, National Hispanic Republican Assembly, San
Francisco Chapter

Grace Norton-Fitzpatrick, Nob Hill Republican Women, Federated
Ronald Konopaski, Vice President, San Francisco Republican
Assembly

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the above signators and San Francisco Republican Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Committee on Jobs 2.George W. Rowe 3. George F.
Jewett, Jr.

Vote No on Prop A

The $1,628,000,000 the city wants to borrow to update the
Hetch Hetchy water system is a large amount of money. Certainly
the goal of this referendum is a lofty one, amounting to a complete
overhaul of San Francisco's water system. But is the price tag
worth it?

Water rates would climb sky-high, with half the cost of
increases being passed through to tenants and the full cost of
increases falling on homeowners. Miles of piping would be torn
up in a multi-year, multi-billion dollar project managed by the
same agency that allowed the water system to reach its current
state of neglect.

Vote no on Proposition A and tell the city to get back to voters
once it has a plan rather than a wish list.

Professional Property Management Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Coalition For Fair Water Rates.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

For the last twenty years, we have watched Lake Merced slow-
ly deteriorate while under the oversight of the PUC. Now the
PUC wants to increase your water rates to raise $1.6 billion to fix
Hetch Hetchy. If the PUC cannot manage an urban lake, how will
the PUC be able to manage a project of this enormity? Hetch

Hetchy needs to be repaired; however, the PUC must prove it can
efficiently manage this project and we should approve funding on
a graduated basis - not in one large chunk.

Vote No on Proposition A!

Supervisor Tony Hall

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Coalition For Fair Water Rates.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

Proposition A is Bad For San Francisco

City Hall says the sky is falling - earthquakes will stop the flow
of water and State legislators will take away control of the system.
While we certainly need to address the threat of earthquakes — not
with this poorly conceived plan.

Here is what they're not telling us:

•	Prop. A will triple your water rate.

•	Tenants will pay half of this increase.

•	In 1997 voters passed $304 million of water bonds. City Hall
promised this would "ensure" our water system. Now they
say they need billions more?

•	Repair and replacement of the water system is already fac-
tored into water rates, but for years utility revenues have been
siphoned into city coffers, and spent by the politicians on
their pet projects. They are asking us to pay twice for the
same work.

•	Voter approval is not needed unless the water system is
enlarged. San Francisco should not pay to accommodate sub-
urban growth.

•	Prop A along with State legislation would enable a regional
water authority. San Francisco will lose control of Hetch
Hetchy to the suburbs, becoming one of 27 agencies of the
regional authority. Prop A would let our precious water assets
slip away!

•	There has been no independent environmental impact studies
or engineering field inspections of facilities. The proposed
projects remain unverified for need, scope and cost. There
should be exhaustive study before we begin the largest public
works project in San Francisco history.

Please don't be frightened into tripling your water bill. Instead
demand that we take the few months necessary to study the
project, its impact on the environment and the citizens of
San Francisco.

Vote No on Props A and E.

Coalition For Better Housing

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Coalition For Fair Water Rates.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Supervisor Leland Yee Opposes Proposition A

Dear San Francisco Voter,

I, like all of us, am concerned that San Francisco's water
delivery system be seismically safe and our flow of clean water
be ensured.

That being said, I cannot support Proposition A as it is a $1.6
billion ($3.6 overall) blank check to the San Francisco Public
Utilities Commission.

During the debate at the Board of Supervisors on this issue, I
was never convinced that the PUC had specific plans for, or
thoughtfully studied what the money would be used for.

Because of this I ask you to vote No on Proposition A. Before
we enter into the largest public works project in our history, we
must demand a complete study and a more detailed proposal.

Supervisor Leland Yee

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Coalition For Fair Water Rates.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

RENT INCREASE NOTICE

Fellow renters of San Francisco. Proposition A allows your
landlord to raise your rent to pay his water bill. In an 11th hour
deal with landlords, the Board of Supervisors wrote into Prop A a
clause that allows tenants to be hit for half of the bill!

Don't be fooled by the landlords and the Chamber of
Commerce. Prop A raises rents!

Catherine R. Svirsky, Tenant
Joanne Horneff, Tenant

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Coalition For Fair Water Rates.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

BEAWARE OF PROPOSITION A!

Prop A is opposed by tenants, landlords, homeowners, and
neighborhood groups. It's too expensive -- will quadruple water
rates — and San Francisco will become a minority member of a
regional water authority which can issue bonds which San
Franciscans will have to repay. San Francisco will lose control of
Hetch Hetchy, the precious water system the federal government
granted us nearly 100 years ago!

Many voters don't realize that monies for repairs and replace-
ments in the water system are already factored into our present
water rates. Additionally, bonds for reconstruction and replace-
ments of the existing water system infrastructure can be author-
ized by the Board of Supervisors. This huge bond is meant to
cover the costs of expansion and extension of system capacity
in order to accommodate future City and suburban growth!

San Francisco residents should not have to pay for future growth
on their water bills. And the suburbs should pay the total cost for
their own developments.

City Hall has squandered Hetch Hetchy revenues for years.
They haven't finished spending the 1997 water bonds, which they
promised would "ensure" our water system for seismic safety.
Now they want you to pay for future growth and development
with the largest bond measure in San Francisco history. Worse,
San Francisco loses control to the suburbs, with whom City Hall
has cut a shameful deal.

VOTE NO PROPOSITION A

Coalition for San Francisco Neighborhoods,
representing 37 neighborhood associations

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Coalition For Fair Water Rates.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

Vote No on Proposition A.

Prop. A will fund a huge public works project that will require
expanding a massive duct and reservoir system that snakes over
180 miles from Yosemite to our City. This system literally cuts
through pristine woodlands, valleys and estuaries.

Yet there have been NO independent EIRs (Environmental
Impact Reports) on ANY part of the project.

As environmentalists we are dismayed that our elected officials
would propose further destruction the Hetch Hetchy valley and
surrounding natural habitat.

Please join us in demanding they put the Earth first. Vote No
on A.

Jennifer Finlay, President
Clive G. Miller, Treasurer
Sean Pritchard, Vice President
Sensible Renters For the Environment

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Coalition For Fair Water Rates.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

Homeowners Beware! There are two standard forms of
municipal financing: Revenue Bonds and General Obligation
Bonds. They both cost principle and interest. Proposition A is a
revenue bond that will increase San Francisco's indebtedness,
triple water bills and cost rate payers for decades to come. In
addition to these local bond measures the State has general obli-
gation bonds that total tens of billions of dollars, and BART has a
financing proposal.

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Enough is Enough!

Vote No On Proposition A

S.F. Neighbor's Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Coalition For Fair Water Rates.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

Demand a Better Plan-NO on A

San Francisco is asking voters to approve a $1.6 billion dollar
bond measure to improve the hundred-year-old Hetch Hetchy
water system. The bond moneys would be used to rebuild and
seismically upgrade the water system, which supplies San
Francisco and other regions with water. San Francisco officials
have let the system fall into disrepair. Rather than maintaining
the system responsibly, they have, for years, used "surplus"
revenue from Hetch Hetchy as their cash cow, spending money
on their pet projects instead of maintaining the reliability of our
water system. Proposition A asks voters to give $1.6 billion dol-
lars to the same people who squandered water revenues and mis-
managed the water system for years. Can you trust them? Demand
a better plan to rebuild the Hetch Hetchy water system. Vote No
on Proposition A.

San Francisco Taxpayers & Homeowners Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Coalition For Fair Water Rates.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

The Sierra Club SF Bay Chapter Executive Committee
voted 12-0 to oppose this bond because:

•	It's not an earthquake retrofit. It's an unnecessary expansion
of the system to deliver water to suburban sprawl.

•	It will double or triple water rates and increase property taxes
paid by homeowners and tenants.

Caleb Kleppner, member, Sierra Club*

* For Identification Purposes Only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Caleb Kleppner.

Richard Bodisco, Chair, San Francisco Public Utilities
Infrastructure Task Force

Proposition A would triple water bills, raise rents, threaten the
environment and give control of our water system to the suburbs.

Nobody wants to be without water and everybody agrees
that San Francisco's water delivery systems must be made seismi-
cally safe.

The only question is - on whose terms and at what price?

Nearly 100 years ago Congress deeded ownership and control
of this national treasure to the City and County of San Francisco
- The Raker Act.

Why should the city now turn over control of this great asset to
the suburbs?

Why should suburban politicians and their representatives set
future rate increases when today only San Francisco voters have
that power?

Why should home owner's water bills triple?

Why should tenants pay 50% of landlords new water bills?

Can San Francisco's Public Utility Commission-appointed by
the mayor—really handle a $4 Billion dollar water works project?
The same Commission that mismanaged the City Sewer Project?
A PUC with three managers in four years?

For nearly 20 years local politicians ripped-off water revenues,
balancing the City's budgets while neglecting essential repairs.
No wonder these same politicians and political establishment sup-
port this bond.

Richard Bodisco, Chair, Public Utilities Infrastructure Task Force

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Coalition For Fair Water Rates.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

Our San Francisco government - administration, board of super-
visors and Public Utilities Commission - has consistently diverted
much needed Hetch Hetchy money for general fund purposes.
This was done despite the fact that our water supply depends upon
a transbay pipeline which is old and vulnerable. Packing a redun-
dancy, the system cannot be adequately repaired.

Now this government is asking that we approve a $1.6 billion
dollar revenue measure without providing adequate safe guards to
assure that we as water consumers will get what we are asked to
pay for without multiplying our water rates.

The imperative for upgrading the system is unquestioned. But
government has failed to justify the need for the massive sum of
$1.6 billion - and to show that it can spend the money with
accountability and achieve results. Vote NO and send a message to
our politicians to rebuild their own credibility, provide a plan
to operate effectively Hetch Hetchy and give water consumers a
fair deal.

Mara Kopp, Chair, Good Government Alliance

Fred J. Martin, Jr., Member, Executive Committee, Good

Goverment Alliance.

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is The Good Government Alliance.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Kopp Good Government Committee.

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Why Now?

The Public Utilities Commission is warning that unless voters
approve a $1.6 billion bond measure, San Franciscan could be
without water in the event of a severe earthquake. Why is the
warning only coming now, and not 10 or 20 years ago?

The reason is that members of the PUC are appointed and rather
than being qualified engineering and administrative professionals,
they are mere recipients of political patronage. And now, they
want $1.6 billion of your money to do something they should have
done 10 to 20 years ago. The PUC hasn't demonstrated an ability
to protect the city's water supply against risk. Why should it be
trusted now?

The composition of the PUC needs to be changed. Vote NO on
Proposition A.

San Francisco Association of REALTORS®

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®

TEXT OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE
PROPOSITION A

Resolution calling and providing for a spe-
cial election to be held in the City and
County of San Francisco for the purpose of
submitting to the qualified voters of said
City and County on November 5, 2002 a
proposition for the issuance of revenue
bonds and/or other forms of revenue financ-
ing by the Public Utilities Commission in a
principal amount not to exceed
$1,628,000,000 to finance the acquisition and
construction of improvements to the City's
water system; making issuance of the bonds
subject to the requirement that San
Francisco Administrative Code Chapter 37
(Residential Rent Stabilization and
Arbitration Ordinance) be amended to pro-
vide that (1) 50% of the costs resulting from
increased water rates may be passed
through from landlords to residential ten-
ants where a unit is in compliance with any
applicable laws requiring water conserva-
tion devices, and (2) tenants may file hard-
ship applications with the Rent Board for
relief from all or part of the cost passthrough
and their affected landlords may utilize any
available Public Utilities Commission low-
income rate discount program or similar
program for water bill reduction based on
the tenants' hardship status; and for the pos-
sible imposition of a surcharge on retail
water customers; complying with Article 83 of
the San Francisco Administrative Code (First
Source Hiring Program): and consolidating
said special election with the General
Municipal Election to be held on November
5,2002; complying with Section 53410 of the
California Government Code; finding the
proposed project is in conformity with the
priority policies of Planning Code Section
101.1(b) and the City's General Plan.

Note: Additions are single-underline italics.

Deletions are strikethrough italics.

WHEREAS, The Board of Supervisors (the
"Board") of the City and County of San
Francisco (the "City") is authorized to provide
for the issuance of revenue bonds subject to the
revenue bond voter approval requirements of
Section 9.107 of the City Charter; and,

WHEREAS, This Board hereby finds and
determines that it is in the best interests of the
City to submit to the qualified voters of the
City, at an election to be held for that purpose
on November 5, 2002, a proposition for the
issuance of revenue bonds and/or other forms
of revenue financing by the Public Utilities
Commission, or any successor thereto, in the
principal amount not to exceed $1,628,000,000
to finance the acquisition and construction of
improvements to the City's water system; now,
therefore, be it,

RESOLVED, By the Board of the City, as
follows:

Section 1. A special election is hereby called
and ordered to be held by the City on Tuesday,
November 5,2002, at which election there shall

be submitted to the qualified voters of the City
the following proposition:

WATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT
REVENUE BONDS AND IMPOSITION OF
SURCHARGE ON RETAIL WATER CUS-
TOMERS.

Shall the Public Utilities Commission, or any
successor thereto, issue revenue bonds and/or
other forms of revenue financing in a principal
amount not to exceed $1,628,000,000 (the
"Bonds"), to finance the acquisition and con-
struction of improvements to the City's water
system; provided that the bonds may not be
issued unless Administrative Code Chapter 37
(Residential Rent Stabilization and Arbitration
Ordinance) is amended to provide that land-
lords may pass through to residential tenants
50% of the water bill costs attributable to water
rate increases resulting from issuance of the
Bonds where a unit is in compliance with any
applicable laws requiring water conservation
devices, tenants may file hardship applications
with the Rent Board for relief from all or part
of the cost passthrough and their affected land-
lords may utilize any available Public Utilities
Commission low-income rate discount pro-
gram or similar program for water bill reduc-
tion based on the tenants' hardship status; and
further provided that the principal amount of
the Bonds may be reduced if the City's Board
of Supervisors determines the greatest econom-
ic value to San Francisco ratepayers will derive
from having the San Francisco Bay Area
Regional Water System Financing Authority
finance, in whole or in part, those projects
designed and intended in substantial part to
improve the reliability of the City's regional
water system, and if the Authority does finance
such projects, shall the Public Utilities
Commission be authorized to impose a sur-
charge on retail water rates for San Francisco
customers' to pay the retail water customer's
share of the debt service on bonds issued by the
Authority and the operating expenses of the
Authority?

For purposes of this Resolution and the
proposition, the following terms shall have the
following respective meanings: "improve-
ments" shall mean improvements that will
restore, rehabilitate and enhance the ability of
the Public Utilities Commission to deliver
water to users of the City's water system, such
improvements to include, but are not limited to,
water delivery and seismic improvements,
water quality improvements, water supply
improvements, and watershed and environmen-
tal improvements as set forth in the San
Francisco Public Utilities Commission's
Capital Improvement Program (the "CIP"), as
such CIP may be amended from time to time;
the "City's water system" shall mean the entire
water supply, storage, treatment and distribu-
tion system and auxiliary and related facilities
under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission, as such system may be modified
and extended from time to time; "other forms

of revenue financing" shall include notes,
debentures, commercial paper, variable rate
demand notes and bonds, auction rate securi-
ties, lease revenue bonds, installment sale
agreements and other forms of similar financial
products which may be created from time to
time; and the "City's regional water system"
shall mean facilities for the storage, treatment,
and transmission of water operated and main-
tained by San Francisco in the Counties of
Tuolumne, Stanislaus, San Joaquin, Alameda,
Santa Clara, San Mateo, and three terminal
reservoirs in San Francisco.

Section 2. The Bonds are proposed to be
issued to finance improvements to the enter-
prise consisting of the City's water system (the
"Enterprise"). The City's water system and the
proposed improvements thereto shall constitute
a single, unified, integrated enterprise, and the
revenue therefrom shall be pledged to the
repayment of the Bonds. The Board hereby
finds and determines that the City's water sys-
tem is necessary and desirable to enable the
City to exercise its municipal powers and func-
tions, namely to furnish water supply, storage,
treatment and distribution services for any pres-
ent or future beneficial use of the City. The pur-
pose for which the Bonds are proposed to be
issued is to finance the acquisition and con-
struction of improvements to the City's water
system, including without limitation capital-
ized interest on the Bonds and any other
expenses incidental thereto or connected there-
with. The estimated cost of the improvements is
$1,628,000,000. Said estimated costs includes
all costs and expenses incidental thereto or con-
nected therewith, including, but not limited to,
engineering, inspection, auditing, legal and fis-
cal agent fees, cost of the revenue bond election
and costs of the issuance of the Bonds. The
maximum principal amount of the Bonds pro-
posed to be issued is $1,628,000,000.

Section 3. The City shall comply with the
provisions of Article 83 of the City's
Administrative Code (First Source Hiring
Program) in connection with the construction
of the improvements to the City's water system.
Proceeds of the Bonds, if authorized and
issued, shall be used to pay actual and verifi-
able costs directly associated with the adminis-
trative costs of implementing and monitoring
such contractors' compliance with the City's
First Source Hiring Program.

Section 4. The Board hereby submits to the
qualified voters of the City at such special elec-
tion the proposition set forth in Section 1 of this
Resolution, and designates and refers to such
proposition in the form of ballot hereinafter
prescribed for use at said election. The special
election hereby called and ordered to be held
shall be held and conducted and votes thereat
received and canvassed, and the returns thereof
made and the results thereof ascertained, deter-

(Continued on next page)

P-19

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION A (CONTINUED)

mined and declared as herein provided, and in
all particulars not herein recited said election
shall be held and the votes canvassed according
to the applicable laws of the State of California
and the Charter of the City and any regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, providing for and
governing elections in the City, and the polls
for such election shall be and remain open during
the time required by said laws and regulations.

Section 4t5. The special election hereby
called shall be and hereby is consolidated with
the General Election of the City to be held
Tuesday, November 5, 2002, and the voting
precincts, polling places and officers of elec-
tion for said General Election are hereby adopt-
ed, established, designated and named, respec-
tively, as the voting precincts, polling places
and officers of elections for such special elec-
tion hereby called. The ballots to be used at the
special election shall be the ballots to be used at
the General Election.

Section $6^. In addition to any other matter
required by law to be printed on the ballots,
there shall appear thereon the proposition set
forth in Section 1 of this Resolution.

Each voter to vote for the proposition hereby
submitted and in favor of the issuance of the
Bonds shall mark the ballot card in the location
corresponding to a "YES" vote for the proposi-
tion, and to vote against the proposition and
against the issuance of the Bonds shall mark
the ballot card in the location corresponding to
a "NO" vote for the proposition.

On absentee voter ballots, the voter to vote
for the proposition and in favor of the issuance
of the Bonds shall mark the ballot card in the
location corresponding to a "YES" vote for the
proposition, and to vote against said proposi-
tion and against the issuance of the Bonds shall
mark the ballot card in the location correspon-
ding to a "NO" vote for the proposition.

Section 67.. If at such special election it shall
appear that a majority of all the voters voting
on the proposition voted in favor of and
approve the issuance of the Bonds for the pur-
poses set forth in this Resolution, then such
proposition shall have been authorized by the
electors, and the Bonds may be issued and sold
for the purpose set forth in this Resolution.
The rate of interest on such bonds shall not
exceed the maximum rate allowed by law, may
be fixed or variable, and shall be payable at
such times and in such manner as the Public
Utilities Commission shall hereafter determine.

Section 98. The Bonds, if authorized, shall
be special, limited obligations of the City,
payable exclusively from and secured by a lien
on the revenues of the Enterprise and such
other funds as may be legally available and
pledged for such purpose. The Bonds shall not
be secured by the taxing power of the City, and
shall be issued under Section 9.107 of the
Charter of the City and any state law or any
procedure provided for by ordinance. The prin-
cipal of and interest on the Bonds and any pre-
miums upon the redemption thereof shall not
constitute or evidence a debt of the City, nor a

legal or equitable pledge, charge, lien or
encumbrance upon any of its property, or upon
any of its income, receipts or revenues, except
the revenues of the Enterprise and such other
funds as may be legally available and pledged
for such purpose.

Section 89. This Resolution shall be pub-
lished in accordance with any state law require-
ments, and such publication shall constitute
notice of said election and no other notice of
the election hereby called need be given.

Section 910. The appropriate officers,
employees, agents and representatives of the
City are hereby authorized and directed to do
everything necessary or desirable to the calling
and holding of said special election, and to oth-
erwise carry out the provisions of this
Resolution.

Section 4911. Pursuant to Section 53410 of
the California Government Code, the Bonds
shall be for the specific purpose authorized
herein and the proceeds of such Bonds shall be
applied only to the project described herein.
The Public Utilities Commission will comply
with the requirements of Sections 53410(c) and
53410(d) of the California Government Code.

Section 4-4.12[. The Board having reviewed
the proposed legislation, finds and declares that
the proposed Bond special election is in con-
formity with the priority policies of Section
101.1(b) of the City Planning Code and with
the City's General Plan, and hereby adopts the
findings of the City Planning Department, as
set forth in the General Plan Referral.

P-20

Digest

by Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: State law requires that the City's General
Plan describe San Francisco's housing needs, set goals for pro-
viding housing and develop programs to meet those goals. Some
of those programs develop housing affordable to low- and moder-
ate-income households, and help persons with low and moderate
incomes buy their first homes. When the City provides money for
these programs, larger amounts of money are frequently made
available from other public and private sources. The City pays for
its part of these programs with money from property taxes, hotel
taxes and other local sources. The City expects that money from
these sources will not be enough to meet its future low- and mod-
erate-income housing goals.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition B would allow the City to borrow
$250,000,000 by issuing general obligation bonds. The City would
use this money to make grants or loans to buy, build or renovate
housing that is affordable to low- and moderate-income house-
holds. The City could also use this money to assist persons with
low and moderate incomes to buy their first homes.

Proposition B would require that:

•	Priority must be given to projects that receive a large share of
their total funding from sources other than the City;

•	Any contract paid for with these loans or grants must be
awarded through a competitive process;

•	Projects paid for with these loans or grants must limit the
amount of money spent on administrative costs and develop-
er fees;

•	Projects paid for with these loans or grants must provide the
City with a project audit before receiving final payment; and

•	None of this money may be used to lobby elected officials.

The principal and interest on general obligation bonds are paid
with property tax revenues. Proposition B would require an
increase in property taxes to pay for the bonds.

Landlords would be authorized to pass on to tenants in rent-con-
trolled units half the increase in property taxes resulting from
this measure.

A two-thirds majority vote is required for passage.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote "Yes," you want the City to
borrow $250,000,000 to develop affordable housing and to assist
persons with low and moderate incomes to buy their first homes.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote "No," you do not want the City
to borrow $250,000,000 for these purposes.

Controller’s Statement on “B”

City Controller Edward Harrington has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition B:

In my opinion, should the proposed bonds be issued and author-
ized, I estimate the approximate costs to be as follows:

Bond Redemption	$	250,000,000

Bond Interest	182.623.779

Debt Service Requirement	$	432,623,779

Based on a single bond sale and level redemption schedules,
the average annual debt requirement for twenty (20) years at a

6.00	percent interest rate would be approximately $21,631,200
which is equivalent to two and twenty nine hundredths cents
($0.0229) per $100 of assessed valuation in the current tax rate.

The increase in annual property taxes for the owner of a home
with an assessed value of $300,000 would amount to approxi-
mately $67.14 if all bonds were sold at the same time. It should be
noted, however, that the City does not plan to issue all authorized
bonds at one time; if these bonds are issued over several years,
the actual effect on the tax rate would be less than the maximum
amount shown above.

How Supervisors Voted on "B"

On July 29, 2002 the Board of Supervisors voted 9 to 2 to place
Proposition B on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

Yes: Supervisors Ammiano, Daly, Gonzalez, Leno, Maxwell,
McGoldrick, Newsom, Peskin, and Sandoval.

No: Supervisors Hall and Yee.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 66 2/3% AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE P-34.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE P-3.

P-22

PROPOSITION B

AFFORDABLE HOUSING BONDS, 2002. Shall the City and County of San Francisco (or
one of its agencies, departments or enterprises) issue bonds and/or other forms of
financing in a principal amount not to exceed $250,000,000, to finance the acquisition,
construction and/or rehabilitation of housing affordable to low- and moderate-income
households and financial assistance to low- and moderate-income first-time homebuy-
ers and authorize landlords to passthrough to residential tenants in units subject to
Chapter 37 of the San Francisco Administrative Code (the Residential Rent Stabilization
and Arbitration Ordinance) 50% of the increase in the real property taxes attributable to
the cost of repayment of the bond?

Notice to Voters:

The “Digest,” “Controller’s Statement,” and “How Supervisors Voted” information
on this measure appear on the opposite (facing) page.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 66 2/3% AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE P-34.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE P-3.

Affordable Housing Bonds________________

PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

The need for affordable housing in the Bay Area, and through-
out California, is undeniable. Here in San Francisco, we have
done something about it - and with the passage of Proposition B,
we will do even more:

Vote Yes on Prop. B - create $250 million for the develop-
ment of affordable housing and home ownership opportuni-
ties for San Franciscans.

Six years ago, we became the first city in the nation to pass an
Affordable Housing Bond, and the results have been dramatic.

The bond was socially responsible:

•	some 1,812 new and rehabilitated apartments were built, 264
beds in group houses created and 240 loans provided to help
working San Franciscans buy homes;

•	two-thirds of the 9,000 San Franciscans housed were woman-
headed households, families with children, or seniors - the
most vulnerable population for eviction and homelessness.

It was economically wise:

•	the new units cost, on average, $209,000 in a city where
homes sell for nearly three times that amount;

•	as required by law, they were built using scores of local,
union contractors paying our fellow San Franciscans prevail-
ing union wages;

•	bond-funded housing developments have returned over $1.2
million in taxes and fees to the City;

•	for every $1 in bond money spent, more than $4 in outside
funding was obtained;

•	not one new administrator was hired for the bond program.

The new Affordable Housing Bond will more than double funds
for first-time homebuyers, providing 500-600 new home loans.

It will more than double the money for new affordable rental
units, producing 3,000-4,000. And, for the first time, it will fund
the building of new, affordable homes to own.

Affordable housing for San Franciscans. Join Mayor Brown,
Board President Ammiano and Supervisors Daly, Gonzalez,
Maxwell, McGoldrick, Newsom, Peskin and Sandoval ...

Vote Yes on Proposition B.

Mayor Willie L. Brown, Jr.

Board President Tom Ammiano

Supervisors Chris Daly, Matt Gonzalez, Sophie Maxwell, Jake
McGoldrick, Gavin Newsom, Aaron Peskin and Gerardo
Sandoval

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

The Proponents Proposition B argument is a perfect example of
the half-truths, political spin and Enron type accounting that has
plagued this program.

Nowhere does it tell you this bond will raise rents and
property taxes.

In 1996 they promised to create 3000 new units. In April 2002
an investigative newspaper exposed only 398 new apartments had
been completed.

They promised homeownership to 1000 families. Of the only
340 grants, less than 20 were given to teachers, firefighters or
police officers.

Their stated average cost of these non-profit affordable housing
units is deliberately misleading. They do not include the true cost
of land, fees to the non-profit developers, lost school and proper-
ty taxes or other ongoing city subsidies.

Everyone supports building more affordable housing, but Willie

Brown's Office of Housing has not demonstrated the ability to
spend the first $100 million as promised. It is just wrong to
increase property taxes and rents to allow them to mismanage an
additional $250 million.

Please join us in demanding more for our money and voting
No on Proposition B

Supervisor Tony Hall
Supervisor Leland Yee

San Francisco Taxpayers and Homeowners Association

The Coalition for San Francisco Neighborhoods

The Coalition for Better Housing

San Francisco Association of Realtors

Residential Builders Association

San Francisco Apartment Association

Professional Property Management Association of San Francisco

Affordable Housing Bonds

OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION B

San Francisco needs more affordable housing. However, should
Mayor Brown's Director of Housing be allowed to steer hundreds
of millions of tax dollars to select nonprofit housing developers
for political favor? Do we want to both raise tenant's rents and
homeowner's tax bills to fund them? Now these are tougher ques-
tions.

In 1986 voters enacted Prop M to limit downtown highrise
development. It established an affordable housing fund adminis-
tered by the Mayor's Director of Housing. Today most commer-
cial developers pay into the City's Affordable Housing Fund, as do
residential developers of market rate housing. Since its inception,
hundreds of millions of affordable housing dollars have been spun
into a web of nonprofit housing developers that would be the envy
of any spider. Just try following the web.

In 1996 this culture of special interest nonprofits got Mayor
Brown to place a $100,000,000 bond on the ballot - Proposition A.
In that 1996 voter information handbook they promised: "we will
build 3000 new apartments and offer home ownership to 1000
families". A recent audit of the program exposed that less than
half of the promised units were built and only 340 families were
extended home ownership loans.

And now they want $250 million. A taxpayer's watchdog
organization has written: "To describe these projects as affordable
housing is misleading. The truth is that their actual costs are two
or three times higher than San Francisco's typical costs for similar
buildings."

Before we give nonprofit developers another dollar, let's make
sure that competition exists and accountability is written into
every project. Taxpayers and those in need deserve the most effi-
cient use of City resources with independent audits, outside of the
jungle of Mayoral favor.

Vote No on Prop B.

Michelle L. Horneff
SF Citizen

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION B

The people of San Francisco are well aware of the need for
affordable housing. That's why they voted overwhelmingly for an
affordable housing bond in 1996. And look at the results:

1,812 new and rehabilitated apartments were built, 264 beds
in group houses created and 240 loans provided to help work-
ing San Franciscans buy homes.

9,000	San Franciscans were housed — two thirds of which
were woman-headed households, families with children, or
seniors — the most vulnerable population for eviction
and homelessness.

The new units cost, on average, $209,000 in a city where
homes sell for nearly three times that amount.

They were built using scores of local, union contractors pay-
ing our fellow San Franciscans prevailing union wages.

Housing developments have returned over $1.2 million in
taxes and fees to the City.

For every $1 in bond money spent, more than $4 in outside
funding was obtained.

And not one new administrator was hired for the bond
program.

Now the paid lobbyist for a special interest group is telling you
to ignore those results, and focus on me instead. It's not about me,
or any other politician, it's about housing for San Franciscans.
Look at the results, and imagine what a new Affordable Housing
Bond will do for San Francisco.

Join me and Board President Tom Ammiano; Supervisors Daly,
Gonzalez, Leno, Maxwell, Newsom, Peskin and Sandoval; reli-
gious, community and labor leaders; and the Democratic Party ...
Vote Yes on Proposition B.

Mayor Willie L. Brown, Jr.

Board President Tom Ammiano

Supervisors Chris Daly, Matt Gonzalez, Mark Leno, Sophie
Maxwell, Gavin Newsom, Aaron Peskin and Gerardo Sandoval

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

Vote Yes on B. The affordable housing crisis effects the quality
of life of every neighborhood in San Francisco. Families with
children, seniors and young workers are being forced out of our
City, making neighborhood life less diverse and our City's econo-
my less sustainable. B will provide a local source of financing new
affordable housing development which will keep our neighbor-
hoods' human environment sustainable and diverse.

The Haight-Ashbury Neighborhood Council

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is The Haight-Ashbury Neighborhood Council.

Our organizations feed, clothe, shelter, house and provide a
variety of other support services for literally thousands of home-
less and very low-income San Franciscans every day of the year.
We know that the availability of safe, affordable housing with sup-
port services is essential to solving homelessness in our city. We
know also that the working poor who come to our doors will ben-
efit greatly by the creation of 4,000 affordable rental and home
ownership opportunities. Please join our organizations supporting
the Affordable Housing Bond on the November 5 ballot.

Catholic Charities CYO, Brian F. Cahill, Executive Director
Episcopal Community Services, Kenneth J. Reggio, Executive
Director

St. Anthony Foundation, Karen G. Gruneisen, President, Board
of Directors

St. Vincent de Paul Society, Andrew J. Whelan III, Vice President,
Board of Directors

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Catholic Charities CYO, Episcopal Community Services, St.
Anthony Foundation, St. Vincent de Paul Society.

PROP B HELPS FAMILIES

Housing costs make raising children in the City increasingly
difficult for families. When families leave the City, neighborhoods
are less vibrant, businesses less stable, local schools less secure.
This November, you can make affordable housing and home own-
ership a reality for thousands of working families. Vote YES on
Proposition B.

Coleman Advocates for Children and Youth

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Coleman Advocates for Children & Youth.

SENIORS DESPERATELY NEED AFFORDABLE HOUS-
ING AND FAMILIES NEED NEW HOMES. SAN IS A PROUD
SPONSOR OF PROP B!

VOTE YES ON PROP B.

Margaret Griffin, Vice-President, SENIOR ACTION NETWORK
Denise DAnne, Treasurer, SENIOR ACTION NETWORK

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is: SENIOR ACTION NETWORK.

The SAN FRANCISCO DEMOCRATIC PARTY recom-
mends a YES Vote on B - Affordable Housing Bonds

Jane Morrison, Chair, San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Democratic Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Nancy Pelosi 2. Carole Migden 3. SEIU Local 250 PAC.

San Francisco's affordable housing crisis threatens the moral,
civic and economic fabric of our City. Our three organizations
worked for seventeen months in an open and inclusive process to
seek consensus from business and labor, community and neigh-
borhood, faith and secular interests on a solution to that crisis. We
brought that consensus to the Mayor and the Board of
Supervisors, who both agreed, after four public hearings, to put B
on the ballot.

B will provide our families and children, our seniors and our
neighbors facing homelessness with an opportunity to continue to
live in and contribute to the grand diversity that makes us, truly,
San Francisco.

We strongly urge you to vote Yes on B.

San Francisco Organizing Project

Council of Community Housing Organizations

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Homes for the City.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. San Francisco Organizing Project 2. Larry Stupski 3.
Community Economics.

Affordable Housing Bonds

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

Proposition B will finance the construction and renovation of
new affordable homes and apartments, and help first-time home-
buyers with down-payment assistance. Anyone who has tried to
purchase a house in San Francisco knows that it's almost impossi-
ble. Rents have skyrocketed. San Francisco is quickly becoming
a city of the very rich and the very poor. Many of our brothers and
sisters have left the city in search of reasonable rents and homes
that they can actually purchase. It's important to protect the diver-
sity of this city. Just as we need to maintain a diverse workforce,
we need to insure that seniors, disabled and poor working families
have the chance to stay in the city.

Proposition B will help solve San Francisco's affordable hous-
ing crisis. Join us in Voting Yes on Proposition B

Robert Boileau, Vice-President, San Francisco Labor Council

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Homes for the City.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. San Francisco Organizing Project 2. Larry Stupski 3.
Community Economics.

The City of San Francisco is in dire need of affordable housing.
Even middle-income people have great difficulty living in the
community within which they work and worship. I strongly
endorse and support the "Homes for the City" Bond as a means for
helping thousands of our citizens to be able to live in dignity in
San Francisco

William J. Levada, Archbishop of San Francisco
Rabbi Stephen Pearce, PhD. Congregation Emanu-El
Stephen A. Privett. SJ., President, University of San Francisco
Supported by: Imam Mehdi Khorasani, Islamic Society of
California

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Homes for the City

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. San Francisco Organizing Project 2. Larry Stupski 3.
Community Services.

The San Francisco Organizing Project (SFOP) launched the
effort to place Proposition B on the ballot in February, 2001 when
we convened 3,000 people of all colors, ages, neighborhoods,
religious affiliations, and sexual orientations to say Yes! to afford-
able housing in our city. Proposition B will help stop the flight
of working families from our city. It will provide dignified, safe
and well-lit places for our senior citizens to live.

Please join the 40 congregations of SFOP in our fight to keep
San Francisco a City for All.

Remember to vote Yes on B on November 5, 2002

The San Francisco Organizing Project

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Homes for the City

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. San Francisco Organizing Project 2. Larry Stupski 3.
Community Economics.

Affordable housing is the engine that drives San Francisco's
economy.

Vote Yes on B

San Francisco Tomorrow

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Tomorrow.

In 1996 San Francisco voters passed a $100 million affordable
housing bond. That bond has become the single most important
source of funding for affordable housing in the city. Without it,
thousands of people, including teachers, service workers, and
other working class and middle class families, would have been
forced out.

SPUR conducted an independent analysis of the 1996 afford-
able housing bond. We came up with two conclusions:

1.	The first housing bond was used effectively.

2.	The time has come to authorize a second bond measure.

Proposition B is essential to maintain San Francisco as a place
that welcomes diversity and lives up to its ideals. Vote yes on
Prop B.

For the full ballot analysis, see www.spur.org
SPUR

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is SPUR Urban Issues Committee.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. John Weeden 2. Frankie Lee 3. Vince Hoenigman.

VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION B!

San Francisco has a critical need for affordable housing. San
Francisco has among the highest housing costs in the nation and
housing costs continue to rise despite the current economic down-
turn. Affordable housing in San Francisco is insufficient to meet
the demand of its citizens.

Supervisor Gavin Newsom

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Newsom 2002.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Ruth E. Werner 2. Anne Scherer 3. Christine Murray.

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION B

Proposition B is a good investment. It is critical for growth of
the City's economy. Housing is needed for teachers, office work-
ers and other workers essential to this City's workforce. It will
benefit families, seniors and provide stability for our neighbor-
hoods. Proposition B is important, necessary, financially sound
and a good investment.

Please, Yes on Prop B.

City Treasurer Susan Leal

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Susan Leal.

Proposition B will provide a much needed boost to San
Francisco's economy. The $250 million bond will provide afford-
able housing and create high paying jobs in the neighborhoods
that need them the most.

Vote YES on B.

Assessor Doris Ward

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Doris Ward.

The San Francisco Labor Council urges you to vote Yes on Prop
B. Support funds for more housing!

San Francisco Labor Council

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Labor Council, AFL-CIO.

Affordable housing is a critical public health issue. This is an
important opportunity to help alleviate chronic homelessness,
encourage economic growth, and strengthen the health of City.
Our families and our workforce deserve a decent quality of life
that affordable housing supports. Proposition B will benefit all of
San Francisco.

Sandra R. Hernandez, M.D., Chief Executive Officer, The San
Francisco Foundation

Former Director of Public Health for the City and County of San
Francisco

Physician, San Francisco General Hospital

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Sandra R. Hernandez, M.D.

Affordable Housing Bonds

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION B

In 1996, the voters of San Francisco passed a $100,000,000.00
Affordable Housing Bond. Proponents of the bond promised

3,000	units of new rental housing and lower rents. Only a small
percentage of those units have been completed. The remainder of
the funds has not been spent or has been used as remodel money
for residential hotels and the creation of unused homeless beds.
Rents in San Francisco have increased and homelessness is worse
than ever. Elected officials and government bureaucrats are guilty
of gross misuse of public funds and misrepresentation of facts to
the voters after the passage of the first bond.

Now the same groups are back asking for two and a half times
more money! This bond will be paid for by both homeowners
and tenants. History shows that passage of this measure will nei-
ther lower rents nor provide cost efficient production of new hous-
ing. San Francisco government has spent more than the national
average in building these projects. During our current economic
slow down we can not afford to waste another $250,000,000.00.

Let City Hall clean up their house before we throw more money
at a serious problem that needs a mature, sensible and cost effi-
cient solution.

Vote No on Proposition B

San Francisco Apartment Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Apartment Association PAC.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. West Coast Prop Management 2. Gaetani Realty 3.
Property Management Merchandise.

No on B. The private sector can provide affordable housing
more efficiently than non-profit developers. Interest alone on this
bond is $182.6 million!

San Francisco Republican Party
Mike DeNunzio, Chairman

Officers of the San Francisco Republican Party:

Elsa Cheung, Vice Chairman, Political Action
Dana Walsh, Vice Chairman, Communications
Barbara Kiley, Secretary

Christopher L. Bowman
James Fuller
Joel Springer

Presidents, San Francisco Republican Volunteer Clubs:

Raymond G. Choy, Chairman, California Chinese American
Republican Association

Leonard Lacayo, National Hispanic Republican Assembly, San
Francisco Chapter

Ronald Konopaski, Vice President, San Francisco Republican
Assembly

The true sources of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
are the signators and the San Francisco Republican Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Committe on Jobs. 2. George W. Rowe. 3. George F.
Jewett, Jr.

PROP B HURTS PEOPLE ON FIXED INCOMES

This $250 million bond will hurt homeowners and tenants alike,
including the disabled and pensioners, by increasing our property
taxes. The non-profits who will benefit from this huge sum of
money will build housing to benefit their favorite special interest
groups, and we taxpayers will have to pick up the tab.

Last time they picked our pockets for $100 million, and only
delivered 50% of what they promised. Instead of being investigat-
ed for fraud, they want another $250 million! Let's pull the plug
on these tax suckers and hold onto our hard-earned money!

Vote NO on Prop B

Joanne Horneff, Tenant

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Citizens for blousing Equality.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

Republican Candidates for the Congress and Assembly:
Howard Epstein, 12th Assembly District

Members, San Francisco Republican Party:

Dr. Cynthia Amelon
Albert C. Chang
Terence Faulkner
Harold M. Hoogasian
Darcy Linn

Members-Elect, San Francisco Republican Party:

Mike Antonini

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION B

VOTE NO ON PROP B - DON’T BE FOOLED TWICE!

As a Bayview-Hunters Point homeowner for almost 35 years, I
resent being fooled by people who promise us affordable housing
and don't deliver.

The seniors and retirees in my community are sick and tired of
paying more and more property taxes to benefit political special
interests. We are on fixed incomes; the non-profit developers are
not. Last time they asked us for $100 million they promised to
deliver 3,000 new homes for San Franciscans. We got less than
half that number, and some of them went to people who had only
lived in San Francisco for 90 days and made $80,000! Do they call
that low-income?

And now they want $250 million more?

Don't throw good money after bad.

Vote NO on B and save your money.

Espanola Jackson

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Citizens for Housing Equality.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

PROP B LEAVES COOPERATIVES OUT IN THE COLD

Cooperative housing has provided affordable homes for thou-
sands of low-income working San Franciscans for decades.
Cooperative homeownership has been key to preserving diversity
as our communities have gentrified around us.

This $250 million bond does NOTHING for cooperatives. Co-
ops are excluded from the $25 million set aside for homeowner-
ship in this bond, as they were from the last. Why would you set
aside $4 million for a "Land Trust" experiment, just to satisfy
some radical politicians, and ignore cooperatives, which have a
proven track record?

Why should we pay taxes to support a program which shuts
us out?

Prop B backers cannot be serious about creating affordable
housing.

Please vote NO on Prop B.

Elizabeth Miller

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Citizens for Housing Equality.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

Supervisor Leland Yee Opposes Proposition B

Dear San Francisco Voter,

In 1996 I, like the majority of San Franciscans, supported the
$100 million "Affordable Housing" bonds. It was our desire to
address what has become the critical problem of housing in San
Francisco. Unfortunately I cannot tell you that that bond money
was spent wisely or even on what we were told it would be
spent on.

They promised us 3000 new units of housing. They built 1342
(less than half)

They promised to offer homeownership to 1000 families. They
loaned to only 340 (one-third) that many families.

With such a poor track record, I cannot in good conscience sup-
port giving the Mayor's Office of Housing another $250 million.

There is a better way. Our tax dollars should be used to
help San Francisco families remain in San Francisco by
providing homeownership loan assistance — not squandered by
City government.

Please join me in voting No on Proposition B

Supervisor Leland Yee

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Citizens for Housing Equality

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

PROP B IS BAD PUBLIC POLICY

Neighborhoods across the city oppose Prop B because the
proponents have demonstrated that they cannot deliver housing
as promised.

Proponents admit they have delivered less than half the number
of new housing units promised by the last bond, which was $100
million. They brag about squandering our money. Now they want
$250 million more from the taxpayers to perpetuate their non-
profit housing empires, with no assurance of any accountability
other than their worthless promises.

Prop B will collect an average of $140 per year from home-
owners and tenants and give it to non-profit housing developers,
excluding for profit developers from submitting lower bids and
giving us more housing for our money.

We need to stop this reactionary and inefficient redistribution of
tax dollars by voting NO on Prop B.

Coalition for San Francisco Neighborhoods

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Citizens for Housing Equality

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

Affordable Housing Bonds

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION B

In 1996, we were promised 3,000 affordable new units for $100
million. Now, 6 years later, best estimates tell us that we may get
approximately 1,800 new and rehabilitated units for that $100
million. That is a 60% success rate. In school, a 60% is a failing
mark. Apparently, the proponents of Proposition B believe 60%
is a proven success and they want you to approve $250 million
more. Before we approve yet another bond, the government must
prove it can fulfill its promises, or at least come close to a passing
grade, and spend your money efficiently.

Vote No on Proposition B!

Supervisor Tony Hall

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Citizens for Housing Equality.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

Homeowners Beware! There are two standard forms of munic-
ipal financing: Revenue Bonds and General Obligation Bonds.
They both cost principle and interest. Proposition B is a general
obligation bond that will raise property taxes for decades. In addi-
tion to these local bond measures the State has general obligation
bonds that total tens of billions of dollars, and BART has a financ-
ing proposal.

Enough is Enough!

Vote No On Proposition B

S.F. Neighbor's Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Citizens for Housing Equality.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

The system is broken and we are being lied to and taken
advantage of.

We understand the need for affordable housing for San
Francisco's families and hence supported the 1996 Affordable
Housing bonds. Unfortunately we cannot support this 2nd meas-
ure — and neither should you.

The Director of the Mayor's Office of Housing did a sinful job
of administering the Prop. A funds. It cost them on average three
times more to build housing then someone in the private sector,
and unlike their promise, very little of the money was used for
down payment assistance. Instead it was used fixing up and run-
ning programs in SRO hotels — hardly what most consider
"affordable housing for families". This money was not advertised
to us as a homeless program, and yet that is where money went —
along with another $200 million annually.

The system is broken and we are being lied to and taken advan-
tage of. Yes we need housing, but not at this price. It is time to
hold City government accountable. Vote No on Proposition B.

The Coalition For Better Housing

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Citizens for Housing Equality.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

VOTE NO ON PROP B

Mayor Brown wants to borrow another quarter of a billion dol-
lars to line the pockets of his cronies, and to do so in the name of
affordable housing.

Last time voters passed an Affordable Housing bond, we were
promised 3000 new apartments and 1000 new home-owning fam-
ilies. Six years later, less than half of the promised apartments are
built and only one third of the promised loans have been made. At
these rates, each new apartment built by the last bond cost San
Francisco taxpayers $1 million. That's hardly affordable housing.

San Francisco does need affordable housing, but before we
spend money on affordable housing, let's be sure that affordable
housing is exactly what we'll get.

Vote No on Proposition B

Professional Property Management Association of San Francisco

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Citizens for Housing Equality

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

In 1996 voters approved a 100 million-dollar bond measure to
build 3,000 new affordable housing units. The bond program fell
short of its promises and built only 1812 housing units. Why?

Construction costs were 30% over budget. In addition, funds
were also used for items not included in the original bond meas-
ure paying health care, employment assistance and vocational
rehabilitation costs.

The 100 million dollars is gone. Now, these same special inter-
est advocates want more funding. They want you to ignore the fact
that they failed to deliver the 3,000 housing and that bond monies
were miss-spent. And they also want you to ignore the fact that the
current bond measure benefits non-profit housing developers who
depend on your tax dollars to stay in business.

Send a message to City officials that they must spend your tax
money as promised.

Vote NO on Proposition B

San Francisco Homeowner and Taxpayers Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Citizens for Housing Equality.

The largest contributor to the true source recipient committee is:
Warrington Apartments.

El Affordable Housing Bonds

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION B

I am a city employee, married with 3 children, a homeowner.
My job responsibilities require me to inspect S.R.O. hotels, listen
to and act on tenant complaints and ensure that apartment build-
ings are code compliant. Goodness knows, I see first hand the
housing needs, the housing crisis and the housing mess. Its dis-
graceful.

Waste, inefficiency, indifference and stupidity seem to be
method for public policy solutions to our housing needs.

The motto is, throw good money after bad, and make sure it
goes into bad investments.

As a union member, I now see $180 per month less in my pay-
check. My union tells me it's a loan. No one, from Tom Ammiano
to Jake McGoldrick has told us how they will repay this money
next year.

When you consider that next year's deficit will be in excess of
$150,000,000 there is not a hope in hell of repayment.

I am as mad as hell with my union leaders and city politicians
for this mess. Now they have the audacity to expect me and my
family to pay one half the cost for these housing and water bond
proposals — Prop A and B.

Instead of tightening the fiscal belt like my family has to do,
they are acting like drunken sailors on a drinking spree — spend-
ing more and more money. 18 billion dollars of State bonds, 2 bil-
lion of SF Bonds.

Unbelievable, but the State deficit of $24 billion is equal to the
budgets of 26 other states.

I have no choice but to vote no on B, as I will all other bond
measures.

Sorry but charity begins at home.

John Kerley

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is John Kerley.

In the 1930's, politicians and other interest groups made "genie
in the bottle" promises to taxpayers, homeowners and others, a
message that was repeated in 1996.

In the 1930's people were promised 2 chickens in every pot and
a car in every driveway. In 1996 the message was an affordable
home for 3,000 people, affordable rents and down payment assis-
tance for others.

As occurred in the 1930's, none of these promises ever materi-
alized for 99% of the '96 registered voters, including homeowners,
tenants, and retirees. Promises vanished like the genie into the air.
Instead, we were left with a $100 million debacle, resulting in
higher pass-through rents and higher taxes.

Now, these same interest groups, including faith based develop-
ers, non-profit developers, and tenant groups are again asking you
to pay increased taxes and higher rents for a new housing bond
proposal, except this time it's for $250,000,000.

While no one doubts the sincerity of some of these groups, one
has to question their timing.

We are now in an economic downturn. But, unlike the 1930's,
prices are increasing. As an advocate for older Americans, I see
that it's killing seniors and others on fixed incomes, and families
struggling to survive.

This is a time when we all have to tighten our belts and devel-
op solutions that will improve the situation, not make it worse.

Sherrie Matza

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Sherrie Matza.

My wife and I both work. We are renters. We have no children.
We realize that we are probably better off than most other couples
as, thank God, we are both healthy.

Everyday however despite our blessing, both of us worry that
should this recession continue, one or both of us may become
unemployed. And this thought is very frightening.

In addition we are concerned, that despite our frugality and
despite the recession, our monthly disposable income gets small-
er and smaller.

And a new housing bond measure for $250,000,000, which
obligates all tenants to pay half the costs, guarantees again more
monthly reductions in our disposable income.

Why, in the middle of a recession are all these bonds being pro-
posed, $18 billion at the State level, about $2 billion at the local
level it's beyond me.

The repayment for Prop B, pass thru rent increases, is unap-
pealable from an inquiry I made to the Rent Broad. I did a calcu-
lation on the housing bond measure and even though I am no
mathematician, I was shocked. Per my figures 99% of either
household or registered voters, did not have a chance whatever,-
of benefiting from the 1996 bond proposals.

So 99% of all tenants will be paying a fee, thru a rent increase
every month for the next 25 years, to subsidize 1% of new afford-
able home owners.

From my perspective our chances with the California lottery
seem not only bigger and better, but also far cheaper than the
monthly rent pass thru.

That's why I, my wife and other tenant friends are voting No
on B

Patrick Byrne

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Patrick Byrne.

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION B

Proposition B Doesn't Assure Cost Efficiency

We can all agree that San Francisco needs more affordable
housing. The question is: How can it be provided in a cost-effi-
cient manner to maximize the number of affordable units built?

In 1996, the voters approved Proposition A, a $100 million
bond measure for affordable housing. Three thousand units were
promised but in 2002, when the bond funds ran out, only 1812
units had been built or rehabilitated. The manner in which the
bond funds were spent was the subject of a Board of Supervisors
inquiry earlier this year.

Proposition B is patterned after the 1996 bond measure.

Nothing has changed except that the amount the city is asking vot-
ers to approve has increased 2 1/2 times. Until there are controls
in place to maximize the number of affordable units built, voters
should say "NO" to another affordable housing bond measure.

Vote NO on Proposition B.

San Francisco Association of REALTORS®

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Bond Fund Targets Property Owners

Proposition B provides for $250 million to be spent to build
housing for low-income San Franciscans. Eighty percent of the
money will be used to benefit tenants—but property owners will
have to pick up almost the entire bill. What's fair about that?

San Francisco is still recovering from recession. Now is not the
right time to ask property owners to pay $250 million for afford-
able housing. Let's wait for a more appropriate time and distrib-
ute the cost of affordable housing among all San Franciscans.
Vote NO on Proposition B

San Francisco Homeowners Council

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

TEXT OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE
PROPOSITION B

Ordinance calling and providing for a spe-
cial election to be held in the City and
County of San Francisco (the "City”) on
November 5, 2002, for the purpose of sub-
mitting to the qualified voters of the City a
proposition for the issuance of bonds by the
City (or one of its agencies, departments or
enterprises) in the principal amount of Two
Hundred Fifty Million Dollars
($250,000,000) to finance the acquisition,
construction and/or rehabilitation of hous-
ing affordable to low- and moderate-income
households and downpayment financial to
low- and moderate-income first-time home-
buyers and authorizing landlords to
passthrough fi fty percent (50%) o f the resulting
property tax increase to residential tenants ;
finding that the estimated cost of the project
is and will be too great to be paid out of the
ordinary annual income and revenue of the
City and will require expenditures greater
than the amount allowed therefor by the
annual tax levy; reciting the estimated cost
of such proposed project; fixing the date of
and the manner of holding the special elec-
tion and the procedure for voting for or
against the proposition; fixing the maximum
rate of interest on the bonds and providing
for the levy and collection of taxes to pay
both principal and interest therefor; pre-
scribing notice to be given of the special elec-
tion; finding the proposed project is in con-
formity with the priority policies of Planning
Code Section 101.1(b) and with the General
Plan consistency requirement of
Administrative Code Section 2A.53; consoli-
dating the special election with the general
election; establishing the election precincts,
voting places and officers for the special
election; waiving the word limitation on bal-
lot propositions imposed by San Francisco
Municipal Elections Code Section 510; com-
plying with Section 53410 of the California
Government Code; &nd incorporating the
provisions of Article V of Chapter V of the
San Francisco Administrative Code; and
imposing certain limitations on the use of bond
proceeds.

Note: Additions are single-underline italics.

Deletions are strikethrough italics.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and
County of San Francisco:

Section 1. A special election is hereby called
and ordered to be held in the City and County
of San Francisco (the "City)" on Tuesday,
November 5, 2002, for the purpose of submit-
ting to the qualified voters of the City a propo-
sition to incur bonded indebtedness of the City
for the projects hereinafter described in the
amount and for the purposes stated:

"AFFORDABLE HOUSING BONDS,
2002. $250,000,000 to finance the acquisition,
construction and/or rehabilitation of housing
affordable to low- and moderate-income house-
holds and downpayment financial assistance to

low- and moderate-income first-time homebuy-
ers."

The special election hereby called and
ordered shall be referred to herein as the "Bond
Special Election."

Section 2. The estimated cost of the project
described in Section 1 was fixed by the Board
of Supervisors of the City (the "Board of
Supervisors") by the following resolution in the
amount specified below:

Resolution No. 378-02, $250,000,000.

Such resolution was passed by two-thirds or
more of the members of the Board of
Supervisors and approved by the Mayor of the
City (the "Mayor"). In such resolution, it was
recited and found that the sum of money speci-
fied is too great to be paid out of the ordinary
annual income and revenue of the City in addi-
tion to the other annual expenses thereof or
other funds derived from taxes levied for those
purposes and will require expenditures greater
than the amount allowed therefor by the annual
tax levy.

The method and manner of payment of the
estimated costs described herein are by the
issuance of bonds of the City not exceeding the
principal amount specified.

Such estimate of costs as set forth in such
resolution is hereby adopted and determined to
be the estimated cost of the such improvements
and the financing.

Section 43. The Bond Special Election shall
be held and conducted and the votes thereafter
received and canvassed, and the returns thereof
made and the results thereof ascertained, deter-
mined and declared as herein provided, and in
all particulars not herein recited such election
shall be held and the votes canvassed according
to the applicable laws of the State of California
and the Charter of the City (the "Charter") and
any regulations adopted pursuant thereto, pro-
viding for and governing elections in the City,
and the polls for such election shall be and
remain open during the time required by the
laws and regulations.

Section §4. The Bond Special Election here-
by called shall be and hereby is consolidated
with the General Election of the City to be held
Tuesday, November 5, 2002, and the voting
precincts, polling places and officers of election
for the General Election are hereby adopted,
established, designated and named, respective-
ly, as the voting precincts, polling places and
officers of elections for the Bond Special
Election hereby called, and reference is hereby
made to the notice of election setting forth the
voting precincts, polling places and officers of
election for the November 5, 2002 General
Election by the Director of Elections to be pub-
lished in the official newspaper of the City on
the date required under the laws of the State of
California.

Section 65^ The ballots to be used at the
Bond Special Election shall be the ballots to be
used at the General Election. The word limit for
ballot propositions imposed by San Francisco
Municipal Code Elections Section 510 is here-

by waived. On the ballots to be used at the
Bond Special Election, in addition to any other
matter required by law to be printed thereon,
shall appear the following proposition:

"AFFORDABLE HOUSING BONDS,
2002. Shall the City and County of San
Francisco (or one of its agencies, departments
or enterprises) issue bonds and/or other forms
of financing in a principal amount not to exceed
$250,000,000, to finance the acquisition, con-
struction and/or rehabilitation of housing
affordable to low- and moderate-income house-
holds and downpayment financial assistance to
low- and moderate-income first-time homebuy-
ers and authorize landlords to passthrough to
residential tenants in units subject to Chapter
37 of the San Francisco Administrative Code
(the Residential Rent Stabiliz.ation and
Arbitration Ordinance) 50% o f the increase in
the real property taxes attributable to the cost
of repayment of the bond?"

Each voter to vote for the proposition hereby
submitted shall mark the ballot in the location
corresponding to a "YES" vote for the proposi-
tion, and to vote against the proposition shall
mark the ballot in the location corresponding to
a "NO" vote for the proposition.

Section 76^ If at the Bond Special Election it
shall appear that two-thirds of all the voters
voting on the proposition voted in favor of and
approving the proposition, then such proposi-
tion shall have been authorized by the electors,
and bonds may be issued and sold for the pur-
poses set forth above upon the order of the
Board of Supervisors. Such bonds shall bear
interest at a rate not to exceed applicable legal
limits.

The vote cast for and against the proposition
shall be counted separately and when two-
thirds of the qualified electors, voting on the
proposition, vote in favor thereof, the proposi-
tion shall be deemed adopted.

Section £7, For the purpose of paying the
principal of and interest on the bonds and any
premiums upon the redemption thereof, the
Board of Supervisors, at the time of fixing and
in the manner for the general tax levy provided,
shall levy and collect annually each year until
the bonds are paid, or until there is a sum in the
Treasury of the City, or account held on behalf
of the Treasurer of the City, set apart for that
purpose to meet all sums coming due for the
principal of and interest on the bonds, a tax suf-
ficient to pay the annual interest on the bonds
as the same becomes due and also any part
of the principal of the bonds that shall become
due before the proceeds of a tax levied at the
time for making the next general tax levy
can be made available for the payment of
the principal.

Section The Board of Supervisors having

(Continued on next page)

P-34

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION B (CONTINUED)

reviewed the proposed legislation, finds and
declares (i) That the proposed project is in con-
formity with the priority policies of Section
101.1(b) of the City Planning code and (ii) in
accordance with Section 2A .53(f) of the City
Administrative Code, that the proposed project
is consistent with the City's General Plan, and
hereby adopts the findings of the City Planning
Department, as set forth in the General Plan
Referral Report dated May 22, 2002 and incor-
porates said findings by reference.

Section 409_. Pursuant to Section 53410 of
the California Government Code, the bonds
shall be for the specific purpose authorized
herein and the proceeds of such bonds will be
applied only to the project described herein.
The City and County will comply with the
requirements of Sections 53410(c) and
53410(d) of the California Government Code.

Section 4410. Pursuant to Proposition F
approved by the voters of the City and County
in November 2001, the Affordable Housing
Bonds are subject to, and incorporate by refer-
ence, the provisions of Article V of Chapter 5
of the Administrative Code of the City and
County ("Proposition F Requirements").
Pursuant to Proposition F Requirements, to the
extent permitted by law, one-tenth of one per-
cent (0.1%) of the gross proceeds of the
Affordable Housing Project bonds shall be
deposited in a fund established by the
Controller's Office and appropriated by the
Board of Supervisors at the direction of the cit-
izen's bond oversight committee established by
Proposition F Requirements to cover the costs
of said committee.

Section 4211. This ordinance shall be pub-
lished in accordance with any state law require-
ments, and such publication shall constitute
notice of the Bond Special Election and no
other notice of the Bond Special Election here-
by called need be given.

Section 43-12. The appropriate officers,
employees, agents and representatives of the
City and County of San Francisco are hereby
authorized and directed to do everything neces-
sary or desirable to the calling and holding of
the Special Election, and to otherwise carry out
the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 13. Loans or grants funded by the
proceeds of these bonds shall require that all
contracts funded by bond funds be awarded
through a competitive selection process. The
selection process shall be competitive bids,
competitive request for qualifications, or other
competitive process which is (a) consistent with
industry standards for obtaining services and
(h) appropriate for services being procured.
Sole source contracting shall not be permitted.
If the Mayor of the City makes a finding that
only one source exists for a product or service.
a waiver of this requirement may be granted.
Any such waiver shall be reported to the Board
of Supervisors in the annual report.

Section 14. To the maximum extent feasible,
projects funded with the proceeds of these
bonds shall be required to obtain funding from

non-Citv sources for a substantial portion of
the cost of the project. Priority shall be given to
projects which provide a high degree of lever-
aging of outside funds. The Mayor's Office of
Housing shall include an analysis of the lever-
aging of outside funds for each project in its
annual report to the Board of Supervisors.

Section 15. No proceeds of these bonds or
program income generated from bond funded
projects shall be used for lobbying elected offi-
cials for political purposes.

Section 16. Loans or grants funded by the
proceeds of these bonds shall require that,
prior to the disbursement of the final ten per-
cent (10%) payment of the developer fee, the
borrower or grantee shall submit a project
completion audit performed by an independent
certified public accountant identifying the
sources and uses of all project funds including
the bond program funds. If the project is also
receiving funding from the federal Section 202.
Section 811. HOME or other program requir-
ing third party cost certification, such cost cer-
tification shall be acceptable for satisfaction of
this audit requirement.

Section 17. The loan underwriting guidelines
used to evaluate applications for loans or
grants funded by the proceeds of these bonds
shall incorporate limits on developer fees,
administrative costs and other payments to the
developer which are at least as restrictive as
the standards used in the Affordable Housing
Program of the Federal Home Loan Bank.

P-35

PROPOSITION L

Shall the City increase its tax on the sale or transfer of real estate worth $1,000,000 or
more from $3.75 to $7.50 for each $500 of value?

Digest

by Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: When real estate is sold or transferred, the
City charges a tax. If the property is worth $1,000,000 or more, the
tax is $3.75 for each $500 of value. If the property is worth less
than $1,000,000, lower tax rates apply.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition L is an ordinance that would double
the tax on the sale or transfer of real estate worth $1,000,000 or
more. The tax would be $7.50 for each $500 of value. The tax rates
for properties worth less than $1,000,000 would remain
unchanged.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote "Yes," you want to increase
the tax on the sale or transfer of real estate worth $1,000,000 or
more from $3.75 to $7.50 for each $500 of value.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote "No," you do not want to
increase this tax.

Controller’s Statement on “L’

City Controller Edward Harrington has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition L:

Should the proposed charter amendment be approved by the
voters, in my opinion, revenues to the City will increase. Had this
Proposition been in effect the last five years, the resulting rev-
enues would have increased by approximately $31,000,000 annu-
ally.

How “U’ Got on the Ballot

On August 7, 2002 the Department of Elections received a pro-
posed ordinance signed by Supervisors Ammiano, Gonzalez,
Maxwell, and Peskin.

The City Elections Code allows four or more Supervisors to
place an ordinance on the ballot in this manner.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 50%+1 AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE P-148.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE P-3.

PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION L

VOTE YES ON PROP L TO SAVE VITAL CITY SERVICES

San Francisco is in fiscal crisis, facing a $150 million budget
deficit. Vital city services are at risk - including 911 emergency
dispatcher training, care at San Francisco General Hospital,
homecare services for seniors, housing and support for people
with HIV/AIDS, and programs for disadvantaged youth.

We need to act now to prevent these services from being lost.

That's why a coalition of citizens, non-profit organizations and
community leaders asked Supervisors to put Proposition L on the
ballot.

Prop L will replace the revenue lost when many of San
Francisco's largest corporations sued the city, struck down the
business tax, and stopped paying their fair share for the infra-
structure, transit, police and fire protection services they receive.

Prop L will increase the top rate of the real estate transfer tax on
the sale of properties worth $1 million or more. It won't impact
middle class or low income families, and will affect barely 10% of
all real estate transactions in the city - primarily downtown com-
mercial buildings, large landlords, and multimillionaires.
According to a recent analysis by the San Francisco Chronicle, the
vast majority of property owners in the city won't be affected.

The new tax rate is well in line with other major American
cities, and would keep San Francisco below the rates in New York,
Oakland and Berkeley.

Prop L alone isn't the answer - we need to cut waste, especially
at the top levels of city government. But we also need Prop L - to
save vital city services.

Please join us in voting YES on L.

San Franciscans to Save our Services

Supervisor Sophie Maxwell, Chair, Budget Committee
Supervisor Aaron Peskin, Chair, Finance Committee
Margaret Brodkin, Coleman Advocates for Children and Youth
Margaret Griffin, Senior Action Network
Jonathan W. Frank, Paramedic, San Francisco Fire Department

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION L

Don't Be Hoodwinked

San Francisco's 2002-2003 budget is a whopping $5 BILLION.
Yet the four supervisors who put Proposition L on the ballot are
telling voters that the city needs $20 million from an increase in
the transfer tax to maintain vital city services. Don't believe them.

The very same supervisors admit in the official ballot argument
supporting Proposition L that they need to cut waste, especially at
the top levels of city government. Why didn't they do it a few
months ago before adopting the 2002-2003 city budget?

Vital city services can and will be maintained in San Francisco,
even in a weak economy. It is the responsibility of your elected
representatives, though, to figure out how that can be done,
instead of proposing tax increases. They know that the answer lies
in cutting waste but they will never do it unless you vote NO on
tax increase proposals, like Proposition L.

Vote NO on L.

San Francisco Apartment Association

OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION L

Stop a Doubling of the Tax

Proposition L proposes increasing the real property transfer tax
for properties selling for $1 million or more to 1.5 percent of the
sale price. The proposition should be opposed for the following
reasons:

•	The doubling of any tax is outrageous. If the voters approve
Proposition L, San Francisco will have one of the highest real
property transfer taxes in the country. And, the tax will be
levied on the property's total value-regardless of how much
or how little the seller makes from the sale.

•	The tax increase is not needed to balance the 2002-2003 fis-
cal year budget.

•	Rather than increasing taxes, the Board of Supervisors should
reduce the city's overpaid and bloated bureaucracy.

With only 750,000 residents, San Francisco's 2002-2203 fis-
cal year budget is a whopping $5 billion. One reason for the
outlandish size of the city's budget is the fact that San
Francisco has the highest ratio of city workers to residents of
any city of comparable size in the country. But despite the
billions being spent on city services, San Franciscans rank the
quality of city services, according to a recent survey conduct-
ed by the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, as "Fair" or
"Poor".

The voters should send a message to the four supervisors who
are proposing Proposition L that government needs to do what its
citizens are doing. Government needs to cut back!

Vote NO on Proposition L.

San Francisco Apartment Association

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION L

The big commercial landlords and corporate property own-
ers who oppose Proposition L have a simple solution for our
fiscal crisis.

They want YOU to pay for it.

Instead of contributing their fair share for the services we pro-
vide, they propose drastic budget cuts that could severely weaken
police, fire, emergency and hospital services while hurting our
most vulnerable residents.

Don't let them get away with it. Before you vote, please consid-
er these facts: •

•	Prop. L applies ONLY to properties worth one million dollars
or more.

•	90% of the property owners in San Francisco will NOT
be affected.

•	Landlords CANNOT pass this tax on to their tenants.

•	Under Prop. L, San Francisco's real estate transfer tax will
still be LOWER than Oakland, Berkeley and New York City.

One of the reasons we face a huge deficit is because San
Francisco's largest corporations sued to strike down our long-
standing business tax.

Prop. Lisa fair and necessary replacement for that lost revenue.
It ensures that our largest landlords and property owners pay their
fair share for the services we provide them.

To protect our city and save vital services, please join police,
firefighters, paramedics, HTV/AIDS care providers, neighbor-
hood and community leaders and vote YES on L.

Jane Morrison

Chair, San Francisco Democratic Party

Gordon Chin

Executive Director, Chinatown Development Corporation

Larry Bradshaw

Paramedic Chapter, Local 790, San Francisco Fire Department

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION L

Proposition L will generate much-needed revenue to support
our important programs, but will have no impact on the majority
of home sales - those under $1,000,000.

Vote Yes on L

San Francisco Tomorrow

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Tomorrow.

VOTE YES ON L TO PROTECT PUBLIC SAFETY

Proposition L will help to ensure that the public safety services
you depend on - police, fire, medical - are there when you need
them.

Commissioner Wayne Friday, San Francisco Police Commission* *
* For Identification Purposes Only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

YES ON L TO SAVE SENIORS SERVICES

Without Prop L, seniors may lose essential community services
they need to live independently. Please vote Yes on L to save sen-
ior services.

Jim Illig, President, CASE, Coalition of Agencies Serving the
Elderly*

Margaret Griffin, Senior Action Network
* For Identification Purposes Only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

PRESERVE OUR PARKS - VOTE YES ON L

Prop. L stands for Livable City - it will help ensure funding for
key environmental programs that keep San Francisco's environ-
ment healthy and beautiful. Don't let special interests avoid pay-
ing their fair share to protect our environment. Yes on L.

Amandeep Jawa, President

San Francisco League of Conservation Voters

Milton Marks III, Trustee, San Francisco Community College

District*

* For Identification Purposes Only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

YES ON L TO PROTECT AIDS SERVICES

Next year's project $150,000 deficit will put HIV/AIDS treat-
ment, support and prevention services at risk. Proposition L must
pass to provide the funding that HIV/AIDS programs need to
serve more people living with AIDS.

Jim Illig, President, HIV/AIDS Provider Network*

JeffSheehy, Founder, Equal Benefits Advocates

* For Identification Purposes Only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

STOP HEALTH CUTS - YES ON L

This year, the Mayor proposed eliminating $150,000 from
homecare funds used to help middle-income seniors find and pay
for the care they need to remain at home. This is outrageous
because we should be expanding vital homecare programs, not
cutting them. Vote Yes on Prop L to provide the funding we need
to make homecare available.

Margaret Baran, In-Home Supportive Services Consortium*

* For Identification Purposes Only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

SAVE OUR STREET FAIRS - YES ON L

San Francisco's Pride Celebration and 26 other street fairs were
threatened this year by the city's budget crisis. Don't let the street
fairs shut down because large commercial landlords aren't willing
to pay their fair share for the city services they use. Vote Yes
on L.

Debra Walker, President, Harvey Milk G/L/B/T Democratic Club

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION L

tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

Renters say Yes on L

Yes on L to ensure that millionaire commercial landlords pay
their fair share for city services. Prop. L will in no way affect
renters - the transfer tax increase is a one-time payment and can-
not be passed through to renters.

SF Tenants Union
Housing Rights Committee
St. Peter's Housing Committee
Tenderloin Housing Clinic
Senior Housing Action Collaborative
Affordable Housing Alliance

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

PROP L FOR BETTER HOUSING

San Francisco's nonprofits are the lifeline for the city's poor and
vulnerable. That's why we need Proposition L - to stop the budg-
et cuts that are brutally slashing housing programs for the
mentally ill and others who need them the most. Please vote Yes
on Prop L.

Steve Collier, Tenderloin Housing Clinic

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

LABOR SUPPORTS PROP. L

Don't let the biggest corporations in San Francisco get away
with refusing to pay their fair share for vital city services while
children's health programs, senior housing, and 911 emergency
services get cut. Vote Yes on Proposition L.

San Francisco Labor Council, AFL-CIO

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Committee to Save Our Essential Services - Yes on L.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Health Care Workers Union, SEIU 2. Coleman Children
and Youth Services 3. Senior Action Network.

The SAN FRANCISCO DEMOCRATIC PARTY recom-
mends a YES Vote on L - Real Property Transfer Tax

Jane Morrison, Chair, San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is The San Francisco Democratic Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Nancy Pelosi 2. Carole Migden 3. Tom Lantos.

San Francisco Labor Council urges you to vote yes on Prop L,
Real Property Transfer Tax. In these difficult financial times, it is
important for all parts of society to share in solving the problem.
With this in mind, we urge a Yes vote on Prop L, which will guar-
antee that those who are in the upper strata of our financial world
will bear some of the responsibility helping to eliminate our budg-
et shortages.

San Francisco Labor Council, AFL-CIO

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Labor Council, AFL-CIO.

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION L

Vote NO on Proposition L, to protect the City's economic future.
The Supervisors developed this tax increase behind closed
doors absolutely with no public input in the process. Proposition
L is a hastily developed tax increase that threatens the economic
health of the San Francisco. It increases the cost of living in and
operating a business in the City.

Local politicians refuse to control their spending when the eco-
nomic downturn has caused families to control theirs. Our sky-
rocketed taxes enabled a spending spree, doubling the government
budget to $5 billion in just 5 years!

Join Citizens for a Better San Francisco in Voting NO on
Proposition L.

Edward Poole, Chair, CBSF
Joel Springer III
Christopher Bowman
Honor Bulkley
Harold Hoogasian
Darcy Linn
Rodney Leong
Josh Kriesel
Howard Epstein
Christopher Wright

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Citizens for a Better San Francisco.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Biaggini Trust 2. 21st Century PAC 3. William Brady

No on L. Still another tax increase! This will further dampen
investment and job development. San Francisco doesn't need
higher taxes — it needs less spending.

San Francisco Republican Party

Mike DeNunzio, Chairman

Officers of the San Francisco Republican Party:

Elsa Cheung, Vice Chairman, Political Action
Sue C. Woods, Treasurer
Barbara Kiley, Secretary

Republican Candidates for the Congress and Assembly:

G. Michael German, 8th Congressional District
Howard Epstein, 12th Assembly District
Gail Neira, 13th Assembly District

Members-Elect, San Francisco Republican Party:

Mike Antonini

Christopher L. Bowman

Janies Fuller

Sheila Hewitt

Dave Katz

Joel Springer

Joe Yew

Presidents, San Francisco Republican Volunteer Clubs:

Raymond G. Choy, Chairman, California Chinese American
Republican Association

Leo Lacayo, National Hispanic Republican Assembly, San
Francisco Chapter

Grace Norton-Fitzpatrick, Nob Hill Republican Women,
Federated

Ronald Konopaski, Vice President, San Francisco Republican
Assembly

The true sources of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
are the signators and the San Francisco Republican Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Committee on Jobs 2. George W. Rowe 3. George F.
Jewett, Jr.

No on L

Prop. L is a regressive tax that will come back to hurt small
businesses and working families in the City. If Prop. L passes San
Francisco will have one of the highest real estate transfer taxes in
the country. This will further increase the cost of doing business
and burden middle class homebuyers in San Francisco.

This measure is a flawed attempt to deal with the realities of a
new economy. San Francisco should focus on cutting costs in gov-
ernment rather than running business and business owners out of
town.

Please Vote No on Proposition L.

Supervisor Gavin Newsom

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Newsom 2002.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Ruth E. Werner 2. Anne Scherer 3. Christine Murray.

Members, San Francisco Republican Party:

Dr. Cynthia Amelon
Albert C. Chang
Terence Faulkner
Harold M. Hoogasian
Joshua Kriesel
Darcy Linn
Nick Van-Beek

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION L

Now Is Not The Time For More Taxes

In tough economic times, households and businesses tighten
their belts. They don't go asking for more! Given the current
economic climate, this is not the time to increase taxes and make
San Francisco an even MORE expensive place to live and work.

This measure was put on the ballot at the last minute with NO
PUBLIC INPUT. That is not the way to craft tax policy.

Now is not the time to raise taxes. Vote No on L.

A. Lee Blitch, President & CEO, San Francisco Chamber of
Commerce

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.

Increased Tax Will Affect Everybody—Sooner or Later

If you own real property in San Francisco and plan to sell it
some day, chances are, with property appreciation what it is, you
will end up paying the city 1.5 percent of its value in taxes, if
Proposition L passes. And, when you pay those taxes, they will be
due on the total value of the property—regardless of how much
or how little you make on the sale.

And, at 1.5 percent, San Francisco will have close to the high-
est transfer tax rate in the State. And the city cannot even tell you
how the money will be used!

Proposition L is taxation for taxation's sake. Vote NO on L.

San Francisco Homeowners Council

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

UNFAIR and SHORTSIGHTED

I urge my fellow voters to reject Proposition L. Reasonable and
carefully considered tax increases are fair. This tax increase is not
fair. Prop L will increase the cost of housing in San Francisco. For
renters this increase will be passed down to tenants. For those
seeking to buy, sellers will pass down the costs. This tax increase
will unfairly tax new home buyers, Asians, new immigrants and
certain neighborhoods, like the Richmond district where the cost
of housing is quickly escalating. We should reject this proposition.

Alicia Wang

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Sooner or Later, Everyone Will Have to Pay

Proposition L proposes doubling the transfer tax on properties
valued at $1 million or more. It was placed on the ballot without
a public hearing by four zealous supervisors intent on soaking the
"rich". What these supervisors fail to realize is that, with property
values increasing the way they have been in San Francisco, it's just
a matter of time before everyone will have to pay the increased
tax.

Doubling any tax is outrageous. Vote NO on Proposition L.
Tom A. Hsieh

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Vote NO on L

The four supervisors who put Prop L on the ballot are asking
voters to increase the property transfer tax for more expensive
properties without ever having had a public hearing on the issue.
The City's budget is balanced and does not need the extra money.
Why increase taxes without a purpose? Will special interest
groups use this tax money for pet projects? From a good govern-
ment point of view, the effort to enact tax increases without pub-
lic hearings is akin to a sneak attack. San Francisco Taxpayers &
Homeowners Association emphasizes that voters should demand
that government take action on high profile fraud, and wasteful
and low priority spending within local government before asking
voters to increase taxes. Asking voters to increase taxes without
incorporating the tax increases into a balanced budget and without
conducting public hearings violates fundamental legislative
processes. Those processes should include the public review of
proposals, including noticed hearings and draft language, before
any proposals are referred to the voters. Vote No on Prop L.

San Francisco Taxpayers and Homeowners Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION L

Vote No on L

Doubling the sales tax on real estate worth $1,000,000.00 or
more certainly sounds like a harmless way to raise money. This
measure seems only to harm 'big' property owners, not 'small fry'
and certainly not tenants. But does it really?

$1 million doesn't buy much in San Francisco these days. A
two-family home in the Inner Mission runs about $1 million. Do
we really want to punish regular homebuyers?

And what of the tenants? Will property owners really just
absorb the cost of this tax increase without passing it through to
tenants? If nothing else, owners will certainly hold out for the
highest possible rent rates in their new buildings.

Vote No on Proposition L and tell the city to find a more rea-
sonable source of income.

Professional Property Management Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Don't Trust Them

Supervisors Ammiano, Gonzalez, Maxwell and Peskin placed
Proposition L on the ballot to double the property transfer tax rate
that applies to the sale of more expensive properties in San
Francisco. They say the city needs another $20 million from a
doubling of the tax to maintain vital city services. They say that if
you think things are bad this year, they will get worse next year.

So, what is likely to happen next year when things get worse?
Will the same supervisors be back with another proposition that
will double the property tax rate that applies to your property?
Don't give them that chance. Vote NO on Proposition L.

Committee to Stop Double Taxation

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Are They Out of Their Minds?

The Proposal: Doubling the tax property owners have to pay if
they sell real estate valued at more than $1 million in San
Francisco. As outrageous as this proposal seems, that is what four
supervisors—Tom Ammiano, Matt Gonzalez, Sophie Maxwell
and Aaron Peskin—are proposing to the voters.

Real estate—residential and commercial—has continued to
increase in value in San Francisco. The property you bought years
ago could be valued at $1 million or more today. And, if not now,
maybe in a few years.

You've worked hard to be able to own real estate in San
Francisco, and you've worked hard to be able to keep it up. But, if
Proposition L passes, and you sell real estate valued at $1 million
or more, you will have to pay the city 1.5 % of its value in taxes—
regardless of how much or how little you make on the sale.

Proposition L is an attack on people who own real estate. Vote
NO on L.

BOMA San Francisco
Ken Cleaveland

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Vote NO on L

Increasing the transfer tax will further dampen real estate activ-
ity in an already struggling market in San Francisco. It will
increase the prices at which buildings are sold, with the increased
prices being reflected in higher rents for tenants, both residential
and commercial.

You don't have to own a $1 million property to be affected by
Proposition L. Vote NO on L.

David Gruber

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Government Needs to Cut Back

While private sector employment has shrunk in San Francisco,
the size of city government continues to expand. In fact, in the last
five years, the size of city government has doubled. Now, four
supervisors are proposing the doubling of a tax property owners
pay to provide even more money for the city's bloated and over-
paid bureaucracy. Enough is enough!

Vote NO on Proposition L.

J. Timothy Falvey, President, Hanford-Freund & Co.

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Small Business Network Opposes L

Proposition L is bad for small business and bad for San
Francisco's economy!

Proposition L will raise the cost of doing business in San
Francisco. Proposition L is a significant tax increase to feed the
city's bloated bureaucracy and it was rushed on to the ballot at the
last minute by a few supervisors without any public hearing to
consider the impact on our economy.

When economic times are tough, City government should do
what we all do, reduce spending. Raising taxes will only hinder
economic recovery and eliminate jobs.

Vote No on Proposition L

San Francisco Small Business Network

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION L

Say NO to Back Room Deals

The manner in which four supervisors—Tom Ammiano, Matt
Gonzalez, Sophie Maxwell and Aaron Peskin—placed
Proposition L on the November ballot is an outrage and violates
the notion of fair and open government. These supervisors, behind
closed doors and in only two days—without public notice, public
hearings or public debate—decided to sign the proposition to
place it before the voters in November.

The supervisors conducted extensive public hearings on other
measures placed on the ballot—such as the water bond and the
affordable housing bond. And, extensive public hearings were
conducted on another proposed ballot measure—an increase in
the business tax—which the supervisors decided not to place on
the ballot because of strenuous public opposition. Why wasn't the
transfer tax proposal treated similarly?

The truth is, the four supervisors were influenced to place the
proposal on the ballot by a special interest group which will ben-
efit if the proposal is approved. The statement that the four super-
visors make in their official argument that the $20 million is need-
ed to preserve essential services is patently ridiculous since the
city's budget is a whopping $5 BILLION!

Don't be hoodwinked by these four supervisors. Proposition L
is an outrage and a total abdication of their responsibilities as leg-
islators. Vote NO on L.

Committee to Stop Double Taxation

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

How Does Doubling a Tax Grab You?

As outrageous as it seems, the proponents of Propositon L are
asking you to double an important city tax. Why? They believe
government should be immune from the effects of an econom-
ic downturn. That's right! You're worrying about how you're
going to make ends meet and they are proposing doubling a tax
on property owners to maintain the city's bloated and overpaid
bureaucracy. What do they think they're doing?

Send a message to Proposition L proponents that government
needs to do what citizens are doing. Government needs to
cut back!

Vote NO on Proposition L.

Supervisor Tony Hall

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

Think It Won’t Affect You?

Proposition L proposes doubling the real property transfer tax
for properties valued at $1 million or more. If the voters approve
Proposition L, the increased tax is likely to become reflected in
higher prices for this class of properties, making them more
expensive. But there is a trickle down effect in real estate markets.
If the value of properties in one price category increases, the value
of properties in other price categories increases, as well.

San Francisco already has the most expensive real estate in the
country. Do we need to make it still more expensive?

Vote NO on Proposition L.

John L. Molinari, Former President, San Francisco Board of
Supervisors

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

TEXT OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE
PROPOSITION L

Ordinance amending Sections 1101 and
1102 of the San Francisco Business and Tax
Regulations Code, to eliminate a reference to
the California Revenue and Taxation Code
and to increase the the real property trans-
fer tax for property valued at $1,000,000 or
more, from $3.75 for each $500 of value to
$7.50 for each $500 of value.

Note: Additions are single-underline italics.

Deletions are strikethrough italics.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and
County of San Francisco:

Section 1. The San Francisco Business and
Tax Regulations Code is hereby amended by
amending Section 1101, to read as follows:

SEC. 1101. SHORT TITLE.

This Article shall be known as the "Real
Property Transfer Tax Ordinance." It is adopted
pursuant to the authority contained in Part 6.7
(commencing with Section 11901) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

Section 2. The San Francisco Business and
Tax Regulations Code is hereby amended by
amending Section 1102, to read as follows:

SEC. 1102. TAX IMPOSED.

There is hereby imposed on each deed,
instrument or writing by which any lands, ten-
ements, or other realty sold within the City and
County of San Francisco shall be granted,
assigned, transferred or otherwise conveyed to,
or vested in, the purchaser or purchasers, or any
other person or persons, by his or her or their
direction, when the consideration or value of
the interest or property conveyed (not exclud-
ing the value of any lien or encumbrances
remaining thereon at the time of sale) (i)
exceeds $100 but is less than or equal to
$250,000, a tax at the rate of $2.50 for each
$500 or fractional part thereof; or (ii) more than
$250,000 and less than $1,000,000, a tax at the
rate of $3.40 for each $500 or fractional part
thereof for the entire value or consideration,
including, but not limited to, any portion of
such value or consideration that is less than
$250,000; or (iii) $1,000,000 and above, a tax
at the rate of $7.50 $3.75 for each $500 or frac-
tional part thereof for the entire value or con-
sideration, including, but not limited to, any
portion of such value or consideration that is
less than $1,000,000.

P-148