PALOMAR POMERADO HEALTH
Member, Board of Directors

ALAN W. LARSON	Age:	56

Incumbent/Physician

QUALIFICATIONS: Alan W. Larson. M.D. has practiced Internal Medicine and Gastroenterology
in Poway for nearly 20 years and is a respected member of the medical staff at Pomerado Hospital.
He understands the health care needs of patients and the frustrations of nurses and other
caregivers in our health system. As the incumbent, he knows the operations and complexities
of modern health care and knows how to provide top quality, accessible, and cost-effective
hospital services. EXPERIENCE COUNTS! TRUST A PROFESSIONAL!

DR.ALAN LARSON'S GOALS: 1) Happy employees provide quality healthcare! The

institutional culture must change to meet patient expectations for compassionate nurses with the
time and needed support to deliver top quality, personalized medical care. 2) Wellness
Programs! Our community wants to stay healthy and avoid the need for hospitalizations!
3) Improved Accessl We must expand our offerings of urgent medical services with extended
hours to the rural and underserved areas in our district such as in Ramona, San Marcos, Rancho
Penasquitos, and Valley Center! Long drives are simply unhealthy! 4) Protect our Emergency/
Trauma Services! No more closures or long waits!

RE-ELECT DR. ALAN LARSON ... THE EXPERIENCED PROFESSIONAL THAT KNOWS AND
CARES!

CS-14P0-4

SD 459-034

CITY OF POWAY
Proposition N

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

> ■ Shall an ordinance of the City of Poway be adopted
WHIIW |u which would increase the Transient Occupancy Tax
■ ■ w I 11 from t^e current sjx percent to ten percent of a hotel or
motel guest’s room rate?

Full text to this proposition follows the arguments/rebuttals.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

In 1981, the newly incorporated City of Poway adopted the County of San Diego Transient
Occupancy Tax (“TOT"). The TOT is charged to persons who rent hotel and motel rooms in the
City. Generally, it is paid by visitors, not by City residents. It is collected by the innkeeper and sent
directly to the City. In 1981, the TOT rate was six percent (6%) of the room rate paid by the visitor.
The current City rate is six percent (6%).

The TOT is a general tax. Its proceeds are deposited into the City's General Fund and used to pay
a variety of City expenses. On July 9,2002, the City Council approved an increase in the tax to ten
percent (10%). By the terms of Proposition 218, adopted by California voters in 1996, the increase
can only take effect if a majority of the voters voting in a general election approve the increase.

TOT rates in the county vary between 6% and 10.5%. Fourteen of the eighteen cities have TOT
rates of 10% or more. Some examples of the TOT currently payable elsewhere in San Diego
County are as follows:

City of San Diego	10.5	%
City of Escondido	10	%
City of Del Mar	10	%*
City of Carlsbad	10	%
City of Coronado	8	%
City of Santee	6	%

With the construction of a new hotel in the Poway Business Park, the 4% increase in the TOT would
yield an estimated additional $300,000 annually in City revenue.

If this measure is approved, the taxes of City residents will not increase. City residents will only pay
the tax if they rent a hotel or motel room in the City.

This proposition requires approval of a majority of those voting.

A "yes” vote is a vote to increase the TOT paid by visitors to ten percent (10%) of the room rate. A
“no" vote is a vote to leave the TOT at six percent (6%) of the room rate.

"Increase to 10.5% by voter approval on November ballot.

PR-09P0-1

SD 459-035

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION N

On November 5, 2002, the voters of Poway will have the opportunity to vote to raise the City's
Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) from 6% to 10%. TOT is a charge placed on hotel and motel bills
paid by guests visiting Poway.

In Poway, the TOT becomes part of the City’s general fund and is used to help cover non-rfevenue
producing services such as law enforcement and fire protection, parks and recreation, and the
community library. A portion of the tax is used for broad advertising that promotes businesses of
Poway and the Poway Business Park.

All eighteen cities in San Diego County collect Transient Occupancy Tax. All but four cities set the
TOT at 10%, with the exception of the City of San Diego, which sets the rate at 10.5%. The cities of
Santee, Lemon Grove and Coronado have rates between 6 and 8%.

As with many businesses and individuals, the City of Poway has been adversely affected by recent
downturns in the economy. Raids by the State of California on City revenues such as property tax
have also put the squeeze on the budget. By approving the Business Park hotel and voters raising
the TOT to 10%, the citizens of Poway can add an additional $310,000 annually to offset the
shortfall caused by the economy and raids by the State, all this WITHOUT PAYING ONE CENT
MORE IN TAXES! unless you stay in a local motel.

I urge you to support Prop. N to ensure the continued high level of service from our fire and safety
services, to retain and enhance recreation programs and attract new and varied businesses to
Poway.

Remember, NOT ONE CENT OF THE TOT TAX IS PAID BY LOCAL RESIDENTS unless they stay in
a local motel or hotel.

MICKEY CAFAGNA
-	Mayor

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION N

No argument against the proposition was filed in the office of the City Clerk.

ORDINANCE NO. 559

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF POWAY, CALIFORNIA,

AMENDING CHAPTER 3.16 OF THE POWAY MUNICIPAL CODE TO
INCREASE THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX TO TEN PERCENT

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Poway has determined pursuant to Elections Code
Section 9222 to submit an ordinance to the .qualified voters of the City of Poway at the General
Municipal Election to be held on November 5,2002 to increase the Transient Occupancy Tax to ten
percent.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF POWAY DOES ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Voter Approval of Existing Tax.

The six percent transient occupancy tax established by Poway Municipal Code Section 3.16.
030 is hereby approved.

Section 2. Amendment of the Poway Municipal Code. Section 3.16.031 of the Poway Municipal is
hereby amended to read as follows:

Section 3.16.031 Additional Tax imposed. In addition to the tax imposed by Section 3.16.030 of
this code for the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay an
additional tax in the'amount of four percent of the rent charged by the operator. The tax constitutes
a debt owed by the transient to the City which is extinguished only by payment to the operator of
the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the
tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient's ceasing to
occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the
City Treasurer may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the City Treasurer.

SD 459-036

Section 3. City Council Action.

A.	The City Council. shall as quickly as permitted by law following the adoption of this
ordinance by the voters, take all actions required to carry out the mandates of Section 1 and
Section 2 hereof.

B.	The City Council shall take all steps necessary to defend vigorously any challenge to the
validity or constitutionality of this ordinance.

Section 4. Construction.

Nothing contained in this ordinance shall be construed to make illegal any lawful tax presently in
effect. Nothing contained in this ordinance shall be construed to require more than a simple
majority vote for the adoption of this ordinance or for the approval of any future measure to amend
this ordinance. For purposes of this section, “presently’’ shall mean as of the date of the election at
which the voters approve or disapprove this ordinance.

Section 5. Severability.

If any section, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion of this ordinance is for any reason held
to be invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. It is hereby declared that this
ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion thereof, would
have been adopted or passed irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, sentences,
clauses, phrases, parts, or portions be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 6. Effective Date.

Pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217, this ordinance shall be considered as adopted upon
the date that the vote by the electorate of the City of Poway is declared by the City Council, and
shall become effective ten (10) days after that date.

PASSED the 5th day of November, 2002, by the voters of the City of Poway, California, at a
general election on that date in which approval or disapproval of this ordinance appeared on the
ballot. ADOPTED the 3rd day of December, 2002, by the City Council of the City of Poway,
California upon the declaration of the vote at said general election.

Introduced and first read at a Regular Meeting of the City Council of the City of Poway held this
25th day of June 2002, and thereafter PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of said City
Council held the 9th day of July 2002, by the following roll call vote.

AYES:	EMERY,	HIGGINSON,	REXFORD,	CAFAGNA

NOES:	GOLDBY

ABSTAIN:	NONE

ABSENT:	NONE

Michael P. Cafagna, Mayor

ATTEST:

Lori Anne Peoples, City Clerk

SD 459-037