TAX INCREASE MEASURE N
MORAGA-ORINDA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

Shall the existing 199? Moraga-Orinda Fire District Orinda Service Zone
special fire flow tax authorized for fire suppression protection and
emergency services be amended to increase the maximum tax rate from
6 to 18 cents, with the additional 12 cents to be used exclusively to
.remedy fire suppression deficiencies in specified portions of the East Bay,
Municipal Utility District water delivery system, which increase shall
terminate upon correction and payment for the identified deficiencies?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
TAX INCREASE MEASURE N

The Moraga-Orinda Fire District includes Service Zones, The
Orinda Service Zone has an existing special fire: flow tax for fire

suppression protection and emergency services. The special fire flow
tax is not based on the value of property. Reflecting the risk of fire to a
parcel, the special fire flow tax is calculated by multiplying a fire risk
factor for each parcel (determined by formulas) by a rate expressed in
cents.

The Board of Directors of the District adopted an ordinance to
increase the existing special fire flow tax within the Orinda Service
Zone, if approved by two-thirds of those voting on this ballot measure.
The increase is from a maximum tax rate of six cents fo a maximum tax
rate of eighteen cents. The passage of this measure will not affect the
use or allocation of the proceeds from the existing maximum six cents
special fire flow tax.

The proceeds from the increased tax will be used to remedy
fire suppression deficiencies in portions of the East Bay Municipal
Utility District (EBMUD) water delivery system. Accordingly, the
proceeds from the additional twelve cents wifi be used solely for the
purposes of (1) completing improvement projects agreed to by the City
of Orinda, the District, and the East Bay Municipal Utility District
(EBMUD), (2) reimbursing these parties for the costs of an engineering
study that serves as the basis for the projects, and (3) reimbursing the
City and District for reasonable expenses incurred in placing this
measure on the ballot. The Orinda Service Zone improvement projects
are set forth in Table 1 of the "Orinda Fire Flow Draft Master Plan,"
dated February 23, 2000, and available for review at District fire
stations and Orinda City Hall. EBMUD will be responsible for doing the

l

work on the improvement projects and will use its best efforts do
complete the work within six years, but in no event later than ten years,
after the effective date of the ballot measure. Once the improvements
have been completed and paid for from the proceeds of the increase,
the tax will be reduced to the original maximum tax rate of six cents.

At least two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must
approve the measure in order for it to pass.

A "yes" vote approves the increase in the special fire flow tax;

A "no" vote rejects the increase in the special fire flow tax. * •

7\R^ment1Mavor.........of ...........

TAX INCREASE MEASURE N

There is a critical need for 'improved fire safety in Orinda. Nearly 30% of
Orsnda's homes are located near fire hydrants that cannot deliver enough
water to put out a residential fire. A fire anywhere in Orinda can threaten
the entire city. Measure N will raise the funds needed to address this
critical fire safety issue.

The facts are clear;

•	Orinda is designated as a Very High Fire Hazard Severity Zone
by the State because of our climate, terrain, heavy vegetation
and narrow roads.

•	To extinguish a typical house fire, a hydrant must deliver 1,000
gallons of water per minute. Many of our hydrants cannot deliver
that much.

•	Conditions in Orinda are very similar to those in the Oakland hills
before the 1991 fire. That fire destroyed 4,000 homes and
apartments, leaving 10,000 people homeless.

•	An uncontrolled fire anywhere in Orinda could quickly spread
through the community.

Following the Oakland Hills fire, a serious review of Orinda's water
system was undertaken. Over the last six years, the City, the Fire District
and EBMUD have worked to develop an effective plan to address the
failings of the current water delivery system. Measure N will raise the
funds needed to act on that plan - a plan that will provide 90% of the
homes and parcels in Orinda with adequate water for fire suppression.

7

Measure N specifies that this special tax increase may be used only for
the 48 projects listed in the plan and will end as soon 'as those projects
are paid for.

Measure N will cost the average homeowner $156 per year - a small

investment for your family's safety.

Please join us in voting Yes for Measure N -Yes for fire safety in Orinda.

Eugene L. Gottfried, M.D,

Director, Moraga-Orinda Fire District

Richard G, Heggie
Orinda’s First Mayor

Sargent Littlehale
Co-Chair, Citizens for Fire
Safe Orinda; former Mayor,
City of Orinda-1997.

Amy Worth

Orinda City Counciimember

Peter Muller
Construction Consultant

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
TAX INCREASE MEASURE N

Orindans approved formation of the Moraga/Orinda Fire''District in 1997.
We were promised the fire flow tax would be used to improve water
supply (Ordinance 97-1). The Fire Board has broken that promise. Not
one dime has been spent upgrading water pipes. Now the Fire Board is
requesting a new tax that will triple the old tax.

The Moraga/Orinda Fire Marshall states that large areas of Orinda are

moderate fire hazard zones.

Proponents claim 1,000 gpm water flow is essential to extinguish a
house fire. Why then do 22 of the 48 areas to be upgraded still leave
some upgraded fire hydrants below 1,000 gpm? The fire department
extinguished 5 simultaneous house fires in a row with 800 gpm hydrant

flow.

Proponents claim fire knows no boundaries. They say failure to pass this
tax will result in a firestorm, if they really believe this claim, then fire
would spread to the tax-exempt Ivy Drive area and Moraga. Why aren’t
they taxing the entire Moraga/Orinda Fire District? We are one
community fire district.

Fire insurance rates are not based on hydrant flow. Check with your
insurance agent.

The total fire flow tax could be $320 per year.

Without voter approval the Fire Board can extend the construction
period, thus escalating the $20,868,889 cost (EBMUD contract)

To avoid broken promises, an endless tax, and tax-exempt areas,

Please vote NO on Measure N.

Clyde Vaughn

Chairman of Moraga Del Rey
Homeowners Association

Sonia S. Scanlan

Registered Dietician, Homeowner

26A Lost Valley Dr.

Vincent J. Maiorana
Co-President Lost Valley
Community Association Inc.

Patricia Hayden
Homeowner-Lost Valley Dr.

Cynthia Vegh-Whisnant
66 Lost Valley Dr.

ARGUMENT AGAINST
TAX INCREASE MEASURE N

Proponents say this tax will bring 90% of Orinda hydrants to
1,000 gallons per minute (gpm). In reality, 70% of Orinda fire hydrants
are already at 1,000 gpm. The new tripled tax will upgrade only 20% of
Orinda hydrants. 80% of Orinda homes will receive little or no benefit
from this tax. Some parts of Orinda and all of Moraga will be exempted
from this tripled tax.

Check the color of the top of your nearest fire hydrant. If the top
is painted blue or green your hydrant's water flow is already above 1,000
gpm but you will still pay the tax.. Many orange hydrants are already
close to 1,000 gpm, so they will receive little benefit; however,
homeowners will also pay the tripled tax.

Our greatest fire hazard in Orinda is in the wild lands bordering
Orinda. This tax should have significantly increased hydrant water flow
at boundaries between Orinda and wild lands. Kensington requires their

4

wild land border hydrants to be 4,500 gpm. Many Orinda hydrants
bordering wild lands will receive little or no upgrade,

ff the proposed water pipe changes would really improve your
fire safety, you would expect your fire insurance cost to decrease. It
won't. (Check with your insurance agent.)

The Oakland fire was not due to a lack of water. It was due to
heavy vegetation surrounding the homes and the Santa Ana winds.

If the residents of neighborhoods wish to upgrade their water
pipes, they can form neighborhood assessment districts supplemented
by the fire flow tax we are already paying.

In difficult economic times we should not promote unnecessary

taxes.

Please vote NO on Measure N.

Clyde Vaughn

Chairman of Moraga Del Rey

Homeowners Association

Sonia S. Scanlan

Registered Dietician, Homeowner
26A Lost Valley Dr.

Cynthia Vegh-Whisnant
66 Lost Valley Dr,

Vincent J. Maiorana
Co-President Lost Valley
Community Association Inc.

Patricia Hayden

Homeowner - 44 Lost Valley Dr.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
TAX INCREASE MEASURE N

All of Orinda will benefit from new water pipes and hydrants.

The reason is simple: A fire anywhere in Orinda is a threat to all of
Orinda.

As the Oakland Hills fire demonstrated, fire knows no boundaries.
Hydrants do not exist as islands separated from the rest of the
community.

5

The facts are clear:

•	Measure N will replace 10.8 miles of inadequate, undersized
water pipes - many more than 60 years old. During the
Oakland Hills fire, similar antiquated water pipes in some
sections provided only a trickle of water, allowing that fire to
destroy whole neighborhoods regardless of the pipes and
hydrants that served them,

•	With careful planning, Measure N will bring 90% of Orinda's
hydrants up to a minimum standard of TOGO gallons per minute-
or more. Almost half of the homes in Orinda will benefit from
direct access to increased water flow - and the entire
community will benefit from greatly improved fire safety,

Orinda has lost homes to fire. A 1988 grass fire destroyed five homes on
Crest View Drive in south Orinda, 85% of Orinda's homes are more than
30 years old, and many have wood shake roofs. These factors - and our
hills, trees, vegetation and weather - increase the risk to everyone from
any fire anywhere in Orinda.

Orinda needs Measure N, Neighborhood initiatives would be hugely
inefficient and are not a realistic alternative to a well-planned city-wide

effort.

Help protect ail of Orinda's homes and families. Vote YES on Fire
Flow Measure N.

Pat Dunn, Orinda Fire Flow Study
Committee Chair, League
of Women Voters of Diablo
Valley

Allan M. Tabor
Orinda Council Member

John Wyro

Moraga-Orinda Fire District-

Director-Elect

Linda Landau
Orinda Union School

District Trustee

Carl J. Weber

Chair, Joint Moraga-Orinda

Fire District Formation

Study Committee

6