•	Instructional Technology Center:

Repair, renovate and equip the Instructional Technology Center with high-speed Internet
access, computer technology and improved safety and emergency access.

CUYAMACA COLLEGE

•	Communications Instructional Lab Building:

Construct and equip classrooms, labs and computer/technical support areas to prepare
students for careers and four-year degrees in communications technology and the
communications professions.

•	Business and Computer Information Systems Instructional Building:

Construct and equip a Business and Computer Systems instructional building to prepare
students for careers and four-year degrees in accounting, business, and computer
occupations.

•	Science & Technology Center:

Construct and equip aScience and Technology Center to provide life and physical sciences
classrooms, labs, and computer/technical support to prepare students for careers and four-
year degrees in science and technology jobs and professions.

The specific allocation of bond money may be affected by the District’s receipt of state and other
funds and final costs of each project. The budget for each project may be affected by factors
beyond the District’s control. The Governing Board will establish the timing of projects after review
by the Citizens Oversight Committee.

PR-11 GO-8

SD 571-030

COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. Ill - BOULEVARD
Proposition AA

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

■ > Shall an ordinance for funding structural fire protec-
rnUr A A tion and emergency medical services within County
I nvi *“* Service Area 111 - Boulevard be approved establish-
ing special taxes not exceeding the amounts set forth in the ordinance?

Full text of this proposition follows the arguments/rebuttals.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

You are asked to vote on the adoption of an annual special benefit tax to pay for structural fire
protection within County Service Area No. Ill - Boulevard. The annual special benefit tax will
levied on a parcel and class of improvement to property basis in amounts not to exceed the
following schedule:

Parcel

Residential

Commercial, Industrial
Institutional, Recreational
Agricultural

Maximum Special Benefit Tax
$ 75 per parcel
$ 75 per parcel
$ 75 per parcel
$ 75 per parcel

The maximum permitted special benefit tax may not be increased even if there are increases
in the consumer price index without approval of two-thirds of the voters within County Service
Area f 11 - Boulevard.

The special benefit tax will go into effect July 1, 2003, if approved by two-thirds of the voters
voting this election.

A "yes" vote is a vote to approve the special benefit tax.

A "no” vote is a vote against the special benefit tax.

PFM0J0-1

SD 571-031

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION AA

County Service Area 111 - Boulevard receives approximately $30,000 property tax allocation per
year. After paying out an average of $4,500 for workers’ compensation insurance for our
volunteers, another $4,500 for public liability insurance, and $7,200 to the County for
administrative fees, only $13,800 is left. This minimal amount has to pay for maintenance for the fire
station and community center, utilities, fuel, etc. Due to the lack of funds some equipment
maintenance has been deferred to the dangerous point, which is unsafe to our firefighters and the
public.

The Fire Chief and Board of Directors have determined that the current allocation is insufficient to
provide the area with an adequate level of fire protection and emergency medical services. If this
measure were to pass, the proposed flat fee of $75 per parcel would provide an estimate additional
$114,600 in revenue.

The additional revenue would be used to fund personnel to staff the Fire Station and to upgrade
and maintain equipment. These improvements could reduce response times to fire and medical
emergencies, which could lead to reduced property insurance premiums. Properly maintained
equipment will benefit our firefighters and the public.

We believe that the annual fee of $75 per parcel, which breaks down to only $6.25 per month,
could reduce the response times to fires and medical emergencies, thereby providing improved
service to the community and the public at large.

BOULEVARD FIRE & RESCUE DEPARTMENT, INC.

MARYG. SCHOEPFER
Liaison Officer to the County of San Diego

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION AA

No argument against the proposition was filed in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-40J0-2

SD 571-032

ORDINANCE NO. 9487 (NEW SERIES)

AN ORDINANCE DETERMINING AND PROPOSING FOR
ADOPTION AN ANNUAL SPECIAL BENEFIT TAX FOR
STRUCTURAL FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE WITHIN THE
BOUNDARIES OF COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 111

The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Diego ordains as follows:

Section 1. The Board does hereby determine and propose for adoption an annual Special
Benefit Tax for structural fire protection service within the boundaries of County Service Area No.
111 of San Diego County, pursuant to Government Code Section 53978, to be levied on a parcel
and class of improvement to property basis in amounts not to exceed the following schedule:

Parcel	Maximum Special Benefit Tax

Residential	$	75	per parcel

Commercial, Industrial	$	75	per parcel

Institutional, Recreational	$	75	per parcel

Agricultural	$	75	per parcel

No adjustments based on increases in the Consumer Price Index will be applied to the Special
Benefit Tax.

Section 2. Such charges shall be charged to any parcel to which fire protection service may be
made available, whether or not such fire protection service js actually used upon such parcel,
except such tax shall not be imposed upon a federal or state governmental agency or another local
agency.

Section 3. Such charges shall be imposed for the purposes of obtaining, furnishing, operating,
and maintaining fire protection equipment and apparatus, and for the purpose of paying salaries,
insurance costs, and benefits to firefighting personnel.

Section 4. Pursuant to Government Code Section 53978, the Special Benefit Tax proposed by
this Ordinance shall be submitted to the voters within the boundaries of County Service Area No.
111 - Boulevard. The ballot proposition shall be worded as provided in the Resolution of the Board
of Supervisors calling the election within the County Service Area.

Section 5. This Ordinance shall become operative within County Service Area No. 111 on July
1, 2003, if the Special Benefit Tax proposed by this Ordinance is approved by two-thirds of the
voters voting on the question of adoption of the Special Benefit Tax.

Section 6. If the proposition is approved, the Board of Supervisors shall establish schedules
varying each of such Special Benefit Taxes according to value of benefits to each parcel and
according to availability of fire suppression equipment, apparatus, and personnel to the affected
parcel and improvement. However, the Special Benefit Tax shall not exceed the maximum charges
set forth in Section 1 hereof.

Section 7. If any portion of this Ordinance be declared unconstitutional, invalid or otherwise
unenforceable, the other provisions of this Ordinance shall remain in full force and effect.

Section 8. Pursuant to Government Code Section 25123, this Ordinance is effective
immediately as an Ordinance relating to an election.

Section 9. Before the expiration of fifteen (15) days after its passage, this Ordinance shall be
published once with names of members voting for and against the same, in the San Diego Daily
Commerce, a newspaper of general circulation published in the County of San Diego.

PR-40J0-3

SD 571-033