MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		
CITY		
CITY OF PALM SPRINGS		
Shall the City Municipal Code be amended to (J repeal the City’s 5% utility tax on users of telephone, electricity and gas services?	Yes	
	No	

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		
CITY		
CITY OF PALM SPRINGS		
Shafl the City Municipal Code be amended w concerning the tax currently collected on per- * sons occupying hotel rooms so that the tax rate will vary from 10% to 12.5% based on the number of rooms in the hotel, with monies raised by th be spend solely to encourage local tounsm. and not for City services?	Yes  No  etax  other	

MEASURES“U” & “V”
EXHIBIT A — MEASURE “U

Title 3. Section 3.33 Utility User Tax of the City of Palm Springs Municipal Code is added as follows:

Section 3,33 UTILITY USER TAX.

3.33.010	Provisions

The City of Palm Springs shall not impose a utility user tax on the citizens or businesses in the City of Palm Springs. No utility user tax, or any
other similar tax, fee or other monetary assessment upon utilities, may be assessed or levied upon any person or business within the City of Palm
Springs, unless such tax, fee or assessment has been approved by the City of Palm Springs electorate. The term “utility user tax” shall include,
but is not limited to, a rate or consumption tax on users of electricity, cogenerated electricity, gas, telecommunications, water, television
(irrespective of means of transmission), refuse collection or sewer service.

Sections 3.32.030, 3.32.040, 3.32.050, 3.32.080 are rescinded.

(Text of Measure submitted by initiative petition)

BALLOT QUESTION

Shall the City Municipal Code be amended concerning the tax currently collected on persons occupying hotel rooms so that the tax rate will vary from
10% to 12.5% based on the number of rooms in the hotel with monies raised by the tax to be spent solely to encourage local tourism and not for other
City services?	’’A

EXHIBIT B-MEASURE “V”

Title 3, Section 3.24 Transient Occupancy Tax of the City of Palm Springs Municipal Code is amended as follows:

Section 3.24 TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX,

3.24.030	Tax imposed.

(a)	For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel with no more than forty-nine (49) rooms, each transient is subject to, and shall pay a tax in the
amount of ten percent (10%) of the rent charged by the operator or otherwise payable by the transient. Insofar as the transient is
concerned, said tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the city.
For purposes of this section, the rent deemed payable on account of time-share occupancy by a transient shall be the rental value of the
unit or room(s) which accommodated such occupancy, which rental value shall be computed by determining the pro rata share of the total
purchase price of the time-share right or entitlement (whether or not involving an estate or any ownership in real property), which share is
allocable to the period of transient occupancy currently involved, and adding thereto the total applicable operating costs including, but not
limited to, the applicable real and personal property taxes, plus the total amount of any and all fees, assessments, charges and expenses
(not including the previously referred to taxes) charged by the operator as attributable to the time-share occupancy of the transient by
whatever name such fees, assessments, charges or expenses may be denominated, whether “occupying fee,” “maintenance or operations
charge,” “per diem fee,” “management fee” or like name or otherwise. In making the computation referred to above of the pro rata share of
the total purchase price, in any case wherein the time-share right or entitlement is in perpetuity or for life or otherwise not for a definite or
ascertainable term, such pro ration shall be made upon an assumed term of forty (40) years, f he tax assessed and collected pursuant to
this section shall be subject to all of the provisions of Section 3.24.310.

(b)	In addition to the tax imposed by Section 3.24.030(a), for the privilege of occupancy in any hotel with at least fifty (50) rooms, but no more
than one hundred twenty-four (124) rooms, each transient is subject to and shall pay an additional tax in the amount of one and one-half
percent (1.5%) of the rent charged by the operator. The additional tax imposed by this section shall be administered and collected in the
same manner, and is subject to all of the same definitions, exemptions, rules and regulations as the tax imposed by Section 3.24.030(a).

(c)	In addition to the taxes imposed by Sections 3.24.030(a) and 3.24.030(b), for the privilege of occupancy in any hotel with at least one
hundred twenty-five (125) or more rooms, each transient is subject to and shall pay an additional tax in the amount of one percent (1 %) of
the rent charged by the operator. The additional tax imposed by this section shall be administered and collected in the same manner, and is
subject to all of the same definitions, exemptions, rules, and regulations as the tax imposed by Section 3.24.030(a).

(d)	For purposes of this section, “rooms” shall include, but not be limited to, any lot, parcel, space, unit, room or any other similar type of accom-
modation.

Section 3.24.038

3.24.038 Credit for payments of tax imposed by community redevelopment agency.

(a) Pursuant to Section 7280.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, a community redevelopment agency is authorized to levy a
transient occupancy tax for its purposes if such transient occupancy taxes are by ordinance credited against the city’s transient occupancy
taxes. Any person subject to the transient occupancy tax under this section is entitled to credit the amount of transient occupancy taxes
due to the community redevelopment agency of the city pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7280.5 against the payment of
taxes otherwise due under this chapter. Upon the effective date of an ordinance passed by the community redevelopment agency of the
city, the amount of any tax due pursuant to said ordinance by any transient occupying a hotel subject to such ordinance, and collected and

33-91

remitted to the community redevelopment agency of the city, levying a transient occupancy tax pursuant to Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall be credited against any transient occupancy tax otherwise due by the transient under Section 3.24.030.

(b) In the event that the community redevelopment agency of the city adopts an ordinance pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Section
7280.5 imposing a transient occupancy tax, such ordinance shall be codified in the Palm Springs Municipal Code as Section 3.24.039, to
provide ready access to such ordinance for all persons reviewing this chapter of the Palm Springs Municipal Code.

Section 3.24.039(a)

3.24.039 Tax imposed—Community redevelopment agency.

(a)	There is imposed by the community redevelopment agency of the city of Palm Springs upon those hotels identified in subsection (c) of this
section, a transient occupancy tax in the amount of twelve and one-half percent (12.5%) of the rent charged by the operator. The tax
imposed by this section shall be administered and collected in the same manner, and is subject to all the same definitions, exemptions,
rules and regulations as the taxes imposed by Section 3.24.030.

(b)	In addition to ail other administrative mechanisms provided for in this chapter, the community redevelopment agency of the city of Palm
Springs may enter into an agreement with any operator subject to the tax imposed under this section for collection and administration of the
tax so imposed.

(c)	The hotels subject to the tax imposed by this section are the following:

1)	The Spa Resort Casino.

2)	Canyon Park Resort and Spa, but only if the community redevelopment agency enters into a disposition and development agreement
or owner participation agreement relating to development to occur under the Canyon Park Resort and Spa specific plan and such
hotel is actually constructed and operated.

3)	Any other hotel made subject to the provisions herein by ordinance or resolution of the community redevelopment agency.

(d)	Proceeds from the taxes imposed hereunder may be used for the payment of principal and interest on any bond, may be used to pay any
obligation of the community redevelopment agency under any owner participation agreement or other agreement, including any owner
participation agreement or other agreement with the owner, or successors in interest of any owner, of any interest in real property located in
a project area, or of the hotels listed in subsection (c) of this section, may be the subject of collateral for any pledge, may be the subject of
any covenant, may be applied to any special fund, may be the subject of any pledge of revenues, may be the subject of any contractual
obligation or may be applied to any other redevelopment purpose as may be authorized or permitted under the community redevelopment
law,

(e)	No tax imposed by this section shall be effective unless the tax so imposed may be credited against the amount of transient occupancy
taxes otherwise imposed by the city of Palm Springs.

Section 3.24.310

3.24.310 Use of proceeds—Restricted.

The net proceeds from any tax imposed herein shall be placed in a restricted special fund to be known as the Community Promotion Fund,
and shall only be used for the advertising, marketing, publicity and promotion of the City of Palm Springs; for the acquisition, construction,
expansion, improvement, maintenance and operating costs, debt retirement, and all other expenses of the Palm Springs Convention
Center; for the acquisition, construction, expansion, improvement, maintenance and operating costs, debt retirement, and all other
expenses of any public sports, entertainment or recreational facility, course or park within the city; for the acquisition, construction, expan-
sion, improvement, maintenance and operating costs, debt retirement, and all other expenses of providing reasonable and convenient
parking within the city; for the acquisition, construction, expansion, improvement, maintenance and operating costs, debt retirement, and
all other expenses of any public library within the city; for support of the Palm Springs Desert Resorts Convention & Visitors Bureau; for
support of the Palm Springs Bureau of Tourism; for support of senior, youth and other beneficial community programs and facilities within
the city; for hotel, resort and golf course development agreements; for support of public art programs within the city; for special events
which take place within the city; and for all other reasonable efforts and expenses to encourage local tourism and for no other purpose.

Section 3.24.311

The city may not collect a transient occupancy tax (TOT), or any other similar tax for the privilege of occupancy, for its own general fund, or
any other purpose, except as authorized in Section 3.24.310.

Section 3.24.312

The city may not borrow funds held in the Community Promotion Fund for use by any other department or program of the city, except as
authorized in Section 3.24.310, or except in the case of a declared emergency pursuant to Section 3(c) of Article XIIIB of the California
Constitution.

Sections 3.24.035, 3.24.036, 3.24.037, 3.24.037(a), 3.24.300 are rescinded.

(Text of Measure submitted by initiative petition)

33-92

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF I,. JURE “U

This initiative Municipal Code amendment, if passed, would prohibit
the City from imposing the five percent (5%) utility users tax imposed on
telephone, electricity and gas services. Your “yes" vote means that the
five percent (5%) utility users tax would be repealed. Your “no” vote
means there would be no change to the current law, which allows the
City to impose a utility users tax.

Specifically, this measure would eliminate the five percent (5%)
utility tax on charges for consumption of: (i) intrastate telephone
services, (ii) electrical energy services, (iii) gas services, and (iv)
cogenerated electrical energy services, ail of which are currently in effect
for business and residential customers within the City.

This measure would also require a majority vote of the people to
impose in the future any taxes, fees, monetary assessments for
consumption or use of any utility service within the City, including
electricity, cogenerated electricity, gas, telecommunications, water,
television, refuse collection or sewer seance.

According to the City’s Finance Department, the average household
in Palm Springs pays less than $12 per month in utility users tax. If
passed, the City Is anticipated to lose approximately $5,8 million, or
13.6% of the general fund budget of $42 million. Utility users tax revenue
is unrestricted, and can be used for any general fund purpose. Approxi-
mately 49% of the City’s general fund budget is spent on public safety
services (police, fire). City officials forecast that a reduction of 13.8% in
the general fund budget will have to be accomplished by eliminating
some positions and cutting some City services, but no specific plan, of
reductions has been established at this time. This measure requires
approval from a majority of voters voting at an election to take effect.

By:	CITY	ATTORNEY

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF fVL -,URE “U

Reduce your utility costs. Vote YES on Measure “U,”

•	Help reduce your huge electric costs

•	Require the politicians to ask voters before reimposing a tax on
utilities

•	Help prevent heat-induced deaths and keep our seniors cool in
the summer

•	Don't let the politicians fool you with their usual false claims of
doom and gloom

•	Help local businesses stay open and financially healthy during
the summer

•	Increase local tourism and help increase our competitiveness
with other valley cities.

Currently the City of Palm Springs imposes a backbreaking 5% utility
user’s tax on all electricity, gas, telephone service, long distance charges
and cellular phone services within the city, for both residents and
businesses. Measure “U” puts the voters back in charge of runaway
spending by the politicians.

•	MEASURE “U” REDUCES UTILITY COSTS

Measure “U” provides for a 5% reduction in overall utility costs for both
residents and businesses and brings desperately needed financial relief
to everyone.

•	MEASURE “U” DOESN’T IMPOSE A FINANCIAL HARDSHIP
ON CITY HALL

General Fund revenues for the City of Palm Springs have increased from
approximately $37 million to a whopping $51 million (an unbelievable
40% increase) in 4 short years, but the politicians haven’t made the
slightest effort to bring much-needed utility cost relief to the citizens. Yet,
the politicians continue to dole out generous financial favors to their
friends and campaign donors.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE “U” if you want to significantly lower your
utility costs.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE “U” if you want to help local seniors and
businesses.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE “U” if you don't want taxpayers to pay for the
city council’s political favors to special interests.

Measure “U” is fair and equitable. It deserves your support.

By:	JIM	JONES, former chairman of Measure HH

(the temporary utility tax increase)

BOB WHITHORN, managing director of the Orchid Tree Inn

SHARON LOCK, local civic leader

LEE CHANDRASENA, proponent

RICK RAIO, local realtor- broker

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEk RE “U”

Utility User Tax

Palm Springs is unique. Unlike many of the other cities in the Coachella
Valley, Palm Springs provides its own police and fire, which make up
50% of our total budget. The City also provides its residents many other
high quality public services such as clean streets, well-manicured parks,
exceptional recreational programs, an award winning library, and a safe
downtown, As voters, you have repeatedly said “yes” to the Utility User
Tax (UUT), agreeing to pay an average of $12.00 per month to maintain
these services.

Passage of Measure “U” will result in a loss of $5.8 million dollars or 12%
of all funding for public services. Without the UUT the City will make
drastic cuts in all city services and programs. This means laying off as

many as 120 employees, including police officers and firefighters, and
making other serious cuts if this measure passes.

The supporters of Measure “U” would have you believe that the utility tax
is unnecessary and that it can be easily made up from other revenue
sources. What other revenue sources? In fact, many revenues are
down or flat as a result of the faltering economy.

The City Council has made significant progress over the years to restrain
the costs of government through innovative efficiencies and many cost
control measures. In fact, the City’s operating fund budget has increased
by less than 2.2% a year since 1991. We believe that it would be fiscally

imprudent, especially in these uncertain economic times, to eliminate
this much needed revenue source.

Don’t be misled by this measure. Measure “U” will significantly alter your
quality of life by forcing deep cuts in public safety and reducing other
essential public services that you demand.

Please join your City Council in voting NO on Measure “U”.

By:	Deyna	L.	Hodges, Councilmember

Chris Mills, Councilmember
Ron Oden, Councilmember
William G. Kleindienst, Mayor
Jeanne Reller-Spurgin, Mayor Pro-Tem

