

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE V

Prepared by the City Attorney

Since 1964, the City of Ripon has collected a
transient occupancy tax, also known as a “bed tax" from hotel
patrons or “transients” (those persons occupying hotel rooms
within the City of Ripon for fewer than 30 days). The transient
occupancy tax has been imposed at a rate of 4% of the cost
of the hotel room since 1964. The "transient” pays the tax to
the hotel, and the hotel remits the tax to the City of Ripon.
The City of Ripon deposits transient occupancy tax revenue
into its General Fund, which supports a number of City
services, including public safety, police, health and safety,
administrative and economic development functions. A
complete description of the transient occupancy tax is located
in Chapter 3.16 of the Ripon Municipal Code.

Measure V proposes to increase the amount of the
transient occupancy tax from its current rate of 4% to a new
rate of 10% of the cost of the hotel room. Since a transient
occupancy tax is deposited into the City's General Fund, it is
considered to be a “general tax”. Proposition 218 requires that
general tax increases receive voter approval. If a majority of
the voters vote in favor of Measure V, the transient occupancy
tax in the City of Ripon will increase from 4% to 10%.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Measure V. If you desire a copy of the measure, please call
the Ripon City Clerk's office at (209) 599-2108, and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you.


ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V	NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE V
This is NOT a tax on Ripon residents. The Transient Occupancy Tax (or “TOT tax”) is a “bed tax” paid by visitors to our community. The tax is necessary because visitors to our community place a burden on the resources of our community, especially our public safety personnel. As Ripon continues to grow, these demands will increase. Several new hotels are projected to be built around the Jack Tone Road/Highway 99 Interchange, so the burden on our public safety personnel will increase. Unfortunately, Ripon’s TOT tax rate has not been raised in nearly 40 years. Ripon’s TOT tax is, by far, the lowest of any city in our area. The average TOT tax rate is 10%, which is the amount sought in this ballot measure.  This tax is a fair and painless way to raise the additional revenue needed to serve the traveling public. When Ripon residents travel to other cities in California on business or pleasure, we pay a "bed tax” in the communities we are visiting. These communities use the tax revenue for the benefit of their own citizens. In other words, you are paying this tax when you stay in a hotel or motel in other cities, and it's only fair that those visiting our community pay in the same manner.  One hundred percent of the TOT tax will be placed in the City’s General. Fund, and will be used to support Police operations and recreation programs for youth and seniors. And the best news of all is that this measure does not increase your taxes.  The Ripon Police Officers Association urges you to join us in voting "Yes” on Measure V on November 5.  Submitted by:  Isl Timothy Bailey, President  Ripon Police Officers Association  ) , 	WAS SUBMITTED






ORDINANCE NO. 664

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RIPON
REPEALING EXISTING CHAPTER 3.16, AND ADDING A NEW CHAPTER 3.16
TO THE RIPON MUNICIPAL CODE, ENTITLED
UNIFORM TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RIPON AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1. AMENDMENT OF CODE

Chapter 3.16 is hereby repealed, and a new Chapter 3.16 is hereby added to the Ripon Municipal Code, to
read in full as follows:

Section 3.16.010	Title.

This tax shall be known as the Transient Occupancy Tax of the City of Ripon.

Section 3.16.020	Definitions.

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this section govern the
construction of this article.

(a)	Person. "Person" means any individual, finn, partnership, joint venture, association, social club,
fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee,
syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.

(b)	Hotel. "Hotel" means any structure, or any portion of any structure within the City, which is
intended or designed for lodging or sleeping purposes wherein the owner or operator thereof offers occupancy
as defined in subsection (c) of this section.

(c)	Occupancy. "Occupancy" means the use or possession, or the right to use or possession
granted by the owner or operator thereof for compensation of any room or rooms or portion thereof for
lodging or sleeping purposes for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions
of calendar days as full days.

(d)	Transient. "Transient" means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy by reason ofconcession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement for a period ofthirty
(30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such person
exercising occupancy shall be deemed a transient until the period of thirty (30) days has expired unless there
is an agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant providing for a tenure of greater than thirty
(30) days for compensation.

(e)	Rent. "Rent" means the consideration charged, whether or not received, for the occupancy
of space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor or otherwise, including
all receipts, cash, credits and property and services of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom
whatsoever. Rent does not include compensation for services or products.

(f)	Operator. "Operator" means the person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity
of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other capacity. Where the operator
performs his/her functions through a managing agent of any type or character other than an employee, the
managing agent shall also be deemed an operator for the purpose of this article and shall have the same duties

1

Ord. 664

and liabilities as his/her principal. Compliance with the provisions ofthis article by either the principal or the
managing agent shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.

(g)	Tax Administrator. "Tax Administrator" means the City Clerk or Finance Director of the City

of Ripon.

Section 3.16.030 Tax Imposed.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the
amount of 10% of the rent charged by the operator (the “Tax”). The Tax shall not be imposed until approval
of the Tax by the voters of the City of Ripon at an election in accordance with the provisions of California
Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2(b), California Government Code Section 53723, and other applicable law.
Any increase in the Tax may thereafter be imposed only by resolution or ordinance of the City Council, after
first having obtained voter approval in the same manner as required by law. Said tax constitutes a debt owed
by the transient to the City which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the City. The transient
shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a
proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the
transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of
the hotel, the Tax Administrator may require such tax shall be paid directly to the Tax Administrator.

Section 3.16.040 Exemptions.

No tax shall be imposed upon:

(a)	Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the power of the City
to impose the tax herein provided.

(b)	Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of express
provision of federal law or international treaty.

(c)	Any officer or employee of the United States Government, or of a state, county, city or other
domestic public entity who pays rent in the discharge of official government business.

(d)	Rent paid to any hospital, medical clinic, convalescent home or other temporary or permanent
domicile equipped primarily for the care of aged or infirm people.

No exception shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the time rent is collected and under
penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.

Section 3.16.050	Operator's Duties.

Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter to the same extent and at the same time
as the rent is collected from every transient. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount
of the rent charged, and each transient shall receive a receipt for payment from the operator. No operator
of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof
will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if added, any part
will be refunded except in the manner hereinafter provided.

Section 3.16.060	Registration.

Within thirty (30) days after commencing business each operator of any hotel renting occupancy to
transients shall register said hotel with the Tax Administrator and obtain from the Tax Administrator a
"Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate" to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises. Said certificate shall, among other things, state the following:

(a)	The name of the operator;

(b)	The address of the hotel;

Ord. 664

(c)	The date upon which the certificate was issued;

(d)	"This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the person named on the
face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Uniform Transient Occupancy tax by registering with the
Tax Administrator for the purpose of collecting from transients the T ransient Occupancy Tax and remitting
said tax to the Tax Administrator. This certificate does not authorize any person to conduct any unlawful
business or to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful manner, nor to operate a hotel without strictly
complying with all local applicable laws, including but not limited to those requiring a permit from any board,
commission, department or office of this City. This certificate does not constitute a permit."

Section 3.16.070 Reporting and Remitting.

Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following the close of each calendar
quarter, or at the close of any shorter reporting period which may be established by the Tax Administrator,
make a return to the Tax Administrator, on forms provided by the Tax Administrator, of the total rents
charged and received and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancies. At the time the return is filed,
the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator may
establish shorter reporting periods for any certificate holder if the Tax Administrator deems it necessary in
order to insure collection of the tax and the Tax Administrator may require further information in the return.
Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. All taxes collected by
operators pursuant to this article shall be held in trust for the account of the City until payment thereof is made
to the Tax Administrator.

Section 3.16.080 Penalties.

(a)	Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this article within the time
required shall, in addition to the amount of the tax, pay a penalty of five (5) percent of the amount of the tax
per month or fraction thereof until paid; the maximum penalty imposed on any one delinquency shall not
exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the amount of the tax.

(b)	F raud. I f the T ax Adm inistrator determ ines that the non-payment of any rem ittance due from
any transient or operator under this article is due to intentional non-payment or fraud, a penalty of twenty (20)
percent of the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in subparagraph (a)
of this section.

(c)	Penalties Merged with Tax. Every penalty imposed under the provisions of this section shall
become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

Section 3.16.090 Failure to Collect and Report Tax.

(a)	Determination of Tax by Tax Administrator. If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect said

tax and to make, within the time provided in this article, any report and remittance of said tax or any portion
thereof required by this chapter, the Tax Administrator shall proceed in such manner as the Tax Administrator
may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to base his/her estimate of the tax due. As soon as
the Tax Administrator shall procure such facts and information as the Tax Administrator is able to obtain upon
which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by this article and payable by any operator who has failed
or refused to collect the same and to make such report and remittance, the Tax Administrator shall proceed
to determ ine and assess against such operator the tax and penalties provided for by this article. In case such
determination is made, the Tax Administrator shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by serving it
personally or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed
at his/her last known place of address. Such operator may within thirty (30) days after the serving or mailing
of such notice make application in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the amount assessed. If

3

Ord. 664

application by the operator for a hearing is not made within the time prescribed, the tax and penalties, if any,
determined by the Tax Administrator shall become final and conclusive and immediately due and payable.
If such application is made, the Tax Administrator shall give not less than fifteen (15) days written notice in
the manner prescribed herein to the operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in said notice why said
amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax and penalties. At such hearing, the operator may
appear and offer evidence why such specified tax and penalties should not be so fixed. After such hearing
the Tax Administrator shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice
to the person in the manner prescribed herein of such determination and the amount of such tax and penalties.
The amount determined to be due shall be payable after thirty (30) days unless an appeal is taken as provided
in Section 3.16.100.

Section 3.16.100	Appeal.

Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the T ax Adm inistrator with respect to the amount of such
tax and penalties, if any, may appeal the decision to the City Council.

Section 3.16.110	Records.

It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment to the City of any tax
imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of three (3) years, all records as may be necessary
to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the
City, which records the Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect with the operator's consent, or by
use of a subpoena, administrative subpoena, search or inspection warrant.

Section 3.16.120	Refunds.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid or paid more than
once or has been erroneously or il legal ly col lected or received by the City under this article it may be refunded
as provided in subparagraphs (b) and (c) of this section provided a claim in writing therefor, stating under
penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the Tax Administrator
within three (3) years of the date of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Tax
Administrator.

(b)	An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected and remitted the
amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established
in a manner prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the person from whom the tax has been collected was
not a transient or was exempt; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless
the amount of the tax so collected has either been refunded to the transient or credited to rent subsequently
payable by the transient to the operator.

(c)	A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than once or erroneously or
illegally collected or received by the City by filing a claim in the manner provided in subparagraph (a) of this
section, but only when the tax was paid by the transient directly to the Tax Administrator, or when the
transient having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction of the Tax Administrator that the
transient has been unable to obtain a refund from the operator who collected the tax.

(d)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant establishes
his/her right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

Section 3.16.130 Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions of this article shall be deemed a debt
owed by the transient to the City. Any such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the City

4

Ord. 664

shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the City. Any person owing money to the City under the
provisions of this article shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City of Ripon for the recovery
of such amount.

Section 3.16.140	Violations.

Any operator or transient who fails or refuses to register as required herein, or fails or refuses to
furnish any return required to be made, or fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data
required by the Tax Administrator, or renders a false or fraudulent return or claim or makes any false or
fraudulent report or claim with intent to defeat or evade the determination of any amount due required by this
article shall be subject to one or both of the civil penalties provided in Section 3.16.080, as deemed appropriate
by the Tax Administrator.

Section 3.16.150	Disposition of Proceeds.

All moneys received by the City under or pursuant to the provisions of this article shall be deposited
and paid into the General Fund of the City.

Section 3.16.160	Security for Collection of Tax.

(a)	The Tax Administrator, whenever the Tax Administrator deems it necessary to insure
compliance with this article, may require any person subject thereto to deposit with the Tax Administrator
such security in the form of cash, bond, or other security as the Tax Administrator may determine. The
amount of the security shall be fixed by the Tax Administrator but shall not be greater than twice the person's
estimated average liability for the period for which he/she files returns, determined in such manner as the Tax
Administrator deems proper, or ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), whichever amount is the lesser. The
amount of the security may be increased or decreased by the Tax Administrator subject to the limitations
herein provided.

(b)	If any operator liable for any amount under this article sells out or quits his/her business or
a substantial portion thereof, his/her successors or assigns shall withhold sufficient of the purchase price to
cover any transient occupancy tax which is due against any portion of the business unless the former operator
produces a receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that he/she has been paid or a certificate stating that
no amount is due. If the successors or assigns of a business fail to withhold the tax from the purchase price
as required, they shall be personally liable for the payment of the amount required to be withheld by them to
the extent of the purchase price, valued in money. Said tax shall be a lien against the purchase price for any
portion of the business. The successors or assigns may request in writing a certificate of no tax due. Within
thirty (30) days after receiving a written request from the successors or assigns for a certificate, the Tax
Administrator shall either issue the certificate or mail notice to them at the address given in the request of the
amount that must be paid as a condition of issuing the certificate. Failure of the Tax Administrator to mail the
notice will release the successors and assigns from any further obligation to withhold the purchase price as
above provided. The time within which the obligation of the successors and assigns may be enforced shall
start to run at the time the operator sells out his/her business or at the time that the determination against the
operator becomes final, whichever event occurs later.

SECTION 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby expressly repealed.

SECTION 3. This ordinance is not intended to and shall not be construed or given effect in a manner that
imposes upon the city, or any officer or employee thereof, a mandatory duty of care towards persons or

Ord. 664

property within the city or outside of the city so as to provide a basis of civil liability for damages, except as
otherwise imposed by law.

SECTION 4. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance
is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications ofthe ordinance which can be
effective without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this ordinance are
severable. The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this ordinance irrespective of the
validity of any particular portion thereof.

SECTION 5. This ordinance shall become effective thirty days after its final passage and shall be published
at least once within fifteen days prior to its effective date in the Ripon Record, the official newspaper ofthe
City of Ripon.

The foregoing ordinance was introduced and the title thereof read at the regular meeting of the City Council
of the City of Ripon held on the 2nd day of July 2002, and by unanimous vote of the
councilmembers present, further reading was waived.

On a motion by councilperson Mover seconded by councilperson Restuccia . the foregoing
ordinance was duly passed and adopted by the City Council of the City of Ripon at a regular meeting thereof
held on this 16lh day of July__________, 2002, by the following vote, TO WIT:

AYES:	Moyer, Restuccia, Jensen, Hern, Prince

NOES:	None

ABSTENTIONS:

ABSENT:

None

None

THE CITY OF RIPON

DAN PRINCE, Mayor

ATTEST:

6

Ord. 664