<impartial> COUNTY OF VENTURA
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL*
MEASURE "T"

By this measure, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Ventura
("County") submits to the voters for approval an ordinance validating an
existing tax, known as the Business Tax, which has been imposed on
certain non-exempt businesses operating within the unincorporated areas of
the County. The new ordinance will become effective only if a majority of the
voters countywide vote "Yes" on the measure.

The Business Tax is not a new tax. It has been imposed since 1991
under an existing Business Tax Ordinance which is set forth in Ventura
County Ordinance Code, Division 2, Chapter 1, Article 1, section 2001 et
seq. This ballot measure is being submitted to the voters because a recent
California Supreme Court decision has made it clear that the Business Tax
must be voter approved.

The provisions of this ballot measure do not increase the business tax
rate presently charged, but, if adopted, it would reduce the penalties
charged for late payment. The measure maintains the business tax rate
presently imposed. The existing Business Tax Ordinance will be repealed if
this measure is passed.

Businesses operating within the jurisdiction of the cities within the
County have not been and will not be subject to the County’s Business Tax,
but may presently be subject to similar city-imposed business taxes. A
majority of the businesses subject to the Business Tax would pay the tax
annually based on the business’s gross receipts. Others businesses would
pay an annual flat-rate tax or an annual tax based on gross payroll. <impartialend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "T"

We strongly recommend a yes vote on Measure T for the following reasons:

1.	A FAIR MEASURE. This measure simply levels the playing field for all
businesses in Ventura County. Currently, all of the cities in Ventura County
impose some license tax or fee on businesses operating within their
jurisdiction. However, businesses outside of cities would not continue to pay
a business license tax if this measure is not approved. It would be unfair for
businesses inside cities to pay a license tax while businesses outside cities
did not have to pay a tax.

2.	SIMPLY CONTINUES THE EXISTING PRACTICE. This is not a new
business license tax. Ventura County has had this business license tax in
effect for many years. Due to a recent decision by the California Supreme
Court, a yes vote is needed for Ventura County to continue to have a
business license tax for businesses outside of city limits.

3.	A YES VOTE HELPS PROTECT ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Over the past
years, Ventura County has relied on the revenue from this business license
tax to fund essential county services such as public safety, public health
protection, road improvements, libraries and parks. There will be less county
funding to divide among essential county services if this measure does not
pass. During this period of economic difficulty, it would not be wise to cut out
a revenue source that the county has come to rely on for delivering services
to citizens.

We respectfully ask for your support of Measure T. <favorend>







<favorsigs> s/Frank Schillo,

Chair, Ventura County Board of Supervisors
s/Lillian F. Goldstein,

President, League of Women Voters - Ventura County
s/Jean M. Harris,

Chair, Ventura County Parks Foundation

s/Will Thompson,

President, San Buenaventura Friends of the Library
s/Martina Melero, RN, PHN, MPH
Chief Nurse Representative, California Nurses Association <favorsigsend> 






NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

