HFPD Resolution No. 2002-12
Page 3

EXHIBIT A

MEASURE
ORDINANCE NO. HFPD 2002-01

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE HESPERIA FIRE
PROTECTION DISTRICT PERTAINING TO THE FINANCING OF
THE FIRE DISTRICT

THE PEOPLE OF THE HESPERIA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1: The District hereby adopts this Ordinance to establish a Fire Suppression and
Paramedic Services Special Tax (“Special Tax”) applicable to all parcels of real property within
the District’s boundaries. The Special Tax shall take affect the same day the existing Fire Benefit
Assessment is removed from the property tax rolls, on or about June 30,2003.

Section 2: Beginning with the fiscal year 2003/04, the specific amount of the special tax to be
imposed any year pursuant to the ordinance shall be established by resolution during the annual
budget process of the Board of Directors of the Hesperia Fire Protection District in the amount
necessary to fund anticipated expenses for which this tax is levied, but in no event shall the
special tax established each year exceed the following base minimum limits. An additional cost
of living increase, not to exceed 2%, may be assessed on an annual basis, as established by the
Consumer Price Index and provided for herein.

Section 3: The proceeds of the Fire Suppression and Paramedic Services Special Tax shall be
used for the purpose of maintaining the current services and to fund improved fire suppression
and medical services, but in no event shall the Special Tax established each year exceed the
following base minimum limits.

I. Categories of Special Tax	Annual	Tax

Category I - Vacant Property- (including agricultural, livestock and	$21.00

similar uses; assessed per acre or portion thereof)

Vacant properties will be taxed at the $21.00 rate, not to exceed 25 acres.

(When calculating the Special Tax, all acreage per parcel will be rounded
up to the nearest full acre)

Category II - Residential - (including single-family homes, mobile homes,	$20.00

apartments, condominiums, and townhouses; assessed by each dwelling unit)

Residential properties will be taxed at the $20.00 rate the first year and will
increase by $20.00 the second year to a maximum flat rate of $40 per dwelling unit.

Category III - Commercial - (including industrial, manufacturing, office
retail and hotels/motels; assessed by square foot)

0 - 5,000 square feet (“Base Rate”)

$148.00

HFPD Resolution No. 2002-12
Page 4
Measure " “

Ordinance No. HFPD 2002-01
Page 2

Commercial properties will be taxed starting at the Base Rate. Each additional 5,000 square
feet of improved property, or portion thereof, will be assessed an additional $14.00.

Example: A 10,000 square foot building will be assessed a maximum rate of $162.00.

On or about July 1st of each year, but in any event in sufficient time to include the levy of the
Special Taxes on the County’s secured tax roll, the District shall determine the Tax Category
representing each parcel of real property within the District subject to tax. Parcels subject to the
levy shall be determined based on the records of the San Bernardino County Assessor or any
other available information source, (e.g., building permits), to determine whether or not any
parcel or property is unimproved for purposes of this section. “Parcel of Property” as used in this
ordinance shall mean any parcel of improved or unimproved real property held in separate
ownership including, but not limited to, any single family residence, any condominium unit as
defined in California Civil Code Section 783, or any other unit of red! property subject to the State
Subdivision Map Act (Government Code Sections 66410 et seq.).

The tax imposed by this section shall be a tax upon each parcel or property, and the tax shall not
be measured by the value of the property. The maximum amount of the base tax rate to be
imposed shall be as set forth above. A cost of living increase, not to exceed 2%, may be
assessed on an annual basis as established by the Consumer Price Index for All Items, All Urban
Consumers for Los Angeles, Riverside and Orange Counties. The tax imposed shall be reduced
according to any decrease in the cost of living, not to exceed 2%.

Section 4: The Special Tax shall sunset on June 30, 2023, and can only be extended past the
sunset period if approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting at an election.

Section 5: If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or property is
held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect any other provision or applications, and to this end, the
provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable. The people hereby declare that they
would have adopted this ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, part
or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, phrases, parts or portions thereof, be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 6: This ordinance, or any provision hereof other than those provisions, if any which
provide for modification by the Board of Directors of the Hesperia Fire Protection District, may
only be amended or repealed by approval of two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on the provisions
at an election.

Section 7: This ordinance shall be effective only if approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters
voting at an election to be held on November 5, 2002, and shall take affect on June 30, 2003,
after the Registrar of Voters of the County of San Bernardino has certified that this ordinance was
approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting thereon.

MEASURE B

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

At its July 3, 2002 meeting, the Board of Directors of the Hesperia Fire Protection
District (“District”) decided to submit to the voters of the District Measure B, Ordinance
No. HFPD 2002-01, which is an ordinance to establish a fire suppression and paramedic
medical services special tax (“special tax”) applicable to all parcels of real property within
the District’s boundaries.

The special tax is intended to replace the existing fire benefit assessment currently
in effect. The existing fire benefit assessment, however, will expire June 30,2003 at which
time the fire benefit assessment proceeds will terminate.

If two-thirds (2/3) of the voters approve Measure B, then, as of June 30, 2003, a
special parcel tax will be established, and the monies collected by the District shall be used
only to fund fire suppression and medical services.

Beginning in the fiscal year 2003/04, the specific amount of the special tax to be
imposed any year pursuant to Ordinance HFPD 2002-01 will be established by resolution
of the Board of Directors of the District in the amount necessary to fund anticipated
expenses for which the tax is levied, but in no event will special taxes established in any
year exceed the limits specified in the ordinance.

Special tax assessment and tax collection duties will be the responsibility of the
Assessor and T ax Collector of the County of San Bernardino, and the special tax will be due
in two equal installments in accordance with the schedule utilized by the Assessor and Tax
Collector in the County of San Bernardino.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure B. If you desire a copy of the
Measure, please call the City Clerk’s Office at (760) 947-1027 and a copy will be mailed
to you at no cost to you.

Dated: August 16, 2002

Hesperia Fire Protection District

Samuel P. Crowe, General Counsel

220703

Argument in

Favor of Measure

As stated in the ballot, the question before you is simple, however, the ramifications of your vote
are not, and will have wide, sweeping impacts on Hesperia.

Currently, as a resident of Hesperia you pay about 40/day in the form of an assessment to fund
the current level of fire and medical emergency services. The problem is that 40 is not enough to
fund the level and scope of service required for a City the size of Hesperia. Moreover, the
current assessment is scheduled to end in June 2003 - and that would be the deathblow to the
District’s finances and may necessitate serious service reductions, including the closure of fire
stations.

To deal with this impending shortfall, we, the Board of Directors of the Hesperia Fire Protection
District, are asking you as a resident of Hesperia to increase the fees you pay for fire and medical
emergency services from the current 40/day ($14/year) to about 5/40/day ($20/year). Called the
20-20-20 plan, we are asking for $20 in the first year, an extra $20 in the second year that is
capped at a maximum rate of $40/year for 20 years. This measure/tax will sunset in 2023.

As your elected Board, we do have a plan for the dollars you pay. First, we plan to maintain the
overall purpose of the Fire District, and increase staffing on all engines from two
firefighter/paramedics to three. Second, we plan to staff Fire Station 303 in the Northeast part of
the City, with full-time career firefighter/paramedics. Finally, we plan to continue to ensure that
the safest and best equipment is available to our firefighter/paramedics.

With your “YES” vote we will together be able to ensure the long-term safety of Hesperia. Vote
“YES” on Measure	.

Sign Name

Print Name

Date

@'/Z'02-

g//z/VAu

8- IS-oz.

RESOLUTION NO. HFPD 2002-33

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE HESPERIA
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT, HESPERIA, CALIFORNIA, RECITING
THE FACT OF THE SPECIAL ELECTION HELD ON NOVEMBER 5,
2002, DECLARING THE RESULT AND SUCH OTHER MATTERS AS
PROVIDED BY LAW

WHEREAS, a consolidated Special Election was conducted in the City of Hesperia,
California on Tuesday, November 5, 2002; and

WHEREAS, notice of the election was given in time, form and manner as provided by
law; that voting precincts were properly established; that election officers were
appointed and that in all respects the election was held and conducted and the votes
were cast, received and canvassed and the returns made and declared in time, form
and manner as required by the provisions of the Elections Code of the State of
California for the holding of elections; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Resolution No. HFPD 2002-15 adopted on July 3, 2002, the
San Bernardino Registrar of Voters Office canvassed the returns of the election and
certified the results to this Board of Directors, the results are received, attached and
made a part hereof as “Exhibit A.”

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE HESPERIA FIRE PROTECTION
DISTRICT BOARD OF DIRECTORS AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. That the whole number of ballots cast in the City except absentee
ballots was 8,988. That the whole number of absentee ballots cast in the City
was 2,912, making a total of 11,900 ballots cast in the City.

Section 2. That the ballot measure voted for at the election was as follows:

Measure B - Shall Ordinance HFPD 2002-01 of the
Hesperia Fire Protection District be adopted authorizing
the levy of a special tax that would replace the existing
Fire Benefit Assessment tax thereby maintaining existing
services and improving the Fire District’s resources in
order to provide better fire and paramedic services since
existing resources do not provide acceptable response
capabilities for the community?

Section 3. That the numbers of votes given at each precinct are listed in Exhibit
“A" attached.

Section 4. The Board of Directors declare and determine that Measure B failed
by a vote of 6,732 “YES” and 4,099 “NO”.

Resolution No. HFPD 2002-33
Page 2

Section 5. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

ADOPTED AND APPROVED this 4th day of December 2002.

ATTEST:

Resolution HFPD 2002-33
Page 3

CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

) ss.

COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO	)

I, SHARON BERINGSON, Interim Registrar of Voters, County of San
Bernardino, State of California, DO HEREBY CERTIFY that pursuant to the provisions of
Section 15300 at seq. of the California Elections Code, I did canvass the returns of the
votes cast for the measure in the

CITY OF HESPERIA
at the General Election held on November 5,2002.

I, FURTHER CERTIFY that the Statement of Votes Cast, to which this
certificate Is attached, shows the total number of ballots cast in said City, and the whole
number of votes cast for the measure in said City in each of the respective precincts
therein, and that the totals of the respective columns and the totals as shown for the
measure are full, true and correct.

WITNESS my hand and Official seat this 25th day of November 2002.

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO )
CITY OF HESPERIA	)

1, Vicki C. Soderquist, Secretary of the Hesperia Fire Protection District, City of
Hesperia, California, do hereby certify that Resolution No. HFPD 2002-33 was duly adopted by
the Board of Directors of the Hesperia Fire Protection District at an Adjourned Regular Meeting
thereof held on the 4th day of December 2002 by the following vote to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Honeycutt, Jensen, Lindley, Nourse, and Nowicki
None
None
None

\N



I.

Vicki C. Soderquist, CMC/?

Board

=	-	aG	A/V/>' ■ /o \

$ in .*	51	\

Secretary of theTOSpiria Fire Protection

District, City of Hesperia, California, do hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution No. HFPD
2002-33 is a full, true and correct copy of that now in file in this office.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the seal of the City
of Hesperia, California, this_________________day of_______________________,	2002.

Board Secretary

Seal