Measure F: City Services Improvements, City of Albany

In order to repair and improve recreational facilities; prepare Fire, Police and other City services and buildings for earthquakes and other disasters through retrofit or replacement; improve traffic safety for pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists; create new parks and improve existing parks; and resurface city streets; shall the City of Albany issue $14.5 million of bonds at tax-exempt rates, subject to guaranteed annual audits?

Fiscal Impact from the City Treasurer
An election will be held in the City of Albany (the "City") of Alameda County on November 5, 2002, for the purpose of authorizing the sale of $14,500,000 in general obligation bonds. The bonds would be payable from tax levies made upon the taxable property in the City.
The following information regarding tax rates is given to comply with Section 9400 to 9404 of the Elections Code. The best estimate of the tax rates which would be required to be levied to fund the bond issue and an estimate of the year in which such rates would apply, based on a projection of assessed valuation based on information presently available from official sources, upon experience within the City, and other demonstrable factors, expressed as a rate per $100 of assessed valuation, is as follows:

1.	First year after the first sale of the bonds (2003-04)				$0.0772
2.	First year after sale of the last series of the bonds (2003-04)			$0.0772
3.	Highest annual rate during the entire period of indebtedness (2004-05)	$0.0811

The actual tax rates and the years in which such rates are applicable may vary from those currently estimated, due to variations from the official projections and estimates in the timing of bond sales, the amount of bonds sold at any time, the interest rates on the bonds, and the assessed values in the several future years during which the bonds are to be repaid. The estimates are based upon projections and are not binding upon the City. The actual timing of the bond sales and the amount of the bonds sold at any time will be governed by the needs of the City and the then-applicable debt limit. The actual interest rates on the bonds will be based on the market tax-exempt interest rates at the time of the sale of the bonds. The actual assessed values during the several future years will depend upon the amount of taxable property within the City and the value of that property as determined in the assessment and equalization process.
Dated: August 8, 2002  s/KIM DENTON

Impartial Analysis from the City Attorney This measure, if approved by two thirds of those voting, authorizes the City to issue general obligation bonds up to a maximum principal amount of $14,500,000.00, at an interest determined by the market rate at the time of sale, not exceeding the statutory maximum allowed.
The money raised would be used to finance: 1. the repair and improvement of recreational facilities; 2. the repair, replacement, or retrofit of Police, Fire, and other City buildings for earthquake and other disasters; 3. the improvement of traffic safety projects to benefit pedestrians, bicyclists, and motorists; 4. the improvement of parks and creation of new parks; and 5. the resurfacing of city streets.
The bonds would be repaid by ad valorem taxes imposed on property within the City of Albany. Each bond would have a maturity not exceeding thirty years from the date of issuance. The estimated average annual tax to repay the bonds is $81.55 per $100,000.00 of assessed value of property. Property owners can determine the assessed value of their property from statements from the County Assessor's office or tax bills.
s/ROBERT ZWEBEN

Arguments For Measure F
Safe streets and buildings for the future. Improved parks and recreation space for our children, seniors, and others. Traffic calming in our neighborhoods. Repaving our streets. Disaster-safe fire, police and other city facilities that will withstand earthquakes so that emergency personnel are available to help us in a disaster.
Measure F brings these improvements to our city.
Our Senior Center, Child Care Center, Teen Center, and Community Center are in continuous need of repairs and improvements. Our neighborhoods have said, "Slow down the traffic!" Our Fire and Police stations and City Hall are at risk in the event of a major earthquake # endangering our employees and trapping the fire engines in the station. Our roads are deteriorating at a rate greater than the available funding to maintain them # resulting in more costly reconstruction if we wait until later. We now have a unique opportunity to acquire a much needed park space from the old Caltrans freeway land adjacent to Pierce Street and to improve our existing parks.
What helps make Albany an attractive place to live, a healthy place to raise our children, and a close-knit community is our commitment to a family-friendly city. Measure F is an opportunity to affirm this commitment with specific investments that will help ensure that we can more safely walk, bicycle, and drive in our city, enjoy safe and accessible parks and recreation space and have emergency personnel available to us in a time of disaster.
The passage of Measure F makes Albany eligible for matching grant funds for projects that we otherwise cannot afford. We cannot pass up these grant monies and let them go to other cities. Keep Albany safe, improve it for our children, and invest in our future. Vote
"Yes" on Measure F.  s/PEGGY THOMSEN, Mayor  s/JEWEL OKAWACHI, Vice-Mayor  s/RUTH GANONG, Former Mayor  s/JACK A. ROSANO, Chair, Civil Service Comm.  s/DOUG DONALDSON, Co-Chair, Earth Quake Preparedness Program

Rebuttal to Arguments For
Notice how the argument in favor of Measure F never mentions taxes or the estimated $372 tax increase on a $400,000 property. Don't be stampeded into believing that all grant moneys will suddenly disappear if we do not fund these projects today. This is the same approach that telemarketers use to get you to buy on impulse. Grant moneys come and go and even better grants might be available a year or two from now. Most grants are not contingent on the method of financing. The estimated $12,000,000 interest we will pay on this bond measure will wipe out any savings from grants. We would still be eligible for grants if we financed using income from other sources instead of our property taxes.
We are sliding down a slippery slope of taxes, taxes and more taxes. Eventually excessive taxation will depress our property values. You may recall that a certain eastern state got the invidious nickname of "Tax-achusetts". We do not want to become known as "Take-It-All-bany." We owe it to ourselves and our descendants to thoroughly examine all the alternatives. We can explore the idea of development along the freeway. Golden Gate Fields has some ideas on the drawing boards we could take a look at. We also might explore other sources of income with community brainstorming meetings like we used in the early 90's. Vote "No" on all three tax measures.  s/TONY CAINE, Albany resident  s/WILLIAM McKENNA, Albany resident

Arguments Against Measure F
The Council has avoided spelling out exactly how you will be taxed to pay for this bond issue, but their own staff report estimates a hefty property tax increase of $93 per $100,000 valuation. A $400,000 property could see an increase of $372. The ballot description fails to mention a tax increase. Even the full Council resolution printed in your voter's booklet never mentions taxes. Perhaps they hope voters won't realize what a large tax increase this is.
The world will not come to an end if some of these projects are delayed. Go take a look at the "improved" lower Solano Avenue and ask yourselves whether this is actually better than the green-canopied Solano of old. Take a look at the mess our library building is in after only nine years. What kind of quality control does Albany use on projects? Shouldn't they take a break to carefully re-examine their procedures? It is better to do it right the first time. The principle of how future City projects will be funded is crucial. We cannot afford to have our taxes escalated without restraint.
Albany has failed to follow through on income producing projects such as the voter approved Golden Gate Fields cardroom which could have eliminated the need for all three measures currently on this ballot. If the council had not been dominated by an anti-cardroom majority, a replacement measure could have long ago been placed before the voters to overcome the legal objections of cardroom opponents. The Council must respect the expressed wishes of the voters above its own ideologies and work harder at developing alternate sources of income instead of always tapping our pockets whenever it needs money. Send them a message by voting against all three Albany ballot measures.  s/TONY CAINE, Albany Resident  s/WILLIAM McKENNA, Albany Resident  s/JOYCE ANDERSON, Albany Resident  s/JOHN ANDERSON, Albany Resident  s/WILLIAM E. DARIN, Albany Resident

Rebuttal to Arguments Against
Vital capital improvements have been approved by Albany, but are stalled for lack of money. This bond sustains Albany's quality of life by funding:
	•	Traffic safety projects that slow traffic throughout the city, helping us cross our streets, and assisting Police in enforcement.
	•	Projects that put police, fire and city services in buildings that are earthquake and disaster ready. Let's not risk trapping our fire engines and emergency personnel in a disaster.
	•	Park improvements and additions that can be enjoyed by all.
	•	Street repaving before further deterioration endangers safety and increases the cost of repair.
	•	Repairs and improvements to our Senior Center, Child Care Center, and Teen Center to keep Albany vibrant and thriving. 
Past projects have been successful # such as the Solano Avenue street improvements that have attracted new business and building upgrades, and solved serious sewer and drainage problems.
The Community Center and Library building is a hugely popular and wise public investment, built with contractor agreements and insurance protections to cover current repairs.  Measure F covers both commercial and residential properties. The median Albany home is assessed at $170,000. The average homeowner's cost for Measure F is $139/year, equivalent to $81.55 per $100,000 of assessed (not market) value.  Measure F is an opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to Albany with specific investments so we can safely walk, bicycle, and drive in our city; enjoy safe, accessible parks and recreation space; and have emergency personnel available to us.
Vote `YES" ON MEASURE F.  s/REX HIGGINBOTHAM, Youth Sports Administrator  s/JEWEL OKAWACHI, Vice-Mayor  s/CLARA-RAE GENSER, Chair # Library Board  s/DOLORES DALTON, Chair, Albany Planning & Zoning Commission  s/DOUG DONALDSON, Co-Chair, EQPP










ORDINANCE NO. 02-02

ORDINANCE OF THE ALBANY CITY COUNCIL ORDERING THE
SUBMISSION OF A PROPOSITION OF INCURRING BONDED
DEBT TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS OF THE CITY OF ALBANY AT
THE GENERAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON NOVEMBER 5,2002,
FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION
AND COMPLETION OF MUNICIPAL IMPROVEMENTS

The Albany City Council, California (the "City"), does ordain as follows:

WHEREAS, on July 1, 2002, the City Council adopted, by a two-thirds vote of all
its members, a resolution entitled "Resolution of the Albany City Council Determining
That the Public Interest and Necessity Demand the Acquisition, Construction and
Completion of Certain Municipal Improvements and Their Financing Through the
Issuance of General Obligation Bonds" (the "Resolution of Necessity"); 1

WHEREAS, in order to provide for the issuance by the City of its general
obligation bonds to finance the improvements described in the Resolution of Necessity,
it is necessary for the City Council to pass an ordinance ordering the submission of the
proposition of incurring bonded indebtedness for such purpose to the qualified voters of
the City at a municipal election; .

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit said ballot measure to the
qualified voters of the City at the regular election to be held in the City on November 5,
2002, and to consolidate the bond election with other elections held Within the City on
that date; and

WHEREAS, this Ordinance is deemed to be an emergency ordinance requiring
4/5 vote because the deadline to submit ballot measures for the November ballot is
August 9, 2002. This Ordinance proposes a clarification to ballot language already
approved by the Albany City Council. This revised ballot language is necessary to
provide authority for the proposed uses of the bond monies. These monies are crucial to
the City's program to protect the health, safety and welfare of the City and its structures
and buildings, especially to be able to withstand earthquakes.

NOW THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Call for Election. The City Council hereby orders that there be
submitted to the qualified voters of the City a proposition on incurring a bonded debt
(the "Bonds") for the purpose set forth in this Resolution, at the regular election to be
held on November 5, 2002.

1

Section 2. Ballot Proposition. The City Council hereby submits to the qualified
voters of the City, at the regular election to be held on November 5, 2002, a proposition
on issuing the Bonds in substantially the following form:

I

In order to repair arid improve recreational facilities; prepare Fire, Police
and other City services and buildings for earthquakes and other disasters
through retrofit or replacement; improve traffic safety for pedestrians,
bicyclists, and motorists; create new parks and improve existing parks;
and resurface city streets, shall the City of Albany issue $14.5 million of
bonds at tax-exempt interest rates, subject to guaranteed annual audits?"

Section 3. Object and Purpose of Bonds. The object and specific single purpose of
issuing the Bonds is the acquisition, construction and completion of recreational
facilities, seismic and other improvements to city buildings, parks, public streets, and
other necessary capital improvements (collectively, the Improvements'), and the
proceeds of the Bonds may only be applied to that purpose..

Section 4. Estimated Cost of Improvements. The estimated cost of the
Improvements is $14,500,000. The estimated cost includes legal or other fees, and other
costs and expenses, which are incidental to or connected with the authorization,
issuance and sale of the Bonds.

Section 5. Principal Amount of Bonds. The ainount of die principal of the Bonds
shall not exceed $14,500,000.

N

Section'6. Maximum Interest Rate. The maximum rate of interest to be paid on the
Bonds shall be 12% per annum.

Section 7. Issuance and Sale of Bonds. The City proposes to acquire, construct and
develop the Improvements and to issue and sell the Bonds pursuant to Article 1,
commencing with Section 43600, of Chapter 4 of Division 4 of Title 4 of the California
Government Code, or Article 4.5, commencing with Section 53506, of Chapter 3 of Part 1
of Division 2 of Tide 5 of the California Government Code, in one or more series, in the
maximum amount and for the objects and purposes set forth above if two-thirds of all
qualified voters voting on the proposition set forth above vote in favor thereof. The
Bonds will be general obligations of die City payable from and secured by taxes levied
and collected in die manner prescribed by laws of the State of California. All of the
Bonds are to be equally and ratably secured, without priority, by the taxing power of the
City.

Section 8. Consolidation; Manner of Conducting Election. The bond election hereby
called for November 5, 2002, is hereby ordered consolidated with any other election to
be held within the City on said date. The election shall be held and conducted, election
officers appointed, voting precincts designated, ballots printed, polls opened and closed,
ballots counted, and returned, • returns canvassed, results declared, and all other
proceedings incidental to and connected with the election shall be regulated and done in
accordance with the provisions of law regulating the election as specified herein. The

' '{

■m**

Board of Supervisors of Alameda County and the Alameda County Clerk, Elections
Division, are hereby requested to order the consolidation of the municipal election
hereby called with the General Election to be held within the City on said date.

Section 9. Procedure for Voting on Proposition. Ballots for the election shall be
provided in the form and in the number provided by law. Voters shall be provided an
opportunity to vote for or against die proposition on the ballot, in accordance with
procedures to be adopted by the authorized officers of the County charged with
conducting the election.

Section 10. Accountability Requirements. In accordance with Sections 53410 and
53411 of die California Government Code, the City Council hereby adopts the following
accountability requirements relating to the Bonds:

(a)	A separate account shall be created and held by die City, into
which the proceeds of the Bonds are deposited.

(b)	The chief fiscal officer of the City shall file a report with the
City Council no later than January 1, 2003, and at least once a year
thereafter, showing the amount of Bond proceeds collected and
expended, and the status of the project to be financed from the proceeds
of die Bonds.

Section 11. Publication of Ordinance. This Ordinance shall be published once a day
for at least 7 days in a newspaper published at least 6 days a week in the City, or once a
week for 2 weeks in a newspaper published less than 6 days a week in the City. The first
of said publications shall, in eitiier event, be witiiin 15 days after the adoption of this
Ordinance.

Section 12. Effective Date. This urgency Ordinance shall become effective
immediately upon its adoption by four-fifths vote of all the members of this Council.
The findings are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference.

ATTEST:



City Clerk

-3-

1000 SAN PABLO AVENUE • ALBANY, CALIFORNIA 94706-2295

CITY ADMINISTRATOR

PH. (510) 528-5710
FAX. (510) 528-5797

CITY ATTORNEY

PH. (510) 524-9205
r FAX (510) 526-9190

CITY CLERK

PH. (510) 528-5720
FAX (510) 528-5797

CITY COUNCIL
PH. (510) 528-5720
FAX (510) 528-5797

COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT &
ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCES

•	Building

•	Engineering

•	Environmental Resources

•	Maintenance

•	Planning

PH. (510) 528-5760
FAX (510) 524-9359

FINANCE & ADMINISTRATIVE
SERVICES
r CITY TREASURER
PH. (510) 528-5730
FAX (510) 528-2743

FIRE & EMERGENCY MEDICAL
SERVICES

PH. (510) 528-5771
FAX (510) 528-5774

PERSONNEL
PH. (510) 528-5714
FAX (510) 528-5797

POLICE

PH. (510) 525-7300
FAX (510) 525-1360

RECREATION & COMMUNITY
SERVICES

1249 Marin Avenue
PH. (510) 524-9283
■ t FAX (510) 528-8914

•	Friendship Club/

Childcare Program
PH. (510) 524-0135

•	Senior Center

PH. (510) 524-9122
FAX (510) 524-8940

•	- Teen Center

PH. (510)525-0576

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF ALAMEDA ) ss
CITY OF ALBANY	)

I, JACQUELINE L. BUCHOLZ, City Clerk of the City of Albany, California,
do hereby certify that the whole number of members of the City Council of said
City of Albany is five and that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of
Ordinance No. 02-02 which was passed and adopted by the said City Council,
approved and signed by the Mayor of said City, and attested by the City Clerk of

said City, all at a regular meeting of the said Council on the 6 th_day of

angngf 20 Qo A.D., and that the same was so passed and adopted by the
following votes and duly published or posted according to State law. ■

AYES, council Members DiPrisco, Elv, Maris, Okawachi &
Mayor Thomsen

NOES. None .

ABSENT: Hone	,

In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the official seal of
the City of Albany, this 7 th day of August __,	20	02	.

The City of Albany is dedicated to maintaining its small town ambience, responding to the needs of the community,
and providing a safe, healthy environment now and in the future.

PRINTED ON RECYCLED PAPER

NOTICE OF POSTING

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF ALAMEDA

I,	Jacqueline L. Bucholz, City Clerk of the City of Albany, County of Alameda, State of
California, say:

7th .	August	-	, n9

That on the ______________ day	of_________-	_____~ 20 I posted

notices in . the following areas designated as the official posting .areas for the City of
Albany:

CITY HALL

FIRE DEPARTMENT

LIBRARY

The notice was for:	Ordinance	-	#02-02__________\_____■	'.	 ^

I	declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. Executed on the
day of August_________________________"	2(?2	at	Albany,	California.

A