Measure A: Special Tax Adjustment, Los Altos School District

Shall the Los Altos School District be authorized to adjust its existing special tax and the Gann Appropriations Limit by the amount of revenue generated by that special tax?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote of this measure means:
A "yes" vote is a vote to authorize a qualified special tax on parcels within the Los Altos School District and to increase the district's present appropriations limit for four years.

A NO vote of this measure means:
A "no" vote is a vote not to authorize such a qualified special tax and not to authorize the spending limit increase.

Impartial Analysis by County Counsel
California law permits the Los Altos School District to levy a special tax on each parcel of land within the district if the tax is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting in an election.
The Board of Trustees proposed to levy a special tax on each parcel within the district. An exemption is available for a person 65 years of older who owns and occupies as a principal residence a parcel and applies to the district for an exemption in accordance with guidelines established by the district.
The owners of each parcel would pay $597 per year for each parcel in the district. The proceeds of the tax would be used to maintain reduced class size, support small neighborhood schools, hire and retain high quality teachers, keep libraries open, provide student educational materials, and preserve the district's academic program.
The tax would appear as a separate item on each property tax bill and would be levied and collected at the same time and in the same manner as the general tax levy. Upon recording of the resolution confirming the special tax, such tax would be a lien upon the real property affected thereby.
This measure also requires voter approval to increase the spending limits of the district. The California Constitution Article XIIIB, Section 4, restricts government spending by limiting the amount of money which a district may appropriate (spend) in any fiscal year. The Constitution also allows voters of a district to change the appropriations limit, but for no more than four years at a time. Such a change requires approval by a majority of the votes cast by voters in an election.
A "yes" vote is a vote to authorize a qualified special tax on parcels within the Los Altos School District and to increase the district's present appropriations limit for four years.
A "no" vote is a vote not to authorize such a qualified special tax and not to authorize the spending limit increase.
Ann Miller Ravel, County Counsel
/s/ Kathryn A. Berry, Deputy County Counsel

Arguments For Measure A
Our schools are the best in the state. This year, for the fourth year in a row, Los Altos School District students received the highest academic test scores in California.
This outstanding educational program is in jeopardy.
Every year the district, like every other district in California, struggles to supplement inadequate state funding with other sources to provide students with a basic educational program. Even with frugal management of district finances, the gap between State funding and program costs increases annually due to inflation, competition for qualified teachers, and operating expenses such as rising energy costs.
That's why the independent Citizen's Advisory Committee for Finance, which provides accountability for parcel tax expenditures, recommended the district adjust the existing parcel tax to bridge the gap between shrinking revenues and escalating costs -- just to keep the current level of program in place.
Without the predictable, stable source of funds from the parcel tax, the district will have to make severe cuts affecting the quality of the educational program currently offered to students. Class size would rise above 30, libraries would close, students would share textbooks, good teachers would leave, and our small neighborhood schools would be threatened with consolidation.
Until state funding problems are resolved, locally controlled parcel tax funds are crucial in helping the district maintain a solid educational program. Measure A provides a shield against financial disaster and ensures students receive an excellent education.
Understanding school financing is difficult. Understanding the importance of quality schools in a vibrant community is not. Excellent schools make this a desirable place to live and preserve high property values. Measure A is a good investment for our community and for our children's future.
We can't afford to let the quality of our schools go down. Vote YES to Keep Los Altos Schools Strong.
/s/ Margot Harrigan
President, Board of Trustees, Los Altos School District
/s/ Francis A. La Poll
Mayor, City of Los Altos
/s/ R. L. Hasenpflug
Chair, Citizen's Advisory Committee for Finance
/s/ Robert A. Grimm
Community Leader
/s/ Toni Casey
Mayor, Town of Los Altos Hills

(No arguments against Measure A were submitted)

Full Text of Measure A
Shall the Los Altos School District be authorized to adjust its existing special tax and the Gann Appropriations Limit by the amount of revenue generated by that special tax?
In accordance with State law, the voters shall have the opportunity to authorize district expenditures of revenue generated by the special tax every four years. Approval of this authorization allows the district to spend revenue generated by a special parcel tax at a rate set not to exceed $597 per parcel per year beginning July 1, 2002.
The special tax, originally established in 1989, is necessary to maintain the quality of the district's educational programs. The revenue from this tax is needed to maintain reduced class size, support small neighborhood schools, hire and retain high quality teachers, keep libraries open, provide student educational materials, and preserve the district's strong academic program.
A parcel is defined as any parcel of land as shown on the current assessment roll prepared by the Santa Clara County Assessor. The special tax shall be collected and enforced in the same manner prescribed by law for the collection of other taxes on the assessment role. All property that is exempt from the property tax will be exempt from this special tax.

SENIOR EXEMPTION
An exemption from the special tax shall continue to be granted annually by the school district on any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over who occupy said parcel as a principal residence, upon annual application for exemption.