CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

Ballot Measure H asks the voters to ratify and approve the continued collection of the
City’s existing Utility Users Tax. The Utility Users Tax imposes a tax on the use of
telephone, electricity, natural gas and cable television services in the City. The tax is
paid at the fixed rate of 2% of the charges incurred by the consumers of these services.
The consumer pays the tax as part of the utility bill.

The Utility Users Tax was adopted by the City Council as a general tax in 1994 and has
been collected by the City since that time. General taxes are taxes that are not limited to
a specific purpose, but are used for general city functions, such as police, fire and
community services and street and park maintenance. Currently, the Utility Users Tax
raises about $3 million per year in tax revenues.

The Ballot Measure is proposed in response to a recent California Supreme Court
decision that subjects the Utility Users Tax to a risk of legal challenge for as long as the
tax is collected without voter approval. When the City Council adopted the Utility users
Tax in 1994, courts had ruled that general taxes could be adopted by the City Council
without a vote of the people. The California Supreme Court overturned those earlier
decisions relied upon by the City Council, holding that general taxes require voter
approval. The City Council has proposed this measure to allow the voters the
opportunity to ratify the past collection of the tax and approve its continued collection at
the existing rate of 2% in the future. If adopted, the City Council may not increase the
rate of the tax without voter approval by a majority of the voters voting on the measure.

The Ballot Measure adds two new sections to the existing Utility Users Tax ordinance.
An exemption from the payment of the tax is provided for low income senior citizens and
low income disabled persons. The second section requires an annual audit by the City’s
independent auditors that will review whether the Utility Users Tax revenues are being
collected, managed and expended in accordance with the tax ordinance.

A “yes” vote on Measure H enacts an ordinance continuing and ratifying the City’s
existing 2% Utility Users Tax. A “no” vote will result in the tax no longer being
collected and the loss of about $3 million in annual tax revenues. A “no” vote also may
result in liability to the City for the refund of taxes previously collected. The Ballot
Measure will be adopted if it is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure.

RECEIVED

703170-1

Argument in Favor of Measure H
Measure H Protects Vital Services. Measure H Does Not Raise Taxes.

RECEIVED

AUG 1 9 2002

OTY CLERK. City of F*irf!^5

The City Council placed Measure H on the ballot to comply with a California Supreme Court decision requiring
voter approval of utility user charges enacted after 1986. The ruling affects Fairfield and dozens of California
cities.

Protects Public Safety: To increase the number of police officers on the street, the City Council enacted a 2%

Utility User Tax in 1994. The Council has kept its commitment by increasing our police force from 80 in 1994
to 107 today, thanks to the funds raised by this tax.

Measure H does not increase utility bills or raise taxes. It simply continues an existing and important tax. In fact,
low-income seniors and the disabled will be able to reduce their tax rate as a result of an exemption included in
this measure.

Losing these existing funds would be a catastrophic blow to public safety and other vital services. Even with
these funds, Fairfield is still understaffed for police, fire and paramedics compared to other cities our size.

Protects Other Vital Services: If this measure is not approved, the impact to the General Fund is clear. The
city will have to cut $2.8 million, which could include cuts to parks, senior and youth programs, street
maintenance, cultural activities and events, and police and fire.

Increases Taxpayer Control: To ensure these funds are spent properly. Measure H requires an independent
audit be conducted every year. That guarantee is written into the measure itself.

A variety of people and groups support Measure H, because it protects vital services, does not raise taxes,
provides relief for seniors and the disabled, and contains an annual audit to ensure the money is being spent
properly.

Safety. Services. No New Taxes. Vote YES on Fairfield’s Measure H.

The undersigned proponent(s) or authors) of the primary argument in favor of Measure H at the Qubematorial
General Election for the City of Fairfield to be held on November 5, 2002 hereby state that such argument is
true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

Karin MacMillan	jO ^—

Mayor

(./ - W* 2-

Board Member, Fairfield-Suisun
Unified School District*

Kathryn Parsons
Business Owner and Past Chair,

Fairfield-Suisun Chamber of Commerce*	* title for identification purposes only

7 Cary Blasingame

f President, Fairfield Police Qfficers Association

V	S/n/6	Z.

eije Bates

ator



Rebuttal To Argument In Favor Of Measure H

Let’s get it straight: THIS TAX DOES INCREASE YOUR UTILITY BILLS!

Prove it for yourself. On your PG&E bill, look for the line on the front page that
says “User Tax 2.000%” and see how it increases the total! The fact that many
residents are not aware of this tax just emphasizes the sneaky manner in which it
was imposed. We’ve been paying this for the past 8 years, and - did you ever
see a tax go away - we’ll pay it forever unless we kill it now!

Proponents of the utility tax are threatening CUTS IN PUBLIC SAFETY if we
don’t vote for it. This is their big scare tactic! They don’t seem to understand:
The first priority of local government IS public safety! It’s some frills that
should be eliminated, if necessary to balance the budget.

Remember the huge increases in staff pay and benefits less than a year ago?
And the exorbitant price for the bowling alley, speculating that someday the
Postal Service might build a center there? The City always finds money for
things it wants to do! Council members need to remember what they were
elected to do!

Keep this in mind: Voting NO will reduce your taxes!

The undersigned proponent(s) or authors) of the rebuttal argument against Measure H at the
Gubernatorial General election for the city of Fairfield to be held on November 5, 2002 hereby
state that such argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

VOTE “NO” ON MEASURE H

Roy Lee Stripe
Citizen - Activist

Cornelius E. Wood
Citizen - Taxpayer

President, Central Solano
Citizen/Taxpayer Group

David Bayley
Citizen - Taxpayer

Lorine Patton
Citizen - Taxpayer

Argument Against Measure H

Taxpayers, Voters, Citizens

Don’t be fooled by the City’s scare tactics. The two per cent tax you pay for life essential items
every time you turn on a light, take a shower, turn on the furnace, or call on the phone is gravy to the
City’s general fund.

Fairfield’s stealth utility tax combined with other federal, state, county and school taxes mean
that your income for the first six months of each year goes solely to pay government levies.

Fairfield’s onerous and regressive utility tax is unfair to low and middle income families since
they must pay a higher percentage of their income for essential utilities. Businesses pay this tax three
times—first at home, then when shopping and lastly at their place of business. Consumers pay twice—
once at home, then again at the store.

This unfair tax was imposed in 1994, using deceitful means: it was presented as a general tax
(income to the general fund); however, Council promised at the time that the new revenue would be used
to acquire twenty new police officers. Such linkage made this a special tax, which should have been
submitted to the voters. Fearing they could not get the required 2/3 voter approval, the City called it a
general tax and thereby avoided a vote of the people.

Now, after granting gigantic increases in employee pay and benefits, the city asks us belatedly to
ratify a never-ending tax. This tax request is made despite the City’s $200 million budget with
forecasts of increasing property and sales tax revenues.

Remember this: many communities have either eliminated or reduced their utility tax burden-
including Santa Cruz County, Long Beach and Moreno Valley. We can eliminate Fairfield’s Unfair
Tax....

JUST SAY NO...

VOTE NO ON MEASURE H

Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group
John F. Takeuchi, President
2872 Vista Grande

Fairfield, CA 94533
707 422-4491

Roy Lee Stripe
Citizen Activist

1501 Vi AW. Texas St.
Fairfield, CA 94533
707 427-3078

Citizen Taxpayer
213 E. Tennessee St.
Fairfield, CA 94533
425-3854

David Bayley
Citizen Taxpayer
1468 Salem Court
Fairfield, CA 94533
707 435-9597

		fi p? «-*	l« % v -t***
TO:	Laura Winslow  Solano County Registrar of Voters	AUG f	I mi
		CIV L	h
CC:	Gina Merrill City Clerk	'OMAN	V)  r
From:	Anthony Grandison  YES on Fairfield’s Measure FI		
Date:	August 29, 2002		

This memo is to clarity the asterisks after the titles of two of the signers of our ballot
arguments. This is to confirm that we want the asterisks and the following language
printed on the official ballot:

* title for identification purposes only

!rafly’ qa , -

Anthony Grind i son



Rebuttal to the Argument Against Measure H

The authors of the argument against Fairfield’s Measure H omit some important facts.

Fact: If Measure H is rejected, Fairfield will lose $2.8 million. A revenue loss of this magnitude will
result in significant service cuts - there is just no way around it.

Fact: Even with these funds, Fairfield is still understaffed for police, fire and paramedics compared to
other cities our size. Demands on other services like parks, tree trimming, street repair and youth
programs continue to grow with our population.

Fact: Low-income seniors and low-income disabled are exempted from the tax entirely.

Fact: Measure H requires a yearly independent audit to ensure these funds are spent properly.

Fact: At 2%, Fairfield’s UUT is well below the 5.5% average rate in other California cities. The
average monthly cost per household is about $4 to $5.

Fact: The city uses our tax dollars efficiently. The cost per department and city employee salaries are
near the average or low compared to cities of similar size.

Fact: When Fairfield’s utility tax was originally enacted in 1994, it complied fully with the laws at that
time. Last year the California Supreme Court changed the rules. That is why we are on the ballot.

Fact: Measure H protects vital services, does not raise taxes, exempts low-income seniors and the
disabled, and contains an annual audit to ensure the money is being spent properly.

Safety. Services. No New Taxes. Vote YES on Fairfield’s Measure H.

The undersigned proponent(s) or author(s) of the rebuttal to the argument against Measure H at the
Gubernatorial General Election for the City of Fairfield to be held on November 5, 2002 hereby state
that such argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

®lzi(

Sheldon

Resident and Business Owner

ffield







Bob Stoffel

President, Fairfield Professional Firefighters Association

President, Solano County Library Foundation *	*title	for	identification	purposes	only

CITY OF FAIRFIELD

ORDINANCE NO. 2002- ^7

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD
RATIFYING AND APPROVING THE CONTINUATION OF
THE CITY’S EXISTING 2% UTILITY USERS TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION I. Article V of Chapter 18, Taxation, of the Fairfield City Code is
hereby amended and adopted to read:

Article V. Utility Users Excise Tax

Sec, 18.36 Purpose.

The purpose of this chapter is to impose a utility users excise tax as a revenue measure
necessary to pay the usual and current expenses of conducting the municipal
government of the City, the proceeds of which shall be deposited into the general fund
of the City.

Sec. 18.37	Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Article shall have the
following meanings:

*

(a)	"Person" shall mean any domestic or foreign corporation, firm,
association, syndicate, joint stock company, partnership of any kind,
joint venture, club, Massachusetts business or common law trust,
society, or individuals.

(b)	"City" shall mean the City of Fairfield.

(c)	"Gas" shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon
fuel which may be substituted therefore, used for light, heat or power.

(d)	"Telephone corporation," "electrical corporation," "gas corporation" and
"cable television corporation" shall have the same meanings as defined in
Sections 234, 218, 222, 241, and 215.5, respectively, of the California Public
Utilities Code except, "electrical corporation” and "gas corporation" shall

1 [245.0001/699943.1

i \



Ord. No. 2002- AH

Page 2

(e)

(Q

(g)

(h)
©

01

Sec. 18,38

(a)

also be construed to include any municipality or other public agency
engaged in the selling or supplying of electrical power or gas to a service
user.

"Tax Administrator'' shall mean the Finance Director of the City of Fairfield.

"Service supplier" shall mean a person required to collect or self-impose and
remit a tax as imposed by this chapter.

"Service user" shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed by this
chapter.

"Month" shall mean a calendar month.

"Non-utility supplier" shall mean: (a) a service supplier, other than an
electrical corporation serving within the City, which generates electrical
energy in capacities of at least 50 kilowatts for its own use or for sale to
others; or (b) a gas supplier other than a gas corporation, that sells or supplies
gas to users within the City.

"Tax" shall mean the utility users excise tax imposed by this Article through
Sections 18.38,18.39, 18.40 and 18.41.

Telephone Users Tax.

There is hereby imposed a Tax upon every person, other than a telephone
corporation, using Telephone Communication Services in the City when the
person using the Telephone Communication Services has a service address
in the City. The Tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two
percent (2%) of all charges made for Telephone Communications Services
and shall be paid by the person paying for such Services. The telephone
users Tax is intended to, and does, apply to all charges billed to a telephone
account having a service address in the City. For the purposes of this
section, a person is using Telephone Communication Services in the City if
the person has a service address in the City even if a particular
Communication Service neither originates nor terminates within the City.

As used in this section, the following terms are defined as follows:

(1) "Interstate and international telephone communication services" are
those charges which originate or terminate within the City and

11245.0001/699943.1

Ord. No. 2002- 3lH
Page 3

are charged to a Fairfield service address. Interstate calls shall be
deemed to include calls to the District of Columbia.

(2)	"Telephone Communication Services" means the transmission of
any communications, messages, or information, whether by fixed,
mobile, portable, or any other form through electronic or other
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiberoptics, laser,
microwave, radio, satellite or other methods; and including
services for intrastate, interstate, or international calls, any
teletypewriter or facsimile exchange services and mobile or
cellular telephone communication.

(3)	"Service address" is the address(es) where tire bill for Telephone
Communication Services is received.

(4)	"Charges" shall not include charges for services paid for by
inserting coins in coin-operated telephones except where such
coin-operated service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the
amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or
other period charge shall be included in the base for computing the
amount of tax due; nor shall the term "charges" include charges for
any type of service or equipment fumished by a service supplier
which is subject to public utility regulations during any period in
which the same or similar services or equipment are also available
for sale or lease from persons other than a service supplier subject
to public utility regulation.

(c)	The person providing the Telephone Communications Services, or the
person receiving payment for such services, shall collect the Tax imposed by
this Section from the service users and remit payment to the Tax
Administrator in the manner prescribed by Section 18.42.

(d)	Upon written documentation in a form acceptable to the Tax Administrator
submitted by any taxpayer of payment of a tax in another state on the same
interstate telephone communication services taxed and paid for pursuant to
this section, that taxpayer shall be eligible for a tax credit in the amount
previously paid to the other jurisdiction.

(e)	The Tax imposed by this section shall not be imposed upon any person for
using intrastate, international, and interstate communications services,
including teletypewriter or facsimile exchange services, to the extent that the
amounts paid for such services are exempt from or not subject to the tax

11245.0001/699943.1

Ord. 2002-

Page 4

imposed under California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 41001, et
seq., or Sections 4251 of Title 26 of the United States Internal Revenue
Code, as said sections existed on January 1,1994.

Sec. 18.39 Electricity Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a Tax upon every person, other than an electric or
gas corporation, using electrical energy in the City. The tax imposed by this
section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the charges made for such
energy by an electrical corporation providing service in the City and shall be
billed to and paid by the person using the energy.

The Tax applicable to the use of electrical energy imposed by this section, is
applicable to electrical energy provided by a non-utility supplier, and
electrical corporation and a gas corporation. Non-Utility Suppliers shall
install, maintain and use an appropriate utility-type metering system which
shall verify compliance with this section.

(b)	As used in this section, the following terms shall be defined as follows:

(1)	"Charges," as used in this section, shall include charges made for:
(1) metered energy and (2) minimum charges for service,
including customer charges, service charges, demand charges,
standby charges and all other annual and monthly charges, fuel or
other cost adjustments, authorized by the California Public
Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission.

(2)	"Using electrical energy" shall not be construed to mean the
storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned or possessed
by that person for use in an automobile or other machinery device
apart from the premises upon which the energy was received,
provided, however, that the term shall include the receiving of
such energy for the purpose of using it in the charging of batteries;
nor shall the term include the mere receiving of such energy by an
electrical public utility or governmental agency at a point within
the City for resale.

(c)	The service supplier or non-utility supplier shall collect, from the service user
the Tax imposed by this section and remit the amounts collected to the Tax
Administrator in the manner prescribed by Section 18.42.

1 1245.0001/699943.1

Ord. 2002- £ 7

Page5

(d)	A service user who receives electricity without having the full tax due, billed
and collected by the supplier of electricity, or who receives electricity by
self-generation or cogeneration, shall report said fact to the Tax
Administrator and shall remit directly to the Tax Administrator the amount
of the tax due pursuant to this Section 18.39 within 30 days of said use.

Sec. 18.40 Gas Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a Tax upon every person in the City other than a
gas corporation or electrical corporation, using, in the City, gas which is
transported through mains or pipes or by mobile transport or by rail. The
Tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of two percent (2%) of the
charges made for the gas and shall be billed to and paid by the person using
the gas. The tax applicable to gas or gas transportation provided by non-
utility suppliers shall be based on the sale price of the gas or gas
transportation.

(b)	"Charges," as used in this section, shall include:

(1)	Those billed for gas which is delivered through mains or pipes or
by motor vehicle or by rail;

(2)	Gas transportation charges; and

(3)	Demand charges, service charges, customer charges, minimum
charges, annual and monthly charges, and any other charge
authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission or the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

(c)	The Tax imposed by this section is not applicable to;

(1)	Charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through
mains and pipes or by motor vehicle or by rail;

(2)	Charges made for gas sold by a public utility or governmental
agency for use in the generation of electrical energy or for the
production or distribution of water;

(3)	Charges made by a gas public utility for gas used and consumed in
the course of its public utility business; and

11245.0001/699943.]

Ord 2002-
Page 6

(4)	Charges made for gas used in the propulsion of a motor vehicle, as
authorized in the Vehicle Code of the State of California.

(d)	The person selling or transporting the gas shall collect the Tax imposed by
this section from the service user and remit those amounts to the Tax
Administrator in the manner prescribed by Section 18.42. A person selling
only transportation services to a user for delivery of gas through mains or
pipes or by motor vehicle or by rail shall collect the tax from the service user
based on the transportation charges.

(e)	A service user receiving gas directly from a non-utility supplier, or a non-
utility supplier not under the jurisdiction of this chapter, or otherwise not
having the full tax due, billed and collected by the service supplier, shall
report said fact to the tax administrator within thirty days of said use; and
shall remit directly to the Tax Administrator the amount of said tax due.

(f)	The Tax Administrator may require from a person who is a service user
pursuant to subsection (e), the filing of tax returns or other satisfactory
evidence documenting the sale price, or fair market value in the absence of a
sales price, and quantity of gas used.

Sec. 18.41 Cable Television Users Tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a Tax upon every person in the City using cable
television service in the City. The Tax imposed by this section shall be at the
rate of two percent (2%) of the charges made for such cable television
service and shall be paid by the person paying for such service.

(b)	The person furnishing the cable television service shall collect the Tax
imposed in this section from the service user and remit those amounts to the
Tax Administrator in the manner prescribed by Section 18.42.

(c)	For purposes of this section, cable television service shall mean a television
signal delivered by cable for a fee or charge.

Sec. 18.42 Remittance of Tax and Penalties.

(a)	Every person required to collect the Tax by Sections 18.38, 18.39, 18.40 and
18.41 shall remit the Tax collected monthly to the Tax Administrator
postmarked on or before the last day of the following month. At the option of the
person required to collect and remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax collected
which shall be measured by the tax billed in the previous month shall be remitted

(b)	• •  Ord. 2002- £ 7 Page 7  to the Tax Administrator postmarked on or before the last day of each month.  If estimated tax payments are remitted to the Tax Administrator, the person required to collect and remit the tax shall reconcile the difference between the amount of the tax actually due and the amount of the estimated tax paid to the Tax Administrator every third month after the date that the tax is first imposed. Any additional tax due to the city shall immediately be paid to the Tax Administrator. The amount of any overpaid tax may be deducted from the next payment due to the City.  In the event of a tax overpayment, documentation establishing such overpayment shall be provided to the City along with the tax payment for the month in which the overpayment is claimed.  Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the due dates provided in this chapter are delinquent. Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return may be postmarked on the first regular working day following a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday.
(o)	Penalties for delinquency in remittance of any tax collected or any deficiency determination shall attach and be paid by the person required to collect and remit the tax at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax collected or imposed herein.
(A)	Every penalty imposed under the provisions of this chapter shall become part of the amounts required to be remitted by the person who is required to collect the Tax and on whom the penalty has been imposed.
Sec. 18.43	Actions to Collect.
(a)	The Tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City.
(b)	The Tax collected from a service user by a service supplier or non-utility supplier which has not been paid to the Tax Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the person required to collect and remit.
(c)	Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to the City for the amounts owed, including penalties, as well

Sec. 18.44	• •  Ord. 2002- 9~ 7  Page 8  as for the costs and expenses incurred by the City, including collection fees, attorney's fees and court costs, resulting from the failure to pay said amounts.  Duty to Collect - Procedures.

The duty to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this chapter shall be performed as

follows:	
(a)	The tax shall be collected at the same time as, and along with, the charges made in accordance with the regular billing practice of the service supplier. Where the amount paid by a service user to a service supplier is less than the full amount of the charge for utility service and the Tax which accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share of both the charge and the Tax shall be deemed to have been paid except in those cases where a service user pays the full amount of the charge for utility service, but notifies the service supplier of her/her refusal to pay the tax imposed on said, charge for utility service.
(b)	The duty to collect the tax from a service user shall commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to that person which starts on or after the operative date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. Where a person receives more than one billing, one or more being for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.
Sec. 18.45	Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax Administrator.
(a)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty to enforce each and all of the provisions of this chapter.
(b)	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this chapter for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax  Administrator's office.
is)	The Tax Administrator may make administrative agreements to vary the strict requirements of this chapter so that collection of any tax imposed herein may be made in conformance with the billing procedures of a

11245.0001/699943.]

Ord. 2002- 11
Page 9

(d)	particular service supplier so long as said agreements result in collection of the tax in conformance with the general purpose and scope of this chapter.  The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any service user who asserts a right to exemption from the tax imposed by this ordinance. The Tax Administrator shall provide the service  supplier with the name of any person who the Tax Administrator determines is exempt from the tax imposed hereby, together with the address and account number to which service is supplied to any such exempt person. The Tax Administrator shall notify the service supplier of termination of any person's right to exemption hereunder, or the change of any address to which service is supplied to any exempt person.
(e)	The Tax Administrator shall provide notice to all service suppliers, at least 90 days prior to any annexation or other change in the city’s boundaries. Said notice shall set forth the revised boundaries by street and address, along with a copy of the final annexation order from the Local Agency Formation Commission. Failure to make this notice in a timely fashion relieves the service supplier from obligation to collect the tax but such obligation to collect the tax shall commence 90 days after said notice is received.
Sec. 18.46	Service Supplier Relief From Duty to Collect Assessment on Service User.
(a)	The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes not remitted by the person required to remit such taxes.
(b)	The service supplier shall provide the City with names and addresses of the service users failing to pay the tax imposed under the provisions of this chapter, and the amounts of any delinquent taxes due and owing to the City.
(c)	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has failed to pay the tax due and owing under this chapter, or that a service user has failed to pay the amount of the tax for a period of two (2) or more billing periods, or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he may relieve the service supplier of the obligation to collect taxes due under this chapter from said service user for the specified billing periods in which the service users taxes are delinquent.
(d)	The Tax Administrator shall notify the service user that the Tax Administrator has assumed responsibility to collect the delinquent taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes. The notice shall

Ord. 2002- 3-1

Page 10

	be sewed on the service user personally or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage pre-paid, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was made by the person required to collect the tax. .If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within fifteen (15) days from the date of the mailing or personal service of the notice, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than five dollars ($5.00). The penalty shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid. In the event the city commences a collection action as provided for in Section 18.43, the service user shall also be responsible for the payment of the City's collection fees, attorney’s fees and court costs.
Sec. 18.47	Records.
(a)	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and remit to the City the Tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax such person may have been liable for according to this chapter. The Tax Administrator shall have the right to inspect these records at all reasonable times.
(b)	Unless in compliance with judicial order or as may be required for the proper administration of this chapter, the Tax Administrator, his agents or employees shall not divulge facts or information, as hereinabove described, obtained in the administration hereof.
Sec. 18.48	Refunds.
(a)	Whenever the amount of any Tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator, it shall be refunded as provided in this section.
(b)	A service supplier may. claim a refund; or take as a credit against taxes remitted, the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or received, when it is established that the service user from whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax; provided however, that neither a refund or a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either  been refunded to the service user or credited to charges subsequently payable by the service user to the person required to collect and remit. A service

Ord. 2002-
Page 11

supplier that has collected and paid to the Tax Administrator any amount of
tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed by this chapter and actually due
from a service user, may refund such amount to the service user and claim
credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due upon any
other monthly returns, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated no
later than three years from the date of overpayment.

(c)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes the right thereto by written records showing entitlement
thereto.

(d)	Whenever a service supplier, pursuant to an order of the California Public
Utilities Commission or a court of competent jurisdiction, makes a refund to
service users of charges for past utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to
this chapter on the amount of such refunded charges shall also be refunded
or credited to service users, and the service supplier shall be entitled to claim
a credit for such refunded taxes against the amount of tax which is due upon
the next monthly returns.. In the event the ordinance codified in this chapter
is repealed, the amounts of any refundable taxes will be borne by the City.

(e)	A service supplier may refund the taxes collected from the service user as
required by this section in accordance with this section or by the service
supplier's customary practice.

Sec. 18.49 Major Service Users Tax Limitation.

(a)	The purpose of this section is to mitigate the tax burden imposed on large
users of gas, electricity and telephone services, to avoid adversely affecting
economic development and job creation in Fairfield.

(b)	No service user need pay more than the "major service users tax limitation
amount" in combined electricity users tax, gas users tax and telephone users
tax, in a single fiscal year.

(c)	For purposes of this section, the "major service users tax limitation amount"
for the 2002/2003 fiscal year shall be $7,615.80, which amount shall be
increased by two percent (2%) annually effective with the 2003/2004 fiscal
year.

(d)	A service user must select one of the following means of obtaining relief
under this section:

13 245.0001/699943.1

+

#

Ord. 2002-	7

Page 12

(1)	The affected service user elects to pay the "major service user tax
limitation amount'' to the City up-front, and be exempted from
payment of the tax on future gas, electricity and telephone utility
billings. On or before July 1 of each fiscal year, the affected service
user shall transmit to the Tax Administrator the amount of the "major
service users tax limitation amount" applicable to the fiscal year
starting on July I, and shall direct the Tax Administrator to notify the
gas, electricity and telephone service providers to exempt the service
user from the tax on subsequent billings for gas, electricity and.
telephone services. Once this option is initiated, the service user
shall continue to transmit to the Tax Administrator annually before
July 1 of each fiscal year the "major service users tax limitation
amount" applicable to that fiscal year. Failure to transmit the
required amount by July 1 shall result in the Tax Administrator
notifying the gas, electricity and telephone service providers to
reinstate the application of the gas users tax, the electricity users tax,
and the telephone users tax to the utility billings of that service user.
This option is available only once annually; the Tax Administrator
will not otherwise change the service users status from "taxable" to
"non-taxable" during the course of the fiscal year.

(2)	The affected service user elects to pay the gas users tax, electricity
users tax and telephone users tax to the service provider as billed, and
at the conclusion of each fiscal year, transmit to the Tax
Administrator a copy of all gas, electricity and telephone billings for
which the service user made payment during said fiscal year, together
with proof acceptable to the Tax Administrator that the gas,
electricity and telephone users taxes applied to said billings were paid
by the service user. If the taxes paid exceed the "major service users
tax limitation amount" applicable to that fiscal year, the Tax
Administrator shall within 30 days of receipt of appropriate
documentation from the service user transmit payment to the service
user in the amount of the difference between the gas, electricity and
telephone users taxes actually paid, and the "major service users tax
limitation amount" applicable to that fiscal year.

Sec. 18.50	. Confidentiality.

Information furnished or secured pursuant to the provisions of Section 18.49, the disclosure
of which to other persons would result in unfair competitive disadvantage, shall not be

Ord. 2002- 2-*7

Page 13

subject to public inspection, and shall be kept so that the contents thereof shall not become
known except to the persons charged with the administration of this chapter.

Sec. 18.51 General Exemptions.

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person if imposition
of such tax upon that person would be in violation of the Constitution of the United States or
the Constitution of the State of California.

No Tax shall be imposed on utility charges with respect to property or facilities or
equipment owned and operated by a governmental entity for governmental purposes,
including the City, Solano County, school districts, special districts, the State of California
and the United States government.

Sec. 18.52 Low Income Senior and Disabled Exemption.

Any person who meets the eligibility requirements of this section may apply for an
exemption from the Tax required to be paid under this Article. The Tax
Administrator shall approve an exemption if the applicant meets all of the following
requirements:

(a)	The applicant is (1) over 62 years of age; or (2) is disabled and receives
Social Security Supplemental Income due to such disability, or (3) is a
veteran receiving a Veterans Administration disability pension.

(b)	The applicant is a head of household. As used herein, “head of
household” means the person filing or who would file a federal income
tax return as a head of household, or a single individual, or the husband
or wife if a joint return is filed, but in such case, the individual applying
for the exemption must additionally declare that his or her spouse has
not also applied for the exemption.

(c)	The applicant’s household income is less than the United States Housing
and Urban Development eligibility limit for a family of two with very
low income or meets such other income test that is approved by
resolution of the City Council.

The Tax Administrator may establish rules and regulations for the administration and
implementation of this exemption.

11245.0001/699943.1

Sec. 18.53 Annual Audit.

Ord. 2002-_ Al
Page 14



By no later than October 31 of each year, the City’s independent auditors shall
complete a Utility Users Tax Ordinance Compliance and Internal Control Audit
Report. Such report shall review whether the Tax revenue is collected, managed and
expended in accordance with this Article.

Sec. 18.54 Benefit to All Persons.

The City Council has found and determined and declares that all persons using utility
services in the City enjoy the privilege of using and benefit from the providing, by the City,
of municipal services and facilities.

Sec. 18.55 Limitation of Action.

The validity of this chapter or of any tax levied pursuant to this chapter shall not be
contested in any action or proceeding or defense unless such actin or proceeding or defense
shall have been brought or raised in a court of competent jurisdiction within sixty days from
the date of the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter. Unless an action or
proceeding is commenced or such defense raised within said period, this chapter and any tax
levied pursuant to this chapter shall be held valid and in every respect legal and
incontestable.

Sec. 18.56 Severability.

If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Article
or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portion of this Article or any part thereof. The City
Council hereby declares that it would have been passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any
one or more section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrases be
declared unconstitutional.

11245.0001/699943.1

Ord. 2002-_S_1
Page 15

SECTION 2. The voters of the City of Fairfield hereby ratify and approve the
past collection of the Utility Users Tax under Article V of Chapter 18 of the Fairfield
City Code as it has existed since its effective date on May 18,1994.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the voters on November 5,2002.

] 1245.0001/699943.1