JUL-23-02 04:09 PM CORDELIA FIRE DIST.

707 864 8607

P. 07

EXHIBIT “A”	
SPECIAL TAX RATE	
SCHEDULE	
	
Use Code Description	Special Tax Rate per
(Use Code Number)	Parcel
	
Residential (1000) (1500)	$260
Residential/Vacant. Land (1100)	$150
Multi-Family/ Vacant. Land (2100)	$160
Coromerciai/Vacant Land (3000)	$200
Marina (3100)	$350
Service Station (3400)	$350
Commercial Sales/Scrvices (3500)	$350
Industrial/Manufacturmg/Vacant Land (4000)	$160
Industrial/Manufacturing (4400)	$350
Agricultural (5000)	$100
Marsh Land (6100)	$200
Range Land (6400)	$100
Recreational Club (8100)	$350
Below taxable value (9700)	$0
Additional exemptions are listed in Exhibit “C”	

707 864 8607

P.08

CORDELIA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

ORDINANCE NO. 2002-01

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CORDELIA FIRE PROTECTION
DIST RICT IMPOSING A SPECIAL TAX FOR PROVIDING
AUTHORIZED SERVICES AND EXERCISING THE OTHER
RIGHTS AND POWERS OF THE DISTRICT

The people of the Cordelia Fire Protection District ordain

as follows:

SECTION I. DEFINITIONS.

For the purposes of this ordinance, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this
section unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. The
definition of a word or phrase applies to any variants of that word or
phrase.

Board of Directors means the Board of Directors of the
Cordelia Fire Protection District.

District means the Cordelia Fire Protection District in Solano
County, California.

Parcel of real property means a separate parcel of real
property having a separate Assessor's parcel number as shown on the
secured tax rolls of the County of Solano, or an assessment of a
structural property on the unsecured tax rolls of the County of Solano,
or an assessment made by the State Board of Equalization.

Special tax means the special tax authorized by and imposed
pursuant to this ordinance. The special tax is a special tax within the
meaning of Article Xlil A, section 4 and Article XIIIC, section I of
the California Constitution.

SECTION II. AUTHORITY.

This ordinance is adopted pursuant to Article XIII A, section 4,
and Article XIII C, section 2 of the California Constitution, Article 3.7

l

70? 864 8607

P. 09

(commencing with Section 53720) of Chapter 4 of Division 2 of Title
5 of the California Government Code* Section 13911 of the California
Health and Safety Code, and Article 3.5 (commencing with Section
50075) of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of Division 1 of Title 5 of the California
Government Code.

SECTION HI. DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY.

The amount of revenue available to the District from property
taxes is inadequate to meet the cost of providing services pursuant to
Section 13862 of the California Health and Safety Code and the
District must establish a stable source of supplemcntaty revenue to
meet the costs of providing such services and exercising the other
rights and powers of the District,

SECriON IV. PURPOSE OF SPECIAL TAX.

The purpose of the special tax is to establish a stable source of
supplementary revenue for the District for the specific purpose of
meeting the costs of (1) providing services pursuant to Section 13862
of the California Health and Safety Code, including, but not limited
to, fire protection, rescue, emergency medical, hazardous material
emergency response, ambulance, any other services relating to the
protection of lives and property and (2) exercising the other rights and
powers granted to the District in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section
13860) of Part 2.7 of Division 12 of the California Health and Safely
Code.

SECTION V. PROCEEDS OF SPECIAL TAX.

The Board of Directors shall cause the proceeds of the special
(ax to be deposited into a special tax account which shall be used only
for the purposes set forth in Section IV of this ordinance.

SECTION VI. SPECIAL TAX AUTHORIZATION AND LIMIT.

The Board of Directors is authorized to levy a special tax each
year on each parcel of real property within the District, for the
purposes described in Section IV of this ordinance. The speoial tax
may be levied at a maximum rate in accordance with the schedule set
forth in Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and incorporated herein by this



JUL-23-02 04:27 PM CORDELIA FIRE DIST.

707 864 8607

IQ

reference. Appeal procedures are in Exhibit “8” and rules for exempt
parcels are in Exhibit “C*\ both exhibits are attached and are hereby
incorporated by this reference. The Board of Directors shall set the
rate of the special tax each year as provided in Section VN of this
ordinance and may adjust the rate annually for inflation using the
Consumer Price Index (CPI) for the proceeding year (not to exceed 2
% per year).

SECTION VII. REPORT AND HEARING ON SPECIAL TAX.

Each year prior to the imposition of the special tax, the Board
of Directors shall cause a report to be prepared showing each parcel of
real property subject to the tax, the owner(s) thereof, the land use
classification applied thereto, and the proposed levy thereon. The
report shall also include the amount of funds collected and expended,
and the status of any project required or authorized to be funded.

Upon the receipt of such report, the Board of Directors shall set a date
for a public hearing thereon and shall cause notice of the hearing to be
given pursuant to Section VIII of this ordinance. At the public
healing, the Board of Directors shall set the rate and make such
corrections to the taxes proposed to be levied as may be required to
conform to the rate set forth in Section VI of this ordinance.

SECTION VIII. NOTICE OF HEARING.

In the absence of state law specifying the procedure for giving
notice, notice of any public hearing held pursuant to this ordinance
shall be given by posting in at least three (3) public places within the
District at least fifteen (15) days prior to die hearing and publishing
twice pursuant to Section 6066 of the California Government Code in
at least one (1) newspaper of general circulation within the District.

The notice shall include the date, time, and place of die public
hearing, a general explanation of the matter to be considered, and a
statement of where additional information may be obtained.

SECTION IX. COLLECTION.

The special tax shall be collected in the same manner and
subject to the same penalty as other charges and taxes collected by or
on behalf of the District by the County of Solano. The Solano County
Tax Collector may deduct reasonable administrative costs incurred in

3

70? 864 8607

P.4-0 | [

PM CORDELIA

FIRE BIST.

collecting the special tax and deposit the amounts deducted in the
Solano County General Fund.

SECTION X. SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.

if any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this
ordinance is for any reason held to be unconstitutional and invalid,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of
this ordinance. The people of the Cordelia Fire Protection District
hereby declare that they would have passed this ordinance and every
section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional or invalid.

SECTION XI. EFFECTIVE DATE.

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its
confirmation by two-thirds of the qualified voters voting on its
approval at an election to be held on Tuesday, November 5, 2002.

APPROVED, by a two-thirds vote of the voters of the Cordelia
Fire Protection District at the election held on November 5,2002, and

ATTEST:	SO	ORDERED:

Jim Campi, Secretary

Carl Hakenen, Chairman

4