VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF ROHNERT PARK
MEASURES

Shall a tax be imposed on telephone communications and
video services at the rate of 4% for residential users and
6% for commercial users beginning on January 1,2003?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S

The Rohnert Park Municipal Code is the official collection of City of Rohnert Park
local laws. Measure S would add a new law that requires businesses and
residents to pay a telecommunications and video services tax. Majority voter
approval is required to put this tax into effect. The tax would be collected by
telecommunications and video services providers from the businesses and
residents, and paid to the City’s General Fund. Monies in the General Fund are
used for the ordinary and necessary operations of the City and are not earmarked
for a specific purpose. The General Fund is spent according to a budget adopted
by the City Council.

The proposed tax on residents is 4% of their bills for both traditional telephones
and cell phones, and for cable television. The proposed tax on businesses is 6%
of their bills for both traditional telephones and cell phones, and cable television. If
a resident or business does not receive cable television service, the resident or
business does not pay a tax on this service. Residents who are 65 years of age or
older, and residents of very-low income are exempt from paying the tax. A person
with a very-low income is a person whose income is less than 50% of the median
income for Sonoma County. Non-profit corporations organized under section
501 (c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code are exempt from the tax. The tax on a
resident's telephone bills totaling $50.00, will be $2.00. The tax on a business’
telephone bills totaling $100.00, will be $6.00.

Since the proposed tax is to be collected by the telephone services and cable
television services providers, the amount of the tax will appear on the bills for
these services. Interest will be charged on taxes that are not paid on time. If taxes
continue to be delinquent, a penalty can be imposed. The City of Rohnert Park
also may take other legal actions to make sure that the tax is paid.

This tax may be temporarily reduced and imposed at a lower rate by resolution of
the City Council. Each such reduction would be in effect for a time period
determined by the City Council. At the conclusion of that period of time, the tax
would be imposed at the full rate. The ordinance that Measure S submits to the
voters, provides that voter approval is not required when the tax goes back to the
original rate, after a period of temporary reduction.

A "yes” vote on Measure S means that the Telecommunications and Video
Services Tax will become the law in the City of Rohnert Park.

A “no” vote on Measure S means that the Telecommunications and Video
Services Tax will not become the law in the City of Rohnert Park.

s/ Betsy Strauss
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

The proposed Telecommunications and Video Services Tax, Measure S on your
ballot, will provide the revenue our City needs to continue the current level of
services.

New revenue would be raised by a 4% charge on telecommunication and video
services for residents. The rate for businesses would be slightly higher at 6%.
Senior citizens (65 and older), very low-income residents and non-profit
organizations are exempt from the tax. And, the tax would only be imposed on
telephone and video services. Other utilities (e.g. gas and electricity) will not be
taxed.

Similar to many other communities in California, Rohnert Park continues to face
costs rising faster than revenues. The City receives only 12 cents out of each
property tax dollar and only one percent of sales taxes. Veiy little of your tax dollars
remain in Rohnert Park to support the critical local services you rely on.

If the City of Rohnert Park is to maintain existing services it must turn to its own
residents for support. Please join us in voting “yes” on Measure S.

ROHNERT PARK CITY COUNCIL
si Armando F. Flores, Mayor	si	James	J. Reilly, Jr., Vice-Mayor

si Jake Mackenzie, Councilmember	s/ Vicki Vidak-Martinez, Councilmember

NO REBUTTAL WAS SUBMITTED TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE S

84

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

FULL TEXT OF MEASURES

The Telecommunications Users tax is regressive because it effects low income
and fixed income ratepayers the most. The City has exempted seniors and/or very
low income people, however, they must apply for this exemption every year. This
tax goes directly into the General Fund, therefore, there is no accountability as to
how it will be spent. It begs the issue of fiscal responsibility in that expenditures
are driving Rohnert Park’s budget. If you or I had our income reduced on a
temporary basis we would reduce expenditures. The City is seeking additional
revenues by imposing this regressive tax rather than making the difficult political
decision to eliminate expenditures.

When the City’s coffers are full, there are no sunset provisions to eliminate this
tax. There is only a provision to reduce the tax if the City Council deems it
necessary. The City provides no services to justify this telecommunication users
tax. For example, wireless phones usage is included in the tax. What City service
is provided for this user? None! Additionally, cable TV users will be double taxed.
In addition to the 4% proposed tax, the user also pays a 5% franchisee fee that
reimburses the cable operator for payments made to the City. The proposed 6%
tax on business adds still another burden on small as well as large business that
are currently struggling to survive. This tax has no limit or cap, so that businesses
that depend on telecommunications will have a very large tax bill. Finally, we
oppose this regressive tax, because it is another attempt by City government to
shift the responsibility of managing Rohnert Park’s fiscal resources on to its
citizens who are already overtaxed.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION
si Spencer Flournoy, President	si Fred Levin, Executive Director

si James J. Gallagher, Director	si Jim Groom, Director

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

Why should you vote yes on Measure S?

Rohnert Park has the lowest number of employees per resident of any other full
service city in Sonoma County. While Rohnert Park is the third largest city out of
the nine cities in Sonoma County, it ranks seventh in revenue from sales taxes
and property taxes received per resident.

If passed, Measure S will generate additional revenue as a utility users tax on
telecommunications to help meet current and future budgetary needs. The City of
Santa Rosa has a utility users tax. Unlike the City of Santa Rosa and 151 other
local governments in California that currently charge a utility users tax, Rohnert
Park’s Measure S is not a utility users tax on electricity or gas usage. Non-profit
institutions, very low-income families, and senior citizens will not have to pay this
tax.

As a maturing city, the cost of maintaining Rohnert Park’s infrastructure and
providing services has grown beyond what the city’s existing tax structure can
support. The City of Rohnert Paik has already reduced expenses. The City of
Rohnert Park strives to maintain the lowest possible fees assessed to businesses
located in the city. Your vote for Measure S combined with tight controls on
expenses and an aggressive economic development program will provide the
City of Rohnert Park with the additional revenue needed.

Join us in voting “yes” on Measure S.

ROHNERT PARK CITY COUNCIL
si Armando F. Flores, Mayor	si	James	J.	Reilly, Jr., Vice Mayor

si Jake Mackenzie, Councilmember si Vicki Vidak-Martinez, Councilmember

Ordinance No. 684

An Urgency Ordinance of the City Council of the City of Rohnert Park
Adding Chapter 5.32 to the Rohnert Park Municipal Code

Imposing a Tax on the Use of Telephone Communications and Video
Services

The City Council of the City of Rohnert Park does hereby ordain as
follows:

SECTION ONE. Chapter 5.32 — Telephone Communications and Video Services
Tax is hereby added to the Rohnert Park Municipal Code to read as follows:

Chapter 5.32 Telephone and Communications and Video Services Tax

Section 5.32.010 Title.

This chapter imposes a tax on the use of telephone communications and video
services in the City of Rohnert Park and shall be known as the Rohnert Park
Telephone Communications and Video Services Tax.

Section 5.32.020 Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this chapter shall be construed
as defined in this section.

A.	“Billing address” shall mean the mailing address of the service user where
the service supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

B.	“City" shall mean the City of Rohnert Park.

C.	“Intrastate Telecommunication” shall mean all telecommunications
regardless of routing that either (1) originate in the City and terminate in the State,
or (2) originate in the State and terminate in the City, where, in either instance, the
service or billing address of the service user is in the City.

D.	“Interstate Telecommunications” shall mean all telecommunications that
either (1) originate in the City and terminate in another state, or (2) originate in
another state and terminate in the City, where, in either instance, the service or
billing of the service user is in the City.

E.	“Month” shall mean a calendar month.

F.	“Person” shall mean, without limitation, any domestic, non-profit, or foreign
corporation; firm; trust; estate; association; syndicate; joint stock company; limited
liability company; partnership of any kind; joint venture; club; cooperative; receiver,
trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court; or any
natural individual.

G.	“Service address” shall mean the residential street address or the business
street address of the service user’s primary place of telephone communication
service usage.

H.	“Service supplier” shall mean any entity or person that provides telephone
communications or video services to a user of such services within the City. The
term shall include any entity or person required to collect, or self-collect under
Section 5.32.090 of this chapter, and remit a tax imposed by this chapter, including
its billing agent in the case of video services suppliers.

I.	“Service user” shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed by this
chapter. In general, a service user is the person in whose name a service supplier
delivers the services and other compensation activities provided by a service
supplier and who is responsible to the service supplier for paying for the cost of
such services.

J.	Tax administrator" shall mean the Finance Director of the City.

K.	Telecommunication services” shall mean, in addition to the meaning
ordinarily and popularly ascribed to it, without limitation, the transmission of
messages or information (including but not limited to voice, data, facsimile, video,

CONT. NEXT PAGE

85

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE S, CONT.

text) through the use of the local, toll and wide area telephone service; telegraph,
teletypewriter and computer services; cellular telephone services; or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means through
“interconnected service” with the “public switched network” (as those terms are
commonly used in the Federal Communications Act and the regulations of the
Federal Communications Commission) by wire, cable, fiber-optics, light waves,
laser, microwaves, radio waves, switching facilities, satellite or similar facilities,
whether such service is provided by a telephone corporation, competitive access
provider, private communication service provider, or any other person.
Telecommunication services” shall include access services, and any other
services that are an adjunct to the transmission of messages or information
described above. Telecommunication services" shall not include land mobile
services or maritime mobile services [as defined in Part 20 of Title 47 of the Code
of Federal Regulations], which are not interconnected with the public switched
network.

L.	Telephone corporation,” shall mean a corporation or person as defined in
California Public Utilities Section 234.

M.	“Video services” shall mean any and all services related to the providing of
video programming (including origination programming), including any
communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the use and
enjoyment of the video programming, regardless of the content of such video
programming or communications. “Video services” shall not include services for
which a tax is paid under Section 5.32.030 of this chapter.

N.	“Video service supplier” shall mean any person, company, or service which
provides one or more channels of video programming, including any
communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the use and
enjoyment of the video programming (including the leasing of channel access to
provide such video programming or communications), to or from an address in the
City, including to or from a business, home, condominium, or apartment, where
some fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for that
service, whether or not public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video
programming or communications. A 'Video service supplier” includes, but is not
limited to, multi-channel video programming distributors [as defined in 47
U.S.C.A. Section 522(13)], providers of cabletelevision, open video systems
(OVS) suppliers, suppliers of cable television, master antenna television, satellite
master antenna television, multichannel multipoint distribution services, direct
broadcast satellite (to the extent allowed by federal law), and other suppliers of
video programming or communications (including two-way communications),
whatever their technology.

Section 5.32.030 Video Services Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using video services in
the City from a video service supplier. The tax imposed by this section shall be at
the rate of four percent (4.0%) of the charges made for such video services to
residential customers and six percent (6.0%) of the charges made for commercial
customers. For purposes of this section, “commercial customers" shall include all
those customers that are not residential customers and that are not a non-profit
corporation (as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c). The tax shall
be collected from the service user by the video service supplier or its billing agent.

B.	The tax administrator, from time to time, may survey the video service
suppliers in the City to identify the various components of video service that are
being offered to customers within the City, and the charges therefore, The tax
administrator may, thereafter, issue and disseminate to such video service
suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components that are: i)
necessary or common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of video service; or, ii)
which currently are, or historically have been, included in a bundled rate for video
service by a local distribution company. Charges for such components shall be
subject to the tax of subsection (A) above.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration
provided by the service user in exchange for the video services, if a non-taxable

service and a taxable service are billed together under a single charge, the entire
charge shall be deemed taxable unless the service supplier can reasonably identify
the non-taxable service services based upon its books and records that are kept in
the regular course of business, which shall be consistent with generally accepted
accounting principles.

D.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the video service supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of such services. In the
case of video service, the service user shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the
bulk video service (e.g., an apartment owner), unless such service is resold to
individual users, in which case the service user shall be the ultimate purchaser of
the video service. The amount collected in one month shall be remitted to the tax
administrator on or before the last day of the following month and must be received
by the tax administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

Section 5.32.040 Telephone Communications Services Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using any international,
interstate and/or intrastate telephone communications services in the City, other
than a telephone corporation. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of
four percent (4.0%) of the charges made for such telephone communications
services to residential customers and six percent (6.0%) of the charges made for
commercial customers. For purposes of this section, “commercial customers" shall
include all those customers that are not residential customers and that are not a
non-profit corporation (as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 501(c). The
tax shall be collected from the service user by the video service supplier or its billing
agent. To the extent allowed by law, the tax on telephone communications services
shall apply to a service user if the billing or service address of the service user is
within the City’s boundaries, irrespective of whether a particular telephone
communication service originates and/or terminates within the City. If the billing
address of the service user is different from the service address, the service
address of the service user shall be used. „

B.	The tax imposed under subsection (A) shall not be imposed upon any
person for using telephone communication services to the extent that, pursuant to
Sections 4252 and 4253 of the Internal Revenue Code, the amounts paid for such
communication services are exempt from or are not subject to tax imposed under
Section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code. In the event that the federal excise tax
on “communication services” as provided in Sections 4251,4252 and 4253 of the
Internal Revenue Code is subsequently repealed, any reference in this section to
such law, including any related federal regulations, private letter rulings, case law,
and other opinions interpreting these sections, shall refer to that body of law that
existed immediately prior to the date of repeal, as well as to any judicial or
administrative decision interpreting such federal excise tax law, which is published
or rendered after the date of the appeal.

C.	The tax administrator may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to
telecommunication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection
requirements of this ordinance, an administrative ruling identifying those
telecommunication services that are subject to the tax of subsection (A) above.
This administrative ruling shall be consistent with legal nexus and the federal
excise tax rules, regulations, and laws pertaining to “communications services,”
and shall not impose a new tax, revise an existing tax methodology, or increase an
existing tax.

D.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration
provided by the service user in exchange for the telephone communication
services. If a non-taxable service and a taxable service are billed together under a
single charge, the entire charge shall be deemed taxable unless the service
supplier can reasonably identify charges not subject to the tax based upon its
books and records that are kept in the regular course of business, which shall be
consistent with generally accepted accounting principles.

E.	As used in this section, the term "charges” shall not include:

1. Charges for services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones
except that where such coin-operated service is furnished for a guaranteed

CONT. NEXT PAGE

86

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE S, CONT.

amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other
periodic charge shall be included in the base for computing the amount of tax due.

2.	Charges for any type of service or equipment furnished by a service
supplier subject to public utility regulation during any period in which the same or
similar services or equipmentare also available for sale or lease from persons
other than a service supplier subject to public utility regulation.

F.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telephone communication
services subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the tax
administrator that the service user has previously paid the same tax in another
state or city on such telephone communication services, shall be allowed a credit
against the tax imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in
such other state or city; provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed
the tax owed to the City under this section. For purposes of establishing sufficient
legal nexus for the imposition and collection of utility users’ tax on charges for
telephone communication services pursuant to this chapter, “minimum contacts”
shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition and collection of the utility
users’ tax to the fullest extent permitted by California and federal law, and as it
may change from time to time.

G.	The tax on telephone communication services imposed by this section
shall be collected from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the tax administrator on or before
the last day of the following month; and must be received by the tax administrator
on or before the last day of the following month.

Section 5.32.050 Exemptions For Residential Customers.

A.	The taxes imposed by this chapter shall not apply to any person sixty-five
(65) years of age or over, or to any person whose total personal income, from all
sources, for the previous calendar year, does not exceed that level which shall
constitute “very low income” as established annually on January 31s1 by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development. The U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban development defines very low income as 50% of the Sonoma
County Median Income with income adjustments made for family size. For the
purpose of determining income, the income of the entire household from all
sources will be evaluated. Very low income applicants must be able to prove
financial independence according the most recent U.S. Internal Revenue Service
regulations and standards. Any taxpayer claiming the exemption under this
section shall be required to demonstrate their entitlement thereto annually by
submitting an application, on a form approved by the Tax Administrator, that shall
state those facts and provide the supporting documentation that qualify the
applicant for this exemption. Such supporting information may include, but is
limited to, federal income tax returns and W-2 forms. The Tax Administrator shall
publish a written policy explaining the procedure to apply for an exemption and
describing the information that must be submitted by the service user.

B.	Once annually (July), the City Manager, or his or her designee shall receive
all applications and certify as exempt those subscribers who are sixty-five years of
age or older or whose gross annual income constitutes ‘Very low income” as
defined in subparagraph A. Upon completion of the verification process, the City
Manager, or his or her designee shall process within thirty days refunds to
qualified applicants. The refund is limited to taxes paid over a period of the
previous six months prior to the refund application. All exemptions given to
individuals sixty-five years or older shall continue and be renewed automatically
by the City Manager or his or her designee. Very low income exemptions will
expire each year. The very low income applicant will be required to submit an
exemption application on an annual basis to continue their exemption. It shall be a
misdemeanor for any person to knowingly receive the benefits of the exemption
provided by this section when the basis for such exemption either does not exist
or ceases.

C.	If deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator, such service user shall give
the Tax Administrator timely written notice of any change in service suppliers so
that the Tax Administrator can properly notify the new service supplier of the
service user’s tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply with this

section shall not be entitled to a refund of taxes collected and remitted to the Tax
Administrator from such service user as a result of such non-compliance. Upon
request of the Tax Administrator, a service supplier or non-utility service supplier,
or its billing agent, shall provide a list of the names and addresses of those
customers which, according to its billing records, are deemed exempt from the
utility users’ tax. With respect to a service user of telephone communication
services, a service supplier of such telephone communication services doing
business in the City shall, upon request of the tax administrator, provide a copy of
the federal exemption certificate for each exempt customer within the City that is
served by such service supplier.

D.	The exemptions in Section 5.32.050 do not apply to commercial customers.
Section 5.32.060 Other Refunds.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid, or paid more than
once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the tax
administrator under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in this section.

B.	The tax administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid, paid more
than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the tax
administrator under this chapter, provided that no refund shall be paid under the
provisions of this section unless the claimant or his or her guardian, conservator,
executor or administrator has submitted a written claim to the tax administrator
within one year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax.
Such claim must clearly establish claimant’s right to the refund by written records
showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim on
behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

C.	The submission of a written claim as set forth in Chapter 2.44 shall be a
prerequisite to a suit thereon.

D.	Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, whenever a service
supplier, pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities Commission or a
court of competent jurisdiction, makes a refund to service users of charges for past
services, the taxes paid pursuant to the ordinance on the amount of such refunded
service charges shall also be refunded to service users, and the service supplier
shall be entitled to claim a credit for such refunded taxes against the amount of tax
which is due upon the next monthly return.

Section 5.32.070 Interest and Penalty.

A.	Taxes collected from a service user, or owed by a service user subject to the
taxes imposed by this chapter are delinquent if not received by the tax
administrator on or before the due dates provided in this chapter. Should the due
date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received by the tax
administrator on or before the first regular working day following the weekend or
legal holiday. A direct deposit, including electronic fund transfers and other similar
methods of electronically exchanging monies between financial accounts, made by
a service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection shall be
considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or before the due date, and the
transfer settles into the City’s account on the following business day.

B.	1. Original Delinquency. If the person required to collect and/or remit the
tax fails to collect the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or more
services or charges on the customer’s billing) or fails to remit the tax collected, or, in
the case of a service user that fails to properly self-collect and remit the tax under
Section 5,32.110 of this chapter, the tax administrator shall attach a penalty for
such delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of ten percent (10%) of the total tax
that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance.

2.	Continued Delinquency. Any person who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance within a period of thirty days following the date on which the remittance
first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of ten percent
(10%) of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the ten
percent penalty first imposed.

3.	The tax administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties
upon persons required to collect and/or remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter for fraud or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of

CONT. NEXT PAGE

87

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE S, CONT.

fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the tax collected and/or required to be
remitted, or as recomputed by the tax administrator.

4.	Each penalty amount imposed pursuant to the provisions of this section,
shall become a part of the tax amount required to be remitted to the Tax
Administrator.

C.	Interest. In addition to any other penalties imposed by this chapter, any
person required to collect and/or remit any tax imposed by the provisions of this
chapter who fails to collect the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or
more services or charges on the customer’s billing) or fails to remit the tax
collected, or, in the case of a service user that fails to properly self-collect and
remit the tax under this Chapter, shall pay interest at the rate of three-quarters of
one percent (3/4%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became
delinquent, until paid.

Section 5.32.080 Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this chapter
shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax
collected from a service user which has not been remitted to the tax administrator
shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the person required to collect and
remit. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of this chapter
shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such
amount, along with any collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the
person’s noncompliance with this chapter, including, but not limited to,
reasonable attorneys’ fees, plus interest and penalties as herein provided.

Section 5.32.090 Duty to Collect and Remit—Procedures.

The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit the taxes imposed by this
chapter shall be performed as follows:

A.	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as and
along with the charges made in accordance with the regular billing practices of the
service supplier. Where the amount paid by a service user to a service supplier is
less than the full amount of the charge and tax which was accrued for the billing
period, a proportionate share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to
have been paid except in those cases where a service user pays the full amount
of the charges but notifies the service supplier of his refusal to pay the tax
imposed on said charges. In those cases where a service user has notified the
service supplier of refusal to pay the tax imposed on said charges, Section
5.32.110 of this chapter shall apply.

B.	The duty of a service supplier to collect tax from a service user shall
commence with the beginning of the first full regular billing period applicable to the
service user which starts on or after the operative date of this chapter. Where a
person receives more than one billing, one or more being for different periods
than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

C.	Each person required by this chapter to collect and remit a tax shall file a
return with the tax administrator on forms approved by the tax administrator on or
before the due date. The full amount of the tax owed shall be included with the
return and filed with the tax administrator. The tax administrator is authorized to
require such additional information as he or she deems necessary to determine if
the tax is being levied, collected and remitted in accordance with this chapter.
Returns are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason.
Pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code §7284.6, the tax administrator, and its
agents, shall maintain such filing returns as confidential information, and not
subject to the Public Records Act. If the person subject to this section
unreasonably denies the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator's desig-
nated representative, access to such records, then the Tax Administrator may
impose a penalty of $500 on such person for each day following the initial date
that the person refuses to provide such access.

Section 5.32.100 Additional Powers and Duties of Tax Administrator.

A.	The tax administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed
to enforce each and all of the provisions of this chapter.

B.	The tax administrator shall have power to adopt rules and regulations not
inconsistent with provisions of this chapter for the purpose of carrying out and
enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A
copy of such rules and regulations shall be on file in the office of the tax admin-
istrator.

C.	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the tax administrator may make
administrative agreements to vary the strict requirements of this chapter and
thereby: i) conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier or
service user so long as said agreements result in collections of the tax in
conformance with the general purpose and scope of this chapter; or, ii) to avoid a
hardship where the administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly
outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the
office of the tax administrator, and such agreements are voidable by the tax
administrator or the City at any time.

D.	The tax administrator alone shall be authorized to determine the eligibility of
any person who asserts a right to exemption from or a refund of, the tax imposed by
this chapter.

Section 5.32.110 Assessment—Administrative Remedy.

A.	Whenever the tax administrator determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from the
amounts remitted to a service supplier required to collect the tax, that a service user
has failed to pay the amount of the tax for a period of two or more billing periods, or
whenever the tax administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, the tax
administrator may relieve said service supplier of the obligation to collect the taxes
due under this chapter from certain named service users for specific billing periods.
The service supplier shall provide the City with the names and addresses of such
service users and the amounts of taxes owed under the provisions of this chapter.

B.	The tax administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that he or she
has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and
demand payment of such taxes. The notice shall be served on the service user by
personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage
prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was
made by the person required to collect the tax; or, should the service user have
changed his or her address, to his or her last known address. If the service user
fails to remit the tax to the tax administrator within fifteen (15) days from the date of
the service of the notice upon him or her, which shall be the date of mailing if
service was not accomplished in person, a penalty of twenty-five (25%) percent of
the amount of the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, along with interest at
the rate of three-quarters of one percent (3/4%) per month, or any fraction thereof,
on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent, until paid, but not less than five dollars ($5.00).

C.	The tax administrator may make an assessment for taxes not paid or
remitted by a person required to pay or remit. A notice of the assessment shall refer
briefly to the amount of the taxes and penalties imposed and the time and place
when such assessment shall be submitted to the City Manager for confirmation or
modification, who shall appoint a hearing officer. The hearing officer shall mail a
copy of such notice to the service supplier and to the service user at least ten (10)
days prior to the date of the hearing and shall post such notice for at least five (5)
continuous days prior to the date of the hearing. Any interested party having any
objections may appear and be heard at the hearing provided his or her objection is
filed in writing with the hearing officer prior to the time of the hearing. At the time
fixed for considering such assessment, the hearing officer shall hear the same,
together with any objections filed as provided in this subsection, and thereupon
may confirm or modify such assessment. Upon confirmation or modification of the
assessment, the City may seek to recover the amount of the assessment by any
lawful means, including but not limited to the bringing of an action against the
person responsible for payment of the amount.

Section 5.32.120 Appeals.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

88

VOTER’S PAMPHLET  MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE S, CONT.  If a service user or service supplier is aggrieved by any assessment, decision or administrative ruling of the tax administrator, or with the failure to grant a refund or exemption as provided for under this chapter, he or she may appeal to the City Manager.  Section 5.32.130 Temporary Reduction in the Rate of Tax.  Each of the taxes approved, imposed and levied by this Chapter on the operative date of this Ordinance may be temporarily reduced and levied at a lesser rate by resolution of the City Council. Each such temporary reduction of the tax rate shall be in effect and may be levied at a reduced rate only for the period of time authorized in the City Council resolution. At the conclusion of that period of time, the tax shall be levied at the full amount of the rate in effect on the operative date of this chapter. Voter approval shall not be required at the conclusion of the temporary reduction when the tax rate is again levied at the rate provided for on the operative date of this chapter.  Section 5.32.140 Records.  A.	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the City any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection of and/or remittance to the tax administrator, which records the tax administrator or his/her authorized representative shall have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.  B.	The City may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a person to deliver, to the tax administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by the tax administrator to establish compliance with this chapter, including the delivery of records in a common electronic format on readily available media if such records are kept electronically by the person in the usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to delivering the subpoenaed records to the tax administrator on or before the due date provided in the administrative subpoena, such person may provide access to such records outside the City on or before the due date, provided that such person shall reimburse the City for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by the City to inspect those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or hourly wages of those persons designated by the City to conduct the inspection.  C.	The tax administrator, orthe tax administrator’s designated representative, is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement approved by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer information pursuant to California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and 7284.7.  D.	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the tax administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of the tax administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the tax administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application, calculation, collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.  E.	If any person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably denies the tax administrator, orthe tax administrator’s designated representative, access to such records, or fails to produce the information requested in an administrative subpoena within the time specified, the tax administrator or the tax administrator’s designated representative may impose a penalty of five hundred dollars ($500) on such person for each day following: i) the initial date that the person refuses to provide such access; or, ii) the due date for production of records as set forth in the administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty imposed under this chapter.  Section 5.32.150 Notice of Changes to Ordinance.  if a tax under this chapter is repealed or reduced, or the tax base is changed, the tax administrator shall follow the notice requirements of Public Utilities Code Section 799. Prior to the effective date of the ordinance change, the service	supplier shall provide the tax administrator with a copy of any written procedures describing the information that the service supplier needs to implement the ordinance change, if the service supplier fails to provide such written instructions, the tax administrator, or its agent, shall send, by first class mail, a copy of the ordinance change to all collectors and remitters of the City’s taxes according to the latest payment records of the tax administrator.  Section 5.32.160 Construction.  This chapter shall be construed and interpreted, at all times, in a manner that is consistent with state and federal law.  Section 5.32.170 Severability.  If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this chapter or any part thereof. The City Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrases thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional.  SECTION TWO. This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its adoption as an ordinance relating to an election and relating to taxes for the ordinary and usual expenses of the City, pursuant to Gov’t Code Section 36937. This chapter shall become effective on the first day after the general municipal election in November, 2002 if the taxes imposed by this chapter are approved by a majority vote of those voting at that election. The tax imposed under this chapter shall be applied to bills issued for billing periods beginning the first day of January 2003.  DULY AND REGULARLY PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Rohnert Park this 6* day of August, 2002 by the following vote:  AYES: Three (3) Councilmembers Mackenzie, Vidak-Martinez  and Mayor Flores  NOES: None (0)  ABSENT: One (1) Councilmember Reilly ABSTAIN: None (0)  VACANCY: One (1)  CITY OF ROHNERT PARK  s/ Armando F. Flores, Mayor  ATTEST:  s/ Judy Hauff, Deputy City Clerk  Approved as to form: s/ Betsy Strauss, City Attorney

89