
<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Sonoma Valley Hospital provides the only emergency care in Sonoma Valley. Open
24 hours a day, 7 days a week, the Hospital protects us during disasters as well as
life-threatening emergencies. More than 12,000 patients are treated in the ER each
year, saving countless lives.

75% of California’s rural hospitals are losing money —19 ER’s have closed in the
last three years alone. While an ER is expensive to maintain, it is critical for a
community’s health and safety. For Sonoma Valley Hospital to remain open it must
have short-term tax assistance to continue operations.

State law requires “Basic” Emergency Rooms to have the services of an acute care
hospital for surgery, intensive care, blood bank, laboratory and radiology services.
Ambulances can only transport patients to hospital-based ERs for emergency care.
Sonoma Valley FireMed makes more than 1700 trips to Sonoma Valley Hospital
each year. Without our local hospital, FireMed ambulances will spend many hours
outside the Valley each day transporting patients to distant hospitals.

Closure of our Hospital will cause local doctors — who must practice adjacent to a
hospital to admit and care for their patients — to move their offices away. New
doctors will not locate in our community if there is no hospital or emergency room
nearby. Residents will have long drives on congested roads to see their physicians,
have medical tests, and receive treatments. Visiting a hospitalized family-member
may take all day.

The Hospital and medical offices are the third largest employer in the Valley, paying
more than $20,000,000 in wages alone each year. Loss of the Hospital and these
jobs will devastate the Valley economy and reduce local property values.

Please join us in supporting Measure D to provide funding for our Sonoma Valley
Hospital and Emergency Room. It is a sound investment in our health, safety, and
community. <favorend> 







<favorsigs> s/ Al Mazza, Mayor	 s/	Michael	J.	Cale,	Supervisor

City of Sonoma	County of Sonoma

s/ Ken Brown, Councilman	s/	Valerie	K.	Brown

City of Sonoma	Former	Assemblywoman

s/ Will Shonbrun, Publisher
Sonoma Valley Voice <favorsigsend>






NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE D







<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURED

The Sonoma Valley Health Care District will levy a special tax on each taxable parcel
of land within the District, at an annual rate of up to $130 per parcel for five (5) years.

The purpose of the special tax will be to ensure continued local access to emergency
room care, acute hospital care, and other medical services for residents of the District
and visitors to the area. The revenues generated by the special tax will be used only
to defray operating expenses and capital improvement expenditures in order to
accomplish the foregoing purpose.

The District’s appropriations limit will be established at an amount equal to the
available funding during the first year of the parcel tax at the rate of $130 per parcel.

Taxable parcels are those that appear on the annual secured Sonoma County
property tax roll.

The following exemptions will apply to the levy and collection of the special tax: with
respect to multiple parcels that are contiguous and in the same ownership and that
cannot be individually sold, leased (except for agricultural purposes) or financed,
only one such parcel will be subject to the special tax.

The District will establish an administrative review process to grant exemptions and
consider appeals with respect to contiguous parcels.

The special tax revenues will be deposited into a fund held by the Sonoma County
Treasurer.

The District will cause to be filed an annual report with its Board of Directors,
commencing not later than January 1,2003, and annually thereafter, which report
will be for the year ended June 30 of the prior year and contain information regarding
the amount of special tax revenues collected and expended as well as the status of
projects funded with the proceeds of the special tax. <fullend> 