o

o

3

o

o'

O

3

Vi

a

m

D

§•

r- 30

Q R

Ti O

g g

5 °

s n

jD >

m o
z o

2 Q

(0

o

II

>

2

m

z

o

3

cr

o

|

sr

5

CL

CD

2

o

CL

CD

fS

?



cnm </)

® to o

a§ p
to g. L_

§■§-£2

S-D d
• oj

®i o

§=8-5

Zq. 33

CD CD J>

co cn m

If§

® 5' >
3 3 n

Q) O'

w ^ m

o-«d 3

CD 3 Z
(D H

o2L S

(DmO

< CD rj

Q.g X
3 O ' oo

op >
azF

*og

H

S"3>

o® ja

ooiC

fgg

Sod
co 2

ro

o

o

ro

O)N]0

£^8

m 33 H
H r; 3]

> H X

SPg

2 < <

°m|

rn a
co fi

ro w

CJl

o

•Nl

~n|

o

BALLOT TYPE 52

\

GENERAL ELECTION
NOVEMBER 5, 2002

Official
Sample Ballot

AND VDTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

DO NOT THROW AWAY -

TAKE TO POLLS

POLLS OPEN 7 a,m./CLOSE Ep.fr.

• APPLICATION FOR ABSENTEE BALLOT
is on back cover

'o^v

• POLLING PLACE LOCATION
is on back cover

General Information
Absentee Ballot Information
(TDD) Hearing and Speech Impaired
Spanish Speaking Operator

WEB SITE: http://www.sbcrov.com

PREPA RED BY
SHARON BERINGSON, INTERIM REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

777 E. RIALTO AVENUE. SAN BERNARDINO, CA 92415-0779

(909) 337-8300 or (300) 831-VOTE
(909) 337-2047/43
(909) 337-2788
(909) 337-2077

BALLOT TYPE 52

ICK

NSB-011.007

General Election

OFFICIAL BALLOT
County of San Bernardino

November 5, 2002

SCHOOL

SAN BERNARDINO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
___________________SPECIAL	BOND	ELECTION___________________

PTo prepare students for jobs and four year colleges; enhance nursing, fire-
fighter, paramedic, public safety and hi-tech job training, repair aging
buildings, classrooms, labs, upgrade earthquake safety; upgrade wiring/
equipment for computer technology; construct, acquire and equip modern build-
ings/libraries, science/computer labs/classrooms; and improve campus security, bq|
shall San Bernardino Community College District issue $190,000,000 of bonds at
legal rates, appoint a citizens oversight committee, and perform annual audits to BONDS ^)CA
ensure no money is used for administrators’ salaries?	NO	*04

« 263.

Groups 47,52,56,65,67,69,92,94,96-97,100-101,106-107,122,126,136,150,155,165-166,169,171,174,177,179-180,182

SB 052-022

Eleccldn General

BALOTA OFICIAL
Condado de San Bernardino

5 de noviembre de 2002

ESCOLAR

SAN BERNARDINO COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
ELECCION ESPECIAL DE BONO

PCon el proposito de preparar a los estudiantes para empleos y para universi-
dades de cuatro anos; para mejorar el entrenamiento de trabajos de
enfermeria, bomberos, paramedicos, seguridad publica y de alta tecnologia,
„ para reparar edificios envejecidos, aulas de clases, laboratorios, actualizarlos a
263 lrb seguridad antisismica; actualizar los cables / equipos para tecnologia de computa-

--------■--■■■ - ci6n; para construir, adquirir y equipar bibliotecas / edificios modernos, aulas para

264 So ciencia / laboratorios de computation; y mejorar la seguridad del campus. i-Deberia
nu San Bernardino Community College District emitir $190,000,000 en bonos a tasas
legales de interes, nombrar a un comite de ciudadanos para vigilancia, y ejecutar
auditorias anuales para asegurar que no se emplee el dinero en sueldos
administrativos?

en la Proxima Pagina

Groups 47,52,56,65,67,69,92,94,96-97,100-101,106-107,122,126,136,150,155,165-166,169,171,174,177,179-180,182

SB 052-023

NSB-O11.007S

CANDIDATE FOR
DISTRICT ATTORNEY

NAME: MIKE RAMOS	AGE:	45

OCCUPATION: Deputy District Attorney

I am honored to have the support of all major law enforcement agencies in San Bernardino
County and California in my campaign for District Attorney.

The incumbent D.A. has decided to retire and Is not seeking reelection.

“...I am withdrawing from the campaign today and will no longer expend time or effort
seeking reelection to a third term...”

Official Dennis L. Stout Press Release, March 14, 2002
With your vote, I can return integrity to the D.A.’s office. Since the incumbent withdrew, I have
been working hard to implement new policies to restore public trust in the office.

I have three priorities as District Attorney;

■	Continue to advocate for crime victims by representing them at all parole hearings of
violent offenders.

■	Institute a code of ethics for the office to restore public trust.

■	With my background in the Major Crimes Unit, I will continue to vigorously prosecute
anyone that breaks the law.

M.A.D.D. honored me with their 1998 "Prosecutor of the Year Award”. I am the recipient of
the 2000 Victim’s Service Award.

I am a lifelong County resident, President of the Redlands School Board, and most important
a husband, dad, coach, and concerned community member.

I ask for your vote.

s/Mike Ramos

W © Y

CS-087

SB 052-030

MEASURE “P”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL*

This community college district general obligation bond election is being conducted
pursuant to the provisions of Proposition 39, which was approved by the voters November
7, 2000, as an alternative to the pre-existing Constitutional requirement of a two-thirds
(66.6%) vote for a school or community college district general obligation bond election,
subject to certain new accountability provisions.

A yes vote by fifty-five percent (55%) of the voters within the San Bernardino Community
College District of San Bernardino and Riverside Counties (“District”) on this measure will
authorize the Governing Board of the District to issue and sell bonds in the principal amount
not to exceed $190 million, at an interest rate below legal limits. The District may only use
the bond funds within the District for the specific college facilities projects listed in the project
list previously approved by action of the Governing Board of the District.

If this measure passes, the San Bernardino and Riverside County Boards of Supervisors
would be required to annually levy a tax upon the property in the District sufficient to pay
the principal and interest on any outstanding bonds of the community college district as it
becomes due. This tax would be in addition to the one percent (1%) property tax provided
for under current law.

If less than fifty-five percent (55%) of the voters vote yes on this measure, the Governing
Board of the District will not be authorized to issue and sell the $190 million of bonds set
forth in the measure.

Following a successful election, the Governing Board has a limited period of time in which
it must set up a citizens' oversight committee (“Committee”), which is responsible for
insuring that the Governing Board spends the money from the bond issue only on the
specific college facilities projects listed in the project list approved by the Governing Board.
The Committee will make at least annual reports to the taxpayers. No District officials or
employees may sit on the Committee. No bond funds from this measure may be expended
to support the activities of the Committee. In addition, the District would be required to
conduct annual financial and performance audits as to the bond funds.

This measure will not have any effect on existing law.

* Section 9500 of the Elections Code requires the County Counsel to prepare an impartial
analysis of measures appearing on the ballot.

PR-009.001

SB 052-031

MEASURE “P”

FULL BALLOT TEXT

The following is the full proposition presented to the voters of the San Bernardino
Community College District.

“To prepare students for jobs and four year colleges; enhance nursing, firefighter,
paramedic, public safety and hi-tech job training, repair aging buildings, classrooms, labs,
upgrade earthquake safety; upgrade wiring/equipment for computer technology; construct,
acquire and equip modern buildings/libraries, science/computer labs/classrooms; and
improve campus security, shall San Bernardino Community College District issue
$190,000,000 of bonds at legal rates, appoint a citizens oversight committee, and perform
annual audits to ensure no money is used for administrators’ salaries?”

PROJECTS

The Board of Trustees of the San Bernardino Community College District evaluated the
District’s urgent and critical facility needs, including class size reduction, safety, energy
reduction and information and computer technology. The Board conducted independent
facilities evaluations and received public input and review in developing the scope of college
facility projects to be funded, as listed in the facilities construction, renovation and repair,
master plan which was unanimously approved by the Board of Trustees. In preparing the
master plan the Board of Trustee was advised that it would be less expensive to upgrade
and repair aging community college buildings and classrooms now, than in the future. These
plans are on file at the District’s Public Information Office, and include, but are not limited
to, the following projects:

•	Repair, Renovate, and/or Replace Obsolete Classrooms, Science Labs, Instructional
Facilities and Utilities:

Repair, renovate and/or replace deteriorating roofs, walls, plumbing, wiring, unsanitary
and run down bathrooms, telecommunications, foundations, classrooms, science
laboratories, lecture halls and other instructional facilities to wire classrooms for
computers and technology, increase safety, increase energy efficiency, reduce
operating costs so more classes can be offered, and improve academic instruction.
Install fire safety equipment, including alarms, smoke detectors, sprinkler, emergency
lighting and fire safety doors.

•	Improve Emergency Access and Evacuation Routes:

To improve student safety, redesign campus road network to eliminate dangerous
intersections and unsafe conditions, reduce gridlock, improve pedestrian safety and
increase access for emergency vehicles; provide safer access for ADA compliance.

•	Renovate, Repair, Equip, Construct and/or Expand Classroom Buildings:

Renovate, repair, equip, and construct and/or expand classroom buildings to include
laboratories, technology centers, academic advisement centers, study areas, radio
stations, lecture/meeting/seminar rooms, community recreation center, computer
hook-up and study areas.

•	Repair, Replace and Renovate Electrical and Mechanical Systems to Reduce Energy
Consumption:

A comprehensive study by independent engineers has identified energy reduction
projects that could significantly reduce energy consumption.

•	Reduce earthquake risk:

Due to the old age of most of the buildings at San Bernardino Valley College they need
safety upgrades to comply with current earthquake codes;

•	Improve Parking Conditions:

To relieve neighborhood traffic stress and provide safer, better lighted parking areas,
construct parking facilities, restore surface lots, entrance pathways and lighting for
safety.

•	Refinance existing lease obligations related to classrooms, laboratories and equipment
which will lower interest rates and save tax payers money.

PR-009.002

SB 052-032

•	Science Building:

Upgrade and expand the science building, add classrooms/labs, and student access
to lab technicians to address the critical shortage of healthcare professionals,
especially nursing and to prepare local students for careers and four-year college
degrees in science and technology jobs and professions.

•	Instructional Technology/Computer Centers:

Expand technology and computer centers with high-speed Internet access and
computer technology.

The specific allocation of bond money may be affected by the District’s receipt of state
and other contribution funds and final costs of each project. The budget for each project are
estimates and may be affected by factors beyond the District’s control. The Board of Trustees
will establish the timing of projects after review by the Citizens Oversight Committee.

The expenditure of bond money on these projects are subject to tough financial
accountability requirements. Performance and financial audits will be performed annually,
and all bond expenditures will be monitored by an independent, Citizens Oversight
Committee to ensure that funds are spent as promised and specified. No money can be
spent on administrators’ or staff salaries. By law, ail funds can only be spent on repair and
improvement projects specified.

PR-009.003

SB 052-033

MEASURE “P”

TAX RATE STATEMENT

An election will be held in the San Bernardino Community College District (the “District")
on November 5,2002, for the purpose of submitting to the electors of the District the question
of incurring a bonded indebtedness of the District in a principal amount not to exceed $190
million. If such bonds are authorized and sold, the principal thereof and interest thereon will
be payable from the proceeds of tax levies made upon the taxable property in the District.
The following information regarding tax rates is given to comply with Section 9401 of the
California Elections Code. Such information is based upon the best estimates and
projections presently available from official sources, upon experience with the District, and
other demonstrable factors.

Based upon the foregoing and projections of the District’s assessed valuation, and
assuming the entire debt service will be paid through property taxation:

1.	The best estimate of the tax rate that would be required to be levied to fund the bond
issue during the first fiscal year after the sale of the first series of bonds based on
estimated assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this statement is 1.955
cents per $100 of assessed valuation (or $19.55 per $100,000 of assessed valuation)
for fiscal year 2003-04.

2.	The best estimate of the tax rate that would be required to be levied to fund the bond
issue during the first fiscal year after the sale of the last series of bonds based on
estimated assessed valuations available at the time of filing of this statement is 1.955
cents per $100 of assessed valuation (or $19.55 per $100,000 of assessed valuation)
for fiscal year 2012-13.

3.	The best estimate of the highest tax rate that would be required to be levied to fund
the bond issue, and an estimate of the years in which that rate will apply, based on
estimated assessed valuations available at the time of the filing of this statement is
again 1.955 cents per $100 of assessed valuation (or $19.55 per $100,000 of assessed
valuation), which is projected to be the same in every fiscal year that the bonds remain
outstanding.

Attention to all voters is directed to the fact that the foregoing information is based upon
projections and estimates only, which are not binding upon the District. The actual timing
of bond sales and the amount of bonds sold at any given time will be governed by the needs
of the District, the state of the bond market, and other factors. The actual interest rates on
any bonds sold will depend upon market conditions and other factors at the time of sale.
The actual assessed valuations in future years will depend upon the value of property within
the District as determined in the assessment and equalization process.

Therefore, the actual tax rates and the years in which such rates are applicable may vary
from those presently estimated as stated above,
s/

Donald F. Averill, Ed.D.

Chancellor

San Bernardino Community College District

PR-009.004

SB 052-034

MEASURE “P”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Measure P will allow San Bernardino Valley and Crafton Hills Colleges to expand their ability
to provide job skills and training to students in the San Bernardino Community College
District.

Measure P will strengthen our ability to perform two of the colleges’ missions: 1) prepare
students for a productive career and to enter the job market, or 2) to ensure that they are
ready to go onto a four-year university. While the learning and teaching that goes on inside
our classrooms continues to work toward these goals, our facilities are standing in the way.

This bond measure will allow us to construct new classrooms, job training centers, science
labs, technology centers and libraries to prepare our students for a productive career or to
go on to a four-year university.

Measure P is supported by a broad coalition of community members. Local teachers,
business owners and students support Measure P because it will provide the funds
necessary to ensure that our college facilities can provide our students with the education
they deserve.

By law, not one penny of Measure P funds can be spent on staff salaries or administration.
All funds must go toward renovating, repairing, building and outfitting our school facilities.
A Citizens’ Oversight Committee will oversee annual audits to ensure that Measure P funds
are used as promised.

Please join us in voting Yes on Measure P.

s/Judith Valles
Mayor, City of San Bernardino

s/Gary Penrod
Sheriff, San Bernardino County

s/Deborah Crowley
CPA
s/Allen Gresham
Attorney
s/Roger Schmidt
Retired Teacher

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “P” WAS FILED

PR-009.005

SB 052-035