CITY OF SOLANA BEACH
Proposition P

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

^ a* _ To fund an adequate level of fire protection, fire suppres-
PKIJP M sion and advanced life support medical services
I I 1WI I necessary to protect residents of and property within the
City of Solana Beach, shall the City of Solana Beach be authorized to Increase
the existing Fire Benefit Fee, established In 1980 not to exceed $10,00 per ben-
efit unit per year, to an amount not to exceed $25.00 per benefit unit per year
as provided for in Resolution No. 2002-71?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Proposition P Is a measure to increase the City of Solana Beach fire benefit fee to an amount not to
exceed $25.00 per benefit unit per year. A yes vote is a vote to increase the fire benefit fee to an
amount not to exceed $25.00 per benefit unit per year. A no vote is a vote to keep the fire benefit fee
at its current level of not to exceed $10.00 per benefit unit per year.

In 1980 the citizens of Solana Beach voted to approve a fire benefit fee not to exceed $10.00 per
benefit unit per year in the Solana Beach Fire Protection District (“SBFPD") as provided for in its
Ordinance No. 6-1. In 1986, the City of Solana Beach merged with the Solana Beach Fire
Protection District and was authorized to continue to levy the fire benefit fee. The fire benefit fee has
been levied at the maximum approved rate of $10.00 per unit of benefit since 1990.

In July 2002. after a public hearing, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 2002-71 placing
Proposition P on the ballot. If Proposition P passes, the City of Solana Beach will be able to levy the
fire benefit fee at a rate not to exceed $25.00 per benefit unit per year. As with the currently
approved fire benefit fee, the actual annual rate will be established by the City Council prior to
August 10 of each year. The County of San Diego will collect the fee in the same manner as other
property taxes and fees. The fire benefit fee can only be used to provide fire protection and
suppression services and advanced life support medical services. All fire benefit fees must be
deposited Into a separate City account and the City must provide an annual report containing the
amount of the fire benefit fees collected and expended.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Resolution No. 2002-71. If you desire a copy of the
resolution or measure, please call the City Clerk’s office at (858) 720-2400 and a copy will be
mailed at no cost to you.

PR-09X0-3

SD 628-028

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION P

A YES vote on Proposition P will guarantee the Solana Beach Fire Department a dependable
source of LOCAL FUNDING in order to continue to provide a high level of emergency response
services.

In 1980 the Solana Beach Fire Department Benefit fee was established at a CAP of $10 per benefit
unit ($50 per house). The fee was Initially set at $2.50 per unit, then $7.50; and finally at the
CURRENT cap of $10 per unit. The BUYING POWER of $10 IN I960 EQUATES to $22 IN TODAY'S
DOLLARS. The original cap was set so that the actual fee could be increased to keep up with
Inflation. Since then Inflation has increased significantly, along with service demands and
requirements. The City’s General Fund has increasingly supported the service thereby affecting
other programs and our ability to fund capital projects, i.e. Fletcher Cove Master Plan etc. The fee
currently generates $448,000. The Fire Department Budget is $2,235,000.

Proposition P simply establishes a new $25 cap within which any actual fee increase can be
established in order to keep up with inflation and protect public safety services. Any actual
Increases between the current fee and the proposed cap would be subject to public notice,
hearing and Council action.

The proposition will NOT automatically increase the fee to the new cap, but rather, provide the
community with a tool providing flexibility to address needs as they arise, as has been the case
historically, This need may arise at any time with continued threats by the State Government to cut
local funding sources, along with rising service cost and encroachment on the General Fund.

We want to be able and ready to address any threats to this very important service.

Our Fire Department is important to us. Please help support it.

MARCIA E. SMERICAN
Mayor

City of Solana Beach

DOUG SHERES
Deputy Mayor
City of Solana Beach

THOMAS M. CAMPBELL
Councilmember
City of Solana Beach

THOMAS S. GOLICH
Councilmember
City of Solana Beach

JOE G. KELLEJIAN

Councilmember
City of Solana Beach

PR-09X0-4

SD 628-029

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION P

The ONLY guarantee of Prop P is a 150% tax increase.

Prop P raises fire assessment fees $600,000.00 to "free up" (eliminate) Fire Department funding by
this amount from the City's General Fund. BOTTOM LINE - The Fire Department gets ZERO (0)
increase. The City's General Fund gets $600,000.00 to spend for other than Fire Department
funding such as, personnel, fringe benefits, lobbyists ($40,200.00/yr) or consultants to the 12 year
Fletcher Cove money pit study.

The General Fund receives about 17 million dollars annually; the highest percentages from
property valuation tax (34%) and sales tax (23%). The City also has, what the current Budget
Report terms, "idle" funds of 18 million in an investment portfolio. As a percentage of cost, the Fire
Department funding costs less than 6.4% of City funds. Our Fire Department is first class and
deserves our community's highest support and priority funding from all revenues, including these
dependable tax dollars.

In 1980, fire assessment fees for a residence were $12,50 ($2.50 x 5 units per residence). If $10.00
in 1980 equals $22.00 today, assessment fees should equal $27.50 ($5.50 x 5 units). Our current
rate is $50.00 per residence - nearly double the REAL cost of inflation.

Prop P provides NO increase in funds to the Fire Department.

This tax increase is NOT due to inflation.

There is NO plan for the use of an additional $600,000.00 tax increase.

There is NO need for a 150% tax increase.

VOTE "NO" on Prop P.

JAMES SCHMEDDING
Real Estate Consultant

JACK ROEHR
Retired Engineer

JOSEPH C. OLSON
Retired, USN

GLENN BAILEY

Member, Solana Beach Plan Owners
Association

EDWARD J. “TED" COSTA
CEO, People's Advocate, Inc.

SD 628-030

-

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION P

This is a 150% tax increase - pure and simple. When was the last time you had a 150% increase in
your income? Vote "NO" on Proposition P.

The City Council voted for this tax increase and only Propositions 13 and 218 kept them from
levying the tax without your vote to raise your taxes.

Currently, the fire benefit taxes on property in Solana Beach is based on the number of units
assigned a property. The current fee is $10.00 per unit. Residential homeowners pay for five units
of fire benefit services, or $50.00. The proposed tax hike would raise fire taxes to $25.00 per unit, or
a maximum of $125.00 per single family residence.

This tax hike is a wolf in sheep's clothing. After the 9/11 event, tax increases in San Diego County
and across the Nation are being levied to support obstensibly, fire departments. The fact is, as
Councilmember Tom Golich has said, the increase in this tax will “free up" or give the Council
approximately $600,000.00 more to spend for other than fire services.

If they want to "free up" some money, the Council could reduce personnel, which has increased by
7 in the last 3 years according to the Budget and Finance Committee, while our population has
declined. They could begin with the Assistant.City Manager ($100,000.00), the inspector hired to
patrol the streets and catch and fine residents washing their cars and our paid lobbyist in
Washington, D. C!

It is bad economics in a recession to raise taxes and a bad idea makes a bad law. VOTE "NO" on
the Prop P increase in your property taxes.

JACK ROEHR
Retired Engineer

NORMARUHM
Member, Solana Beach
Right to Vote Committee

BETTY SCALICE	JIM SCHMEDDING

Retired Journalist (emergency	Real Estate Consultant

services National journal)

CELINE A. OLSON
Member, Solana Beach Right to Vote Committee

SD 628-031

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION P

It ain't a tax increase. Look:

Per house/ per year
max, potential tax ACTUAL TAX
Right now:	$50	$50

Under Proposition P	$125	$5011!

The Council hasn’t asked for more taxes; it has asked for a preemptive shield against future
revenue loss. The State has already cut a couple hundred thousand dollars from Solana Beach

revenue,

Suppose there’s a further significant drop in revenue, Prop P allows the Council to ask you for a
timely response: pay more tax or cut spending and services. You’ll certainly look hard at how the
money is to be spent when you’re asked to pay more tax! But you’ll be able to offer immediate
revenue, if that’s your choice.

Your alternative is to let Council face a financial crunch unable to produce new revenue quickly to
support services you may want to preserve. Inflexible management is bad government.

Do you really want to reject what your unanimous Council recommends because you might, in the
future, be persuaded to ante-up as much as $75 more per year in tax? Your median price home in
Solana Beach increases in value about $16,000 per year! Do you feel threatened, incensed at the
very possibility of a penny-ante increase equal to about 112 of 1 % of your annual gain? Really!

Vote ‘yes’ on Prop P. Help Council to help you. Enjoy life.

ROBERT NEVILLE BERKE	BLAYNE	HARTMAN

Member, S.B. Budget &	Budget & Finance Committee Member

Finance Committee (6 yrs.)






RESOLUTION NO. 2002-71

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOLANA
BEACH, CALIFORNIA, ORDERING THE SUBMISSION TO THE
QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF A CERTAIN MEASURE
RELATING TO FIRE BENEFIT FEE AT THE GENERAL ELECTION TO
BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2002, AS CALLED BY
RESOLUTION NO. 2002-42

WHEREAS, under the provisions of the laws relating to General Law cities in the
State of California, a General Municipal Election has been called by Resolution No. 2002-
42, adopted on June 4, 2002; and

WHEREAS, the City Council also desires to submit to the voters at the election a
question relating to the Fire Benefit Fee.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOLANA BEACH,
CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. That the City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does order
submitted to the voters at the General Municipal Election the following question:

To fund an adequate level of fire protection, fire suppression and	
advanced life support medical services necessary to protect	YES
residents of and property within the City of Solana Beach, shall	
the City of Solana Beach be authorized to increase the existing	
Fire Benefit Fee, established in 1980 not to exceed $10.00 per	NO
benefit unit per year, to an amount not to exceed $25.00 per	
benefit unit per year as provided for in Resolution No. 2002-71?	

SECTION 2. That the proposed measure submitted to the voters is as follows:

A.	Fire Benefit Fee Increase. The Fire Benefit Fee shall be increased to a not to
exceed $25.00 per benefit unit per year and shall continue to be imposed and
levied on all real property within the City of Solana Beach. The levy of the Fire
Benefit Fee shall continue to be subject to the following maximum benefit
units:

Actual Land Use	Maximum Number of Units of Benefit
Unimproved	2 units per 1 acre and/or portion of 1 acre up to 20 units per parcel
Residential	5 units per dwelling unit
Commercial	15 units per 1 acre and/or portion of 1 acre
Industrial	20 units per 1 acre and/or portion of 1 acre

Resolution No. 2002-71
Fire Benefit Fee Measure
Page 2 of 3

B.	Annual Rate to be Established by Resolution of the City Council. Prior to
August 10 of each year, the City Council shall, by resolution, determine and fix
the precise rate of the Fire Benefit Fee per unit of benefit to be levied during
the current fiscal year. Such rate shall not exceed $25.00 per benefit unit per
year.

C.	Exemption. Properties owned by federal, state or local governmental agencies
shall be exempt from the levy of the Fire Benefit Fee.

D.	Purpose of Fire Benefit Fee. The purpose of the increase in the Fire Benefit
Fee shall be to provide an adequate level of fire protection and suppression
services and advanced life support medical services to serve and protect the
residents of and property within the City of Solana Beach.

E.	Use of County Records. The records of the County Assessor of the County of
San Diego may be used to determine the actual use of each parcel of real
property for purposes of determining the number of benefit units applicable to
each such parcel.

F.	Collection of Fire Benefit Fee. The Fire Benefit Fee shall be collected in the
same manner and subject to the same penalty as, or with, other charges and
taxes fixed and collected by the County of San Diego on behalf of the City of
Solana Beach by agreement with the County of San Diego.

G.	Accountability. Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1, the following
accountability measures shall apply to the increase in the Fire Benefit Fee:

(1)	The proceeds of the Fire Benefit Fee shall be applied only to the
specific purposes identified in Section 2.D. above.

(2)	The City of Solana Beach shall create an account into which the
proceeds of the Fire Benefit Fee shall be deposited.

(3)	The Director of Finance of the City of Solana Beach shall file an annual
report with the City Council containing the amount of the Fire Benefit
Fees collected and expended.

SECTION 3. That in all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be
held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 4. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the
City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the
election in the time, form and manner as required by law.

Resolution No. 2002-71
Fire Benefit Fee Measure
Page 3 of 3

SECTION 5. That this resolution may not be amended so as to increase the
maximum Fire Benefit Fee per unit per year and/or the maximum benefit units set forth in
Section 2.A. hereto unless such amendment is first submitted to the voters of the City of
Solana Beach and such amendment is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on such
amendment.

SECTION 6. That if any section, subsection, sentence, phrase, or clause of this
resolution is for any reason held by any court to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the
remaining portions of this resolution. The voters of the City of Solana Beach declare that
they would have voted in favor of this resolution and each section, subsection, sentence,
phrase or clause thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
sentences, phrases, or clauses be declared for any reason to be invalid.

SECTION 7. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED at a Regular meeting of the Solana Beach
City Council held on the 16th day of July, 2002, by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers:	Smerican, Sheres, Campbell, Golich, Kellejian
NOES:	Councilmembers:	None
ABSENT:	Councilmembers:	None
ABSTAIN:	Councilmembers:	None



MARCIA E. SMERICAN, MAYOR

ATTEST:

LAURA S. SEO, City Clerk

APPROVED AS TO FORM:





CELIA A. BREWER, City Attorney

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO	)	ss.

CITY OF SOLANA BEACH	)

I, LAURA S. SEO, City Clerk of the City of Solana Beach, DO HEREBY
CERTIFY that the foregoing City Council Resolution No. 2002-71 was duly
passed and adopted at a Regular Solana Beach City Council meeting held on
the 16th day of July, 2002, and is the original on file in the City Clerk's Office.

(SEAL)