CITY OF SAN DIEGO
Proposition E

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following-form.)

PROPE

AMENDS THE SAN DIEGO CITY CHARTER BY ADDING
SECTION 76.2 REGARDING GENERAL TAXES. Shall the
Charter.be amended to require that any increase in an existing
general tax or imposition of any new general tax be levied by the Council only if the
proposed levy has been approved by a two-thirds vote of the q ualified City electors
voting on the proposition?

Full text of this proposition
follows the arguments.

*

. Official Title and Summary Prepared by the City Attorney
VOTING FOR GENERAL TAXES

Shall the City Charter be amended to require that any new or increased general tax be approved by
a two-thirds vote of the qualified City electors prior to being levied by the Council?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Proposition 218, approved by the voters in 1996, requires that all new local taxes be submitted
to the voters before they become effective. Approval by a majority of the City’s voters'is currently
required before the City Council can levy a new general tax, or- increase an existing general tax. A
general tax is a tax that is utilized for general governmental purposes, unlike a special tax, which is
a tax earmarked for a specific purpose. Proposition 218 requires a two-thirds vote to approve a
new or increased special tax, such as a school bond measure or a sales tax earmarked for
transportation projects,

This Proposition would add section 76.2 to the Charter of the City of San Diego to require a two-
thirds vote of the City’s voters prior to the Council levying a new general tax or increasing an
existing general tax. Some of the types of taxes which would be subject to this requirement if
Proposition E is approved include sales taxes, development taxes, payroll taxes, business license
taxes and transient occupancy taxes.

Proposition E will take effect if passed by a majority of the City’s voters, unless Proposition F,
which also appears on this ballot, is passed by a majority of the City’s voters. If Proposition F is
passed by a majority of the City’s voters, Proposition E will not take effect unless passed by two-
thirds of the City’s voters.

CITY MANAGER’S FISCAL ANALYSIS

Proposition E would harm the City’s financial flexibility and could cost the taxpayers more money
because of increased interest rates. The City could stand to lose millions of dollars in revenue
should future “general tax” increases receive majority voter approval but not two-thirds voter
approval and City financing costs could increase by millions of dollars if the City's credit rating for
financing is downgraded as was the case with the passage of Proposition 218.

PR-09L0-8

R SD 056-040

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION E

With the economy in decline, and most San Diego businesses, including the tourism industry
suffering, the only thing politicians can think about is raising taxes. More taxes in times of
economic distress stifle economic growth, shrink personal income, and cost jobs.

San Diego's taxpayers should be protected from the greed, waste and extravagance of the
politicians. The Taxpayer Protection Act does this by requiring that tax increases proposed by local
politicians be approved by a two-thirds vote of the people. This gives you the voter, control over the
city's taxing power, and takes it away from abuse by the politicians.

Anxious to hide tax increases from the people, local politicians are now imposing hidden taxes,
such as those buried in our telephone, electric, water and sewer bills. In October 2001, the City
Council increased sewer taxes by an astounding 30%. To pay for their extravagances, the
politicians want to also increase taxes on hotel guests and businesses, which will result in higher
prices for consumers, lower wages, and less benefits for employees. Even the Mayor recently
conceded that "it’s inappropriate at this time" to consider raising TOT taxes.

By requiring any tax increase proposal to earn real consensus support before going into effect, the
Taxpayer Protection Act will improve San Diego's business climate and stimulate economic
growth. San Diego workers will be assured that their after-tax income will not shrink due to local tax
increases, unless two-thirds of the voters are convinced of such necessity.

The Taxpayer Protection Act will not end tax increases, but it will require that any tax scheme
proposed by the politicians have a high level of support before it is enacted.

Increase the power of the people to control tax abuses by the politicians. Vote YES for the
Taxpayer Protection Act.

DOUGLAS F. MANCHESTER
President

Taxpayer Protection Assoc., Inc.

RICHARD V. GIBBONS
President

Manchester Resorts

GROVER NORQUIST
President
Americans For Tax Reform

C. TERRY BROWN
President
Atlas Hotels, Inc.

PETER J. SEPP
V.P. Communications
National Taxpayers Union

PR-09L0-9

R SD 056-041

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION E

VOTE NO on PROP E

The San Diego County Taxpayers Association, San Diego Police Officers Association, San Diego
City Firefighters, the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce and Mayor Dick Murphy urge a
NO Vote on Prop E

The following are four reasons to vote NO on Proposition E.

1.	It will cost you, the Taxpayers, money as a result of higher interest rates and damage to
the City’s credit rating.

2.	It could hurt the City in times of emergency.

3.	It is not needed. State law already covers this issue.

4.	It was put on the ballot through a campaign funded by a hotel developer to protect
himself, not you.

Proposition E will harm the City’s credit rating

The City’s independent Auditor and Comptroller says this initiative will harm the City's financial
flexibility and could cost taxpayers millions of dollars due to higher interest rates.

Proposition E has no exemption for public emergencies

State law requires voter approval of general tax increases by majority (50% plus 1) and makes
allowances for special elections in times of emergency. There are no allowances for emergencies
in Proposition E.

Proposition E is not needed-Voter approval for all tax increases is already required in Slate law
The California Constitution already requires voter approval on all local tax increases, including a
2/3 vote for special taxes.

Speciaf Interest Pushing Prop E

Proposition E was funded and placed on the ballot by a San Diego hotel developer who spent
more than $427,000 to promote his agenda at your expense.

Join the San Diego County Taxpayers Association, San Diego Police Officers Association,
San Diego City Firefighters, the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce and Mayor Dick
Murphy and Vote NO on Prop E.

BILL FARRAR
President

S.D. Police Officers Assn

President

S.D. City Firefighters

RONALD L. SAATHOFF

JESSIE J. KNIGHT
President & CEO
SD Chamber of Commerce

DICK MURPHY
Mayor

City of San Diego

MARY E. BALL
President

San Diego County Taxpayers Association

PR-09L0-10

R SD 056-042

PROPOSED CHARTER AMENDMENT

The portions of the charter to be added are underlined
and the portions to be deleted are printed in strike out type.

THE SAN DIEGO TAXPAYERS PROTECTION ACT OF 2000
CHARTER AMENDMENT

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SAN DIEGO DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Title

This Charter Amendment shall be known and may be cited as “The San Diego Taxpayers
Protection Act of 2000.”

SECTION 2. Findings and Declarations

The people of the City of San Diego hereby find and declare alj of the following:

(a)	Current law requires that any proposed special tax must be submitted to the voters and
approved by a two-thirds vote for the special tax to be levied.

(b)	The taxpayers deserve the same protection for any increase in an existing general tax or any
new general tax that might be imposed by the San Diego City Council.

SECTION 3. Purpose and Intent

The people of the City of San Diego hereby declare their purpose and intent in enacting the
measure is as follows:

(a)	To require that any increase in an existing general tax or imposition of a new general tax
proposed by the San Diego City Council be approved by a two-thirds vote of the qualified electors
of the City.

(b)	To provide the taxpayers of San Diego with the same protection that exists for the imposition
of any new special tax.

SECTION 4.

The Charter of the City of San Diego is amended by adding SECTION 76.2 to read as follows:
SECTION 76.2 GENERAL TAXES

Notwithstanding any provision of this Charter to the contrary, any increase in an existing general
tax or Imposition of any new general tax may be levied by the Council only if the proposed lew has
been approved by a two-thirds vote of the Qualified electors of the City voting on the proposition.
As used in this section, a "general tax" is a tax levied for the general fund to be utilized for general
governmental purposes.

SECTION 5. Severability

If any provision of this Charter Amendment or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity of unconstitutionality shall not
affect other provisions or applications of this Charter Amendment which can be given effect without
the invalid or unconstitutional provisions or application, and to this end the provisions of this
initiative are severable.

PR-09L0-11

R SD 056-043