MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

SCHOOL

BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
MEASURE A

Shall Bolinas-Stinson Union School District continue to
J\ provide excellent educational programs and small
class sizes to the children of our community by
replacing the current tax with a $198 annual tax per
assessor’s parcel for 5 years beginning July 1, 2004?. This
will restore the tax to July '99 - June ’03 level; and will
include an exemption for beneficial parcel owners 65 or older
of any applicable year who use that parcel as their principal
residence.

BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
FULL TEXT OF RESOLUTION NO. 1 2003-04
MEASURE A

RESOLUTION NO. 1 2003-04
BEFORE THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MARIN COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTION AND ORDER OF ELECTION IN THE MATTER OF A
SPECIAL TAX ELECTION TO HELP MAINTAIN SCHOOL PROGRAMS

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide
adequate and necessary funding for the continued operation of the
Bolinas-Stinson Union School District and its instructional programs; and

WHEREAS, as a result of this lack of funding for the school, Bolinas-
Stinson Union School District is in danger of reducing programs
beneficial and necessary to the children who attend school in the district;
and

WHEREAS, as a result of proposed cuts and severe reductions in
revenue to school districts across the State, the Bolinas-Stinson Union
School District will face financial hardship in the foreseeable future; and

WHEREAS, continued reliance solely on State funding will result in
further loss of critical programs and services to children; and

WHEREAS, the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District has experienced
rapidly escalating costs associated with healthcare for staff, insurance,
utilities and fuel; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program
delivers many long-lasting benefits and advantages to all of the residents
of our community; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code Sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079, and 53720 et
seq. authorize school districts to levy a “special tax" to raise funds for the
purpose of providing funds to run the two campuses of the district upon
approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voter voting upon such a
special tax proposal;

THEREFORE, The Governing Board of the Bolinas-Stinson Union
School District resolves to conduct an election on November 4, 2003 at
which will be submitted to the qualified voters of the Bolinas-Stinson
Union School District a measure to authorize a special tax for the purpose

of maintaining vital educational programs, critical to the educational
process in the Bolinas-Stinson Union School of the district;

FURTHERMORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE GOVERNING BOARD
OF THE BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the
boundaries of the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District, at which
election shall be submitted to the qualified voters the following measure
to wit:

MEASURE A

Shall Bolinas-Stinson Union School District continue to provide excellent
educational programs and small class sizes to the children of our
community by replacing the current tax with a $198 annual tax per
assessor's parcel for 5 years beginning July 1, 2004? This will restore
the tax to July '99-June '03 level, and will include an exemption for
beneficial parcel owners for 65 or older of any applicable year who use
that parcel as their principal residence.

The funds shall be used for:

1.	District programs: maintain present educational programs and
maintain reasonable class sizes.

2.	Basic instructional materials: maintain adequate per student
allowance and update classroom texts to ensure adequate
quantity and quality of texts.

3.	Instructional equipment and supplies: maintain and update
instructional equipment only as necessary.

4.	Operation and maintenance: maintain sufficient staff for efficient
operation and adequate allowance for building and grounds
maintenance.

Priorities for expenditure of funds the first and each successive year
will be determined by the Governing Board with input from staff,
parents, and the community.

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of $198 annually per
assessor's parcel for 5 years beginning July 1,2004 and will replace the
current tax (restoring the tax to July '99 - June '03 level).

An exemption from the assessment will be made available to each
individual in the district who will attain age 65 years prior to July 1 of the
assessment year, who owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, who uses
that parcel as his or her principal place of residence, and who applies to
the district on or before July 1, of any assessment year. Any one
application from a qualified applicant or any existing valid application
currently in effect, will provide an exemption for the parcel for the
remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to
use the parcel as his or her principal residence.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual
ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

“SPECIAL TAX FOR
BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT’S
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES

Shall Bolinas-Stinson Union School District continue to provide
excellent educational programs and small class sizes to the children of
our community by replacing the current tax with a $198 annual tax per
assessor's parcel for 5 years beginning July 1,2004? This will restore
the tax to July '99 - June '03 level, and will include an exemption for
beneficial parcel owners 65 or older of any applicable year who use
that parcel as their principal residence."

YES	NO

MEASURE A CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE ______

iii iiiiiii mm

(Full Text of Measure A Continued)	
Section 3. The District's Superintendent, or his designee, is authorized and directed to make any changes to the text of the measure, or to the abbreviated form of the measure, as may be Convenient or necessary to conform to any requirement of the laws authorizing the measure to be submitted to the District's voters, or of the Marin County Clerk.  Section 4. Commencing on July 1, 2004, the special tax specified above, shall be collected and administered in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.	that the above and foregoing Resolution was duly and regularly adopted by said board at a duly scheduled and called meeting thereof held on the 22nd day of July and passed by five ayes and zero noes vote of said board.  IN WITNESS WHEREOF 1 have hereunto set my hand this 22nd day of July 2003.  si Francine Accardi Clerk of the Board of Trustees Bolinas-Stinson Union School District
Section 5. The Superintendent of Schools of Marin County is hereby requested to call an election of the said “special tax” to be held on November 4, 2003. The County Clerk is hereby requested and authorized to:	
1)	set forth on all sample ballots relating to said election to be mailed to the qualified electors of the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District said measure, and  2)	provide absent voter ballots for said “special tax" election for use by qualified electors of the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District who are entitled thereto in the manner provided by law.	IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL MEASURE A
Section 6. If any section, subsection, phrase, or clause of this resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this resolution. This governing board declares that it would have adopted this resolution and each section, subsection, phrase, or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases, or clauses shall be declared invalid.	If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the existing current Bolinas-Stinson Union School District tax assessments will be repealed and replaced with a new parcel tax assessment of One Hundred Ninety Eight Dollars ($198.00) annually per assessor’s parcel for a period of five (5) years beginning July 1, 2004. Parcel owners who have attained the age of 65 on or before July 1 of any applicable year and who use those parcels as their principal residence will be exempted from the tax.
Section 7. The clerk of the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District Governing Board is hereby authorized and directed to certify to the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Marin County and to file a copy hereof so certified with the County Clerk, of Marin County.	Dated: August 14,2003  PATRICK K. FAULKNER County Counsel
The foregoing resolution was moved by board member Frankie Accardi and seconded by Tom Williard, and adopted on roll call on July 22, 2003, by the following vote:	
Board Member: Kim Bender - Aye	
Board Member: Frankie Accardi - Aye	
Board Member: Tomas Krakauer - Aye	
Board Member: Meg Simonds - Aye	
Board Member: Tom Williard - Aye	
AYES: 5 NOES: 0 ABSENT - NOT VOTING: 0	THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR
WHEREUPON , the President declared the foregoing resolution duly adopted and SO ORDERED	OF THIS MEASURE
si Kimberly J. Bender President, Governing Board Member Bolinas-Stinson Union School District	IS ON THE NEXT PAGE
ATTEST:	
si Francine Accardi Clerk of the Board of Trustees Bolinas-Stinson Union School District	
1, Francine Accardi, Clerk of the Board of Trustees of the Bolinas- Stinson Union School District of Marin County, California, hereby certify	
	MEASURE A CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21552

Bolinas-Stinson School is a unique public school that reflects our
community. Our students receive a solid education in core subject
areas, perform well on standardized tests and local assessments, and
go on to do well in high school. The community has supported
outstanding programs and small class sizes in the past, setting
Bolinas-Stinson School apart from other public schools in California.
Our Visual Arts Program, Music, P.E., Technology, Spanish, Special
Education staffing, counseling, library, transportation and field trips
are among the many programs and services provided, with your help,
to our children. Without this supplemental funding, these programs will
be in serious jeopardy.

This year we cut the school's budget by over $200,000. These cuts
are necessary in response to the declining enrollment as well as
uncertain revenues from the state. We have accomplished these
reductions by trimming everywhere possible, trying to limit the damage
to the educational program.

Measure A asks the community to continue to support the school
at the same level that it has for the last four years: $198 per
parcel. The proposed five-year tax will provide about 25% of our
budget revenue. It will allow the school to project a more stable
income in the context of an otherwise extremely volatile California
state budget.

Without this community support, Bolinas-Stinson School would be just
another struggling, under-funded public school, lacking in many
essential programs and services. We are continuing to explore other
creative ways to generate revenue and reduce costs, and are
committed to constant assessment to ensure programs are high
quality, cost effective and efficient.

Our children represent our future: let's make sure they get the kind of
education that will allow them to become the leaders we need. With
your continued support, we can make a difference in our own
backyard.

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

si Malcolm Ponder

si Anita Tyrrell-Brown
Parent, Assistant Fire Chief,
Bolinas Fire Protection District

si Kenneth Rick Stevens
Fire Chief, Stinson Beach

si Jennifer Blackman
Parent

si Roger P. Kovach

President, Bolinas WhiteCaps

END OF MEASURE A

21-553

21553