MEASURE A

“To renew a community commitment to quality education by maintaining smaller class sizes for all students and to avoid the loss of funding for 21
teaching positions, shall the Menlo Park City Elementary School District continue levying its educational special tax at the current rate of $97/year
per taxable parcel beginning 7/1/2004, adjusted annually for Consumer Price Index changes, and increase the appropriations limit annually according
to statute, with an exemption available to individuals aged 65 and older?”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

Presently, the Menlo Park City Elementary School District annually
levies two special taxes totaling approximately $428 per parcel. One tax
was adopted by the voters in April of 2000 at a rate of $298, adjusted
annually by the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Metropolitan Area
Consumer Price Index, is currently collected at a rate of approximately
$331 per parcel and has no expiration date. The other tax, adopted by the
voters in November of 1995 at a rate of $76 per parcel, adjusted annually
by the same Consumer Index, is currently collected at a rate of
approximately $97 per parcel and will expire on June 30, 2004. By this
measure, the Board of Trustees of the Menlo Park City Elementary School
District proposes to continue levying a special tax at a rate not to exceed
$97 per year on all taxable parcels in the District, to be adjusted annually
by the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Metropolitan Area Consumer
Price Index or comparable index.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District which now
receives a separate tax bill from San Mateo County. Any person 65 years
of age or older who owns and occupies a parcel may qualify for an
exemption from the special tax. All property which would otherwise be
exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from imposition of this
special tax.

The Trustees have listed the purposes of the special tax to be the
maintenance of smaller class sizes for all students and for teaching
positions to facilitate the smaller class sizes.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special account.
The Board of Trustees must file an annual report accounting for the parcel
tax revenues collected and the manner in which they have been spent.

This measure would also increase the District’s appropriations limit per
fiscal year, in an amount equal to the levy of the special tax for that year,
as permitted by Article XIIIB, section 4 of the California Constitution.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to
be continued to be levied on all taxable parcels in the
Menlo Park City Elementary School District in an amount
of up to $97 per year to be adjusted annually by the
San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose Metropolitan Area
Consumer Price Index. It would also allow the
appropriations (spending) limit to be raised.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax
to be levied and would not allow the appropriations limit to
be raised.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote

“yes.”

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure A. If
you desire a copy of the measure, please call the elections
official’s office at (650) 312-5222 and a copy will be mailed at no
cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Measure A renews the school parcel tax first approved in 1992 and
overwhelmingly renewed in 1995. For over a decade, the funds raised by
this local education tax have ensured small class sizes for all students in
kindergarten through eighth grades at Laurel, Encinal, Oak Knoll, and
Hillview schools. Approval of Measure A will renew this investment in
classroom excellence.

Without Measure A, our schools will lose $742,000 in parcel tax revenues-
and an additional $500,000 from the state’s Class Size Reduction program.

The impact of losing these funds is unacceptable:

•	21 classroom teachers will lose their jobs

•	Class sizes in kindergarten through third grade will balloon by 40%

•	Class sizes in fourth through eighth grades will increase by 25%

These difficult economic times require all of us to tighten our belts. The
Menlo Park City Elementary School District already has reduced spending
by over $1 million this year. A separate proposal, Measure B, will restore a
portion of these budget cuts. However, only the stable, ongoing funding
from Measure A will help to ensure that the district can continue to offer
small class sizes to all students.

The cost of Measure A is identical to what property owners now pay: $97
per year. There is a complete exemption from the tax available to anyone
who owns and occupies a home in the district and who is 65 years old or
older.

The schools in Menlo Park reflect a long tradition of strong community
support for quality classroom education. Today our local schools face
extraordinary financial challenges. On November 4^ join us in voting Yes
to meet those challenges.

Keep our schools strong. Vote Yes to Renew and Vote Yes to Restore — Vote
Yes on Measures A and B.

/s/ John D. Jorgenson	July 31, 2003
Former Menlo Park City Attorney	
/s/ James K. MacKenzie	August 4, 2003
Menlo-Atherton High School Teacher	
/s/ Linda R. Meier	July 29, 2003
Community Volunteer	
/s/ Mike Montgomery	July 25, 2003
Stanford University Men’s Basketball Coach	
/s/ Charles R. Schwab	August 12, 2003
Business Executive	

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE A SUBMITTED

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Class size reduction has been used as an emotional plea to increase
funding for education. Of course it’s nice to have more teacher student
contact! That’s why many parents choose to have their children tutored at
home. And, they do this in spite of the enormous tax burden placed upon
them to support government schools, which consume more than
$10,000/year per student in K-12.

Class size reduction was a convenient way to fill the overbuilt facilities
which were predicated on predictions of enrollment growth which failed to
materialize.

At a time when the State’s bond rating is in the tank , school districts
should exercise fiscal restraint.

It is time to discontinue this Parcel Tax, along with the divisive Senior
exemption which it employs to buy votes.

Vote NO on fiscal irresponsibility
Vote NO on Measure A

/s/ John J. “Jack” Hickey	August	15,	2003

Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

On November our community will determine the future of the four
schools in the Menlo Park City School District.

•	Every Yes vote on Measure A is a vote to maintain excellence in our
children’s classrooms.

•	Every No vote on Measure A is a vote to increase class sizes by up
to 40%.

Measure A renews the school parcel tax that this community has
overwhelmingly supported for over a decade. Because those who oppose
Measure A do not five in our community, neither their schools nor their
property values will be affected if Measure A is not approved. Ours will,
however. We urge you to learn more about Measure A at
www. AboutMeasures AandB .com.

Two factual errors in the Opposition Argument must be corrected:

•	Measure A is not a bond, and has absolutely no connection to
California’s bond rating.

•	California does NOT spend more than $10,000 per student in K-12
classes. In fact, California spends thousands of dollars less per
pupil than claimed. Over the last three years California has ranked
between 27^ and 35^ in the nation in per pupil expenditures, and
is next to last in per pupil expenditures when compared to the 10
most populous states in the country.

We have the power to ensure that our local schools continue their
longstanding tradition of excellence through local, stable sources of
funding. Keep our schools strong. Vote Yes to Renew and Vote Yes to
Restore. Vote Yes on Measures A and B.

/s/ Marty Arscott	August 22, 2003
Co-Chair, 1992 Parcel Tax Campaign, Menlo Park City Elementary	
School District	
/s/ Bud Colligan	August 21, 2003
Business Executive	
/s/ Gordon Lewin	August 19, 2003
Trustee, Sequoia Union High School District	
/s/ Samuel Sinnott	August 19, 2003
Architect	
/s/ Lucile Spurlock	August 19, 2003
Community Volunteer	