MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

SCHOOL

REED UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT TO MAINTAIN
AND ENHANCE THE QUALITY OF
PUBLIC EDUCATION
MEASURE B

Bln order to maintain and enhance the quality of public
education in Tiburon, Belvedere and East Code
Madera by providing continued support for small classes,
exceptional instructional programs, essential curriculum
development and professional training, shall the Reed
Union School District be authorized to renew a special
assessment commencing July 1, 2003 for a maximum of
five years at the rate of $275 per parcel per year with a 3%
yearly adjustment and an exemption for property owners
age 65 and older?

REED UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT TO MAINTAIN AND ENHANCE
THE QUALITY OF PUBLIC EDUCATION
MEASURE B

FULL TEXT OF RESOLUTION NO. 1108-03

RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ELECTION,
ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER,
AND REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH OTHER ELECTIONS

RESOLVED, by the Board of Trustees (the “Board”) of the Reed
Union School District (the “District"), as follows:

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide
adequate funding to the District and as a result of this lack of financial
support for the schools, the District has been and will be forced to
eliminate many programs necessary to the children of the District;

WHEREAS, the voters of the District previously authorized a parcel
tax assessment of $136.00 per parcel which assessment expires on
June 30,2003;

WHEREAS, without a renewed authorization by the voters for a
parcel assessment, immediate and substantial reduction and
elimination of educational programs and services will be necessary
including employee layoffs which will have a severe, negative impact
on the children of the District;

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to
generate funds for the educational program, including lobbying in the
State Legislature and many local fundraising efforts;

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program
delivers many long-lasting benefits and advantages to all the
residents of our community;,and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution
and Sections 50075, 50075.1, 50075.3, 50075.5, 50076, 50077,
50079, and 53720 et seq. of the California Government Code
authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the
purpose of conducting its business upon the approval of two-thirds of
the votes cast by vpters voting upon such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, it has been determined that the Board conduct a special
election on March 4,2003, at which will be submitted to the qualified
voters of the District a measure to authorize a special tax for the
purpose of continuing vital educational programs critical to the
educational process in the schools of the District;

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Trustees of the Reed Union School
District does hereby resolve, determine, and order as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the
boundaries of the District, at which election shall be submitted to the
qualified voters within the District the following measure, to wit:

“MEASURE B”

In order to maintain and enhance the quality of public education in
Tiburon, Belvedere and East Corie Madera by providing continued
support for small classes, exceptional instructional programs, essential
curriculum development and professional training, shall the Reed Union
School District be authorized to renew a special assessment
commencing July 1,2003 for a maximum of five years at the rate of $275
per parcel per year with a 3% yearly adjustment and an exemption for
property owners age 65 and older?

The following programs and services shall continue and shall be
supported by the special tax:

•	Small classes to maximize learning for our community's children

•	Comprehensive programs in reading, writing, mathematics,
science, and social studies

•	Enrichment programs in art, music and technology

•	Continuation of additional academic time above state minimum
requirements

•	Attract and retain qualified and experienced employees

•	Support services needed for a safe and educationally sound
environment for children

•	Maintenance and acquisition of current educational and
instructional equipment, supplies, and library and text books.

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of $275.00 per year for
each assessor's parcel. An exemption for the assessment will be made
available to each individual in the District who will attain the age of 65
years prior to June 1 of the assessment year, who owns a beneficial
interest in the parcel, who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of
residence and who applies to the District on or before June 1, 2003, or
June 1 of any succeeding assessment year, Any one application from a
qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the
remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to
use the parcel as his or her principal residence. Senior exemptions
granted during the term of the current special assessment will continue.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual ballot
shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

In order to maintain and enhance the quality, of public education in
Tiburon, Belvedere and East Corte Madera By providing continued
support for small classes, exceptional instructional programs, essential
curriculum development and professional training, shall the Reed Union
School District be authorized to renew a special assessment
commencing July 1,2003 for a maximum of five years at the rate of $275
per parcel per year with a 3% yearly adjustment and an exemption for
property owners age 65 and older?

_________ YES _____ NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1, 2003, the special tax collected
annually on all assessor's parcels at the rate specified above, shall be
collected and administered in the same manner as ad valorem property
taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code.

MEASURE B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21-506

21506

(Full Text of Measure B Continued)

Section 4. The Marin County Superintendent of Schools is hereby
requested to call a special election of the said special tax to be held on
March 4, 2003. The Marin County Clerk is hereby requested and
authorized to: 1) set forth said measure on all sample ballets relating to
said election to be mailed to the qualified electors of the District; and 2)'
to provide absent voter ballots for said special tax election for use by
qualified electors of the District who are entitled thereto in the manner
provided bylaw.’

the Board requests that the District's election be consolidated with any
and all elections to be held on the same date as specified above.

Section 5. If any section, sub-section, phrase, or clause of this resolution
is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portion of this resolution, this Board of Trustees
declares that it would have adopted this resolution and each section,
sub-section, phrase, or clause thereof irrespective, of the fact that any
one or more sections, sub-sections, sentences, phrases, or clauses shall
be declared invalid.

Section 6. The Board Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to certify
to the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so
certified to the Mariri County Superintendent of Schools and to file a
copy hereof so certified with the Marin County Clerk.

The foregoing resolution was moved by Board Member Jeff Winkler,
seconded by Grace Livingston, and adopted by roll call vote on
November 19,2002, by the following vote:	-

AYES:	Laurel Wilson, Jeff Winkler, Grace Livingston

NAYS:	None

ABSENT: Merrill Boyce, Robert Weisberg

The Clerk of the Reed Union School Disirict Board of Trustees certifies
to the due adoption of this resolution.

Date: November 22,2002

si Robert Weisberg
Clerk, Reed Union School District
Board of Trustees

WHEREUPON, the Chairman declared the foregoing resolution duly
adopted and so ordered.

Date: November 19,2002

s/Laurel Wilson
President, Reed Union School District
Board of Trustees

I, Christine Carter, Secretary to the Board of Trustees, do hereby certify
that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of a resolution adopted by
the Board of Trustees of the Reed Union School District at their regular
meeting of November 19,2002, which resolution is on file in the office of
said Board.

Date: November 19,2002

si C. M. Carter
Secretary, Reed Union School District
Board of Trustees

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the Reed Union
School District will be authorized to renew a special assessment of
Two Hundred Seventy Five Dollars ($275.00) per assessor's parcel,
beginning July 1, 2003, for a maximum of five years, with Three
Percent (3%) yearly adjustments. The measure specifies that
proceeds of the tax are to be used for providing continued support
for small classes, instructional programs, curriculum development
and professional training.

An exemption is created for owners aged Sixty-Five (65) years or
older.

Dated: December 17,2002

PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR
OF THIS MEASURE
IS ON THE NEXT PAGE

MEASURE B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21-507

21507

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B Keep our most valuable assets, valuable.  Reed, Bel Aire and Del Mar are excellent schools and our students are ranked #1 academically in Marin County. Traditionally, strong support from parents and community members has ensured that our schools offer only the highest quality programs. Our bond dollars are improving the schools structurally, but now we must protect our schools’ exceptional programs by renewing the parcel tax.  On March 4,2003, voters in Belvedere, Tiburon and East Code Madera will have the opportunity to reaffirm their commitment and in turn guarantee excellence in education for years'to come. Measure B will:  •	Continue comprehensive, exceptional educational programs  •	Attract and retain accomplished and experienced teachers  •	Protect small classes  This local tax, deductible from state and federal income taxes, has a five- year term at a cost of $275 annually or $22.91 per month per parcel, with a three percent yearly adjustment. This funding accounts for 11 percent of the District’s annual budget.  California school funding does not fully support the programs our community believes are critical in helping our students reach their fullest potential. It is almost certain that the current state budget crisis will drastically reduce funding for our school district’s basic education	NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
programs. Through renewal of this parcel ‘tax we can protect our valuable educational assets, as all funds generated from the tax go directly to the Reed Union School District.  Tiburon, Belvedere and East Corte Madera demand an outstanding school system; it is our community’s commitment to our children and our future. Please join us in continuing to provide local funding to keep our schools strong. Vote YES on Measure B. ,  si Douglas G. McConnell TV Reporter/Producer  si Laurel K. Wilson, President Reed Union School Board  si Bruce Sams, M.D,  Belvedere City Council Member  si Jeff Slavitz Mayor of Tiburon  si Susan Hamstra  Bel Aire Teacher and President Reed District Teachers’ Association	WAS SUBMITTED
	END OF MEASURE B

21508