IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE
YOUNTVILLE TOWN ATTORNEY
PROPOSITION C

“Shall an ordinance be adopted to increase the Town’s Transient
Occupancy Tax (Hotel Tax) from 10% to 12%?”

The Town of Yountville presently imposes a Transient Occupancy
Tax of 10% of the rent charged to temporary occupants of hotels,
motels or similar types of lodging facilities under Municipal Code
section 3.16.030. The last increase in_the Town’s Transient
Occupancy Tax was in July 1982. This Proposition proposes to
increase the Transient Occupancy Tax from 10% to 12%.

Only occupants of lodging facilities for 30 days or fewer are subject to
the tax. Therefore, the tax is assessed only to persons who
temporarily rent lodging space in the Town and does not apply to
persons who rent homes, apartments or similar permanent living
accommodations for periods exceeding 30 days.

The tax is a debt owed by the person renting the space, but is collected
by the lodging facility operator and paid to the Town. All revenues
from the tax become part of the Town’s General Fund, which may be
used for any municipal purpose approved by the Town Council.

Under Proposition 218, adopted by the California voters in 1996, the
Town may not impose or increase any general tax, including a
Transient Occupancy Tax, until such tax is submitted to the electorate
and approved by a majority vote.

Fiscal Impact: The amount of the revenue generated from a 2%
increase in the Transient Occupancy Tax will vary from year to year,
depending upon the rents received by lodging facilities. Based upon
current projections, a 2% increase will generate approximately
$420,000 for Fiscal Year 2002-2003.

A “Yes” vote favors increasing the rate of the Transient Occupancy
Tax imposed on transients in the Town of Yountville from 10% to
12%.

A “No” vote opposes increasing the rate of the Transient Occupancy
Tax imposed on transients in the Town of Yountville and maintains
the Transient Occupancy Tax at 10%.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

We strongly urge a YES vote on Proposition C!

Proposition C is NOT a tax on Yountville residents. Transient
Occupancy Tax (T.O.T.) is a tax paid by visitors who stay at our
local hotels and inns. One hundred percent of the T.O.T. or “hotel
tax” stays here in Yountville.

A YES VOTE ON proposition C will raise $420,000 in additional
revenues each year, starting January 2004. Approving Proposition C
will help the Town continue funding essential services such as sheriff
and fire services, streets, flood control projects, parks, and help build
community projects, like the Yountville Community Center.

A Yes vote on Proposition C will raise our T.O.T. rate to 12 percent,
the same rate as the City of Napa, St. Helena, and Calistoga.

Currently, sixty percent of total revenues to the Yountville General
Fund come from T.O.T. A Yes vote on Proposition C will also
provide supplemental revenue to the Town and its residents in the
event that current state budget deficits result in revenue cuts to local
government.

Please vote YES on Proposition C!

s/ Mary Lou Holt

Mayor of Yountville

s/ Carlee Leltwich
Former Mayor of Yountville, 1990-1994

s/ Barbara Dulinsky
Honorary Treasurer, Town of Yountville

s/ Eleanor Valenzuela
Former Town Council member, 1975-1980

s/ Don Henfling, member.

Friends of the Yountville Library

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS
PROPOSITION WAS SUBMITTED

Town of Yountville

Ordinance Number 330-03

An Ordinance of the Town of Yountville Amending Section 3.16.030(A) of the Municipal
Code to Establish a Transient Occupancy Tax Rate of 12%

A.	The Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax ordinance of the Town of Yountville, Section
3.16.030(A) of the Municipal Code, imposes on each and every transient a tax of ten
percent (10%) of the rent charged by an operator for the privilege of occupancy in
any hotel;

B.	The People of the Town of Yountville find that increasing the 10% Transient
Occupancy Tax to a rate of 12% would benefit the public health, safety and general
welfare; and

C.	Proposition 218 requires approval of the imposition of a general tax by a majority
vote of the qualified electors of the Town.

Now therefore, the People of the Town of Yountville do ordain as follows:

1.	Section 3.16.030(A) of the Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall
pay a tax in the amount of 12% of the rent charged by the operator. The tax
constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the Town that is extinguished only by
payment to the operator or to the Town.

2.	Effective Date. This measure shall become a valid and binding ordinance on the
Town of Yountville, and shall be considered adopted upon the date that the vote is
declared by the Town Council. The tax increase shall take effect on January 1, 2004.

I,	Joyce Houghton, hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance was approved by a
majority of votes at the general municipal election held on March 4, 2003, and was thus enacted
pursuant to state law.

Recitals

CERTIFICATION BY CLERK

Page 1

Town of Yountville

Resolution Number 2029-02

Calling and giving notice of a GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION to be held in the
Town of Yountville on Tuesday, the 4th day of March 2003, for the election of certain
officers and for voting on proposed Proposition B, an advisory measure on use of increased
Transient Occupancy Tax revenues for the Community Center Project; Proposition C, to
increase the Transient Occupancy Tax from 10% to 12%; and Proposition D, to increase
the Appropriations Limit pursuant to Article 13B of the California Constitution.

Recitals

The Town Council finds that:

1.	California Elections Code Sections 12101 and following require that the Town
publish notice of an election that contains a statement of the time of the election
and the offices to be filled.

2.	Elections Code section 12111 requires publication of a synopsis of any measure to
be voted on in a municipal election.

3.	Elections Code section 12105 requires publication of a list of polling places
designated for each election precinct.

4.	Proposition 218 and Government Code 53723 require that the Town may not
impose a proposed general tax unless it is submitted to the electorate and
approved by a majority vote of the voters.

5.	The Town Council also desires to provide for other administrative details of the
election.

Now therefore, the Town Council of the Town of Yountville does resolve as follows:

SECTION 1. Notice is hereby given that a general municipal election will be
held in the Town of Yountville, County of Napa, State of California, on Tuesday, the 4th day of
March 2003, for the purpose of electing the following officers:

MAYOR - for a full two (2) year term;

TWO COUNCIL MEMBERS - each for a full four (4) year term.

SECTION 2. Notice is hereby given that the following Propositions shall be
presented to the electors of the Town at the general municipal election to be held in the Town of
Yountville, County of Napa, State of California, on Tuesday, the 4th day of March 2003:

“Proposition B / Advisory Measure” shall be worded as follows:

ADVISORY VOTE ONLY. THIS PROPOSITION DOES NOT INCREASE TAXES. If Proposition C is approved and the Town’s Transient Occupancy Tax (Hotel Tax) is increased from 10% to 12%, should the additional revenue be used for the Town’s Community Center Project?	YES
	NO
“Proposition C” shall be worded as follows:	
“Shall an ordinance be adopted to increase the Town’s Transient Occupancy Tax (Hotel Tax) from 10% to 12%?”	YES
	NO
“Proposition D” shall be worded as follows:	
“Shall the appropriations limit set pursuant. to Article 13B of the California Constitution be raised by the sum of $900,000 so that the Town of Yountville can expend up to $900,000 additional funds each year for a four year period commencing with the fiscal year 2003/04? The additional funds to be expended are funds collected through taxes presently in effect and no present tax rates are to be increased.	YES
	NO

The proposed ordinance increasing the Transient Occupancy Tax by 2% is
attached as Exhibit A.

SECTION 3. That the arguments in favor of Propositions B, C, and D shall be
approved by the Town Council.

SECTION 4. The Town Council directs the Town Clerk to transmit copies of
the Propositions to the Town Attorney who shall prepare an impartial analysis of the measures
pursuant to Elections Code section 9280. The impartial analyses shall be filed by November 26,
2002 at 5:00 p.m.

SECTION 5. The general municipal election shall be consolidated with county

elections.

SECTION 6. The ballots to be used at the election shall conform to applicable

law.

SECTION 7. The Town Clerk is authorized to procure and furnish any and all
official ballots, notices, printed matter, supplies, equipment, and paraphernalia that may be
necessary in order to properly and lawfully conduct the election.

SECTION 8. For the purpose of holding the general municipal election there
shall be five (5) consolidated voting precincts in the Town. The precincts shall be those precincts
existing on the date of the adoption of this resolution. The polling places for the respective
precincts shall be the places designated below:

Voting Precincts Number 251001
Rancho de Napa Club House
6468 Washington Street

Voting Precincts Number (251002)

Voting Precinct Number 251003
Yountville Community Hall, Room 2
6516 Yount Street

Voting Precinct Number 251004
Lee Lounge

Veteran’s Home of California

Voting Precinct Number 251005
Hospital: Downstairs Chapel
Veteran’s Home of California

The persons selected by the County of Napa to be election officers at these
precincts shall be competent and qualified electors and residents of the Town. These officers
shall hold the election and make returns in the manner provided by law.

SECTION 9. The compensation for the elections officers shall be as set by the
County of Napa. A rental fee of $25.00 shall be paid for use of each polling place.

SECTION 10. The polls for the election shall be open at seven (7) a.m. of the
day of the election and shall remain open continuously for that time until eight (8) p.m. of the
same day, when the polls shall be closed.

SECTION 11. Candidate “Statements of Qualifications” shall not exceed 200
words. The cost of the statements shall be borne by the Town, except that, pursuant to Elections
Code section 13307(c), translation of a candidate statement to any other language shall be borne
by the candidate requesting the translation.

SECTION 12. The Town Clerk is directed to give such further or additional
notice of the election in the time, form, and manner required by law.

SECTION 13.	The	Town	Council	wishes	to establish deadlines for filing

of arguments for and against the propositions, and to provide for rebuttal arguments as follows:

1.	Arguments in favor of or in opposition to any proposition may not exceed
300 words in length and shall be filed at the office of the Yountville Town
Clerk not later than November 26, 2002 at<^ :00 p.m.

2.	Rebuttal arguments not to exceed 250 words in length shall be filed with the
Town Clerk not later than December 6,2002 at^:00 p.m.

3.	If more than one argument for or more than one argument against any Town
proposition is submitted, the Town Clerk shall select one of the arguments
in favor and one argument against the proposition as set forth in California
Elections Code section 9287.

ATTEST:

State of California )

County of Napa )§

Town of Yountville)

I, Kevin R. Plett, Town Clerk of the Town of Yountville, do hereby
certify that the foregoing Resolution was duly adopted by the Town
Council of the Town of Yountville at a regular meeting thereof held
on the 15th day of October 2002, by the following vote:

AYES:	Vice	Mayor	Jefferson, Thollander, Saucerman, Knight

NOES:	None

ABSENT: Mayor Holt
ABSTAIN: None

Kevin R. Plett, Town Clerk

“Exhibit A”

An Ordinance of the Town of Yountville Amending Section 3.16.030(A) of

the Municipal Code to Establish a Transient Occupancy Tax Rate of 12%

Recitals

A.	The Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax ordinance of the Town of Yountville, Section
3.16.030(A) of the Municipal Code, imposes on each and every transient a tax of ten
percent (10%) of the rent charged by an operator for the privilege of occupancy in
any hotel;

B.	The People of the Town of Yountville find that increasing the 10% Transient
Occupancy Tax to a rate of 12% would benefit the public health, safety and general
welfare; and

C.	Proposition 218 requires approval of the imposition of a general tax by a majority
vote of the qualified electors of the Town.

Now therefore, the People of the Town of Yountville do ordain as follows:

A.	Section 3.16.030(A) of the Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows:

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall
pay a tax in the amount of 12% of the rent charged by the operator. The tax
constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the Town that is extinguished only by
payment to the operator or to the Town.

B.	Effective Date. This measure shall become a valid and binding ordinance on the
Town of Yountville, and shall be considered adopted upon the date that the vote is
declared by the Town Council. The tax increase shall take effect on January 1, 2004.

CERTIFICATION BY CLERK

I,	Joyce Houghton, hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance was approved by a
majority of votes at the general municipal election held on March 4, 2003, and was thus
enacted pursuant to state law.

K. Joyce Houghton, CMC, Deputy Town Clerk

Town of Yountville



Resolution Number 2076-03

Supporting Proposition C an Ordinance Amendment to Increase the Transient Occupancy Tax
(Hotel Tax), for the Upcoming March 4,2003 General Municipal Election

A.	The Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) is of great importance in the Town’s effort to be fiscally
independent and in command of the financial resources that fund local government services,
programs, and improvements.

B.	The State of California is in a fiscal crisis that may result in the loss or reduction of many important
local government revenues, including: Property Taxes, Vehicle License Fees, Citizens Option for
Public Safety Grants, Police Law Enforcement Technology Grants, Gas Taxes, and Transportation
Congestion Relief Funds, and the increased TOT rate may offset such losses.

C.	The TOT has been a vital source of funding for many community capital projects and infrastructure
improvements, and has benefited Town residents by supporting reduced water rates.

D.	Increasing the TOT to 12% rate will establish equity with respect to rates in other communities in the
Napa Valley.

Now therefore, the Town Council of the Town of Yountville does resolve as follows:

1. By supporting Measure C. we emphasize our desire to promote fiscal independence, and ensure that
locally raised taxes stay in town and are utilized to provide the services, programs, and community
development projects that benefit the residents and businesses of Yountville. We urge a “yes” vote
on March 4th.

Recitals

'ATTEST:

State of California )
County of Napa )§
Town of Yountville)

1, K. Joyce Houghton, Deputy Town Clerk of the Town of Yoi
hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was duly adopted bj
Council of the Town of Yountville at a regular meeting thereof held
day of February 2003, by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Thollander, Jefferson, Saucerman, Knight, and f

None

None

None

Item 15.2
Page 1