Measure B: Five Year Parcel Tax, Newark Unified School District

To provide revenue to maintain, restore and improve our excellent educational programs, such as math, science and reading, small class size, student support services, and clean and safe schools for our children shall the Newark Unified School District levy a special tax of $150 per parcel per year for five years, beginning on July 1, 2003 with an exemption for property owners age 65 and over. 2/3 vote

Impartial Analysis
Measure B, a Newark Unified School District ("the District") special parcel tax measure, seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy a special parcel tax for five years for the purpose of funding educational programs set forth in the measure.
A school district, following notice and public hearings, has the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA and Article XIIIC of the California Constitution and section 50075-77, 50079, and 53722 of the California Government Code.
If approved, these tax funds are proposed by the District to be used to support academic and educational programs as set forth in the measure in mathematics, science, drama, music and visual arts, reading, school libraries, athletics, counseling, and performing arts in kindergarten through 12th grade.
If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote "Yes", a qualified special tax, at the annual rate of $150.00 per parcel, would be imposed for a period of five years, beginning on July 1, 2003. An exemption from the tax will be granted annually to property owners who are aged 65 years or older and who occupy said parcel as their principal residence, upon annual application for exemption.
If less than two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the measure will fail and the Newark Unified School District will not be authorized to levy the special tax as proposed by this measure.  s/RICHARD E. WINNIE
County Counsel

Arguments for Measure B
A strong educational system in Newark sustains and strengthens our children, our families, our home values and our business community. The Newark Unified School District is proud of the gains in student performance over the past five years. Now that momentum is jeopardized.
The devastating effect of the state budget shortfall and resulting reduction in local school district funding has drastically impacted the Newark Unified School District. The District has already cut more than $2.7 million from the 2003-04 budget. This has resulted in program reductions and the layoff of many talented and dedicated staff members. These reductions impact core programs at Newark Junior High School and Newark Memorial High School, as well as elementary science, literacy and special reading programs, physical education, music classes, and the classroom aides, who support these programs.
to avoid even deeper cuts in subsequent years, our community must reduce reliance on continued but declining state support. The Newark Unified School District is seeking the approval of the local citizens for this parcel tax.
This measure, amounting to $150 per parcel, will raise approximately $1.7 million annually. An independent oversight committee will report to the Board of Education on exactly how these funds will be expended. this measure gives the Newark Board of Education an opportunity to protect our critical educational programs from reductions and restore some of the programs already eliminated.
Supporting this measure will allow the Newark Unified School District to continue to move towards a world class education.
Vote yes for all our children, our families, our businesses and our future.
VOTE YES FOR MEASURE B  s/EILEEN J. McDONALD Newark Unified School District Board of Education , President  s/STEPHEN OLDFIELD Newark City / School Strategic Plan Monitoring Committee Member  s/CINDY PARKS Parent / Community Member  s/REED B. SLADEN Former Newark Unified School District Board of Education President  s/BILL FITTS City of Newark Planning Commissioner

(No argument against Measure B was submitted.)


Full Text of Measure B
The following is the full ballot text of the proposition to be presented to the Voters by the Newark Unified School District in the ballot pamphlet.
To provide revenue to maintain, restore and/or improve our excellent educational programs, such as math, science and reading, small class size, student support services, and clean and safe schools for our children, shall the Newark Unified School District levy a special tax of $150 dollars per parcel per year for five years, beginning on July 1, 2003 with an exemption for property owners age 65 and over, as follows:

(a) To maintain and/or improve Kindergarten through 12th grade basic academic curriculum and educational programs in the following areas:

a) Science 
b) Mathematics 
c) Drama, music and visual arts 
d) Reading

(b) To maintain and/or improve Kindergarten through 12th grade support programs that contribute to student academic success in the following areas:

a) School libraries 
b) Athletics 
c) Counseling 
d) Performing arts
An exemption shall be granted annually on any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or older that occupies said parcel as principal residence, upon annual application for exemption.
The above proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific purpose identified above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into a fund, which shall be kept separate and apart from other funds of the District. An oversight committee shall be established to track funds quarterly each year while the tax is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board of Education a report detailing the amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project authorized to be funded by this measure.