SCHOOL

DIXIE SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
MEASUREB

To maintain and improve the quality of education for all
IB students in the Dixie Elementary School District,
emphasizing improved reading, writing, and math
skills; attracting and retaining qualified, experienced
teachers; and maintaining instructional materials and
equipment for science programs; shall the Dixie Elementary
School District levy a total assessment of $245: per
developed or undeveloped parcel, beginning 7/1/04 (each
year for 8 years) with subsequent 3% annual cost of living
adjustments, beginning 7/1/05?

DIXIE SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
FULL TEXT OF RESOLUTION NO. 2002/03-25
MEASUREB

RESOLUTION NO. 2002/03-25
BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
DIXIE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
MARIN COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of a	RESOLUTION AND ORDER

Special Tax Election	OF ELECTION

WHEREAS, the Dixie Elementary School District is committed to
providing the highest quality education for every student while providing
each student the opportunity to master challenging academic standards
and extend their talents in the arts and technology; and

WHEREAS, a high quality public education is vital to the community's
well-being and fosters the growth of society's greatest resource — the
minds of children; and

WHEREAS, the investment in children's education is beneficial to the
economic well-being of our community and our country; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code Sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079, and 53720, et
seq, authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the
purpose of conducting its business upon the approval of two-thirds of the
votes cast by voters voting upon such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, Section s of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution
allows the appropriations limit of school districts to be increased by the
electors. Such approval is required for the district to use the revenues
generated by the tax.	,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Governing Board of the
Dixie Elementary School District resolves to conduct a special election
on November 4,2003, at which time will be submitted to qualified voters
of the Dixie Elementary School District a measure to continue and
extend a special tax for the purpose of maintaining and enhancing
rigorous, challenging academic classes and high quality, enriched
educational programs, improving reading, writing, and math skills for all
students, attracting and retaining qualified and experienced teachers,
and maintaining instructional materials and equipment for science
programs, while also maintaining reduced class sizes in Dixie
Elementary Schools and to increase its appropriations limit by the
amount of revenue generated by the special tax.

.BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the
boundaries of the Dixie Elementary School District at which election shall
be submitted to the qualified voters within the Dixie Elementary School
District the following measure, to wit:

MEASURE B

Shall the Dixie Elementary School District, serving the children of the
Dixie Elementary School District, provide funds for the purpose of
maintaining and enhancing rigorous, challenging academic classes and
high quality, enriched educational programs, improving reading, writing,
and math skills for all students, attracting and retaining qualified and
experienced teachers, and maintaining instructional materials and
equipment for science programs, while also maintaining reduced class
sizes in Dixie Elementary Schools by continuing and enhancing its
current special taxes based upon the use or right of use of each
assessor’s parcel within the boundaries of the Dixie Elementary School
District for a period of eight (8) years, beginning July 1, 2004, and
increasing its appropriations limit for the maximum time allowed by law
and the amount of revenue generated by those special taxes?

The special tax for the Dixie Elementary School District will be imposed
in the amount of $245 per year for each assessor’s parcel, which in the
tax year 2004-2005 would extend the previously authorized assessment
of $125 for eight (8) years and supplement it by $120 for eight (8) years
with an exemption for property owners age 65 and over. In each
successive year, the amount of the previous year’s assessment will be
increased by 3%.

The proceeds of the taxes shall be deposited in a special fund to be
used for the purpose of maintaining and enhancing rigorous, challenging
academic classes and high quality, enriched educational programs,
improving reading, writing, and math skills for all students, attracting and
retaining qualified and experienced teachers, and maintaining instructional
materials and equipment for science programs, while also maintaining
reduced class sizes in the Dixie Elementary School District. Exemptions
from the assessment will be made available as follows:

a)	To each individual in the District who will attain 65 years on or before
May 1 of the assessment year, and who owns a beneficial interest in
the parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of such parcel, and who
uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence.

b)	For multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part of one
economic unit under the same name and ownership. Such multiple
parcels may be charged as one parcel.

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before
May 1,2004, or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year.

Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption
for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such
applicant continues to qualify for the exemption. The District shall
establish an administrative review process to grant such exemptions.

Section 2, The text of the measure as displayed on each individual
ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

DIXIE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX
ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS AND SERVICES

To maintain and improve the quality of education for all students in the
Dixie Elementary School District, emphasizing improved reading, writing,
and math skills; attracting and retaining qualified, experienced teachers;
and maintaining instructional materials and equipment for science
programs; shall the Dixie Elementary School District levy a total
assessment of $245 per developed or undeveloped parcel, beginning
7/1/04 (each year for 8 years) with subsequent 3% annual cost of living
adjustments, beginning 7/1/05?

______YES	  NO

MEASURE B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21554

(Full Text of Measure B Continued)

Section 3. Commencing on July 1, 2004 the special taxes collected
annually on all assessor’s parcels at the rates specified above, shall be
collected and administered in the same manner as ad valorem property
taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Marin County is hereby
requested to call a special election of the said special tax to be held on
November 4,2003, and to consolidate this election w'rth any elections to
be held on the same date. The Marin County Board of Supervisors is
hereby requested and authorized to consolidate this election with any
elections to be held on the same date. The County Clerk is hereby
requested and authorized to: 1) set forth all sample ballots relating to
said election to be mailed to the qualified electors of the Dixie
Elementary School District; and 2) to provide absentee voter ballots for
said special tax elections for use by qualified electors of the Dixie
Elementary School District who are entitled thereto in the manner
provided by Law.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase, or clause of this
resolution is for any reason helds to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portion of this resolution. The
Governing Board declares that it would have adopted this resolution
and each section, subsection, phrase, or clause thereof irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
phrases, or clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6. The Secretary of the Dixie Elementary School District’s
Governing Board is hereby authorized and directed to certify to the due
adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to
the Superintendent of Schools of Marin County, the Marin County
Board of Supervisors, and to file a copy hereof so certified with the
County Clerk of Marin County.

The foregoing resolution was introduced by Board Member Mark
Reagan, who moved its adoption, seconded by Board Member Philip
Kranenburg, and adopted on roll call on July 8, 2003, by the following
vote:

Member Crockett: AYE
Member Limacher: AYE
Member Reagan: AYE
Member Kranenburg: AYE
Member Armstrong-Morrin: AYE

AYES: 5	NOES:	0	ABSENT	OR	NOT VOTING: 0

SO ORDERED.

si Linda Armstrong-Morrin
President, Board of Trustees

CERTIFIED:

si Philip Kranenburg
Secretary, Board of Trustees

State of California
County of Marin

ss.

I hereby certify the foregoing is a true and correct transcript of a
resolution duly adopted and affirmed by a formal vote of the members
of the Board of Trustees of the Dixie Elementary School District, at a
duly constituted meeting of the Board which was open to the public,
held at its usual meeting place on July 8, 2003, as it appears upon the
minutes of said meeting of the Board of Trustees.

Date: July 8,2003

si Philip Kranenburg
Secretary, Board of Trustees

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the Dixie Elementary
School District will be authorized to levy a special tax of Two Hundred
Forty Five Dollars ($245.00) on each developed or undeveloped parcel
of land within the District each year for eight (8) years, beginning July 1,
2004, with Three Percent (3%) annual cost of living increases, beginning
July 1, 2005. The tax measure adopted by the District provides that
parcel owners who have attained the age of 65 on or before July 1 of any
applicable year and who use those parcels as their principal residence
will be exempted from the tax..

Dated: August 18,2003

PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR
OF THIS MEASURE
IS ON THE NEXT PAGE

MEASURE B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE



21-555

21555

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B	
Children of the Dixie Elementary School District need your support for Measure B.	
Measure B will provide $1,372,000 per year, for 8 years, to maintain, restore and improve critical elementary classroom programs. Most importantly, it will ensure local control over revenues our schools need for:	
•	Reading, writing and math instructions  •	Science materials and equipment  •	School library services and materials  •	Music, art and drama classes  •	Attracting and retaining exceptional teachers None of the money will be spent on administrators’ salaries.	
Passing Measure B will improve our schools at a reasonable cost. In fact, Measure B only increases the current elementary school assessment by $2.31 per week - less than the cost of one videotape rental - with a 3% increase each year thereafter.	NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
Citizens 65 years or older can be completely exempted from Measure B by filling out a simple exemption form.	WASSUBMITTED
The facts are clear:	
Increasing costs and inadequate state funding will force continued annual and mid-year cuts. If Measure B fails, programs will have to be streamlined and eliminated in the Dixie Elementary School District.	
Despite the increasing demands on the schools, Dixie Elementary School District continues to achieve and is dedicated to our classroom programs and services.	
Lottery funds - which were never intended to be more than a small supplement to school districts - have an insignificant impact on our school district’s funding needs. The district receives less than 2% of its funding from the lottery.	
The children of the Dixie Elementary School District need your support for Measure B to ensure they have the education they need to compete in the 21st century.	
Please Join Us In Voting Yes on Measure B.	
si Gary Phillips  San Rafael City Council	
si Claire Snyder  President, Dixie Children’s Fund	
si Jay E. Neuhaus  San Rafael (Marinwood) Fire Chief Retired	
si Lynne Pentis One T.L. President	
si George P. Silveira Retired Rancher	
	END OF MEASURE B

21556