______________SCHOOL

BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL
PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
MEASURE A

Shall Bolinas-Stinson Union School District repeal
existing current special tax assessments totaling
$198.00 annually, and replace them with a new
special tax assessment of $248.00 annually per assessor's
parcel, with a 5% increase each year thereafter, for a period
of 6 years, beginning July 1, 2003, with an exemption for
parcel owners who are 65 or older on or before July 1 of
any applicable year and who use that parcel as their
principal residence?

BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL
PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
MEASURE A

FULL TEXT OF RESOLUTION NO. 6 2002-03

BEFORE THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MARIN COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTION AND ORDER OF ELECTION IN THE MATTER
OF A SPECIAL TAX ELECTION TO HELP MAINTAIN
SCHOOL PROGRAMS

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide
adequate and necessary funding for the continued operations of the
schools of the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District and their
instructional programs; and

WHEREAS, as a result of this lack of funding for the schools, Bolinas-
Stinson Union School District is in danger of reducing programs
beneficial and necessary to the children who attend the schools of the
district; and

WHEREAS, as a result of proposed cuts and severe reductions in
revenue to “basic aid” school districts across the State, the Bolinas-
Stinson Union School District will face extreme financial hardship in
the foreseeable future; and

WHEREAS, continued reliance solely on State funding will result in
further loss of critical programs and services to children; and

WHEREAS, the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District has
experienced rapidly escalating costs associated with healthcare for
staff, insurance, utilities and fuel; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program
delivers many long-lasting benefits and advantages to all of the
residents of our community; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution
and Government Code Sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079, and
53720 et seq. authorize school districts to levy a “special tax” to raise
funds for the purpose of providing funds to run the schools of the
district upon approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting
upon such a special tax proposal;

THEREFORE, The Governing Board of the Bolinas-Stinson Union
School District resolves to conduct an election on June 3,2003 at which
will be submitted to the qualified voters of the Bolinas-Stinson Union
School District a measure to authorize a special tax for the purpose of
maintaining vital educational programs, critical to the educational
process in the schools of the district;

FURTHERMORE BE IT RESOLVED, BY THE GOVERNING BOARD
OF THE BOLINAS-STINSON UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the
boundaries of the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District, at which
election shall be submitted to the qualified voters the following measure,
to wit:

MEASURE A

Shall the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District provide funds for the
continuance of quality educational programs by repealing existing
current special tax assessments of $198.00 annually, and replacing them
with a new special tax assessment of $248.00 annually per assessor's
parcel, and each year thereafter increase the rate by 5%, for a limited
eriod of 6 years, beginning July 1, 2003, with an exemption for any
eneficial owner of a parcel who is 65 or over on or before July 1 of any
applicable year and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of
residence?

The funds shall be used for:

1.	District programs: maintain present educational programs and
maintain reasonable class sizes.

2.	Basic instructional materials: maintain adequate per student
allowance and update classroom texts to ensure adequate quantity
and quality of texts.

3.	Instructional equipment and supplies: maintain and update
instructional equipment only as necessary.

4.	Operation and maintenance: maintain sufficient staff for efficient
operation and adequate allowance for building and grounds
maintenance.

Priorities for expenditure of funds the first and each successive year will
be determined by the Governing Board with input from staff, parents, and
the community.

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of $248.00 annually per
assessor’s parcel, and each year thereafter increase the rate by 5% for a
limited period of six years for each assessor’s parcel. An exemption from
the assessment will be made available to each individual in the district
who will attain age 65 years prior to July 1 of the assessment year, who
owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, who uses that parcel as his or
her principal place of residence, and who applies to the district on or
before July 1, of any assessment year. Any one application from a
qualified applicant or any existing valid application currently in effect, will
provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the
assessment so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel as his
or her principal residence.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual
ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

“SPECIAL TAX FOR BOLINAS-STINSON UNION
SCHOOL DISTRICT’S EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
AND SERVICES

Shall Bolinas-Stinson Union School District repeal existing current
special tax assessments totaling $198.00 annually, and replace them
with a new special tax assessment of $248.00 annually per assessor’s
parcel, with a 5% increase each year thereafter, for a period of 6 years,

MEASURE A CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE



21501

(Full Text of Measure A Continued)

beginning July 1,2003, with an exemption for parcel owners who are 65
or older on or before July 1 of any applicable year and who use that
parcel as their principal residence?”

YES NO

Section 3. The District’s Superintendent, or his designee, is authorized
and directed to make any changes to the text of the measure, or to the
abbreviated form of the measure, as may be convenient or necessary to
conform to any requirement of the laws authorizing the measure to be
submitted to the District’s voters, or of the Marin County Clerk.

Section 4. Commencing on July 1, 2003, the special tax specified
above, shall be collected and administered in the same manner as ad
valorem property taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 5. The Superintendent of Schools of Marin County is hereby
requested to call an election of the said “special tax” to be held on June
3,2003. The County Clerk is hereby requested and authorized to:

1)	set forth on all sample ballots relating to said election to be
mailed to the qualified electors of the Bolinas-Stinson Union
School District said measure; and

2)	provide absent voter ballots for said “special tax” election for
use by qualified electors of the Bolinas-Stinson Union School
District who are entitled thereto in the manner provided by law.

Section 6. If any section, subsection, phrase, or clause of this resolution
is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this resolution. This governing board
declares that it would have adopted this resolution and each section,
subsection, phrase, or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one
or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases, or clauses be
declared invalid.

Section 7. The clerk of the Bolinas-Stinson Union School District
Governing Board is hereby authorized and directed to certify to the due
adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to
the Superintendent of Schools of Marin County and to file a copy hereof
so certified with the County Clerk, of Marin County.

The foregoing resolution was moved by board member Frankie Accardi,
seconded by Tom Williard, and adopted on roll call on February 27,
2003, by the following vote:

Board Member: Kim Bender - Aye

Board Member: Tom Williard - Aye

Board Member: Frankie Accardi - Aye

Board Member: Tomas Krakauer -.Aye

Board Member: MegSimonds - Absent

AYES: 4 NOES: 0 ABSENT/NOT VOTING: 1

WHEREUPON, the President declared the foregoing resolution duly
adopted and SO ORDERED

si Kimberly J. Bender
President, Governing Board Member - Kim Bender
Bolinas-Stinson Union School District

ATTEST:

si Francine Accardi
Clerk of the Board of Trustees - Francine Accardi
Bolinas-Stinson Union School District

Approved as to form February 27,2003
Noel J. Shumway, Associate General Counsel
School and College Legal Services of California

I,	Francine Accardi, Clerk of the Board of Trustees of the Bolinas-Stinson
Union School District of Marin County, California, hereby certify that the
above and foregoing Resolution was duly and regularly adopted by said
board at a duly scheduled and called meeting thereof held on the 27th
day of February and passed by 4 ayes and 0 noes vote of said board.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have hereunto set my hand this 27th day of
February 2003.

si Francine Accardi
Clerk of the Board of Trustees
Bolinas-Stinson Union School District

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE A

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the existing current
Bolinas-Stinson Unified School District special tax assessments totaling
$198.00 annually will be repealed and replaced with a new special tax
assessment of $248.00 annually per assessor’s parcel for a period of 6
years beginning July 1, 2003, with a 5% increase each year thereafter.
Parcel owners who have attained the age of 65 on or before July 1 of
any applicable year and who use those parcels as their principal
residence will be exempt from the tax.

Dated: March 13,2003

PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

MEASURE A CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21-*®	IIIIIIISIIlllllll

Bolinas-Stinson School is a unique public school. Our students receive
a solid education in core subject areas, perform well on standardized
tests and local assessments and go on to do well in high school. The
community has supported outstanding programs and small class sizes
in the past, setting Bolinas-Stinson School apart from other public
schools. A nationally recognized Visual Arts Program, Music, P. E,
Technology, Spanish, Special Education staffing, counseling, library,
transportation and field trips are among the many programs and
services provided, with your help, to our children.

The proposed six year tax will provide about 25% of our budget
revenue. The tax increases 5% per year to help maintain programs,
which are subject to fluctuations in state funding and escalating cost
increases. Without this community support, Bolinas-Stinson would be
another struggling, under-funded public school, lacking in many
essential programs and services.

A high-quality school is an integral part of our community. We would not
ask for greater sacrifice from you without matching that sacrifice within
the school itself. The Board of Trustees has taken action to reduce the
number of classroom teachers next year and plans to tighten programs
in response to declining enrollment. Additionally, the retirement of the
district's school building bonds this year reduces the burden on our
local taxpayers. We are exploring other creative ways to generate
revenue and reduce costs, and commit to constant assessment to
ensure programs are high quality, cost effective and efficient.

Our children represent our future, let's make sure they get the kind of
education that will allow them to become the leaders we need. With
your continued support, we can make a difference in our own backyard.

si Roger P. Kovach
President, Bolinas Whitecaps

s/ Kenneth R. Stevens, Fire Chief
Stinson Beach Fire Department

si Anita Tyrrell-Brown, Assistant Fire Chief
Bolinas Fire Department and Parent

si Meg Simonds, Bolinas-Stinson School
Board Member

si Mark White
Community Member

NO REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT
IN FAVOR WAS SUBMITTED

BOTH THE ARGUMENT AGAINST AND THE
REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST
APPEAR ON THE NEXT PAGE

MEASURE A CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21-503

21503

First and foremost, let me be very clear about my feelings toward the
School. I have 2 adult children who graduated. I also have a sixth
grade daughter. I have nothing but the highest regard for the School,
the teachers and the hard working Board.

My problems are with this money Measure. I am an economist
and a businessman by training and experience. I am also in the
unique position of being privy to the finances of my clients, both
businesses and individuals, many for over 20 years. No one who is-
knowledgeable in economics or finance expects the economy to turn
around any time this year or next.

There are 2 problems with this Measure: its length and the 5%
per year escalation.

Six years is much too long for a fixed money issue. It should be 3 to
4 years at the maximum. Enrollment continues to decline and by the
end of 6 years, I'm willing to bet dinner at The Blue Heron that the
Stinson campus will be closed because of declining enrollment.

5% per year escalation is a slap in the face of the hard working
taxpayers and voters who face declining income, not a guaranteed
increase. Continue to make cuts in the fat that remains in the district,
continue to lobby the State to pony up their fair share, seek
donations from the community, and then come back to the voters.

Bolinas voters will soon be asked to support a badly needed
firehouse. This money measure must be passed.

With a resounding NO vote on this measure vou can tell your District
Trustees that vou want 3-4 years maximum with no escalation. Don't
be stampeded into voting yes. There is plenty of time to do this
correctly.

si Malcolm Ponder

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE A

State laws regarding school financing have created a roller coaster of
funding for public schools. This is evidenced by the governor’s proposal to
drastically cut school funding. In considering Measure A, voters should
know the following facts:

•	Measure A would cover only a portion of the proposed cuts. The
District already has decided to reduce the teaching staff for next
year and may be forced to cut the music, art, physical education,
technology, Spanish language program, and/or the morning snack.
Is this the fat that should be cut?

•	Our current parcel tax is 7 years, one year longer than Measure A.

•	The 5% increase attempts to offset the dramatic increases the
school faces for insurance, benefits, and utilities. Health benefits
alone are expected to rise over 20% next year.

•	As in prior parcel tax measures, those who are 65 and older and
use their property as their main residence can exempt themselves
from paying the parcel tax.

Measure A is the product of many community and school meetings held to
develop a plan to respond to the budget crisis. It will allow the District to
adequately plan programs, remain solvent and fiscally responsible, and
continue to pay for the escalating yearly cost of doing the important
business of educating our children.

si Roger P. Kovach
President, Bolinas Whitecaps

si Kenneth R. Stevens, Fire Chief
Stinson Beach Fire Department

si Anita Tyrrell-Brown, Assistant Fire Chief
Bolinas Fire Department and Parent

si Meg Simonds, Bolinas-Stinson School
Board Member

s/Mark White
Community Member

END OF MEASURE A

21-504

21504