mm&t

f

FFICIAL
SAMPLE
BALLOT

AND VOTER
NFORMATION

COPY

SANTA MONICA-MAUBU
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

SPECIAL ELECTION

CONNY B. McCORMACK
LOS ANGELES COUNTY
REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK

12400 IMPERIAL HIGHWAY, NORWALK, CA 90650

(800)815-2666 OR (562)466-1323
INTERNET - www.lavote.net OR http://regrec.co.la.ca.Lis
Los Angeles County Website - http://www.lacounty.lnfo

•	POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

•	MARK YOUR CHOICES IN THIS BOOKLET AND
TAKE IT WITH YOU TO YOUR VOTING LOCATION.

OFFICIAL BALLOT

1

SANTA MONICA-MALIBU UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

JUNE 3, 2003
County of Los Angeles

I HAVE VOTED - HAVE YOU?

state cuts in public education, shall the Santa
Monica-Malibu Unified School District levy
a qualified special tax of $225 per parcel each
year for 6 years exempting property owned
and occupied by persons age 63 and older?
Mandatory resident taxpayer oversight and
independent annual audits will ensure that
these revenues arc used to preserve the core
curriculum in all grades and prevent
deterioration in quality caused by reduced
state funding.

SANTA MONICA-MALIBU UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION			i • |
Measure S			%
To preserve the quality of local	YES	©	
schools despite unprecedented	NO	0	



Make sure you remove

"Hanging Chad"

from your ballot
to ensure
YOUR VOTE WILL BE
COUNTED



LA 002-002

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S

By Lloyd W. Peilman, County Counsel

Approval of Measure S would authorize the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified
School District (“District”) to levy a qualified special tax of up to $225 per year
on each parcel of land located within the District. The tax would be levied for six

(6)	full years commencing on July 1, 2003. An exemption to the tax is available
for a person age 65 and older who owns and occupies a parcel as a principal
residence and applies for an exemption in accordance with guidelines established
by the Board of Education of the District (“Board"). The Board may set the tax
at a lesser amount than authorized in the Measure.

The tax revenues would be used to restore programs and replace funds lost or
reduced by State budget cuts, sustain achievement in reading, writing, and
mathematics for students at all grade levels, fulfill the District’s core curriculum
which includes music, arts, and athletics, protect the taxpayers’ investment in
education and ensure District accountability by providing resident taxpayer
oversight and independent annual audits of revenue and expenditures.

A Resident Taxpayer-Financial Oversight Committee (“Committee”) shall be
appointed by the Board. The Committee is exclusively charged to review
administration and compliance with terms of this Measure.

An expenditure plan (the “Annual Plan”) shall be developed annually for the
succeeding fiscal year by District staff in consultation with the Committee. The
Annual Plan will recommend expenditures of the tax proceeds that arc consistent
with the intent of this Measure, include expenditure assumptions, and be
presented for Board action each fiscal year in conjunction with the District’s
annual budget adoption process for the following fiscal year. The recommended
Annual Plan shall be made available for public review two (2) weeks prior to
Board action. The Annual Plan, together with regular financial and audit reports,
shall be promptly distributed to the Committee.

In conjunction with regular interim budget reporting required by the State, the
District shall make available to the public and to the Committee updated budget
and financial expenditure reports concerning the account holding the proceeds
of the tax. As part of this reporting, the chief fiscal officer of the District shall file
a report with the Board and the Committee identifying the amount of the funds
collected and expended, together with the status of any project required or
authorized to be funded.

The collection of taxes under this Measure, including the imposition of penalties,
additional fees, and interest upon persons who fail to remit the tax or
delinquency charge imposed shall be governed by the rules, regulations, and
procedures authorized by law. Any penalty imposed and accrued interest shall
become a part of the lax.

(Continued on next page)

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S (Continued)

Each year, the District shali retain an independent auditor to review District
records to determine that funds generated by this Measure have been
maintained and expended in compliance with the Annual Plan and that other
conditions of this Measure have been satisfied.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

LA 002-006

I

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Vote yes on Measure S.

Santa Monica-Malibu Unified Schools arc facing the most severe crisis in their
112-year history as a consequence of massive cuts in state funding.

By voting yes on Measure S you can help our schools survive this crisis and
prevent a serious deterioration in the quality of our children’s education.

Without the passage of Measure S our schools face $13 million in impending cuts
and must layoff 22% of the total school workforce, including 66 classroom
teachers.

As a result, class sizes will increase dramatically, preschool programs will be cut,
and most librarians, school nurses, and music programs will be eliminated.

i	Measure S will provide $6.2 million (almost half the funding deficit). This will
enable our schools to avoid the most severe and crippling effects of the cuts and
will help prevent long-term damage to our school system.

Measure S is designed to increase local school funding in a fair and balanced way
with a limited duration of just six years. The cost will be $18.75 a month per
property, with an exemption for homeowners age 65 and older.

Measure S requires strict taxpayer accountability. Independent annual audits and
a special citizen financial oversight committee will ensure the funds arc spent to
preserve the core curriculum in all grades.

The Santa Monica-Malibu Unified Schools shape our children's lives and assure
their futures, while enhancing the character and safety of our community and the
value of our homes.

That’s why a large and diverse coalition of parents, teachers, senior citizens,
labor and business leaders, homeowners, renters and public safety officials urge
a YES vote on Measure S.

(Continued on next page)

LA 002-006

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S (Continued)

Wc arc the only ones who can save our schools and prevent a catastrophe for our
children and our community. The crisis is real. On June 3rd you can make the
difference.

Please vote yes on Measure S.

NATHANIEL TRIVES

President-Elect Santa Monica Chamber of Commerce

JAMES T. BUTTS, JR.

Chief of Police

NANCY GREENSTEIN
Co chair Emeritus SMRR

CHERI ORGEL

President Santa Monica-Malibu Council of PTAs

JEFF JENNINGS
Mayor, City of Malibu

LA 002-007

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Vote NO on S

Temporary State budget woes can't justify an unfair tax increase like “S".

Proponents bowed to blackmail from the Chamber of Commerce and developers
who threatened to fight the measure if it included any formula based on square
footage. As a result, renters and homeowners will pay more.

Taxes based on square footage of buildings and per dwelling unit, as used in *
Berkeley, Davis. Albany and proposed in Manhattan Beach, arc fairer, and can
earn more money for our schools, one reason why other districts have rejected
propositions like **S".

Proponents don’t want renters to know this unfair tax will lead to rent increases.
Renters in smaller buildings bear the brunt of this tax. Elderly landlords and
owners get exemptions -- not elderly renters.

There's more. Santa Monica is planning increases in sales taxes and another
j bond.

I Despite what proponents say, they were working on “S” long before possible
state cuts were announced and they still won't admit funding shortfalls are not
; dear cut or definitive. Monies may be substantially restored.

There are better ways. Santa Monica and Malibu have money but refuse to
adequately fund our schools. Their pet projects arc more important. Our
children and education are not their priority, particularly when you’ll pay.

Other districts have raised millions in direct public contributions, ours refuses.

Some say our district leaves money in County hands because of faulty
accounting. These arc huge, costly mistakes made by those in charge.

Enough is enough.

Read www.NoRcntHikc.com or www.VotcNoS.com
JUNE COLEMAN

Chair, Santa Monica Democratic Leadership Club
MATHEW L. MILLEN

Former Chair, Santa Monica High School Bi-lingual Advisory
Committee

*

DOUGLAS R. O’BRIEN
Malibu Homeowner

POLLY BENSON-BROWN

Member, L.A. County Republican Central Committee

LA 002-008

argument against measure s

Wc all support public education, but this regressive property tax raises rents,
hurts the poor, and is a clone of the tax that we voted down in November. This
tax increase protects business interests, big property owners and the City Hall
power structure.

Proponents rejected u fair, equitable tax based on building square footage, thus
letting developers and big money interests off cheap.

Every property owner will pay at least $329.00 a year, which includes the current
parcel tax that escalates annually. Whether it’s a vacant Malibu lot, luxury hotel,
condo or mansion - all pay the same under this proposal.

It gets worse. This time, wealthy senior landlords may be exempt while senior
renters are not. Further, more than 20% of our district’s students arc non-
residents. This proposal forces you to subsidize them too.

Years of district mismanagement and operational incompetence all contribute to
the current situation. Faulty accounting practices are costing our kids millions of
dollars. Districts similar to ours have avoided layoffs, some arc even hiring
additional faculty. How?

It is the State’s responsibility to fund schools and they will unless you volunteer
to pay instead. Don't let sky-is-falling threats scare you into letting politicians
pick your pockets.

We already pay a school parcel tax, 4 school bonds, 2 library bonds and sizable
utility taxes. Malibu is proposing new taxes. The State is determined to levy a
host of new taxes and fee increases.

The Gty of Santa Monica has a $350 million budget and Malibu’s is close to $20
million. Santa Monica gives priority to funding non-resident social services over
our schools.

Why is our money not funding our schools? Make them prioritize revenues so
that Santa Monica and Malibu support our schools without additional tax
burdens on us.

It’s OK to Vote NO on Prop S.

JUNE J. COLEMAN

Chair Santa Monica Democratic Leadership Club
MATHEW L. MILLEN

Former Chair SAMOHI Bi-lingual Advisory Committee

DOUGLAS R. O’BRIEN
Malibu Homeowner

POLLY BENSON-BROWN

Member L.A. County Republican Central Committee

JAMES GLENNON
Malibu Homeowner

LA 002 009

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

Opponents of Measure S are wrong on the facts and wrong about our schools.

Opponents wrongly claim Measure S is unnecessary. False.

Because of the State budget crisis, the Santa Monica-Malibu School District will
lose at least $13 million from next year’s budget. If Measure S fails, our schools
will be forced to lay-off 91 teachers, increasing class size dramatically - up to
50% in elementary schools - cutting preschool programs, and eliminating all
elementary school librarians, nurses and music teachers.

Opponents claim Measure S is just like the measure voted on last November:
False.

Compared to that measure. Measure S significantly reduces the cost for all
taxpayers, shortens the duration by half, and provides a senior homeowner
exemption.

Opponents claim our schools are mismanaged. False.

Independent audits show that our school district is one of the most fiscally
responsible in California. Furthermore, a special Citizens Oversight Committee
will ensure Measure S funds are spent where they’re most needed: only to
preserve the core curriculum.

Measure S is necessary to save our schools. It will help the entire community by
preserving quality education for our children, maintaining community safety, and
protecting property values.

Real supporters of public education recognize that it is worth spending a few
extra dollars a month to provide our children with the education they deserve.

There is no one else who is going to step in and save our schools. It’s up to us.

Please vote YES on Measure S.

JANE SURE

Chair, Santa Monica Commission On Older Americans
LAURE STERN

President, Malibu Foundation for Youth & Families
PAT CAIRNS

California Teacher of the Year, Finalist
FRANK SCHWENGEL

Past President Santa Monica Bay Republican Club

JULIE LOPEZ DAD

President, Santa Monica Democratic Club

LA 002-010