MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

____________SCHOOL

LARKSPUR SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL
PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
MEASUREB

q To partially offset the impact of the Governor's
Q proposed reductions in State funding, facilitate
student learning in core academic subjects, and
continue to provide a quality education for the entire
student population, shall the Larkspur School District
supplement its existing assessment, on a temporary basis,
at the rate of $75.00 per year, for a period of two years,
beginning on July 1, 2003, with specific exemptions for
property owners age 65 or older?

LARKSPUR SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL
PROGRAMS AND SERVICES
MEASURE B

FULL TEXT OF RESOLUTION NO. 2002/03-09

PARCEL TAX ELECTION

in the Matter of a )	RESOLUTION	AND

Special Assessment )	ORDER	OF	ELECTION

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide
adequate funding for schools, and as a result of this lack of financial
support and without the funds1 provided by the current special
assessment, the Larkspur School District would be forced to reduce or
eliminate important instructional programs; beneficial and necessary to
the children who attend the schools of the District; and

WHEREAS, the Governor’s proposed reductions in State funding
would result in further substantial reductions in basic instructional
program delivery; and

WHEREAS, the voters in the district have consistently supported the
District’s quality educational program with approval of parcel taxes
and school bonds; and

WHEREAS, a reliance solely on State funding will result in loss of
critical programs; and

WHEREAS, the District, in the current school year, has engaged in a
variety of efforts to balance the budget by cutting personnel, reducing
supply budgets, and eliminating all spending not essential to
classroom learning; and to generate funds for the educational
program, including lobbying in the State Legislature and supporting
local fundraising efforts; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program
delivers many long-lasting benefits and advantages to all of the
residents of our community; and a high quality school system
favorably impacts property values which are vital to the overall well-
being of the entire District; and

WHEREAS, the Larkspur School District is committed to the highest
standards of fiscal accountability for which it has been publicly praised
by the County Superintendent of Schools; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XII1A of the California Constitution and
Government Code Sections 50075, 50077, 50079 and 53720 et seq.,
authorize school districts to levy a special assessment for the purpose of
providing funds to run the schools of the District upon approval by two-
thirds of the votes cast;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the governing board of the
Larkspur School District conduct a special election on June 3, 2003, at
which time will be submitted to the qualified voters of the Larkspur
School District a measure to authorize a special assessment for the
purpose of preserving and continuing vital core academic programs
critical to the education of the students of the Larkspur School District;
and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the Larkspur School District Board of
Trustees as follows:

Section 1. A special election is hereby called to be held within the
boundaries of the Larkspur School District, to submit to the qualified
voters, the following measure, to wit:

MEASURE B

To partially offset the impact of the Governor’s proposed
reductions in State funding, facilitate student learning in core
academic subjects, and continue to provide a quality
education for the entire student population, shall the Larkspur
School District supplement its existing assessment, on a
temporary basis, at the rate of $75.00 per year, for a period of
two years, beginning on July 1,2003, .with specific exemptions
for property owners age 65 or older?

The special assessment will be imposed for a period of 2 years,
beginning July 1, 2003, at the rate of $75.00 per assessor’s parcel,
which in tax year 2003/04 would increase the existing authorized
assessment of $237.00 per assessor’s parcel,- which increases 5%
annually, by $75.00, with an exemption fori any beneficial owner of a
parcel who has attained the age of 65 on or before May 1 of any
assessment year and who uses that parcel ais his or her principal place
of residence, and continue senior exemptions; granted during the term of
the current special assessment. Any one application from a qualified
applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term
of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel
as his or her principal residence.

The Parcel Assessment currently in effect has supported the following
items. In response to the Governor’s proposed budget reductions to
education, the District is seeking a supplemental assessment to maintain
these programs. The District will utilize to the greatest extent possible,
the proceeds of this special assessment for the following:

Science: Maintain hands-on science instructional programs for
grades 3-5.

Language Arts: Maintain reading support for struggling elementary
school students.

School Libraries:	Maintain	library	services	to	support	the

development of technology based library research skills and the
study of literature at all grade levels.

Music: Maintain a District-wide music program with vocal music in
the elementary grades and instrumental music; available for grades
5-8.

Computer Education: Maintain an integrated technology program.
Counseling: Maintain counseling services.

Motor Skills: Maintain an elementary motor skills program.

MEASURE B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE.



21505

(Full Text of Measure B Continued)

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual
ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

LARKSPUR SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FOR EDUCATIONAL
PROGRAMS AND SERVICES

To partially offset the impact of the Governor’s proposed
reductions in State funding, facilitate student learning in core
academic subjects, and continue to provide a quality education
for the entire student popujation, shall the Larkspur School
District supplement its existing assessment, on a temporary
basis, at the rate of $75.00 pier year, for a period of two years,
beginning on July 1, 2003, with specific exemptions for property
owners age 65 or older?

YES	NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1, 2003, the special tax collected
annually on all assessor’s parcels at the rate specified above, shall be
collected and administered in ttjie same manner as ad valorem property
taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code.	/

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Marin County is hereby
requested to call an election jof the special assessment to be held on
June 3,2003. The County Clprk is hereby requested and authorized to:
1) set forth on all sample ballots relating to this election to be mailed to
the qualified electors of the Larkspur School District the measure; and 2)
to provide absent voter ballots for the special assessment election for
use by qualified electors of tne Larkspur School District who are entitled
thereto in the manner provided by law.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this resolution
is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the, remaining potions of this resolution. This governing board
declares that it would have adopted this resolution and each section,
subsection, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one
or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases or clauses shall be
declared invalid.	,,

Section 6. The Clerk of the Larkspur School District governing board is
hereby authorized and directed to certify to the due adoption of this
resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Marin County
Superintendent of Schools and the Marin County Board of Supervisors
and to file a copy hereof so certified with the County Clerk of Marin
County.

The foregoing resolution was moved by board member Michael
Futterman, and adopted/on roll call on March 5, 2003, by the following
vote:

Ayes: Kathleen Hartzell, Nicole Kowalski, Stacey Weeks, Michael
Futterman, Sally Blatt

Noes: None

Absent/Not Voting: None

WHEREUPON, the I President declared the foregoing resolution duly
adopted and

SO ORDERED,

si Sally Blatt, President
Governing Board of
Larkspur School District

I,	MICHAEL FUTTERMAN, Clerk to the Board of Trustees, do hereby
certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of a Resolution
adopted by the Board of Trustees of the LARKSPUR SCHOOL
DISTRICT at their special meeting of March 5, 2003 which resolution is
on file in the office of the Board.

Dated: March 5,2003

si Michael Futterman
Clerk of the Board

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the Larkspur School
District will be authorized to levy a special tax of Seventy Five Dollars
($75.00), in addition to its previously imposed special taxes on each
parcel of land within the District each year for two (2) years, beginning
July 1,2003. The proceeds of the tax may be used only for the purposes
set forth in the Measure.

Specific exemptions will be available for individuals who have attained
the age of Sixty-Five (65) years or older.

Dated: March 13,2003

PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

I

i

MEASURE B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE



21-506

21506

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B	
Modest, Temporary and Necessary - A Sensible Investment in Local Education!	
The Corte Madera - Larkspur Schools are ranked among the best in the state for outstanding student achievement. Traditionally strong support from parents and community members has helped ensure that our schools offer only the highest quality programs.  Now these very programs are in danger. It is almost certain that the current state budget crisis will drastically reduce funding for our district’s core academic programs. We must protect and maintain our community’s schools by approving Measure B, an emergency 2 year parcel tax designed to address the state funding shortage.	
On June 3, 2003, voters in Corte Madera and Larkspur will have the opportunity to reaffirm their commitment to local education and in turn guarantee continued academic excellence. Measure B will:	
® Maintain comprehensive, core educational programs such as, reading, writing and science	
® Retain accomplished and experienced teachers	
This local tax, deductible from state and federal income taxes, of $75 per parcel annually ($6.25 per month) with no yearly adjustment, will expire June 30, 2005. Property owners age 65 and older may apply for an exemption. All funds generated from this measure will go directly to programs at Neil Cummins Elementary and Hall Middle Schools.	NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
Corte Madera and Larkspur recognize the important value of an outstanding school system- it is an asset that distinguishes the Twin Cities and helps maintain property values. A sensible investment in education is the community's commitment to our children and our future. Please join us in continuing to provide local funding to keep our schools strong.	WAS SUBMITTED
Vote YES on Measure B, a sensible investment in local education.	
si Michael Lappert Vice Mayor of Corte Madera  si Harry Schriebman, Member Corte Madera Community Foundation  si Sally Blatt, President Governing Board of Larkspur School District	
si Dan Hillmer, Parent Larkspur School District	
si Marilyn River Former School Board President	
	END OF MEASURE B

21507