*' .

SAMPLE BALLOT

SPECIAL MEASURE ELECTION
JUNE 3, 2003
City of Desert Hot Springs

CITY

CITY OF DESERT HOT SPRINGS
MEASURE C - UTILITY USERS TAX

Should a Utility Users Tax Ordinance becoming
effective on July 1,2005, and expiring on June 30,
2010, levying and collecting a tax at the rate of 5%
of utility service charges be approved with fifty
percent dedicated to resolving the City's bankruptcy
and restructuring the City's debt and fifty percent
dedicated to providing needed public safety?

Yes	O
No	O

33-SB1X

IBiilllill!

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “C”

The proposed Five-Year Utility Users Tax is a 5% tax on electricity, gas.
water, - 4r. telephone arid cable television service charges. The tax
will be • 'ted by the utility companies from each customer and then
paid to;	'	•'/, The Five-Year Utility Users Tax will commence July 1,

""iSam - on June 30, 2010.

Five-Year Utility Users Tax is a special tax. Fifty percent of the
u.„,,ues collected under the Five-Year Utility Users Tax shall be used
for resolving the City’s bankruptcy and restructuring the City’s debt and
50 percent "shall 1-~ to provide necessary public safety services
such as, but no, m police, fire and code enforcement for the
benefit of the City. p businesses and visitors.

Voting yes for Measure C means the voter approves of the code f
the Five-Year Utility Users Tax under the new utility users tax ord
Voting no for Measure C means the voter does not want the Fiv r
Utility Users Tax enacted.

Since this is a special tax, it must be approved by a two-thirds majority
vote in order to take effect.

If you desire a copy of the utility users tax ordinance being
proposed by Measure C, please call the office of the City Clerk at
(780) 329-6411, extension 222, and a copy of the ordinance will be

mailedr1-* *--**- you.

Respect	d.

Steven f	Assistant	City	Attorney

City of C - ings

ARGUMENTIn FAVOR OF MEASURE “C”

The famous Revolutionary War writer Thomas Paine wrote, "These are
times that try men’s souls". Your city is facing one of those times - right
ue to errors of ionn-ann rmst administrations, namely the 1991

Jage” lawsuit, D> - 'gs was slaps ■ a huge fine
r~J ‘ yer fr" ‘rtoiing	nis, coupled • ir long ago

i . iobli< • .the	■- id over $12 TnDecem-

t 2001	.	y filer

The city’s bankruptcy attorney has filed payment plans in court, oniy to
‘>-e COurt that the propose'" ''-n’t contain enough money to
itors. Desert Hoi ings needs to make a good faith effort to
money to adequacy compensate the creditors. The City
stled with possible solutions for several months and decided
tors to approve a 5% Special Utility Tax to begin July 1,2005
e 30,2010. It is not a new tax; we already pay a 5% utility tax
o end June 30, 2005. By asking you to vote “yes" on this
we are “earmarking" the revenue to make available 80% to
cruptcy settlement, retaining 50% for the city’s ever growing
ride sufficient police and fire public safety services.

Nc	- - In as 1	as we are currently paying a 5%
uti --	nn OOP wMj DAV Et .^fHQjp Ct	more than we already do. This
“e?		■ t our city's attempt to pay the
ere	. discharge th© bankruptcy, s	iet on with the wonderful future
that a»w •	; ■■■■. w i nut aunnuu.	
We resp	w g .rge your “Yes” vote	on Measure C.
By:	Matt Weyuker. Mayor Gregory S. Ruppert William R. Reper Mary K. Stephens	

Garv Bosworth

j

I

P

rf

c.

tc

ai

th .

Special
pay the
need to

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST WAS FILED