Measure A: Six Year Parcel Tax, Emery Unified School District

To strengthen and improve essential academic curricula and educational programs for the District's students, shall the Emery Unified School District be authorized to levy, for 6 years only beginning July 1, 2003, an annual tax of $0.10 per square foot of improved property or $50.00 per parcel, including vacant parcels, whichever is greater with an exemption for eligible property owners age 65 or over, and to appoint a Citizen's Fiscal Oversight Committee? 2/3 vote

Impartial Analysis from the County Counsel
Measure A, an Emery Unified School District ("the District") special parcel tax measure, seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy a special parcel tax for six years for the purpose of funding educational programs set forth in the measure.
A school district, following notice and public hearings, has the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA and Article XIIIC of the California Constitution and section 50075-77, 50079, and 53722 of the California Government Code.
If approved, these tax funds are proposed by the District to be used for programs to support academic and educational programs in mathematics, science, literacy, music and visual and performing arts in kindergarten through 12th grade. These tax funds are also proposed to be utilized to recruit and retain teachers and staff, and to improve services in kindergarten through 12th grade programs in school libraries, counseling, tutoring and mentoring, school site technology support, and English language development.
If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote "Yes", a qualified special tax, at the annual rate of $0.10 per square foot of improved property or $50 per parcel, including vacant parcels, whichever is greater, would be imposed for a period of six years, beginning on July 1, 2003. An exemption from the tax will be made to property owners who are aged 65 prior to July 1 of the assessment year and who used the parcel as his or her principal place of residence and who apply to the District for an exemption pursuant to District procedures.
If less than two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the measure will fail and the Emery Unified School District will not be authorized to levy the special tax as proposed by this measure.  s/RICHARD E. WINNIE
County Counsel

Arguments For Measure A
A quality school system is of indispensable value to a community, and Emeryville's schools need your support. It's that simple.
Two years ago when the Emery Unified School District (EUSD) faced a fiscal crisis, our community came together to solve the problem. Now, California is facing a faltering economy and the largest budget shortfall in state history. This will result in drastic cuts to nearly every critical social service in the state, including education.
Unlike virtually every other city in Alameda County, Emeryville doesn't have a parcel tax to support its schools. That puts us at a major disadvantage.
Measure A will change that by:
Strengthening Educational Programs
	•	Math; Science; Literacy; Music; and Visual and Performing Arts 
Improving Student Services
	•	School libraries; Counseling; Tutoring and mentoring services; School site technology support; and English language development 
Ensuring Quality Instruction
	•	Retain and recruit quality teachers and staff 
Fully 75% of the funds raised will be from commercial properties, not residential. All seniors age 65 and over will be exempted. To ensure the revenue is spent as the voters intended, a five member Citizens' Fiscal Oversight Committee will advise the School Board regarding proper expenditure of the measure's proceeds.
We have an opportunity to help create the quality school system Emeryville deserves. A first class school system will improve our quality of life, make our city a more attractive place for businesses to locate, increase property values, and create a better-educated citizenry.
Your investment in education is an investment in our community. On Tuesday, June 3rd, vote to improve our schools and our quality of life.
Vote Yes on A!
s/NORA DAVIS Emeryville City Council Member  s/JOHN P. GOODING Chair, Emeryville Chamber of Commerce  s/ARTHUR HOFF Emery Unified School District Advisory Board Member  s/ELIZABETH C. ALTIERI On Behalf of Emery Education Foundation Board Member

(No argument against Measure A was submitted.)

Full Text of Measure A
1. To strengthen and improve academic curricula and educational programs and support programs for the District's students, shall the Emery Unified School District levy for 6 years only, a qualified special tax, at the annual rate of $0.10 per square foot of improved property or $50.00 per parcel, including vacant parcels, whichever is greater, beginning on July 1 2003, with an exemption for property owners age 65 or over as follows:
	•	(1) To strengthen and improve kindergarten through 12th grade academic curricula and educational programs in the following essential areas: a) Mathematics 
b) Science
c) Literacy
d) Music
e) Visual and Performing Arts

	•	(2) To strengthen and improve kindergarten through 12th grade programs and services in the following areas which contribute to student academic success:
a) School libraries
b) Counseling
c) Tutoring and mentoring
d) School site technology support
e) English language development

	•	(3) To retain and recruit quality teachers and staff 
2. The special tax shall be levied as follows:
	•	(1) On all taxable real property at a rate of $0.10 per square foot of improved property or $50.00 per parcel, including vacant parcels, whichever is greater, per year.
	•	(2) Real property otherwise exempted from taxation under the constitution and laws of the State of California shall also be exempted from any liability for the special tax imposed by this measure.
	•	(3) An exemption from the special tax shall be made available to each property owner who will attain age 65 prior to July 1 of the assessment year, who owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, who uses the parcel as his or her principal place of residence, and who applies to the District pursuant to an administrative review process established to grant such exemptions. 
3. The revenue raised by the special tax shall not be used for general educational purposes but shall be used solely for the specific educational purposes set forth in this measure. Each year the governing authority of the Emery Unified School District shall determine which specific educational purposes shall be funded and the amount of such funding. The revenue raised by the special tax shall be accounted for separately. Each year, the governing authority of the Emery Unified School District shall prepare and make available to the public a written financial report about the revenue raised by the special tax and its expenditures in accordance with the specific purposes of the measure. Such report shall be presented at a public meeting of the governing authority of the Emery Unified School District.
4. A Citizens' Fiscal Oversight Committee shall be established, which shall consist of five community members appointed by the governing authority of the Emery Unified School District, which shall meet and advise the governing authority about the proper expenditure of the proceeds of the special tax. The Committee shall also review the annual report prepared by the Chief Business Official of the District regarding the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project authorized to be funded.
5. On July 1, 2003, and thereafter, the special tax shall be collected by the Alameda County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with the ad valorem taxes collected by the Tax Collector. the special tax shall be subject to the same penalty and enforcement provisions as ad valorem taxes. The special tax and penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the e rate for unpaid ad valorem taxes until paid.
6. The provisions of this measure shall not apply to any person, association, or corporation or to any property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the District to impose the tax herein provided. If any section, sub-section, sentence, phrase, part, or clause or this measure is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such decision shall not affect or impair the validity of the remaining portion of this measure. It is hereby declared the intention of the governing authority of the Emery Unified School District and the electorate that this measure would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid section, sub-section, phrase, or clause thereof not been included.