<summary> COUNTYWIDE
TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN
FOR ONE-HALF (1/2) CENT SALES TAX
IN LAKE COUNTY
JANUARY 10, 2003

The proposed Lake County one-half (1/2) cent local sales tax will benefit the city streets of Clearlake and Lakeport
and the County’s maintained road system serving the unincorporated area. The City of Lakeport has 31 miles of
streets and the City of Clearlake has 151 miles of streets. The County maintained road system has 613 miles of
roads and 124 bridges. For the purpose of comparison, it is only 480 miles from Lakeport to Los Angeles.

The cities’ and County’s maintained road and street systems are critical and essential to the every day movement of
people and goods that include local traffic, business, industrial, farm to market trucking, bussing of school children,
emergency response vehicles and access to recreation areas.

Much of our local road system was built to meet the needs of the 1930’s - 1940’s era and is now crumbling due to
age, increased traffic, and years of insufficient maintenance.

The problem is that the needed maintenance, repairs, and improvements cannot be provided with current funding. It
is certain that without additional transportation funding, the transportation system will continue to crumble, become
inadequate for transportation needs, and fall into disrepair.

The cost of constructing our local road and street system is in excess of one billion dollars; however, existing funding
for maintaining this system is less than $5,000 each year for each mile of road or street. For the purpose of comparison, it costs approximately $20,000 to chip seal or slurry seal one mile of road, approximately $100,000 to place a
one-inch thick asphalt overlay on one mile of street, and costs approximately $60,000 to place six inches of gravel on
one mile of an unpaved road.

The proposed Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan for the sales tax will:

♦	Limit this sales tax to one-half (1/2) cent

♦	Ensure responsible use of taxpayer funds

♦	Maintain local control of all funds

♦	Use a current agency to administer the sales tax

♦	Be used only for programs or projects shown in this Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan

♦	End automatically after 20 years (2023)

♦	Requires yearly audits to assure that the money is properly spent

♦	Requires yearly plan updates, with approval at a public meeting

GOALS AND OBJECTIVES

MAINTAIN AND IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF LIFE IN LAKE COUNTY BY PROVIDING MORE FUNDS
FOR TRANSPORTATION

Provides needed funding for the maintenance and repair of local streets and roads in the cities and unincorporated
areas.

Provides needed funding for the maintenance and improvement of bicycle and pedestrian facilities.

Provides needed funding for better access to public transit by improving bus stops, constructing shelters, increasing
transit service, and other improvements.

SPEND TAXPAYER FUNDS WISELY

Requires sales tax funds be used only for the maintenance and improvement of transportation facilities and programs
identified in the Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan and no other purpose.

Requires an annual financial audit of sales tax expenditures to ensure that all funds are spent on projects in this voter
adopted Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan.

Requires that existing General Funds made available by city and county governments for local street and road pro-
grams are continued. This is to ensure that the new sales tax money is adding to current funding levels. This
requirement will be referred to as the Maintenance of Effort (MOE) requirement.

Requires strict limitation of administrative and overhead costs in carrying out this voter adopted Expenditure Plan.

Requires updating of the Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan every five years to ensure that changing
needs and priorities of the cities and County can be met.

Requires review of sales tax spending by a Citizen’s Watchdog Committee to ensure that the Countywide
Transportation Expenditure Plan is followed.

Requires that the sales tax expire in twenty years (2023).

SHARE TRANSPORTATION SALES TAXES FAIRLY

Returns funds to the City of Clearlake, City of Lakeport, and County of Lake (unincorporated area of Lake County) on
a return-to-source basis. Sales tax will be made available to County of Lake, Clearlake and Lakeport for Expenditure
Plan projects in the same percentage in which it is collected.

The proceeds of the transportation sales tax are projected at $2 million for the first full year and will be distributed to
ensure that revenues are returned to the jurisdiction in which they were generated. Estimated revenues for each
jurisdiction for the first full year are: $480,000 (24%) City of Clearlake, $620,000 (31%) City of Lakeport, and
$899,000 (45%) County of Lake.

PROVIDE LOCAL CONTROL OF THE TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM

Requires local administration of the program through the existing local transportation authority, the Sales Tax
Authority for Roadway Repair (STARR). No new agency would be required to administer these funds.

Assigns implementation responsibility to the cities and the County to carry out Countywide Transportation
Expenditure Plan projects.

This Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan was prepared by STARR. It shows specific programs that will be
funded by a one-half (1/2) cent transportation sales tax to be collected for 20 years, if approved by the voters.

TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS
USE OF FUNDS

Funds may only be used for transportation purposes. These purposes include but are not limited to funding for
streets and roads such as pothole repair, road maintenance, road repair/repaving, reconstruction, equipment pur-
chase, and other programs such as maintenance of bridges, drainage facilities, and safety related projects. Bicycle
and pedestrian projects and transit-related improvements or services are also eligible for these funds. Salary and
benefit costs for street/road maintenance workers are eligible.

ANNUAL AUDIT

At least yearly, the local transportation authority (STARR) shall conduct an independent audit of the use of all trans-
portation sales tax funds raised by this measure. The audit shall be made available to the public and shall report on
whether the use of funds complies with the Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan. In addition, the audit shall
determine that Maintenance of Effort requirements, and other requirements described in Section 1 of the Countywide
Transportation Expenditure Plan (Local Streets and Roads) has been met.

PLAN UPDATE AND TERMINATION OF SALES TAX

The Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan shall be updated by the local transportation authority (STARR)
every five years that the sales tax is in effect to reflect changing priorities and needs in the cities and the County. Any
changes to this Expenditure Plan must be adopted by STARR at a public meeting. The sales tax authorized to be col-
lected by the voters shall end in 2023, unless extended by a vote of the people.

CITIZEN’S WATCHDOG COMMITTEE

A “Watchdog Committee” of citizens residing in Lake County shall be formed and meet at least yearly. The purpose of
this committee shall be to ensure that the County of Lake (unincorporated area), City of Clearlake and City of
Lakeport spend their share of funds for programs or projects in this Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan.

SPECIFIC TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS TO BE FUNDED

1.	LOCAL STREETS AND ROADS

The local street and road system is needed for the everyday movement of goods and people within the cities
and the county. This system has extensive potholes and is in need of more maintenance and repair.

There are not enough street and road funds available to maintain the local street and road system at the level
necessary to serve the public.

The Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan will provide an estimated $41 million of the sales tax funds for
this purpose over the 20-year period. The funds will be returned to the cities and the County on a return-to-
source basis. In other words, sales tax funds will be returned to the cities and County to fund Countywide
Transportation Expenditure Plan programs/projects in the same percentage in which it was originally collected.
In order to be eligible for these funds, the County of Lake and cities of Lakeport and Clearlake will be required to
file a Five-Year Local Expenditure Program, updated yearly, with STARR. These Local Expenditure Programs
will be amended into the Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan in 2008, 2013, and 2018.

2.	BICYCLE AND PEDESTRIAN FACILITIES

Many of the roads in Lake County and in the cities of Lakeport and Clearlake were originally constructed without
bike and pedestrian facilities. Bicycle and pedestrian improvements are intended to provide Lake County resi-
dents additional travel options. Bicycle and pedestrian needs include: bikeways, bike paths, and sidewalk
improvements to aid persons with disabilities. The Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan will provide an
estimated $2 million of the sales tax funds for this purpose over the 20-year period.

3.	PUBLIC TRANSIT

Transit service is an important part of the county’s transportation system. Although a countywide transit system
has been in operation since 1996, there have been few improvements to local streets, roads and pedestrian
facilities to assist transit users or improve transit operations. The Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan
will provide up to $4 million of the sales tax funds over the 20-year period for projects such as widening roads to
provide bus stops, bus shelters, and pedestrian access to bus stops, and service expansion.

OTHER AVAILABLE SOURCES OF FUNDING

Current transportation funding provides less than is needed to meet the necessary level of maintenance and repair of
the local road and street system; to improve and maintain bikeways and sidewalks, and to improve bus transporta-
tion. Transportation funding sources that may be available for those specific transportation projects in the
Countywide Transportation Expenditure Plan are listed below:


County of Lake (unincorporated area)

Road Maintenance, Bridge Maintenance, Bicycle/Sidewalk Maintenance	State Gas Tax	$2,090,000	$10,450,000	$41,800,000	Reliable
	Federal Forestry Receipts	400,000	1,200,000	1,200,000	Reliable through 2005
	Proposition 42 (@2% annual increase)	1,280,000	640,000 (Jan-June 2008)	22,563,000  2009-2023	Commences 2008, subject to annual cancellation by Governor/Legislators
	Traffic Congestion Relief Act (AB 2928)	282,000	846,000  (2003/04/05)	—	Expires 2005, subject to annual cancellation by Governor/ Legislators
	County General Fund  (Maintenance of Effort)	14,000	70,000	280,000	Reliable
	County Transient Occupancy	50,000	250,000	1,000,000	Reliable for bikeways/ pathways
	County Property Taxes and Interest	520,000	2,600,000	10,400,000	Reliable, subject to shift by Governor or Legislators to schools, etc.
	Regional Surface Transportation Program (RSTP)	420,200	2,547,600	10,412,800	(Formerly FAU/FAS) Dependent on reauthorization of federal transportation bill
Bikeway and/or Pedestrian Facility Improvement	Area Planning Council (APC)				$25,000 is available yearly to County or cities on a competitive basis
	Recreational  Trails  (Federal)				Unreliable source of funding
	Safe Routes to School (State)				Statewide competitive funding source
	Bicycle Transportation Account (BTA) (State)				Statewide competitive funding source
	Transportation Enhancement Activities (TEA) (Federal)				Dependent on reauthorization of federal transportation bill
Public Transit  Facilities  Improvements					All Federal, state, and local funding sources committed to transit operating costs

City of Clearlake

Activity	Available  Funding  Source	Estimated  Annual  Totals	Estimated  Five-Year  Totals  (2003-2008)	Estimated  20-Year  Totals  (2003-2023)	Comments
Existing Revenues available for Transportation and/or	City General Fund  (Maintenance of Effort)	$164,000	$820,000	$3,280,000	Reliable
Improvement  Programs	State Gas Tax Revenue	250,000	1,250,000	5,000,000	Reliable
	Traffic Congestion Relief Act (AB 2928)	30,000	90,000  (2003/04/05)	—	Expires 2005, subject to annual cancellation by Governor/Legislators
	Proposition 42 (2% annual increase)	136,000	68,000  (Jan-June  2008)	2,395,000	Commences 2008, subject to annual cancellation by Governor/Legislators
	Regional Surface Transportation Program (RSTP)	132,600	690,000	3,351,700	(Formerly FAU/FAS) Dependent on reauthorization of federal transportation bill
	State  Transportation Improvement Program (STIP)	0			Subject to annual authorization by legislators
Bikeway and/or Pedestrian Facility Improvement	Area Planning Council (APC)				$25,000 is available yearly to County or cities on a competitive basis
	Recreational  Trails  (Federal)				Unreliable source of funding
	Safe Routes to School (State)				Statewide competitive funding source
	Bicycle Transportation Account (BTA) (State)				Statewide competitive funding source
	Transportation Enhancement Activities (TEA) (Federal)				Dependent on reauthorization of federal transportation bill


City of Lakeport

Existing
Revenues
available for
Transportation
and/or

Improvement

Programs

City General
Fund

(Maintenance of
Effort)

Regional Surface
Transportation
Program
(RSTP)

State Gas Tax
Revenue

Traffic
Congestion
Relief Act

(AB 2928)

Proposition 42
(@2% annual
increase)

State

Transportation
Improvement
Program (STIP)

$48,000

50,000

89,000

20,000

50,000

$240,000

250,000

445,000

60,000

(2003/04/05)

25,000

(Jan-June

2008)

$960,000

1,000,000

1,780,000

880,000

Reliable

(Formerly FAU/FAS)
Dependent on
reauthorization of
federal transportation bill

Reliable

Expires 2005, subject
to annual cancellation
by Governor/Legislators

Commences 2008,
subject to annual
cancellation by
Governor/Legislators

Subject to annual
authorization by
legislators

Bikeway and/or
Pedestrian
Facility
Improvement

Area Planning
Council (APC)

$25,000 is available
yearly to County or
cities on a competitive
basis

Recreational

Trails

(Federal)

Unreliable source of
funding

Safe Routes to
School (State)

Statewide competitive
funding source

Bicycle
Transportation
Account (BTA)
(State)

Statewide competitive
funding source

Transportation
Enhancement
Activities (TEA)
(Federal)

Dependent on
reauthorization of
federal transportation bill

Public Transit

Facilities

Improvements

All Federal, state, and
local funding sources
committed to transit
operating costs

PROPOSED PROGRAMS AND/OR PROJECTS

The proposed projects and/or programs listed below are funded by transportation sales tax revenues. State, Federal,
and local transportation funding sources as identified above in “Other Available Funding Sources” may also be used
in conjunction with the anticipated sales tax revenues.

County of Lake (unincorporated area)

Expenditure Plan of Anticipated Tax Revenue			
Activity	Estimated  Percentage	Estimated Expenditures (Years 1-5)*	Estimated Expenditures (Years 1-20)*
Countywide Road Maintenance	65%	$2,816,213	$14,011,251
County wide Bridge Maintenance	10%	433,264	2,155,577
Maintenance Equipment	10%	433,264	2,155,577
County wide Bicycle and Sidewalk Facilities	10%	433,264	2,155,577
County wide Transit Facilities Improvements	5%	216,631	1,077,789
TOTAL	100%	$4,332,636	$21,555,771
♦Figures represent net revenue after a 2% deduction for audit, administration and other costs related to Transrortation Sales Tax.

City of Clearlake

Expenditure Plan of Anticipated Tax Revenue			
Activity	Estimated  Percentage	Estimated Expenditures (Years 1-5)*	Estimated Expenditures (Years 1-20)*
Citywide Ongoing Street Maintenance	50%	$1,155,370	$5,748,206
Citywide Unpaved Street Grading	30%	693,222	3,448,923
Purchase/Maintenance of Equipment	5%	115,537	574,821
Capital Project Reserves	15%	346,610	1,724,461
TOTAL	100%	$2,310,739	$11,496,411

♦Figures represent net revenue after a 2% deduction for audit, administration and other costs related to Transportation Sales Tax.

City of Lakeport

Expenditure Han of Anticipated Tax Revenue			
Activity	Estimated  Percentage	Estimated Expenditures (Years 1-5)*	Estimated Expenditures (Years 1-20)*
Citywide Ongoing Street Maintenance and Street Maintenance Equipment	10%	$298,471	$1,484,953
Transit Services and Transit Facility Improvements	10%	298,471	1,484,953
Pedestrian/Bicycle Facilities	5%	149,235	742,478
Pavement Resurfacing and Street Reconstruction	75%	2,238,528	11,137,147
TOTAL	100%	$2,984,705	$14,849,531

* Figures represent net revenue after a 2% deduction for audit, administration and other costs related to Transportation Sales Tax. <summaryend>











<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF COUNTY SALES
TAX AUTHORITY FOR ROADWAY REPAIR
(STARR) MEASURE C

California law authorizes the governing board of a
Local Transportation Authority to impose a special tax in
the form of a retail transaction and use tax for local
transportation purposes. Such a tax, more commonly
referred to as a sales and use tax, is imposed upon
retailers for the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail (sales tax) and an excise tax imposed
on the storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer (use tax).
Such taxes may be used for the construction, improvement, maintenance or operation of local streets, roads
and highways and for the construction, improvement,
and operation of public transit systems. The law further
requires the Authority to adopt a County Transportation
Expenditure Plan which must describe the purposes for
which the tax revenue will be expended. The ordinance
imposing this tax as adopted by the governing body pf
the Authority must set forth the maximum tax rate to be
imposed, which cannot exceed one percent (1%), must
specify the period during which the tax will be imposed,
which cannot exceed twenty (20) years and must specify the transportation purposes for which the tax revenue
will be utilized, by reference to the adopted County
Transportation Expenditure Plan, which Plan must be
contained in the voter information handbook. An ordinance imposing such a special retail and transaction
use tax must be approved by two-thirds of the voters
voting upon the measure. Since the Local
Transportation Authority is composed of the County of
Lake and the Cities of Clearlake and Lakeport, the mea-
sure will be voted upon by the voters of both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Lake County. This
is such a measure.

The California Constitution requires certain governmental entities to set an appropriations limit. The
appropriations limit represents the maximum amount of
certain tax revenues (the revenue) that may be spent by
that entity in a fiscal year. If the revenue received by the
entity exceeds the appropriations limit, the excess revenue must be returned by a revision of the tax rate. The
Local Transportation Authority (Sales Tax Authority for
Roadway Repair) (STARR) is a governmental entity
subject to the Constitutional provisions regarding appropriations limits. The establishment of the Authority’s
appropriations limit is also a part of this measure.

This measure, if approved by two-thirds of the voters in both the unincorporated and incorporated areas of
Lake County voting thereon, will approve the action of

the Board of Directors of the Sales Tax Authority for
Roadway Repair (STARR) to impose a special tax, in
the form of a retail transaction and use tax, at the rate of
one-half percent (.5%) for twenty (20) years within Lake
County and the Cities of Clearlake and Lakeport, the
measure specifying that at least 85% of the tax revenue
will be dedicated to fix potholes and repair and maintain
local streets and roads with the remainder of said revenue to be used for pedestrian, bicycle and bus
improvements, all as set forth in the County
Transportation Expenditure Plan contained in the voter
information handbook. The Authority Ordinance imposing such tax also specifies that all expenditures of the
tax revenue will be subject to audit by a citizens’ over-
sight committee.

This measure, if approved by voters voting there-
on, will also authorize the establishment of the
Authority’s appropriations limit, said annual appropria-
tions limit for fiscal year 2003-04 to be in the amount of
three million dollars $3,000,000. Because an appropria-
tions limit only represents the maximum amount of rev-
enue that may be spent by the Authority, the establish-
ment of that limit will have no direct effect on taxes or
the tax rate. Only if the amount of revenue received by
the Authority exceeds the appropriations limit will there
be a possible indirect effect on taxes or tax rates by a
revision of such tax rates.

This measure is authorized by and is in conformity
with the existing laws of the state of California.

A yes vote on this measure will approve the action
of the Authority’s Board of Directors to impose a special
tax for twenty (20) years, in the form of a retail transac-
tion and use tax, in both the unincorporated and incor-
porated areas of Lake County (County of Lake, Cities of
Clearlake and Lakeport) for the provision of transporta-
tion improvements and related purposes as set forth in
the ballot measure and in the County Transportation
Expenditure Plan and will authorize the establishment of
the Authority’s appropriations limit for fiscal year 2003-04.

A no vote on this measure will disapprove the
action of the Authority’s Board of Directors to impose
such a tax and will disapprove the establishment of the
Authority’s appropriations limit as set forth above. <impartialend>











<impartialsigs> s/ CAMERON L. REEVES

County Counsel, County of Lake <impartialsigsend>










<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

The majority of our County and City road and
street systems are deteriorated and growing less safe
by the day. Measure “C” will provide desperately need-
ed funds to help fix potholes and repair streets, roads,
intersections and school routes in both cities as well as
the County.

A survey mandated by the California Senate in
1999 identified a $174 million maintenance backlog and
an annual maintenance expenditure need of $7.7 mil-
lion. Today we have only about one-third of the amount
we need to maintain what amounts to a billion dollar
investment in public streets and roads.

Local governments have endorsed a sales tax as a
means of generating revenue specifically for transporta-
tion purposes. The proposed one-half cent tax would be
collected within Lake County and spent only on projects
in the adopted Expenditure Plan. We will have direct
control over these funds; state government cannot take
them away.

Well-maintained city streets and county roads are
safer for the traveling public and substantially reduce
the cost of vehicle maintenance and operation.

The Expenditure Plan shows how the County,
Clearlake and Lakeport intend to use funding generated
by this proposed tax. Review this Expenditure Plan. I
am sure you will agree that it will be a wise investment
in the future of our community.

: This tax will have minimal impact on the people of
Lake County; those with low or fixed incomes will pay an
estimated $12 per year with the average paid by other
taxpayers estimated at $50 per year. In addition, pur-
chases made by tourists and other travelers in Lake
County will contribute to the maintenance and repair of
our local streets and roads.

Local organizations support this measure. It pro-
vides our community with local choice, local responsibili-
ty, and local accountability. Vote YES on Measure C. <favorend>









<favorsigs> s/ Tom Lincoln

President, Lakeport Regional Chamber
of Commerce <favorsigsend>








<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE C

There is a growing consensus among both sup-
porters and opponents of Measure “C” that a sales tax
alone will not pave everyone’s street. We will need spe-
cial assessment districts to do that even with a new
sales tax. Why support two revenue collecting bureau-
cracies when one will get the job done with higher
rates?

In the event that only a new sales tax is collected
you can be sure that it will mostly go to fixing existing
arterial routes and throughfares. The average resident
will not see their dirt roads paved after 20 years of pay-
ing a sales tax.

Another assumption of the impact of a sales tax on
residents is that it won’t increase as a percentage of
income over time. Anyone who has experienced the rise
in rents and utilities in Lake County knows that as their
disposable income goes down any new expense will
take a bigger chunk of it. This will get worse for the 20
year life of a new sales tax.

Furthermore, any estimate of how much of a new
sales tax low income people would directly pay ignores
the higher costs of doing business being economically
passed on downstream. Lower income people would
pay their sales tax plus other people’s sales tax in the
form of higher prices.

Reject the costs of a redundant bureaucracy that
will take money away from roads and people on fixed
incomes. Vote “NO” on Measure “C”. <rebutfavorend>









<rebutfavorsigs> s/ Dante DeAmicis <rebutfavorsigsend> 









<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Fixing and paving roads is a good idea. Funding
this work with a countywide sales tax is a bad idea.

A sales tax is a bad idea because poor people who
do not drive would have to subsidize the roads of people
who do drive. This is not right. The crumbs that would
be tossed to pedestrians and bus riders are an insult.

Sales taxes are the most regressive of all taxes on
the poor, according to economists such as Nobel Prize
winner Paul Samuelson. “Regressive” means the poor
would pay a larger percentage of their income than the
middle class. At a time when the State is considering
their own regressive sales tax increase an additional
local one should be unthinkable.

In the real world, people who want something pay
for it. Paying for roads would best be done at the neigh-
borhood level with special assessment districts, a
method several local officials think is a good idea. Let us
not spoil a good idea with a bad one. Special assess-
ment districts for roads have worked just fine in the local
neighborhoods that have used them.

For other throughways a countywide gas tax would
give drivers as many good roads as they wanted to pay
for.

Those who say property values would go up with
better roads forget that this would boost up rents for
renters as well. Countywide authorities should not be in
the business of improving the lot of the haves at the
expense of the have nots- Government bodies should
be neutral and leave control and funding of1 roads to
neighborhoods and the drivers themselves. <againstend>









<againstsigs> s/ Dante DeAmicis, Author Against <againstsigsend>










<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE C

With all due respect, opponent’s claims are mis-
leading.

In addition to road improvements, Measure “C” will
fund $6 million of improvements to public transit and
pedestrian/bicycle facilities. This amount is more than
crumbs! Furthermore, the repair and maintenance of
local roads is important to our public transit system,
school buses, and dial-a-ride services for our senior and
disabled citizens.

Opponent states, “fixing and paving roads is a
good idea”: He is correct because good streets and
roads benefit everyone regardless of whether they drive.
Good streets and roads enhance tourism, which is an
important part of our economy, and provide local jobs
and contribute to the sales tax.

Special assessment districts are a bad idea. This
would require the adjoining property owners to pay the
cost of repairing and maintaining their streets and roads
even though others travel on them and contribute to
their wear and tear. These property owners would most
likely pass these costs on to any renters or in the case
of a business it would result in higher costs to you and
me—the consumer.

Well maintained city streets and county roads
reduce accidents and enhance response times by our
law enforcement agencies, fire departments, and other
emergency services, which benefits everyone regard-
less of their income or whether they own an automobile.

Currently 80% of the state’s population lives in a
county where voters have voluntarily taxed themselves
through a transportation sales tax.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE “C” <rebutagainstend> 








<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Tom Lincoln, President

Lakeport Regional Chamber of Commerce <rebutagainstsigsend>