ORINDA UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
COUNTY OF CONTRA COSTA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Res. No. 03-07

RESOLUTION CALLING PARCEL TAX ELECTION

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code Section 50079 authorize a school district, upon approval of two-thirds of the
electorate voting on the measure, to levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the “Board”) of the Orinda Union School
District (the “District”) has determined that in order to continue meeting the educational needs of
all of the District’s students it is necessary to authorize a parcel tax to replace the current parcel tax
expiring on June 30, 2005, and

WHEREAS, the District is committed to maximizing State and federal funding, and
relying on local parcel taxes only as needed in order to meet its stated educational goals; and

WHEREAS, this Board has held a public hearing after due notice regarding the
proposed authorization of the parcel tax;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of the Orinda
Union School District, as follows:

1.	Recitals. This Board hereby finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are
true and correct.

2.	Order of Election. This resolution shall stand as the order to the Contra Costa
County Superintendent of Schools to call an election within the boundaries of the District on
March 4, 2003, for approval of the measure contained in Section 3 hereof. The authority for the
specifications of this election order is contained in Sections 5304 and 5322 of the California
Education Code and Section 50079 of the California Government Code.

3.	Specifications of Ballot Measure. This Board hereby requests the Registrar of
Voters of the County of Contra Costa (the “Registrar of Voters”) to submit to the voters of the
District on March 4, 2003, the following ballot measure:

ORINDA ELEMENTARY AND INTERMEDIATE SCHOOLS
EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION ACT OF 2003

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Orinda Elementary

and Intermediate Schools Excellence in Education Act of 2003” or as “Measure _”.

[designation to be assigned by County Registrar of Voters]

DOCSSF1 :635226.7

FINDINGS

The Orinda community values educational excellence both for our children
and for the continued attractiveness of Otinda as an exceptional place to live and own a
home.

Otinda Union School District is determined to maintain its support for strong
academic programs, quality teaching, and small class sizes.

State and federal funding levels will not permit the District to continue to
achieve its high goals for our children’s education. Local sources of funding continue to be
needed to maintain and enhance programs, but contributions through the Educational
Foundation of Orinda, Parent Clubs, and other local sources, while significant, are not
enough. Nor should we as a community expect to rely on annual voluntary contributions to
satisfy the District’s ongoing basic operational costs and need to pay fair teacher salaries.

A secure, reliable source of non-State funding is needed to maintain high
academic standards and provide the best education program possible to the children of
Orinda, to attract and retain the best teachers available, and to preserve small class sizes.

TERMS OF EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this
measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $385 per year on
each taxable parcel in the District, to replace the District’s existing parcel tax commencing
July 1, 2003. The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to as the “Excellence in
Education Tax”. Proceeds of the Excellence in Education Tax shall be authorized to be
used for classroom and educational program improvements, such as maintaining small class
sizes, core academic courses, libraries, computer instruction, literacy support, and hiring
and retaining quality teachers.

Low-Income Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to
those members of the Otinda community most in need, any parcel owned and occupied by
a low-income person 65 years of age or older shall be exempt from the Excellence in
Education Tax upon proper application to the District. The exemption shall be available
pursuant to procedures to be prescribed by the Board of Trustees or otherwise as required
by law or by the Contra Costa County Tax Collector. A “low-income person” is a member
of a ‘Very low income household” as defined by California Health and Safety Code Section
50105. Under current law, this means any household whose income does not exceed 50
percent of area median income, adjusted for family size and revised annually.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Excellence in
Education Tax, the Board of Trustees shall cause an account to be established for deposit of
the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the Excellence in Education Tax remain
unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District shall cause an

DOCSSFl :635226.7

-2-

f

independent financial auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of Trustees no
later than January 1 of each year, commencing January 1, 2004, stating (1) the amount of
Excellence in Education Tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any
project funded or to be funded from proceeds of the tax. The report may relate to the
calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall
determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other
appropriate routine report to the Board of Trustees.

Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee. At least annually, the Board of
Trustees will provide the information required to be contained in the annual report to the
Budget Committee constituted from time to time by the Superintendent, and the Board
shall regularly consult with the Budget Committee regarding the revenues collected and the
application of those revenues.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall constitute
the specific purposes of the Excellence in Education Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be
applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Excellence in Education Tax shall be collected by the Contra Costa
County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be subject to the
same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector.
Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property
taxes until paid. The collection of the Excellence in Education Tax shall not decrease the
funds available from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date
hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property
in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All property which is otherwise
exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be
exempt from the imposition of the Excellence in Education Tax in such year. An
exemption is provided for low-income seniors as described above.

The District shall annually provide a list of taxable parcels to the Contra Costa
County tax collection officials. The Contra Costa County Assessor’s determination of
exemption or relief of any such taxable property from taxation shall be final and binding for
the purposes of the Excellence in Education Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the
County Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a
mis classification of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Excellence in
Education Taxes paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds
pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

The District shall adopt administrative procedures by resolution of the Board
of Trustees to allow exemptions from the Excellence in Education Tax for multiple

DOCSSFl :635226.7

-3-

contiguous parcels not designated for development and other defined categories of parcels,
taxation of which is determined to be unfair.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent value, and the
Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of
every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part
be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining
parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

4.	Summary of Measure. The measure contained in Section 3 hereof shall be
summarized, and the Registrar of Voters is requested to cause the summary of the measure to
appear on the ballot, in the following form:

“To provide secure local funding for Orinda's K-8 schools, including to
maintain small class sizes and neighborhood schools; to protect classroom
programs, strong core academics, libraries, computer instruction, and literacy
support; and to hire and retain qualified teachers; shall Orinda Union School
District be authorized to replace its existing instructional parcel tax with a
levy of three hundred eighty-five dollars per year per taxable parcel, with an
annual independent audit and an exemption for eligible low-income seniors?”

5.	Filing of Order of Election. The Secretary of this Board is ordered to cause
certified copies of this resolution and order to be delivered not later than December 3, 2002, to the
Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools, the Registrar of Voters, and the Clerk of the Board
of Supervisors of the County.

6.	Formal Notice. The Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools is hereby
requested to prepare and execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order in
substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “Formal Notice”), and to call the election by
causing the Formal Notice to be posted in accordance with Section 5362 of the Education Code no
later than December 4, 2002, or to otherwise cause the notice to be published as permitted by law.
The Secretary of this Board, on behalf of and as may be requested by the County Superintendent of
Schools, is authorized to cause all notices required by law in connection herewith to be published
and posted, as the case may be.

7.	Conduct of Election, (a) Request to Registrar of Voters. Pursuant to Section 5303 of
the Education Code, the Registrar of Voters is requested to take all steps to hold the election in
accordance with law and these specifications.

(b)	Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to reprint the
measure in its entirety (that portion of Section 3 hereof which is printed in bold-face type) in the
voter information pamphlet to be distributed to voters pursuant to Section 13307 of the Elections
Code. In the event the measure in Section 3 will not be reprinted in the voter information pamphlet
in its entirety, the Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to print, immediately below the impartial
analysis of the measure, in no less than 10-point boldface type, a legend substantially as follows:

DOCSSFl -.635226.7

-4-

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure________. If you desire a

copy of the measure, please call the Contra Costa County Registrar of Voters
at {phone number} and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.”

(c) Consolidation. The Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools and the
Board of Supervisors of the County are requested to order consolidation of the election with such
other elections as may be held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the
same.

(d) Canvass of Results. The Board of Supervisors of the County is authorized to
canvass the returns of the election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

8. Appropriations T.imit. The Board of Trustees shall provide in each year (pursuant
to Section 7902.1 of the Government Code or any successor provision of law) for any increase in
the District’s appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that proceeds of the Excellence in
Education Tax may be spent for the authorized purposes.

9.	Ballot Argument. The President of this Board, or any member or members of
this Board as the President shall designate, is hereby authorized, but not directed, to prepare and file
with the Registrar of Voters a ballot argument in favor of the proposition contained in Section 3
hereof, within the time established by the Registrar of Voters, which shall be considered the official
ballot argument of this Board as sponsor of the proposition.

10.	Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 18th day of November, 2002, by the following

vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

Jim Farrell, Dave Howitt, Linda Landau, Pat Rudebusch, Sue Severson

None

None

None

President of the Board of Trustees
Orinda Union School District

ATT

Secretary of the Board of Trustees
Orinda Union School District

DOCSSFl :635226.7

-5-

f

EXHIBIT A

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Orinda Union
School District of Contra Costa County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the
Education Code and the Government Code of the State of California, an election will be held on
March 4, 2003, at which election the proposition summarized as follows shall be submitted to the
qualified electors of the District and voted upon:

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the County Superintendent of
Schools of Contra Costa County orders consolidation of the election with such other elections as
may be held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The County Superintendent of Schools of Contra Costa County, by this Notice of
Election, has called the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of the Board of Trustees of the
Orinda Union School District, adopted November 18, 2002, in accordance with the provisions of
Education Code Sections 5302, 5325 and 5361.

“To provide secure local funding for Orinda's K-8 schools, including to
maintain small class sizes and neighborhood schools; to protect classroom
programs, strong core academics, libraries, computer instruction, and literacy
support; and to hire and retain qualified teachers; shall Orinda Union School
District be authorized to replace its existing instructional parcel tax with a
levy of three hundred eighty-five dollars per year per taxable parcel, with an
annual independent audit and an exemption for eligible low-income seniors?”

2002.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day,



County Superintendent of Schools
Contra Costa County, California

DOCSSFl:635226.7

(

SECRETARY'S CERTIFICATE

I, Frank Brunetti, Secretary of the Board of Trustees of the Orinda Union School
District, County of Contra Costa, California, do hereby certify as follows:

The attached is a full, true and correct copy of a resolution duly adopted at a regular
meeting of said Board of said District duly and regularly held at the regular meeting place thereof on
November 18, 2002, and entered in the minutes thereof, of which meeting all of the members of
said Board of Trustees had due notice and at which a quorum thereof was present, and said
resolution was adopted by the following vote:

AYES: Jim Farrell, Dave Howitt, Linda Landau, Pat Rudebusch, Sue Severson

NOES: None

ABSTAIN: None

ABSENT: None

An agenda of said meeting was posted at least 72 hours before said meeting at Eight
Altarinda Road, Orinda, California, a location freely accessible to members of the public, and a brief
general description of said resolution appeared on said agenda. A copy of said agenda is attached
hereto.

I have carefully compared the same with the original minutes of said meeting on file
and of record in my office. Said resolution has not been amended, modified or rescinded since the
date of its adoption, and the same is now in full force and effect.

WITNESS my hand this 19th day of November, 2002.

Orinda Union School District

(

DOCSSFl:635226.7

NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX MEASURE A
ELECTION FOR THE ORINDA UNION SCHOOL
DISTRICT AND NOTICE OF DATE FIXED FOR
SUBMITTING ARGUMENTS

Pursuant to Section 9501 of the Elections Code,
one argument for and one argument against this
measure will be selected for printing and
distribution to the voters with the sample ballot.

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified
electors of the School District (the “District”) located
in the County of Contra Costa, State of California,
that in accordance with applicable law, an election
will be held on Tuesday, the 4th day of March, 2003
in the District, for the purpose of submitting for
approval or rejection the following measure, to be
displayed on each individual ballot to wit:

ORINDA UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX MEASURE A	
To provide secure local funding for Orinda’s K-8 schools, including to maintain small class sizes and neighborhood schools; to protect classroom programs, strong core academics, libraries, computer instruction, and literacy support; and to hire and retain qualified teachers; shall Orinda Union School District be authorized to replace its existing instructional parcel tax with a levy of three hundred eighty-five dollars per year per taxable parcel, with an annual independent audit and an exemption for eligible low-income seniors?	YES
	NO

All of the purposes enumerated herein are hereby
united and shall be voted upon as one single
proposition.

If at lease 2/3 of the voters voting on this measure
vote “Yes" the measure will pass.

Arguments for or against this measure may be
submitted to the Contra Costa County Elections
Division, 524 Main St. (P.O. Box 271), Martinez, CA
94553, not later than December 9, 2002, which has
been determined by the elections official to be a
reasonable date based upon the time necessary to
prepare and print arguments. No argument shall
exceed 300 words in length.

A verification statement signed by the authors must
accompany all arguments; a sample of this form is
available by calling the Elections Office.

The elections official will also provide opportunity
for rebuttal arguments in accordance with Section
9504 of the Elections Code. Rebuttal arguments
shall not exceed 250 words and must be filed no
later than December 19, 2002.

For more information on filing arguments, call the
Elections Office, (925) 646-4166.

The polls will be open Election Day between 7:00

A.M. and 8:00 P.M.

DATED: November 19, 2002

STEPHEN L. WEIR, COUNTY CLERK

By:	—

Dennis Heckart, Deputy

E: Elections / Schools / Notice of Election _ Submit Arguments.doc