June 2003 Election

SANTA MONICA-MALIBU
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ELECTION

Measure S

To preserve the quality of local	YES	
schools despite unprecedented	NO	©

state cuts in public education, shall the Santa
Monica-Malibu Unified School District levy
a qualified special tax of $225 per parcel each
year for 6 years exempting property owned
and occupied by persons age 65 and older?
Mandatory resident taxpayer oversight and
independent annual audits will ensure that
these revenues are used to preserve the core
curriculum in all grades and prevent
deterioration in quality caused by reduced
state funding.

BOARD OF EDUCATION	ACTION/MAJOR

JOHN E. DEASY

ADOPTION OF RESOLUTION NUMBER 01-18:ORDERING AN ELECTION.
ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATION OF THE ELECTION ORDER AND
REQUESTING PLACEMENT ON THE GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT OF
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES TO BE HELD ON JUNE 3. 2003

RECOMMENDATION NO. A.l

IT is recommended that the Boar adopt the attached Resolution
Number 01-18, proposing a new Parcel Tax and calling for an
election for Voter Approval (New Parcel Tax 2003).

COMMENT:	As	noted previously, current case law has established

strict standards with regard to the specificity of the
ballot language. When adopted, the language of the
full resolution will have been reviewed by the
District's legal counsel,. The new resolution meets
all the requirements of the current state law.

The condense version of the ballot measure for the
voting machine and sample ballot must not exceed 75
words (Election Code Sec. 13247).

Included in this item are"

•	75-word Ballot Language and Specifications

•	Resolution Number 01-18

TO:
FROM:
RE:

MOTION MADE BY:	Dr.	Escarce

SECONDED BY:	Dr. Jordan

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTENTIONS:

Seven (All)
Zero	(None)

Zero	(None)

Special Meeting and Closed Session Board of Education Meeting Minutes: 02/01/03

Page 3 of 10

SANTA MONICA-MALIBU UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
QUALITY PUBLIC EDUCATION PRESERVATION ACT OF 2003

To preserve the quality of local schools despite unprecedented state cuts in public education,
shall the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District levy a qualified special tax of $225 per
parcel each year for 6 years exempting property owned and occupied by persons age 65 and
older? Mandatory resident taxpayer oversight and independent annual audits will ensure that
these revenues are used to preserve the core curriculum in all grades and prevent deterioration in
quality caused by reduced state funding.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

1.	TITLE AND PURPOSE

The revenues raised by this Measure, the “Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District
Quality Public Education Preservation Act of 2003,” shall be used to prevent serious
deterioration in the quality of public education in Santa Monica and Malibu in the face of
large and sweeping state cuts in funding for public schools, and to promote continued
student achievement in the core curriculum.

2.	SPECIFIC PURPOSES

The revenues raised by this Measure shall be used by the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified
School District (the “District”) exclusively for the following purposes:

A.	To restore programs and replace funds lost or reduced due to state budget cuts
(including state budget reductions that are the result of reduced federal funding of
state programs);

B.	To sustain achievement in reading, writing, and mathematics for all students at all
grade levels and to fulfill the District’s core curriculum which includes music, arts,
and athletics; and

C.	To protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District accountability
by providing for resident taxpayer oversight and independent annual audits of

Special Meeting and Closed Session Board of Education Meeting Minutes: 02/01/03

Page 4 of 10

revenues and expenditures.

3.	SEPARATE ACCOUNT

The revenues raised by this Measure shall be deposited in a separate account in

accordance with Government Code section 50075.1 (or applicable successor law) and

shall be expended solely for the specific purposes identified above.

4.	THE TAX LEVY

A.	Tax Base. The qualified special tax shall be levied annually on each parcel of land
within the boundaries of the District in an amount not to exceed $225 per parcel. An
exemption to the qualified special tax is available for a person 65 years or older who
owns and occupies a parcel as a principal residence and applies for an exemption in
accordance with guidelines established by the Board of Education of the District (the
“Board”). The Board may set the amount of the qualified special tax at a lesser
amount per parcel than is authorized hereunder.

B.	Term. This qualified special tax shall be authorized to be levied each year for six (6)
years, beginning in the tax year commencing on July 1,2003.

C.	Constitutional Appropriations Limit. The Board may increase the appropriations
limit for the District in accordance with Section 4 of Article XTTIB of the California
Constitution and Section 7902.1 of the Government Code (or applicable successor
law).

D.	Collection. The District may request that the qualified special tax be collected by the
County of Los Angeles, or other lawfully designated agency. The collection of taxes
under this Measure, including the imposition of penalties, additional fees, and interest
upon persons who fail to remit the qualified special tax imposed by this Measure, or
who fail to remit any delinquent remittance, shall be subject to and governed by the
rules, regulations, and procedures authorized by law. Every penalty imposed and such

Special Meeting and Closed Session Board of Education Meeting Minutes: 02/01/03

Page 5 of 10

interest as accrues under the provisions of this Measure shall become a part of the tax
herein required to be paid.

E.	Savings Clause. The provisions of this Measure shall not apply to any person,
association, or corporation or to any property as to whom or which it is beyond the
power of the District to impose a qualified special tax. If any part of this Measure, as
written or as applied to any person, is finally determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be unconstitutional, illegal, or invalid, such determination shall affect
only such part of this Measure and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining
provisions, sentences, clauses, sections, or other parts of this Measure. It is hereby
declared to be the intention of the Board and of the electorate that this Measure would
have been adopted had such part thereof not been included.

5.	ACCOUNTABILITY, PLANNING, PUBLIC INFORMATION, AND

COMPLIANCE REVIEW PROVISIONS

A.	Resident Taxpayer Oversight. The Board shall appoint a resident taxpayer-financial
oversight committee that is exclusively charged to review the District’s
administration of and compliance with the terms of this Measure. The committee so
charged by the Board is referred to in this Measure as the “Resident Taxpayer
Oversight Committee.”

B.	Annual Plan. An expenditure plan (the “Annual Plan”) shall be developed annually
for the succeeding fiscal year by the District staff in consultation with the Resident
Taxpayer Oversight Committee. The Annual Plan will recommend expenditures of
the tax proceeds that are consistent with the intent of the Measure. The assumptions
associated with the recommended expenditures shall be included in the Annual Plan.
The Annual Plan shall be presented for Board action each fiscal year in conjunction
with the District’s annual budget adoption process for the following fiscal year. To
facilitate public discussion, the recommended Annual Plan shall be made available for

Special Meeting and Closed Session Board of Education Meeting Minutes: 02/01/03

Page 6 of 10

public review two weeks prior to Board action. The Annual Plan together with
regular financial and audit reports shall be promptly distributed to the Resident
Taxpayer Oversight Committee.

C.	Public Comment Process. Members of the public may comment on the plans,
reports, and conditions of the Measure during the public comment period of any
meeting of the Taxpayer Oversight Committee or any meeting of the Board.

D.	Financial Reports. The District shall make available to the public and to the
Resident Taxpayer Oversight Committee updated budget and financial expenditure
reports concerning the special account holding the proceeds of this qualified special
tax in conjunction with the regular interim budget reporting required by the State. As
part of this reporting, at least once per fiscal year, the chief fiscal officer of the
District shall file a report with the Board and the Resident Taxpayer Oversight
Committee identifying the amount of the funds collected and expended pursuant to
this Measure, together with the status of any project required or authorized to be
funded hereunder. All of the foregoing reports shall be organized to display clearly
how the expenditures relate to the Annual Plan approved by the Board.

E.	Independent Auditors’ Annual Report. Each year, an independent auditor retained by
the District shall review District records to determine that funds generated by this
Measure have been maintained and expended in compliance with the Annual Plan and
that other conditions of this Measure have been satisfied. Said audit shall be
conducted in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the Standards
and Procedures for Audits of K-12 Local Educational Agencies, and this Measure.

The independent auditor shall transmit a “Finding of Violation” to the Board if: (1)
the funds raised by this Measure have been spent for purposes other than those
specified in section 2; or (2) other conditions of this Measure have not been satisfied.

Special Meeting and Closed Session Board of Education Meeting Minutes: 02/01/03

Page 7 of 10

i

F.	Civil Remedies Available At Law. The provisions of this section are in addition to
civil remedies available at law for assuring compliance with the terms of this
Measure.

Special Meeting and Closed Session Board of Education Meeting Minutes: 02/01/03

Page 8 of 10

RESOLUTION NUMBER 02-18

RESOLUTION NUMBER 02-18 OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE SANTA
MONICA-MALIBU UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT ORDERING AN ELECTION,
ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER AND REQUESTING
PLACEMENT ON THE GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES TO BE HELD ON JUNE 3, 2003.

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

WHEREAS,

the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District (“District") has been
inadequately funded by the State for a period of years to the detriment of its
educational programs; and

the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to generate funds for the
educational program, including advocating in the State Legislature, local
fundraising efforts, and cost-cutting measures, including employee layoffs and
cutting budgets, and these efforts have not produced sufficient revenues to raise
the quality of education, to implement, protect and maintain important special
programs, and to maintain the facilities of the District; and
Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government Code
Section 50075 et seq. authorize a school district to levy a "qualified special tax" to
raise funds for the purpose of conducting their business upon approval of two-
thirds of the electorate voting on the measure; and

Government Code Section 50077 and Education Code Section 5304 authorize this
District to order an election to allow the electorate to determine whether such
special tax shall be levied after notice and a public hearing, and
Education Code Section 5322 authorizes this Board to make the specification of
the election order; and

following the giving of such notice and holding of public hearing on January 31,
2003, this Board has determined that it is in the best interest of this District to
submit to the voters a special tax measure; and

the Board of Education by this Order and Resolution requests that said special
election be consolidated with the General Election to be held on June 3,2003.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Education of the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School
District, Los Angeles County, California, DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, ORDER AND
REQUEST as follows:

Section 1. Pursuant to Education Code Section 5304, the Board hereby orders the Los
Angeles County Superintendent of Schools to call a special election to be held within the
boundaries of the Santa Monica-Malibu Unified School District on June 3, 2003, for the purpose
of submitting to the electors of the District, the “SANTA MONICA-MALIBU UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT QUALITY EDUCATION PRESERVATION ACT OF 2003" which is
attached and incorporated herein, marked as Attachment A.

Section 2. The Clerk of this Board is ordered, not later than February 3,2003, to deliver
certified copies of this Resolution and Order to the Los Angeles County Superintendent of

Special Meeting and Closed Session Board of Education Meeting Minutes: 02/01/03

Page 9 of 10

I

Schools, to the Registrar of Voters of Los Angeles County, and to the Clerk of the Los Angeles
County Board of Supervisors.

Section 3. The Los Angeles County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to
prepare and execute a Formal Notice of Special Tax Election in compliance with Section 5361 of
the Education Code (the “Formal Notice”), and call the election by causing the Formal Notice to
be posted in accordance with Section 5362 of the Education Code no later than August 5,2002,
or to otherwise cause the notice to be published as permitted by law. The Clerk of this Board, on

behalf of the Los Angeles County Superintendent of Schools, is authorized to cause all notices
required by law in connection herewith to be published and posted, as the case may be.

Section 4. The Board of Supervisors of Los Angeles County is hereby requested to order
the consolidation of said election with the General Election to be held on the date specified in
Section 1, and to canvass the returns of the election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections
Code.

Section 5. Pursuant to Section 5303 of the Education Code, the Registrar of Voters is
requested to take all steps to hold the election in accordance with law and these specifications.

Section 6. The Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to use the “Ballot Summary1’
appearing in Attachment A hereto as the abbreviated statement of the measure to appear on the
ballot.

Section 7. This Resolution shall become effective immediately upon its adoption, by
approval of two-thirds of the members of this Board.

ADOPTED, SIGNED AND APPROVED this Is1 Day of February, 2003.

KlaH^on-Vaiqi^z>PresidentC_/ ^ .	0

iL





Jose Escarce, Vice-President

	1
JiAlia Bfpwnley^ >	A fr

Shane McLoud

Mike Jordan





t,

)easy. Superintendent of Schools

Special Meeting and Closed Session Board of Education Meeting Minutes: 02/01/03

Page 10 of 10