HUMBOLDT COUNTY MEASURE D

RESOLUTION 5-0203
BEFORE THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
SOUTHERN HUMBOLDT JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
HUMBOLDT COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

In the Matter of a )	RESOLUTION AND ORDER

Special Tax Election )	OF	ELECTION

___________________ )

WHEREAS, due to lack of funding, the Southern Humboldt Joint
Unified School District has eliminated many programs and services
beneficial and necessary to the children who attend the Southern
Humboldt Joint Unified School District; and

WHEREAS, the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District
is committed to quality education for every student and high
standards of academic achievement and performance; and
WHEREAS, a high quality public education is vital to the
community’s well-being and fosters the growth of society’s greatest
natural resource - the minds of children; and

WHEREAS, the investment in children’s education is beneficial
to the economic well-being of our community and our country; and
WHEREAS, the Governing Board of the Southern Humboldt Joint
Unified School District has a responsibility to preserve the District’s
academic and educational programs for future generations of
students; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution
and Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079, and
53720 et seq. authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise
funds for the purpose of conducting its business upon the approval
of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon such a special
tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution
allows the appropriations limit of school districts to be increased by
t[i0 ejectors.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Governing Board
of the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District resolves to
conduct a special election on June 3, 2003, at which time will be
submitted to the qualified voters of the Southern Humboldt Joint
Unified School District a measure to authorize a special tax for the
purpose of reduction of class size and the maintenance and
enhancement of the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District
academic and educational programs and to increase its
appropriations limit by the amount of revenue generated by the
special tax.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the
boundaries of the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District
at which election shall be submitted to the qualified voters within
the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District the following
measure, to wit:

MEASURE D

Shall the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District,
serving the children of Southern Humboldt and a portion of Mendocino
County, provide funds for the purpose of reduction of class size and
the maintenance and enhancement of academic and educational
programs by establishing a special tax based upon the use or right
of use on each assessor’s parcel within the boundaries of the
Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District for a period of seven
(7) years beginning July 1, 2003 and increasing its appropriations
limit for the maximum time allowed by law by the amount of revenue
generated by that special tax?

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of $75.00 per
year for each assessor’s parcel. The proceeds of the tax shall be
deposited in a special fund to be used for the purpose of reduction
of class size and the maintenance and enhancement of academic
and educational programs. Exemptions from the assessment will
be made available as follows:

a.	To each individual in the District who will attain 65 years on
or before May 1 of the assessment year, and who owns a
beneficial interest in the parcel, or a divided or undivided
portion of such parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or
her principal place of residence.

b.	For the owner of a parcel which has been determined to be
unusable by the Humboldt or Mendocino County Assessor’s
Office.

c.	For multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part of
one economic unit under the same name and ownership.
Such multiple parcels may be charged as one parcel.

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or
before June 30, 2003 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year.

Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an
exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment
so long as such applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.
The District shall establish an administrative review process to grant
such exemptions.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual
ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

SOUTHERN HUMBOLDT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR SUPPORT OF
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS

Shall the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District
provide funds for the purpose of reduction of class size and
maintenance and enhancement of academic and educational
programs by levying a special tax on each assessor’s parcel
of $75.00 per year ($37.50 semi-annual payment) for a period
of seven years, beginning July 1, 2003 and increase its
appropriation limit by the amount of revenue generated by
that special tax, with certain specific exemptions as set forth
in the Resolution and Order of Election?

________YES	 NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1,2003, the special tax collected
annually on all assessor’s parcels at the rate specified above, shall
be collected and administered in the same manner as ad valorem
property taxes are fixed and collected under the provisions of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Humboldt County
is hereby requested to call a special election of the said special tax
to be held on June 3, 2003 and to consolidate this election with
any elections to be held on this same date. The Humboldt and
Mendocino County Boards of Supervisors are hereby requested and
authorized to consolidate this election with any elections to be held
on this same date. The County Clerks are hereby requested and
authorized to: 1) set forth all sample ballots relating to said election
to be mailed to the qualified electors of the Southern Humboldt Joint
Unified School District; and 2) to provide absentee voter ballots for
said special tax election for use by qualified electors of the Southern
Humboldt Joint Unified School District who are entitled thereto in
the manner provided by Law.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this
resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this resolution. The
Governing Board declares that it would have adopted this resolution
and each section, subsection, phrase or clause thereof irrespective
of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
phrases or clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6. The clerk of the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified
School District Board of Trustees is hereby authorized and directed
to certify to the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a
copy hereof so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Humboldt
County, the Humboldt and Mendocino County Board of Supervisors,
and to file a copy hereof so certified with the County Clerks of
Humboldt and Mendocino Counties.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

Prepared by Humboldt County Counsel

The Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District, pursuant
to authority contained in California Constitution Articles XIII A and
XIII B and Government Code §§50075, 50076, 50077, 50079 and
53720 et seq., has adopted Resolution 5-0203 seeking voter approval
of a special tax to be imposed in the amount of $75 per year for
each assessor’s parcel and seeking an increase in the District’s
appropriations limit by the amount of revenue generated by the
special tax.

The funds derived from the special tax shall be deposited in a
special fund to be used for the purpose of reduced class size and
the maintenance and enhancement of academic and educational
programs within the District.

The tax will require a voter approval of two-thirds prior to becoming
effective. The tax will commence July 1, 2003, and remain in effect
for a period of seven years. Certain exemptions from the assessment
are provided for, and an administrative review process to grant such
exemptions shall be established.

A “YES” vote will authorize the levy of a special tax of $75 per
year ($37.50 semi-annual payment) on each assessor’s parcel for
a period of seven years, commencing July 1, 2003, for the purposes
stated above and authorizes an increase in the District’s
appropriations limit by the amount of the revenue generated by the
special tax.

A “NO” vote is a vote against the levy of the special tax and
against an increase in the District appropriations limit.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

A YES vote on Measure D will enable our school district to
continue offering smaller class sizes, a variety of comprehensive
and elective high school courses, and extra and co-curricular
activities such as music, drama and sports. These educational
programs and activities are essential for providing a well-rounded
educational experience for our youth.

Measure D will also allow us to keep Agnes J. Johnson, a Weott
community school open.

Measure D will increase your current parcel tax by $75 per year
for seven years. Measure D also has exemptions for property owners
who are 65 and older as well as for owners of contiguous parcels.
You will be able to monitor how these monies are spent. Your school
district has a publicly elected board of trustees and holds open
public meetings each month where district business is discussed.
Every dollar from the parcel tax will be used to continue providing
a quality education for our youth in Southern Humboldt.

Measure D amounts to $6.25 per month per parcel. This is a
small investment, per month, put towards the future of the youth of
Southern Humboldt.

A well-educated populace is the cornerstone of our great
democracy. Act now, VOTE YES on Measure D.

s/ Craig Parkinson
Business Owner/Parent

si Molly Anderson
Retired Teacher

si Clara Anzini
Rancher

si Syd Lehman
Real Estate Appraisal

\ NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D
WAS SUBMITTED