RESOLUTION NO. 02-15

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE MAMMOTH
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT PROPOSING A QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX
AND ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, the Board of Education (the “Board”) believes that a qualified special tax is
necessary to maintain quality education for the students of Mammoth Unified School District
(the “District”);

WHEREAS, the Board has heretofore published notice and conducted a hearing on the
proposition of the qualified special tax prior to adoption of this Resolution; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Sections
50075, 50076, 50077, 50079 and 53720 et seq. of the California Government Code authorize a
school district, upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting on the measure, to levy a
qualified special tax for specified purposes following notice and a public hearing.

NOW THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE MAMMOTH UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. That the Board has determined in its best judgment that in order to
maintain quality education in the District, an election is advisable and on that basis hereby orders
the Mono County Registrar of Voters to call an election and submit to the voters of the District
the question of whether to adopt a qualified special tax for the educational purposes and to
increase the District’s appropriations limit in an amount equal to the levy of the special taxes for
a period of four years as permitted by Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, all as
described further below.

Section 2. Said qualified special tax shall be in an amount not to exceed $59.00 per
year for four years assessed against each parcel of taxable land in the District.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that now receives a separate
tax bill from the Mono County Assessor’s Office. All property that would otherwise be exempt
from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of said qualified special tax.

An exemption shall also be available for a person 65 years or older who owns and
occupies as a principal residence a parcel (as defined above) and applies to the District for such
exemption in accordance with guidelines established by the District.

The proceeds of the special taxes will be applied to the following educational purposes:

•	Providing students with books and supplies;

•	Maintaining school libraries and updated materials,

•	Retaining and attracting good teachers by preserving competitive teacher salaries and
benefits;

LA3:1033536.1

•	Preserving smaller class sizes; and

•	Maintaining technical support services and updating computer labs

The proceeds of the special taxes will be applied to the purposes for which other sources
including State funding, have been reduced or lost.

Section 3. In connection with the proposal of said qualified special tax, the Board
further proposes to increase the District’s appropriations limit per fiscal year, for the next four
fiscal years as permitted by law and in an amount equal to the levy of qualified special taxes for
said year, as permitted by Article XlflB, Section 4 of the California Constitution.

Section 4.	That the date of the election shall be June 3, 2003.

Section 5.	That the purpose of the election shall be for the	voters in the	District to

vote on a ballot measure, a copy of which is attached hereto and marked Exhibit “A” and
incorporated by reference herein.

Section 6. That the Board has the authority for ordering the election.

Section 7. That the authority for the specifications of this election order is contained
in Sections 5304 and 5322 of the California Education Code and Sections 50079 and 53720, et
seq., of the California Government Code.

Section 8. That this Resolution shall stand as the order to the Mono County Registrar
of Voters to call an election within the boundaries of the District on June 3, 2003.

Section 9.	That the Clerk of the Board is hereby directed	immediately	to send a

certified copy of this Resolution to the Mono County Registrar of Voters, the Mono County
Board of Supervisors, the Mono County Clerk (the “County Clerk”) and the Mono County
Superintendent of Schools so that said Superintendent receives it no later than March 7, 2003.

Section 10. That the Mono County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to
deliver this Resolution, which constitutes the order of election, and a formal notice of the
election to the Mono County Clerk and County Registrar of Voters no later than March 7, 2003.
That the Mono County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to perform the duties
under Education Code Section 5302, to call the election, prepare recommendations, statements,
or arguments for the election as required and to receive petitions, as necessary.

Section 11.	That the Board requests and directs the Mono County Registrar of Voters

and the Mono County Superintendent of Schools to take all steps necessary to call and hold the
election on June 3, 2003, in accordance with law.

Section 12. The Board of Supervisors of Mono County is authorized to canvass the
returns of the election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

LA3:1033536.1

2

Section 13. Pursuant to Section 5303 of the Education Code and Section 1002 of the
Elections Code, the Board of Supervisors of Mono County is requested to permit the Mono
County Registrar of Voters to render all services necessary, including those services specified in
Sections 12112 and 12105 of the Elections Code relating to the election.

Section 14. That the Board requests the governing body of any such other political
subdivision, or any officer otherwise authorized by law, to partially or completely consolidate
such election and to further provide that the canvass be made by any body or official authorized
by law to canvass the returns of the election; and that the Board consents to such consolidation.

Section 15. Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the qualified special tax shall
be collected by the Mono County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be
subject to the same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector. The tax
and penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes
until paid.

Section 16. The members of the Board, the Superintendent of the District, and officers
of the District are hereby authorized and directed, individually and collectively, to do any and all
things and to execute, deliver, and perform any and all agreements and documents that they
deem necessary or advisable in order to effectuate the purposes of this Resolution, including,
without limitation, to prepare and submit for inclusion in the voter information pamphlet an
argument in favor of passage of the ballot measure. All actions heretofore taken by the officers
and agents of the District that are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution
are hereby ratified, confirmed, and approved in all respects.

Section 17. The members of the Board, the Superintendent of the District, and officers
of the District are hereby requested and directed, individually and collectively, to provide
accountability measures pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1 that include, but are not
limited to, all of the following: (a) A statement indicating the specific purposes of the qualified
special tax, (b) a requirement that the proceeds be applied only to the specific purposes identified
pursuant to subsection (a), (c) the creation of an account into which the proceeds shall be
deposited, and (d) an annual report pursuant to Section 50075.3 of the Government Code, as
provided in Section 20 hereof. To insure additional accountability, an independent community
oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board to oversee the activity of the proceeds as
approved by the voters. The oversight committee shall be comprised of one Board member, the
Superintendent, the Business Manager, two teachers, parents and community members, totaling
not more than ten (10) members.

Section 18. Pursuant to Section 50075.3 of the Government Code, the Board directs
that the chief financial officer of the District file a report with the Board no later than January 1,
2004, and at least once a year thereafter. The annual report shall contain both of the following:

(a)	The amount of funds collected and expended, and (b) the status of any project required or
authorized to be funded as identified in subsection (a) of Section 19 hereof.

LA3:1033536.1

3

ADOPTED, SIGNED and APPROVED this 6th day of March, 2003.

AYES:	Boyer, Hunt, King, Lupcho

NOES:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

ABSENT:	Runley

BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE MAMMOTH
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

LA3:1033536.1

4

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT LANGUAGE FOR SCHOOL PARCEL TAX ELECTION

MEASURE 03A

"To ensure reliable funding for our schools in order to maintain current classroom
programs, provide books and classroom materials for students, update computers
and maintain technology support, maintain smaller class sizes and retain high
quality teachers, shall the Mammoth Unified School District be authorized to
implement a limited four year instructional parcel tax of $59 per taxable parcel to
be overseen by a citizen's oversight committee and with an exemption for primary
residents age sixty-five and older?"

Yes	No

LA3:1033536 I

A-l