BOARD OF EDUCATION
OF THE

MENLO PARK CITY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Resolution No. 03/04-1

RESOLUTION CALLING PARCEL TAX ELECTION

WHEREAS, the Board of Education (the “Board”) of the Menlo Park City
Elementary School District (the “District”) has established the goals of improving academic
performance and the quality of education for all children in the District;

WHEREAS, in support of these goals, since 1992 the Board has proposed and the
community has overwhelmingly supported supplemental educational funding for neighborhood
schools for kindergarten through eighth grade, including the funds needed to maintain smaller class
sizes and to maintain and improve classroom and library programs;

WHEREAS, expiration of the existing local parcel tax will mean die loss of diese
educational enhancements, an increase in class sizes for all students, and the loss of approximately
$500,000 per year in State grants for reduced class sizes;

WHEREAS, die worsening State budget threatens education funding in the short
run, and demonstrates ongoing uncertainty for funding of the District’s programs in the foreseeable
future; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code Section 50079 authorize a school district, upon approval of two-thirds of the
electorate voting on the measure, to levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that in order to continue meeting the
educational needs of all of the District’s students and to provide stable local funding for area
schools, it is necessary to authorize continuation of the District’s educational programs parcel tax;
and

WHEREAS, the Board has held a public hearing after due notice regarding the
proposed authorization of the parcel tax;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the
Menlo Park City Elementary School District, as follows:

1.	Recitals. This Board hereby finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are
true and correct.

DOCSSFl :693149.4

2.	Order of Election. This resolution shall stand as the order to the San Mateo
County Superintendent of Schools to call an election within tire boundaries of the District on
November 4, 2003, for approval of the measure contained in Section 3 hereof. The authority for
the specifications of this election order is contained in Sections 5304 and 5322 of the California
Education Code and Section 50079 of the California Government Code.

3.	Specifications of Ballot Measure. This Board hereby requests the Registrar of
Voters of the County of San Mateo (the “Registrar of Voters”) to submit to the voters of the
District on November 4, 2003, the following ballot measure:

MENLO PARK CITY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
CONTINUING EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION ACT OF 2003

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Menlo Park City
Elementary School District Continuing Excellence in Education Act of 2003” or as
“Measure____[designation to be assigned by County Registrar of Voters]

TERMS OF

CONTINUING EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this
measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $97 per year on
each parcel of taxable real property in the District, commencing July 1, 2004. The amount
shall be adjusted annually for inflation by the change in the “Consumer Price Index for all
Urban Consumers San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose (1982-84=100)” published by the U.S.
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. In the event this index is no longer
published, the Board of Education shall adopt a comparable index of general price levels, as
it shall reasonably determine. The Board of Education shall cause the tax to be levied at the
adjusted amount, or at such lesser amount in any year in which the Board deems such
reduced amount sufficient and appropriate to meet the District’s budgetary needs, or
believes such reduced amount is appropriate in reaction to State budget changes.

The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to as the “Continuing
Excellence in Education Tax”. Proceeds of the Continuing Excellence in Education Tax
shall be authorized to be used to maintain smaller class sizes for all students, and to
maintain funding for the teaching positions that facilitate those smaller class sizes.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in
the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be
exempt from the Continuing Excellence in Education Tax upon proper application to the
District. The exemption shall be available pursuant to procedures to be prescribed by the
Board of Education or otherwise as required by law or by the San Mateo County Tax
Collector.

D0CSSF1:693149.4

-2-

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Continuing Excellence in
Education Tax, the Board of Education shall cause an account to be established for deposit
of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the Continuing Excellence in Education
Tax remain unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District shall
cause a report to be filed with the Board of Education no later than December 31 of each
year, commencing December 31, 2004, stating (1) the amount of Continuing Excellence in
Education Tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or
description of any programs funded from proceeds of the tax. The report may relate to the
calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall
determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other
appropriate routine report to the Board of Education.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall constitute
the specific purposes of the Continuing Excellence in Education Tax, and proceeds of the
tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

Appropriations Limit. The Board of Education shall provide in each year
(pursuant to Section 7902.1 of the Government Code or any successor provision of law) for
any increase in the District’s appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that
proceeds of the Continuing Excellence in Education Tax, and of all qualified special taxes
levied by the District, may be spent for the authorized purposes, and an election shall be
conducted by the District for such purpose only if required by the general laws of the State
applicable to school district qualified special taxes. This provision shall be deemed to be
declaratory of existing procedures governing District expenditures.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Continuing Excellence in Education Tax shall be collected by the San
Mateo County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner and shall
be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax
Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem
property taxes until paid. The collection of the Continuing Excellence in Education Tax
shall not decrease the funds available from other sources of the District in any period from
the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property
in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the San
Mateo County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All property which is otherwise exempt
from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt
from the Continuing Excellence in Education Tax in such year. Parcels owned and
occupied by persons 65 years of age or older may be exempt from the Continuing
Excellence in Education Tax as described above.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has
approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Continuing Excellence in Education Tax
as described above to the San Mateo County tax collection officials. The San Mateo County

D0CSSF1:693149.4

-3-

Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason of any parcel from taxation,
other than through the Senior Citizen Exemption, shall be final and binding for the
purposes of the Continuing Excellence in Education Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge
the County Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a
misclassification of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Continuing
Excellence in Education Taxes paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax
refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section, paragraph, sentence and clause of this measure has
independent value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure
by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for
any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest
extent allowed by law.

4.	Summary of Measure. The measure contained in Section 3 hereof shall be
summarized in the following form, and the Registrar of Voters is requested to cause this summary of
the measure to appear on the ballot:

“To renew a community commitment to quality education by maintaining
smaller class sizes for all students and to avoid the loss of funding for 21
teaching positions, shall the Menlo Park City Elementary School District
continue levying its educational special tax at the current rate of ^97/year per
taxable parcel beginning 7/1/2004, adjusted annually for Consumer Price
Index changes, and increase the appropriations limit annually according to
statute, with an exemption available to individuals aged 65 and older?”

5.	Filing of Order of Election. The Secretary of this Board is ordered to cause
certified copies of this resolution and order to be delivered not later than August 5, 2003, to the San
Mateo County Superintendent of Schools, the Registrar of Voters, and the Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors of the County.

6.	Formal Notice. The San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools is hereby
requested to prepare and execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order in
substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “Formal Notice”), and to call the election by
causing the Formal Notice to be posted in every schoolhouse in the district and at three public
places in the District, in accordance with Section 5362 of the Education Code, no later than
August 6, 2003, or to otherwise cause the notice to be published as permitted by law. The Secretary
of this Board, on behalf of and as may be requested by the County Superintendent of Schools, is
authorized to cause all notices required by law in connection herewith to be published and posted, as
the case may be.

D0CSSF1:693149.4

_4_

7. Conduct of Election, (a) Request to Registrar of Voters. Pursuant to Section 5303 of
the Education Code, the Registrar of Voters is requested to take all steps to hold the election in
accordance with law and these specifications.

(b) Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to print the summary
of the measure contained in Section 4 hereof in the voter information pamphlet to be distributed to
voters pursuant to Section 13307 of the Elections Code and to print, immediately below the
impartial analysis of the measure, in no less than 10-point boldface type, a legend substantially as
follows:

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure________. If you desire a

copy of the measure, please call the San Mateo County Registrar of Voters at
{phone number} and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.”

(c) Consolidation. The San Mateo County Superintendent of Schools and the Board
of Supervisors of the County are requested to order consolidation of the election with such other
elections as may be held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

(d) Canvass of Results. The Board of Supervisors of the County is authorized to
canvass the returns of the election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

8.	Ballot Argument. The President of this Board, or any member or members of
this Board as the President shall designate, is hereby authorized, but not directed, to prepare and file
with the Registrar of Voters a ballot argument in favor of the proposition contained in Section 3
hereof, within the time established by the Registrar of Voters, which shall be considered the official
ballot argument of this Board as sponsor of the proposition.

9.	Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 22nd day of July, 2003, by the following vote:

AYES: S
NOES: ft
ABSTAIN: ft
ABSENT: j/f

President of the Board of Education
Menlo Park City Elementary School District

ATTESTf

Secretary of the Board of Education
Menlo Park City Elementary School District

D0CSSF1:693149.4

-5-

EXHIBIT A

FORM OF

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Menlo Park City
Elementary School District of San Mateo County, Cakfornia, that in accordance with the provisions
of die Education Code, the Elections Code, and the Government Code of the State of California, an
election will be held on November 4, 2003, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of
the District the proposition summarized as follows:

“To renew a community commitment to quality education by maintaining
smaller class sizes for all students and to avoid the loss of funding for 21
teaching positions, shall the Menlo Park City Elementary School District
continue levying its educational special tax at the current rate of $97/year per
taxable parcel beginning 7/1/2004, adjusted annually for Consumer Price
Index changes, and increase the appropriations limit annually according to
statute, with an exemption available to individuals aged 65 and older?”

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the County Superintendent of
Schools of San Mateo County orders consolidation of the election widi such other elections as may
be held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The County Superintendent of Schools of San Mateo County, by this Notice of
Election, has called the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of the Board of Education of
the Menlo Park City Elementary School District adopted July 22. 2003, in accordance with the
provisions of Education Code Sections 5302, 5325 and 5361.

2003.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day,	^

San Mateo County, California -

D0CSSF1:693149.4

SECRETARY'S CERTIFICATE

I,	Kenneth Ranella, Secretary of the Board of Education of the Menlo Park City
Elementary School District, County of San Mateo, California, do hereby certify as follows:

The attached is a full, true and correct copy of a resolution duly adopted at a special
meeting of the Board of Education of the District duly and regularly held at the regular meeting
place thereof on July 22, 2003, and entered in the minutes thereof, of which meeting all of the
members of said Board of Education had due notice and at which a quorum thereof was present,
and said resolution was adopted by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:	0

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

At least 24 hours before the time of said meeting, a written notice and agenda of the
meeting was mailed and received by or personally delivered to each member of the Board of
Education not having waived notice thereof, and to each local newspaper of general circulation,
radio, and television station requesting such notice in writing, and was posted in a location freely
accessible to members of the public, and a brief description of the resolution appeared on said
agenda.

I have carefully compared the same with the original minutes of said meeting on file
and of record in my office. Said resolution has not been amended, modified or rescinded since the
date of its adoption, and the same is now in full force and effect.

WITNESS my hand this

Secretary of the Board of Education
Menlo Park City Elementary School District

DOCSSFl :693149.4

/Zes

O 2/&f~/A cceptina

Resolutions Calling Elections

Due Dates: Depending upon the type of election, due dates are as follows:

Special School Board Member:	120	days prior to election date requested (Education Code §§5091, 5322,

5324, 5325). This applies whether a vacancy or appointed member
continuing term. Vacancy election must be called by the remaining board
no less than 130 days prior to the election date they choose.

(Vacant) Special District Director:	District	must	call	election	by	130	days	prior	(Gov.	Code	§1780). Notice

delivered by 125th day prior (EC §10509 - *note this code section indicates
delivery of notice by the 125th day prior to the general district election, or
when members terms generally set to expire. Neither Government nor
Elections Code indicates, other than EC §10403, when to deliver
resolution to request consolidation of special member election. Logically,
if this office must concur with legal publication between E-120 and E-90,
and prepare for the opening of candidate filing on E-113, then request for
election services must be in our office around E-125.) A resolution is NOT
required of a Special District when an appointed member’s name must
appear on next general district elections ballot for virtue of continuing in
office because the Government Code requires position appear by law.

This seat will be noted on the District’s Candidate Policy form filed with
this office by E-125 prior to general election.

Special Measures:	88th day prior to election (Elections Code §10403, Education Code §5322,

5325)

City Elections:	(Measure or Council) 88th day prior to the election (EC §10403). This is ok

as we do not conduct any official filing for a City. Vacancy must be called
by remaining council no later than 130 days prior to the election date they
choose.

Things to look for (basically after the words, “NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED”:

Request the Board of Supervisors to permit the County Elections Official to render specified services to the
city/district relating to conduct of election (EC §10002)

Specify the services requested (EC §10002)

Set forth exact form of ballot question (no more than 75-words per EC §13247) or description of office to be
voted upon (EC §10403)

Ask if the resolution requires “full text” to appear in Sample Ballot Pamphlet. Ask filer to point out full text.

If ballot question, specify voter approval requirement (majority, 2/3, or 55%)

/<^yJ

^ Ask for Contact Person’s Name, Phone, and Fax: _____________

(name)

Phone (650)	,2/^?-	7/¥Q___________________Fax	(650)	______________________

(Phone and Fax Numbers)

^ Ask for ANY information provided electronically (disk or email to Yolanda vcruz@care.co.sanmateo.ca.us ).

ALL resolutions must be submitted to the County Board of Supervisors for approval. Once the services have been
approved, we will receive a copy of the Board of Supervisor’s resolution which should be copied and forwarded to the
'diction for their records. If this is a School District or Special District issue, this Office will prepare the legal
plication and forward copy to District Office. If asked, Primary Arguments are usually due 10-days after the
resolution is due, and Rebuttals are due 10-days after the Primary Arguments.

El

U

O'

□

of