a

to
o
o
o
^ 1
o
o
o

CM

LI Nn

PROPOSITION
LIMITS ON PRlVA
UNFAIR BUSINESS
INITIATIVE STATUTI.
class action ‘unfair frjai
. actual lota suffered;
may enforce these IbJw
Fiscal Impact: Unkno
dopantfing on whelm r II
or decreases court w
which diverted funds
potential costs TO toe I
on the extent to whle
replaced.

Ves

14

,TE ENFORCEMENT OF
COMPETITION LAWS.
Allows individual or
inass" lawsuits only if
(nly govemmeni officials
on public's behalf,
vn stats fiscal Impact
he measure increases
irkload and the extent to
replaced. Unknown
governments, depending
diverted funds are

ire i

No

PROPOSITION Si

LOCAL GOVERNMf
STATE MANDATES
CONSTITUTIONAL k
voter approval for
revenues, Permits
if no etete reimburse^!
within 180 days a Re
Fiscal Impact: Highe *
revenues then othsrpi
case, possibly in
over time. Any such
would result In decree
state of fllmiler emu

Yes

1 I Nln

NT FUNDS, REVENUES.
INITIATIVE

MENDMENT. Requires
peluebon of local fee/lax
suspension of state mandate
tenl to local government
obligation determined,
local government
>sb would have been the
llllons of dollars annually
oca! revenue impacts
sod resources to die

i the bl

nts.

proposition! 68

LIMITATIONS ON " HREE STRIKES' LAW,
SEX CRIMES. PUN SNMENT. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Umita "1 hree Strikes' law to violent
and tor serious felon c*, Permits limited
re-sentencing unde new definitions. Increases
punishment tor ?pe ified &ax crimas against
children. Rscal Imi act: Ow the long run, net
stole savings of up o severe! hundred million
dollars annually, pr narlly to the prison system;

local jell end court-i

more than ten millie n dollars annually.

— LJVes

B IL-JNo

I elated costs of potentially

tor uncompensated medical care.

Yes

HU No

PROPOSITION 66

NON-TRIBAL COMMERCIAL GAMBLING
EXPANSION, TRIBAL OWING COMPACT
AMENDMENTS. REVENUES, TAX
EXEMPTIONS. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT and STATUTE. Authorizes
Irtbal compact Bmendrpant$.'Un[ess tribes
accept, authorizes caefnb gaming for sixteen
non-tribal eetebllshmantj. Percentage of
gaming revenues fund government services.
Fiscal impact increegeagBimbling revenues-
potentially over SI biiltorj annually-primBrify to
local governments tor additional specified
services. Depending on bottoms of tribal
negotiations, potential tops of slate revenues
totaling hundreds of millions of dollars annually.

Yes

No

Yes

No

PROPOSITION 6!

DNA SAMPLES. COLLECTION. DATABASE.
FUNDING, INITIATIVE STATUTE, Requires
collection of DNA samples from pM felons, arid
lirom others arrested for br charged with
specified crimes, ana sicmission testate dna
database, Provides for finding., Fiscal impact:
Net state cost to prooesi ON A sample* of
potentially nearly $20 million annually when
costs are fully realized. Local costs likely more
than fully offset by revenues, with the additional
revenues available for other DNA-reJatofl
activities,

□ Yes

No

PROPOSITION 71

TRIBAL GAMING COMPACTS. EXCLUSIVE
GAMING RIGHTS'. QOf TRIBUTfONS TO
STATE. INITIATIVE CO MBTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT AND ST ITUTE. Upon tribe's
request, Governor must execute 96-yeer
compact. Tribe* contrlb ite percentage of net
gaming Income to stats funds,.in exchange for
expanded, exclusive trit at casino gaming. ,
Fiscal Impact: Unknowr effect cm peymentei^
the state from Indian tril es. The potential , -
increase or decrease in these payments could
be In the tens of million i to over a hundred
million dollars annually.

Yes

No

PROPOSITION 7!!

HEALTH CARE COVE tAGE
REQUIREMENTS, re ERENDUM. A "Yes"
vote approves, and a 1 (o' vote rejects
legislation requiring he itth care coverage for
employees* as specie I. working for large am
medium emptoyere, Fh cal Impact Significant
expenditures tolly effee I, mainly by employer
fees, for a slate pragra n primarily to purchase
private health insurant: 5 coverage. Significant
county health program savings. Significant
public employer health coverage costa.
Significant net stale re enue base*. Overall
unknown net state sne local savings or costs.

Yes
No

MEASURE I

Shall an ordinance be adopted which imposes
a limit of three consecutive terms (12 years) on
members of the City Council PS defined In the;
ordinance?

Yes
No

MEASUREJ

Shall an Ordinance I
Fountain Valley iren
tax tor the various bt
the City?

Yes
No

o adopted In the City of
ating the business licanar
sines*** operating within

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE f

*Term Limits" Is a limit on your most fundamental freedom, the right to vole.
Term limits violate two bedrock principles of democracy: citizens’ right to
vale for the candidate they choose and citizens' right to run for office.

If Fountain Valley residents believe that a Council member is not doing a
good job then they can vote them out of office, ff they are happy with a
Council member’s performance and the way the city is run, then they can
re-elect lham tor another term.

Term limits says the merit of an elected official's partvirmnoe is not as
Important as ihe time of service, it treats the experience of that person as
not only worthless but also counterproductive- it says the best candidate
becomes the worst after 3 terms and should not be even considered far
reafeclion no mailer how happy residents are about the way tha city is run.

Experience Is considered a valuable asset in every profession, job, or
aotivily. Could a business prosper If Its top management were automatically
ousted regularly, regardless of their performance?

Term limit proponents argue that “fresh Idaas* can only come from a new
person, FRESH IDEAS ARE A REFLECTION OF ATTITUDE NOT
LONGEVITY. The experience at one Individual can create as many or more
“new idaas* as tha naivete of another.

A non-incumbent candidate runs for office on ‘promises and potential. * An
Incumbent runs for re-election on his or her accomplishments and past
performance.

Even prior ardent supporters of Term Limits admit i 1 has failed in many other
communities. The impact of Term Limits on a city the size of Fountain Valley
could be very negative!

WE already have a proven way to limit terms. ITS CALLED

ELECTIONS AND IT HAPPENS AT THE BALLOT BOX.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE I

: s/GuyCarro2Zo
Mayor, City of Fountain Valley

0/ Laurann Cook

Former Mayor, City of Fountain Valley

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE I

This Measure (ordinance, Initiative), is in the beat interests of the Citizens ol
Fountain Valley. The opponents of this measure ignore the advantage or
being an incumbent.

1

in the 47-yaer history of ovrclty, only two Incumbent Council members have
ever been defeated In a regular election.

Long term and unlimited terms of office are an invitation to the
establishment Of special interest coalitions and power blocks. This Measure
ensures a fair procedure lor orderly change.

Twelve years of service is nat a short time to sorve and does not constitute
rapid turnover. Effective Council members can accomplish their goals in a
shorter time

Stability in a City Manager form of government depends on full time
professional employees, not on long-term professional politicians. To the
contrary, long-term politicians have a tendency to become complacent and
non-responsive.

City Council members are not elected to serve on county, state and federal
boards. They are elected to servo Fountain Valley citizens and it should be
noted ihaf the signatories of the Argument against Fountain Valley city
council term limits are either currently serving or have served as elected city
council member®, and no olher organized citizen group hevs come forward j
to oppose this measure.

i again respectfully urge a YES vote.

a/ Dan floppy

Past Chairman FV Citizens For Good Government

a/ John J. Collins

Formar Mayor, City of Fountain Vaituy

Impartial analysis by city attorney

MEASURE J

Tha proposed measure increases business license taxes for various
businesses operating 0r doing business within the City. Those business
license faxes have not been Increased since 1992.

A business license fee is actually a “general tax" end therefore Increases
must be approved by the voters. General taxes are used 10 provide general
city services such as police and fire.

The basic business licenso tax would be increased from $50 per year fa $75
per year.

1 s/Alan R, Bums
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE J

The business license tax paid by businesses In City of Fountain valley has
remained unchanged since 1992 (12 years). The coal cf providing City
services, such ae police and fire protection and street maintenance, has
risen dramatically. Whan compared with other Orange County cities,
Fountain Valley’s current business license fax Is nearly Ihe lowest. We ail
know costs go up over time, but In this case, Fountain Valley's business
license tax hae not kept pace with costa.

The City of Fountain Valley is proposing its business license tax be
Increased from $50 per year to $75 per year for small businesses,

The proposed increase is essential In attempting to balance tire City’s
budget due to the State faking local funds to balance the Stale’s budget.

This ia 9 modest increase and only applies fa businesses- The revenue
derived from this fax helps support Ihe city’s essential services, including
public safety. We ask that you vole YES on Measure J.

e/ Guy Cerra^o, Mayor

sf Larry R. Crandall, Mayor Pro Tern	|

3/ Qua Ayer, Council Member
s/ Cheryl Brothera, Council Member
si John ,1. Collins, Council Member

No argument against this measure waa submitted.