VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF HEALDSBURG
MEASURE Q

Shall the City of Healdsburg be authorized to increase the

Q existing hotel tax, paid by guests and collected by hotel
operators, from the current rate of 10% of the room rate to
a maximum of 12% of the room rate, with the revenue from
said increase being placed in the City’s general fund, approxi-
mately 95% of which is allocated to police and fire protection
services in the current budget year?

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q

Transient Occupancy Tax (“TOT") is a tax that is imposed on the privilege of using
overnight lodging facilities, such as hotels, motels and “bed and breakfast" busi-
nesses, and is frequently referred to as a “hotel tax" or “bed tax.” The current TOT
rate in Healdsburg is ten percent (10%) of the room rental rate. The City Council of
the City of Healdsburg (“City Council") has directed that a measure be placed on
the November 2, 2004, ballot requesting voter approval for Measure Q, which, if
approved, will authorize the City Council to increase the rate of TOT up to a maxi-
mum of twelve percent (12%) of the room rate for transient occupancy.

If Measure Q is approved, the City Council will be authorized to increase the TOT
rate up to a maximum rate of twelve percent (12%). However, no increase in TOT
shall be authorized, imposed or collected prior to July 1,2005. Before increasing
the rate of TOT to be imposed after July 1,2005, the City Council shall make a de-
termination, through the City's annual budget review process, that additional gen-
eral fund revenues are needed to maintain city services, including police and fire
protection services, at Fiscal Year 2004-2005 service levels.

In 2002, the voters of the City of Healdsburg ratified the City’s current TOT rate of
ten percent (10%) and designated the use of TOT proceeds generated at this rate
to be used specifically for designated community services purposes. If Measure Q
is approved and an increase in the rate of TOT is subsequently imposed by the City
Council, the first ten percent (10%) of any TOT shall continue to be used for those
previously designated purposes. Any amount of TOT that is generated as a result
of a rate greater than ten percent (10%) will be used for general fund purposes, in-
cluding police and fire protection services. Because the proceeds from any in-
crease in the TOT rate will be used for general fund purposes, this Measure will
become effective if approved by a majority of the electorate.

The Ordinance that authorizes the City Council to increase TOT from ten percent
(10%) up to a maximum rate of twelve percent (12%) includes certain other admin-
istrative provisions and information relating to TOT. A copy of the Ordinance is
available for review at Healdsburg City Hall, 401 Grove Street, Healdsburg. A copy
of the Ordinance can be requested by calling the City Clerk at (707) 431-3317.

Measure Q requires a majority affirmative vote for approval.

si Michael Gogna, City Attorney
City of Healdsburg

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

Public safety is the number one priority for all cities and Healdsburg is no excep-
tion. Fire and police response must be immediate and effective, but with the recent
state funding grabs it is getting harder and harderto maintainthese vital services.

Measure Q will increase the amount of tax that tourists and visitors pay for over-
night stays here in Healdsburg, and will generate an additional $150,000 to
$200,000 for public safety. These funds are crucial to restore staffing levels and
training budgets at both the police and fire departments.

If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to contact any of us. Thank you for
your consideration.

si Lisa Schaffner	si	Jason	Liles

si Jody Wilson	si	Richard	G.	Norgrove

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE Q

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q

ORDINANCE NO._______

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF HEALDSBURG
AUTHORIZING AN INCREASE IN THE CURRENT TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX TO A MAXIMUM OF TWELVE PERCENT (12%),

AND AMENDING CHAPTER 18, ARTICLE III OF THE MUNICIPAL
CODE TO REFLECT SAME

The Voters of the City of Healdsburg do ordain as follows:

Section 1: It is the purpose and intent of this Ordinance to authorize the impo-
sition of the City of Healdsburg’s (“City’’) transient occupancy tax (“TOT") from the
current rate often percent (10%) to a maximum rate of twelve percent (12%) sub-
ject to a determination by the City Council, through the City's annual budget review
process, that additional general fund revenues are needed to maintain city ser-
vices, including police and fire services, at existing FY 2004-2005 service levels.
The currentTOT, as set forth in Chapter 18, Article III of the Municipal Code, autho-
rizes an excise tax in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the room rent on the privi-
lege of using hotel accommodations in the City and the proceeds of that tax are
designated for use for community services. Hotel operators and other operators of
transient occupancy facilities collect the TOT and remit the funds to the City.

Any increase in the amount of TOT imposed and collected that is in excess of
ten percent (10%) of the room rate shall not become effective prior to July 1,2005.

Any increase in the amount of TOT imposed and collected that is in excess of
ten percent (10%) of the room rate will be a general tax within the meaning of Arti-
cle XIIIC of the California Constitution because it will be used for general fund pur-
poses. Any increase in the TOT rate as proposed herein shall be effective only if
approved by a majority of the voters, as further specified herein. Nothing in this or-
dinance or the election seeking the approval of this ordinance shall cause the rate
of TOT to be less than ten percent (10%).

This ordinance is adopted pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code
§7280 etseq.

Section 2: Section 18-13 of Chapter 18, Article III of the Municipal Code is
hereby amended to read as follows:

Sec. 18-13. Imposition: amount: when payable.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to
and shall pay a tax in an amount not less than ten percent (10%) nor more than
twelve percent (12%) of the rent charged by the hotel operator. The actual rate
of tax to be paid shall be established by Resolution of the Healdsburg City
Council based on a determination, through the City’s annual budget review
process, that additional general fund revenues are needed to maintain general
city services, including police and fire services, at FY 2004-2005 service lev-
els. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city, which can be
extinguished only by payment of such tax to the hotel operator. The tax shall
be due at the time the transient ceases to occupy space in the hotel and the
transient shall pay the tax to the hotel operator at the time the rent is paid. If for
any reason, the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the tax adminis-
trator may require the tax to be paid directly to the City.

Section 3: Section 18-25 of Chapter 18, Article III of the Municipal Code, is
hereby amended to read as follows:

Sec. 18-25. Use of Tax Proceeds.

The first ten percent (10%) of all proceeds of the tax levied and imposed
by this Chapter shall be accounted for and paid into a special fund or account
designated for use for the provision of community services only. Any proceeds
of the tax that are in excess often percent (10%) of the room rate shall be paid
into the City’s general fund for general fund purposes.

No other entity, public or private, shall have access to the proceeds of the
Transient Occupancy Tax, and no part thereof shall be expended on services
provided outside the City.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

9595

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q, CONT.

As to the first ten percent (10%) of all proceeds of the tax levied and im-
posed by this Chapter, and collected by the City, the Finance Director shall file
an annual report with the City Council that contains amount of such proceeds,
how such proceeds were expended and the status of any project required or
authorized to be funded with revenue raised by such proceeds, all in accor-
dance with California Government Code § 50075.3.

Section 4: Based on the information received at the public meeting held by the
City Council on July 19,2004, both written and oral, as reflected in the minutes of
that meeting and in Resolution No. 82-2004, adopted at that meeting, the Council
found that, under California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) Guidelines 15060
(c)(2) and 15378(b)(4), an increase in the authorized rate of TOT does not consti-
tute a project under CEQA and therefore review under that Act is not required.

Section 5: The Council may, by resolution, adopt guidelines for the implemen-
tation and other administrative matters related to the interpretation and enforce-
ment of this ordinance.

Section 6: If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this ordinance
is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such finding shall affect only such
provision, sentence, clause, section or part, and shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining parts of the ordinance.

Section 7: Any action to challenge the tax imposed by this ordinance shall be
brought pursuant to, and in accordance with, Code of Civil Procedure § 860 etseq.

Section 8: This ordinance shall become effective if approved by a majority of
the voters voting on the issue at the November 2,2004 election.

Section 9: If this ordinance is approved by a majority of the voters voting on
the issue at the November 2,2004 election authorizing an increase the rate of TOT
from the current rate often percent (10%) to a maximum of twelve percent (12%),
such increase will not be imposed prior to July 1,2005.

Section 10: If this ordinance is approved by a majority of the voters voting on
the issue at the November 2,2004 election, a copy of this ordinance shall be pub-
lished in a local newspaper of general circulation within the City, pursuant to Gov-
ernment Code § 36933.

APPROVED by the following vote of the People of the City of Healdsburg on
November 2,2004:

ADOPTED by Declaration of the vote by the City Council of the City of
Healdsburg on_____________________,	2004:

AYES: Councilmembers:

NOES: Councilmembers:

ABSENT: Councilmembers:

ABSTAINING: Councilmembers:

SO ORDERED	ATTEST:

Lisa W. Schaffner, Mayor	Maria	Curiel,	City	Clerk

Sonoma County

97

9595