This is an archive of a past election.

See http: //www. smartvoter.ora/ca/ed/ for current information.

League of Women Voters of California Education Fund

El Dorado County, CA	March	2,	2004	Election

Measure K

Parcel Tax
Pioneer Union School District

2/3 Approval Required
967 / 50.6% Yes votes 942 / 49.3% No votes

See Also: Index of all Measures

Results as of Mar 3 0:18am, 100.0% of Precincts Reporting (4/4)

Information shown below: Arguments I Full Text

To improve our schools, maintain small class sizes, improve student
access to technology, support campus safety, retain and attract high
quality teachers, and maintain programs including libraries, music,
and art, shall Pioneer Union School District levy a tax of $75 per
parcel for five years so long as a senior citizen (65 and over) and
multiple parcel owner exemption is provided, no money is used for
administrative salaries, and a citizens' oversight committee is
established?

Suggest a link related to
Measure K

Links to sources outside of Smart Voter
are provided for information only and do
not imply endorsement.

Arguments For Measure K

The Taxpayers United for Kids, and numerous other local citizens, encourage you to vote for kids with a
"Yes" on Measure K in March. The Pioneer Union School District has a proven record of sound and
conservative fiscal management, being solid caretakers of, and stretching the precious taxpayer dollar. The
State is in a fiscal crisis and now our district needs your help.

The conservative fiscal management of the district, along with tremendous community support, donations
and grants has allowed us to maintain high quality facilities and programs. Reductions in administration,
management and materials have already been made. Additional State budget cuts will have a profound
impact on class size, quality of learning environment, instructional materials, facilities and programs,
including our state recognized visual and performing arts, academic basics, and band programs.

Your "Yes" vote will pass Measure K providing a $75 per year parcel tax for a maximum of 5 years. This
$6.25 per month will help protect and preserve the dynamic, family oriented programs and qualities of our
district. Your vote will help maintain small class sizes in grades K-3, provide students with current
technology, continue music and art education, keep test scores high and maintain facilities which benefit
us all.

A Citizen's Oversight Committee will ensure appropriate expenditure of funds. Your hard earned money

will go directly to the district, not the State. NO money will be used for administrative salaries.

•	SENIOR CITIZENS ARE PROTECTED! Persons 65 years or older are eligible for a waiver on
their principal residence parcel.

•	MULTIPLE PARCEL OWNERS ARE PROTECTED! Multiple parcel owners are eligible for a
waiver for all but 1 parcel.

•	A STRONG SCHOOL DISTRICT WITH AWARD WINNING INSTRUCTION IN THE BASICS
AND RECOGNIZED PROGRAMS WILL ENHANCE PROPERTY VALUES.

Please join us in voting "Yes" on MEASURE K.

s/JIM EGGERT Pastor, Former School Board Member, Taxpayer

s/DEANNA SANTANA Preschool Instructor, Pioneer Union School District Parent-Teacher Organization,
Taxpayer

s/TRACI THOMAS Taxpayers United for Kids, Parent, Taxpayer

s/TYLENE EBBE Chairperson-Pioneer Union School District Parent-Teacher Organization, Taxpayer
s/CHRIS MONROE Retired District Teacher, Arts' Program Coordinator, Grant Writer, Taxpayer
(No arguments against Measure K were submitted)

Full Text of Measure K

EXHIBIT A

To improve our schools, maintain small class sizes, improve student access to technology, support campus
safety, retain and attract high quality teachers, and maintain programs including libraries, music, and art,
shall Pioneer Union School District levy a tax of $75.00 per parcel for five years so long as a senior citizen
(65 and over) and multiple parcel owner exemption is provided, no money is used for administrative
salaries, and a citizens' oversight committee is established?

PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the registered voters voting on the proposition,
the district will be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $75.00 per parcel for the specific purposes
described below, subject to all the accountability requirements specified below.

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this proposition in order that the voters and
taxpayers in the District may be assured that their money will be spent wisely. As required by the laws of the
State of California, the proceeds of the qualified special tax will be deposited into a special account
established by the District and will be applied only to the specific purposes identified below. The District has
covenanted to have on file with its governing board each year a report stating the amount of the funds
collected and expended and the status of any project authorized to be funded.

SPECIFIC PURPOSES

The specific purposes shown below are a part of the ballot proposition and must be reproduced in any
official document required to contain the full statement of the proposition. The proceeds of the parcel tax
will be expended on the following purposes. The purposes which are described below include all related and
incidental costs.

To maintain the educational quality of the District, the parcel tax is intended to be spent on specific projects
including:

•	continuing providing programs that aid students with their reading and math skills;

•	maintaining current library programs and services;

•	continuing providing students with up-to-date classroom materials;

•	enhance and maintain academic programs incuding music

•	improving access to classroom computers and modern technology

•	supporting campus safety by improving school facilities

•	maintaining small class sizes for optimum learning throughout the District; and

•	retaining and attracting high quality teachers.

An exemption shall also be available to both (1) persons who are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a
principal residence a parcel as well as (2) persons who own more than one parcel in the District would be
exempt from paying on more than one parcel by applying to the District for exemptions pursuant to
guidelines established by the District.

El Dorado Home Page II Statewide Links II About Smart Voter II Feedback

Created: May 4, 2004 14:40 PDT
Smart Voter <http://www.smartvoter.org/>

Copyright © League of Women Voters of California Education Fund http:ttea.lwv.org
The League of Women Voters neither supports nor opposes candidates for public office or political parties.