IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
SOUTHERN HUMBOLDT JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE E

The Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District, pursuant
to authority contained in California Constitution Articles XIII A and
XIII B and Government Code §§ 50075, 50076, 50077, and 50079
and 53720, et seq., has adopted Resolution 5-0304 seeking voter
approval of a special tax to be imposed in the amount of $75 per
year for each assessor’s parcel and seeking an increase in the
District’s appropriations limit by the amount of revenue generated
by the special tax.

The funds derived from the special tax shall be deposited in a
special fund to be used for the purpose of maintaining and restoring
academic and educational programs within the District.

The tax will require a voter approval of two-thirds prior to becoming
effective. The tax will commence July 1, 2004, and remain in effect
for a period of six years. Certain exemptions from the assessment
are provided for, and an administrative review process to grant such
exemptions shall be established.

A "YES" vote will authorize the levy of a special tax of $75 per
year ($37.50 semi-annual payment) on each assessor’s parcel for
the period of six years, commencing July 1, 2004, for the purposes
stated above and authorizes an increase in the District’s
appropriations limit by the amount of the revenue generated by the
special tax.

A "NO" vote is a vote against the levy of the special tax and
against an increase in the District appropriations limit.

DATED: December 23,2003

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E
SOUTHERN HUMBOLDT JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

A YES vote on Measure E will enable our school district to
maintain our class size reduction program in our elementary schools,
a variety of comprehensive and elective high school courses, and
co-curricular activities such as music and drama. These educational
programs and activities are essential for providing a well-rounded
educational experience for our youth.

Measure E will increase your current parcel tax by $75 per year
for six years. Measure E also has exemptions for property owners
who are 65 and older as well as for owners of contiguous parcels.
You will be able to monitor how these monies are spent. Your school
district has a publicly elected board of trustees and holds open
public meetings each month where district business is discussed.
Every dollar from the parcel tax will be used to continue providing
a quality education for our youth in Southern Humboldt.

Measure E amounts to $6.25 per month per parcel. This is a
small investment for the future of the youth and the community of
Southern Humboldt.

A well-educated populace is the cornerstone of our great
democracy. Act now, VOTE YES on Measure E.

si Dennis O’Sullivan
Committee for Healthy Schools and an Healthy Community.

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

\

12-501

12501

SOUTHERN HUMBOLDT JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E

RESOLUTION 5-0304

BEFORE THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE SOUTHERN
HUMBOLDT JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

In the Matter of a \	RESOLUTION	AND	ORDER

Special Tax Election J	OF	ELECTION

WHEREAS, due to lack of funding, the Southern Humboldt Joint
Unified School District has eliminated many programs and services
beneficial and necessary to the children who attend the Southern
Humboldt Joint Unified School District; and

WHEREAS, the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District is
committed to quality education for every student and high standards
of academic achievement and performance; and

WHEREAS, a high quality public education is vital to the community’s
well-being and fosters the growth of society’s greatest natural
resource—the minds of children; and

WHEREAS, the investment in children’s education is beneficial to
the economic well-being of our community and our country; and

WHEREAS, the Governing Board of the Southern Humboldt Joint
Unified School District has a responsibility to preserve the District’s
academic and educational programs for future generations of
students; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution
and Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079, and
53720 et seq. authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise
funds for the purpose of conducting its business upon the approval
of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon such a special
tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution
allows the appropriations limit of school districts to be increased by
the electors.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Governing Board of the
Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District resolves to conduct
a special election on March 2, 2004, at which time will be submitted
to the qualified voters of the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School
District a measure to authorize a special tax for the purpose of
maintaining and restoring academic and educational programs and
to increase its appropriations limit by the amount of revenue
generated by the special tax.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the
boundaries of the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District
at which election shall be submitted to the qualified voters within
the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District the following
measure, to wit:

MEASURE E

Shall the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District, serving
the children of Southern Humboldt and a portion of Mendocino
County, provide funds for the purpose of maintaining and restoring
academic and educational programs by establishing a special tax
based upon the use or right of use on each assessor’s parcel within
the boundaries of the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District
for a period of six (6) years beginning July 1, 2004 and increasing
its appropriations limit for the maximum time allowed by law by the
amount of revenue generated by that special tax?

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of $75.00 per year
for each assessor’s parcel. The proceeds of the tax shall be deposited
in a special fund to be used for the purpose of maintaining and
restoring academic and educational programs. Exemptions from the
assessment will be made available as follows:

To each individual in the District who will attain 65 years on
or before May 1 of the assessment year, and who owns a

beneficial interest in the parcel, or a divided or undivided
portion of such parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or
her principal place of residence.

For the owner of a parcel which has been determined to be
unusable by the Humboldt or Mendocino County Assessor’s
Office.

For multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part of
one economic unit under the same name and ownership.
Such multiple parcels may be charged as one parcel.

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on
or before June 30, 2004 or May 1 of any succeeding
assessment year.

Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an
exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the
assessment so long as such applicant continues to qualify
for the exemption. The District shall establish an administrative
review process to grant such exemptions.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual
ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

SOUTHERN HUMBOLDT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL
TAX ASSESSMENT FOR SUPPORT OF EDUCATIONAL
PROGRAMS

Shall the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School District
provide funds for the purpose of maintaining and restoring
academic and educational programs by levying a special tax
on each assessor’s parcel of $75.00 per year ($37.50 semi-annual
payment) for a period of six years, beginning July 1, 2004 and
increase its appropriation limit by the amount of revenue
generated by that special tax, with certain specific exemptions
as set forth in the Resolution and Order of Election?

________YES _______________NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1, 2004, the special tax collected
annually on all assessor’s parcels at the rate specified above, shall
be collected and administered in the same manner as ad valorem
property taxes are fixed and collected under the provisions of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Humboldt County is
hereby requested to call a special election of the said special tax
to be held on March 2, 2004 and to consolidate this election with
any elections to be held on this same date. The Humboldt and
Mendocino County Boards of Supervisors are hereby requested and
authorized .to consolidate this election with any elections to be held
on this same date. The County Clerks are hereby requested and
authorized to: 1) set forth all sample ballots relating to said election
to be mailed to the qualified electors of the Southern Humboldt Joint
Unified School District; and 2) to provide absentee voter ballots for
said special tax election for use by qualified electors of the Southern
Humboldt Joint Unified School District who are entitled thereto in
the manner provided by Law.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this
resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this resolution. The
Governing Board declares that it would have adopted this resolution
and each section, subsection, phrase or clause thereof irrespective
of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
phrases or clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6. The clerk of the Southern Humboldt Joint Unified School
District Board of Trustees is hereby authorized and directed to certify
to the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof
so certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Humboldt County,
the Humboldt and Mendocino County Board of Supervisors, and to
file a copy hereof so certified with the County Clerks of Humboldt
and Mendocino Counties.

12-507

12507