<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE 0
ORDINANCE NO. 1084
THE TOURISTS’ FAIR SHARE ACT
AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF INYO,

STATE OF CALIFORNIA AMENDING CHAPTER 3.20
OF THE INYO COUNTY CODE, TO INCREASE THE
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX RATE AND MAKING SUCH
TAX APPLICABLE TO CAMPGROUNDS
AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS

WHEREAS, Chapter 1, Part 1.7. of Division 2 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code (Section 7280 et seq.) authorizes the
Board of Supervisors of a County to levy a tax on the privilege of
occupying a room, rooms, or other living space in a hotel, tourist
home or house, motel, or other lodging, including a camping site or
a space at a campground or recreational vehicle park within the
unincorporated area of the County; and

WHEREAS, such taxation is commonly referred to as “transient
occupancy tax” or “T.O.T.”; and

WHEREAS, the County's existing transient occupancy tax is
imposed at the rate of nine percent (9%) of the rent charged by the
lodging operator and does not include certain forms of lodging that
the County is authorized to tax under Revenue and Taxation Code
Section 7280. such as spaces at campgrounds and recreational
vehicle parks; and

WHEREAS, in order to more equitably spread the County's costs
of providing services to tourists, and ensure that they pay their “fair
share." the County wishes to raise the T.O.T. rate to twelve percent
(12%) and to expand the scope of said T.O.T. to include spaces at
campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code Section 53723 and
Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, the Board of Supervisors
is both authorized and required to submit this ordinance (entitled
“The Tourists’ Fair Share Act”), which would make such modifications
to the County’s existing T.O.T. rate and scope, to the voters for
approval; and

WHEREAS, because said ordinance would increase and extend
the County’s existing transient occupancy tax, which is a general
tax, Article XIIIC of the California Constitution requires that the
election on the ordinance be consolidated with a regularly scheduled
general election for members of the board of supervisors; and

WHEREAS, the next regularly scheduled general election for
members of the board of supervisors is November 2, 2004.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Supervisors, the County of
Inyo, State of California, ordains as follows;

SECTION I. TITLE.

This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as “The Tourists’
Fair Share Act.’’

SECTION II. FINDINGS AND DECLARATIONS.

The Board Finds and Declares as Follows:

•	Inyo County is a major recreational area for tourists and visitors
from around the world. One reason for such appeal is the
County’s scenic treasures and natural resources, including
vast expanses of undeveloped and pristine mountains, valleys,
and deserts, and other government-owned land. In fact, 98%
of the land in Inyo County is government-owned.

•	Government-owned land generates little or no property tax
revenue or in-lieu revenue. The small percentage of private,
taxable land in the County is primarily devoted to residential
and small business purposes, and is sparsely populated,
thereby generating minimal property tax revenue. And for
the past 10 years, much of that minimal property tax revenue
has been taken and used by the State of California to help
fund its own obligations.

•	The County expends significant and increasing funds each
year for services such as law enforcement, public health,
social services, mental health, search and rescue, as well

as for streets and highways, solid waste disposal sites, and
other infrastructure.

• Much of such infrastructure and services are utilized, made
available to, and relied upon by tourists and other visitors year-
round. Yet the current transient occupancy tax imposed upon
such tourists and visitors - who benefit greatly from County
infrastructure and services - covers very little of the County’s
total costs of providing that infrastructure and services. Indeed,
tourists and visitors who stay at campgrounds or recreational
vehicle parks currently pay no tax at all. Such an inequity should
be remedied, so that tourists and visitors will pay their fair share.

SECTION III. SECTION 3.20.020 AMENDED.

Section 3.20.020 of the Inyo County Code is hereby amended
to read as follows:

A.	“Hotel” means any structure, or any portion of any structure,
which is occupied, or intended or designed for occupancy, by
transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes, and includes,
but is not limited to, any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel,
studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house,
apartment house, dormitory, public or private club, mobilehome
or house trailer, at a fixed location, or other similar structure or
portion thereof;

B.	“Occupancy” means the use or possession, or the right to
use or possession, of any of the following for dwelling, lodging,
sleeping, or camping purposes:

-	Any room or rooms or portion thereof in any hotel;

-	Any camping site or space at a campground or recreational
vehicle park.

However, for the purposes of this Ordinance, the term “Occupancy
does not include the right of an owner of a time share estate in a
room or rooms in a time share project, or of an owner of a membership
camping contract in a camping site at a campground, or of the guest
of the owner, to occupy the room, rooms, camping site, or other
real property in which the owner retains that interest. For purposes
of this subsection:

(1)	“Time Share Estate” means a time share estate, as defined
by Section 11003.5 of the Business and Professions Code;

(2)	“Membership Camping Contract” means a right or license
as defined by subdivision (b) of Section 1812.300 of the Civil
Code;

(3)	“Guests of the owner” means a person who does either
of the following:

a.	Occupies real property accompanied by the owner of either
of the following:

i.	A time share estate in that real property;

ii.	A camping site in a campground pursuant to a right
or license under a membership camping contract;

b.	Exercises that owner’s right of occupancy without
payment of any compensation to the owner.

“Guests of the owner” specifically includes a person occupying
a time share unit or a camping site in a campground pursuant
to any form of exchange program.

C.	“Operator” means the person who is proprietor of the hotel,
or other lodging, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee,
sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other
capacity. Where the operator performs his functions through a
managing agent of any type or character other than an employee,
the managing agent shall also be deemed an operator for the
purpose of this chapter, and shall have the same duties and
liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of this
chapter by either the principal or the managing agent shall,
however, be considered to be compliance by both;

D.	“Other lodging” means any site or space, or any portion
of any site or any space, at a campground or recreational vehicle
park which is occupied, or intended or designed for occupancy,
by transients for dwelling, lodging, sleeping, or camping purposes; but does not include a campsite or space in a facility which is
part of the State park system or which is operated by a local
government entity.

E.	“Person” means any individual, firm, partnership, joint
venture, association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock
company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee,
syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit;

F.	’Rent" means the consideration charged, whether or not
received, for the occupancy of space in a hotel, or any other
lodging, valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods,
labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property and services of any kind or nature, without any deduction
therefrom whatsoever; provided, however, that “rent" shall not
include lodging furnished in kind to an employee by an employer
solely for the convenience of the employer;

G.	“Transient" means any person who exercises occupancy, or
is entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit right of
access, license or other agreement, for a period of thirty (30)
consecutive calendar days, or less, counting portions of calendar
days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a hotel
or any other lodging, is a transient until the period of thirty (30)
days has expired unless there is an agreement in writing between
the operator and the occupant providing for a longer period of
occupancy. In determining whether a person is a transient,
uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and subsequent
to the effective date of this ordinance may be considered.

SECTION IV. SECTION 3.20.030 AMENDED

Section 3.20.030 of the Inyo County Code is hereby amended
to read as follows:

3.20.030 TAX IMPOSED.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, or any other lodging,
each transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount
of twelve percent (12%) of the rent charged by the operator. The
tax constitutes a debt owned by the transient to the county which
is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the county.
The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel, or
other lodging, at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in
installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with
each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s
ceasing to occupy space in the hotel, or other lodging. If for
any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel,
or other lodging, the tax collector may require that such tax shall
be paid directly to the tax collector.

SECTION V. SECTION 3.20.050 AMENDED.

Section 3.20.050 of the Inyo County Code is hereby amended
to read as follows:

3.20.050 OPERATOR’S DUTIES.

Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter to
the same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected
from every transient. The amount of tax shall be separately
stated from the amount of the rent charged, and each transient
may receive a receipt for payment from the operator. No operator
of a hotel, or other lodging, shall advertise or state in any manner,
whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will
be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be
added to the rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded,
except in the manner hereinafter provided (Ord. 114 § 5, 1965.)

SECTION VI. SECTION 3.20.060 AMENDED

Section 3.20.060 of the Inyo County Code is hereby amended
to read as follows:

3.20.060	REGISTRATION.

Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this ordinance,
or within thirty (30) days after commencing business, whichever
is later, each operator of any hotel, or other lodging, renting
occupancy to transients shall, if not already registered, register
the hotel, or other lodging, with the tax collector and obtain from
him a “transient occupancy registration certificate” to be at all

times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. The
certificate shall, among other things, state the following:

A.	The name of the operator;

B.	The address of the hotel, or other lodging;

C.	The date upon which the certificate was issued;

D.	The Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that
the person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the
requirements of Uniform Transient Occupancy Tax Ordinance
by registering with the Tax Collector for the purpose of collecting
from transients the Transient Occupancy Tax, and remitting
said tax to the Tax Collector. The certificate does not authorize
any person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct
any lawful business in an unlawful manner, nor to operate a
hotel, or other lodging, without strictly complying with all local
applicable laws, including, but not limited to, those requiring
a permit from any board, commission, department, or office
of this County. The certificate does not constitute a permit.

SECTION VII. VOTER APPROVAL REQUIRED.

As required by law, the Board of Supervisors shall call for a
special election to be conducted within the boundaries of the county
on November 2,2004, for the purpose of submitting the tax increase
and extension set forth in this ordinance to all of the electors within
the County. Such election shall be consolidated with the statewide
general election held on that date and will be conducted in conformity
with applicable elections laws, and constitutional statutory voting
requirements. The tax increase and extension set forth in this
ordinance shall be imposed only if it is approved by a majority of
the voters voting upon such tax increase and extension in such
election.

SECTION VIII. SEVERABILITY.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by
a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed
this ordinance, and each and every section, subsection, sentence,
clause, or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without
regard to whether any portion of this ordinance would be subsequently
declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION IX. EFFECTIVE DATE.

This ordinance provides for an increase and extension of the
County’s existing transient occupancy tax, and requires approval by
a majority of the voters voting upon such tax increase and extension
at the statewide general election held on November 2, 2004. If so
approved, this ordinance shall become effective on January 1, 2005.

SECTION X. PUBLICATION.

Before the expiration of fifteen (15) days from the adoption hereof,
this ordinance shall be published once in a newspaper of general
circulation printed and published in the County of

Inyo, State of California. The Clerk of the Board is hereby
instructed and ordered to so publish this ordinance together with
the names of the Board voting for and against the same.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 3rd day of August, 2004 by the
following vote:

AYES: Supervisors Arcularius, Bear, Williams, Hambleton and Dorame

NOES:	-0-
ABSTAIN:	-0-
ABSENT:	-0-

s/ Carroll M. Hambleton, Jr,

CARROLL “Butch” HAMBLETON, JR.
Chairman, Inyo County Board of Supervisors

ATTEST: Rene Mendez

Clerk of the Board

By: Patricia Gunsolley

Assistant Clerk of the Board <fullend>










<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE“0”

State law authorizes a county to impose a tax on the privilege
of occupying, for a period of 30 days or less, a room or other living
space in a hotel, tourist home, motel, or other lodging including a
camping site or a space at a campground or recreational vehicle
(RV) park. This tax is commonly referred to as “transient occupancy
tax" or “10.1" and is the “bed tax" paid by people who stay at hotels,
motels, and other lodging facilities. A county’s T.O.T. is only applicable
in the unincorporated areas of the county. In Inyo County, a county
T.O.T. does not apply within the boundaries of the City of Bishop.

Inyo County's existing T.O.T. is imposed at the rate of 9% of the
rent charged by operators of hotels, tourist houses, and motels in
the unincorporated area of the county. The County’s existing T.O.T,
however, does not apply to camping sites or spaces at a campground
or RV park.

Measure “0” would approve The Tourists’ Fair Share Act. This
act amends certain sections of the Inyo County Code dealing with
the County’s T.O.T. These amendments would increase the County's
T.O.T rate from 9% to 12%, and would expand the T.O.T. to make
it applicable to camping sites and spaces at campgrounds and RV
parks within the unincorporated areas of the county.

The T.O.T. rate increase and expansion provided by The Tourists'
Fair Share Act will be imposed only if it is approved by a majority
of the voters voting on Measure “0”.

A “YES” vote on Measure “0” is a vote to approve the T.O.T.
rate increase and expansion provided by the Tourists’ Fair Share
Act.

A “NO” vote on Measure “0” is a vote to disapprove the T.O.T.
rate increase and expansion. <impartialend>









<impartialsigs> s/ Paul N. Bruce
Inyo County Counsel <impartialsigsend>










<fiscal> FOR MEASURE 0
FISCAL ANALYSIS
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX

Based on a five (5) year average of Transient Occupancy Tax
collections throughout Inyo County, Measure 0 would increase
projected County revenues by 5217,000 in fiscal year 2004/2005
in which the measure would be in effect for only six (6) months
and by $434,000 in each subsequent year. This analysis does not
include revenues from campgrounds and RV parks because the
financial data was not available at the time of the analysis.
This measure would not increase County expenditures by any
significant amount, nor would it cause the County to exceed its
Proposition 4 (Gann) limit. <fiscalend>









<fiscalsigs> s/ Leslie L. Chapman, CPA
Auditor-Controller <fiscalsigsend>










<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 0

The Transient Occupancy Tax (T.O.T. - or Bed Tax), also know
as the Tourists’ Fair Share Act - is a tax paid by people that utilize
lodging facilities for business or personal purposes. For the most
part, visitors to our area shoulder this tax, Inyo County residents
do not pay this tax unless they choose to utilize lodging facilities.
Currently the TOT is 9 percent. The proposal would increase the
TOT to 12 percent.

As most residents know, tourism and its related fees bring multiple
benefits to our community. Twenty-three percent of Inyo County jobs
are tourism-related and in 2002 visitors generated $154,000,000 in
tourism spending. It is equally important to understand the limitations
this tax has on Inyo County's overall budget. With the proposed
increase, TOT generated funds, optimistically, may increase the
general fund $400,000 per year.This alone will not solve the County’s
budget crisis, but will improve the financial footing the County is
struggling to maintain. Furthermore, considering the long term
benefits, this increase may allow the County Board of Supervisors
to be in a stronger position to improve the county’s investment in
tourism marketing.

Competition for today’s tourist dollars is high, forcing many
destinations to launch mixed media marketing campaigns. Eastern
Sierra communities are finding themselves competing with
destinations such as Hawaii, Asia, Canada, Europe and Pacific Coast
fishing spots for the consideration of the traveling public. The job of
the Bishop Area Chamber of Commerce and Visitors Bureau is to
bring customers to the doorways of our clients. We cannot do that
without a quality marketing effort and that effort cannot be funded
on membership fees alone.

Yes on “0” will ensure that revenue will be generated from visitors
to fund services they impact.

For these reasons, the Bishop Area Chamber of Commerce and
Visitors Bureau supports Measure 0. <favorend> 










<favorsigs> s/ Joe DeAguero, Executive Director
Bishop Area Chamber of
Commerce <favorsigsend>









NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED