McCLOUD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
MEASURE R

RESOLUTION 08, 2004

A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING AN ELECTION TO LEVY A
SPECIAL PARCEL TAX TO FINANCE PARK AND
RECREATION SERVICES

WHEREAS, the McCloud Community Services District is authorized by
California Government Code 61600 et seq. and its enabling legislation to provide
park and recreation services; and

WHEREAS, the voters in McCloud approved in a special election dated
June 3,1997 a special parcel tax in the amount of $55.92 per year to fund park
and recreation services; and

WHEREAS, since implementation of the park and recreation special tax in
1997, the expenses of operating the park and recreation services have exceeded
revenues generated by the special tax in the amount of $4,218 in fiscal year
1997/98, $8,738 in fiscal year 1998/99, $24,161 in fiscal year 1999/00, and
$10,825 in fiscal year 2001/02; and

WHEREAS, the President of the District Board of Directors established a
Long Range Planning Advisory Committee to evaluate the long term operational
and funding needs of the park services provided by the District. Said committee
completed its evaluation following several months of research; its report and
recommendations were approved and adopted by the Board of Directors on
June 28, 2004; and

WHEREAS, the approved Long Range Planning Advisory Committee report
recommended replacing the existing special tax for park and recreation services
with a new special tax for park and recreation services which would increase
the rate of the tax. The committee also recommended modifying the application
of the new park and recreation special tax to more closely reflect the actual
demand each property creates for such services and add an annual escalation
factor in the rate of the special tax of 3% to ensure that the special tax revenue
keeps up with the cost of inflation; and

WHEREAS, California Government Code Sections 53720 through 53730 and 53739
authorize the imposition of a special tax by a local agency after voter approval pursuant
to Article XIIIC and XIIID of the California Constitution; and

WHEREAS, if the new special tax for park and recreation services is not
approved by voters at the November 2, 2004 election, the original park and
recreation special tax enacted by the voters on June 3, 1997 shall remain in
full force and effect; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors of the
McCloud Community Services District Board of Directors that the following
measure be placed on the ballot for vote in the general election to be held on
November 2, 2004 for a special parcel tax to be collected in the same manner
and at the same time as ad valorem property taxes are collected by the County
of Siskiyou Auditor - Controller - Tax Collector;

SHALL THE MCCLOUD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT LEVY A SPECIAL
PARCEL TAX COMMENCING IN FISCAL YEAR 2005-06 TO PROVIDE PARK AND
RECREATION SERVICES, TO REPLACE THE EXISTING SPECIAL TAX FOR SUCH
SERVICES APPROVED BY THE VOTERS OF THE DISTRICT ON JUNE 3, 1997,
AT THE RATES AND FOR THE LAND USE CATEGORIES SPECIFIED IN
RESOLUTION 08, 2004, SUBJECT TO A FIXED ANNUAL INCREASE OF THREE
PERCENT (3%) PERYEAR?

Category	Year
Category 0 - Undeveloped Parcels	$67.00
Category 1 - Single Family Residential	$67.00
Category 2 - Duplex or Granny (Residential)	$134.00
Category 3 - Multi-family Residential	$67.00  per Dwelling Unit
Category 4 - Commercial and Industrial (No Living Units or Rental Rooms)	$67.00
Category 5 - Commercial With Living Unit(s)	$67.00 + $67.00 for Each Livina Unit
Category 6 - Commercial with Living Unit(s) and Rental Rooms and/or RV Spaces	$67.00 + $67.00 for Each Living Unit + $6.70 for Each Rental Room or RV Space

McCLOUD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT

s/ Catherine Young/President of the Board
The foregoing resolution was introduced at a regular meeting of the Board of
Directors of the McCloud Community Services District held on July 26, 2004
and adopted by the following vote:

Ayes: Dragseth, Terry, Toreson, Young
Noes: None
Absent: Goates

ATTEST:

s/ Peter J. Kampa/Secretary of the Board

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE"R"

The McCloud Community Services District is proposing a special
tax to be submitted to the voters in the McCloud Community Services
District. The measure, if approved by two thirds of the electors
voting on the question, would authorize the McCloud Community
Services District to levy an additional special tax to be added to
each parcel and at rates depending upon the classification of each
parcel as defined in the resolution adopted by the Board of Directors
of the McCloud Community Services District on July 26, 2004. This
special tax, if approved by the voters in the McCloud Community
Services District, would replace the special tax approved and enacted
by the voters on June 3, 1997; otherwise, the special tax approved
and enacted by the voters on June 3, 1997, would remain in full
force and effect. If the measure is approved, commencing with
fiscal year 2005-2006, the amount of the special tax would be Sixty
Seven Dollars ($67.00) per year for "undeveloped parcels"; Sixty
Seven Dollars ($67.00) per year for "single family residential"; One
Hundred Thirty Four Dollars ($134.00) per year for "duplex or granny
(residential)"; Sixty Seven Dollars ($67.00) per year per dwelling
unit for "multi-family residential"; Sixty Seven Dollars ($67.00) per
year for "commercial and industrial (no living units or rental rooms)1';
Sixty Seven Dollars ($67.00) per year plus Sixty Seven Dollars
($67.00) per year for each living unit for "commercial with living
unit(s)"; Sixty Seven Dollars ($67.00) per year plus Sixty Seven
Dollars ($67.00) per year for each living unit plus Six and 70/100
Dollars ($6.70) per year for each rental room or RV space for
"commercial with living unit(s) and rental rooms and/or RV spaces."
The special tax would be subject to a fixed annual increase of three
percent (3%) per year after fiscal year 2005-2006.

If confirmed by the voters, the special parcel tax would be levied
effective July 1,2005. The tax would be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as ordinary County property taxes are
collected and would be subject to the same penalties and procedures
in the case of delinquency.

The special tax would be levied to establish a source of funds
so that the McCloud Community Services District could operate and
maintain park and recreation services for the health, welfare, and
benefit of the McCloud Community Services District. The funds
could not be used for any other purposes.

A "yes" vote favors passage of the special tax; a "no" vote is
against the passage of the special tax.

si Donald R. Langford
Assistant County Counsel

47-R1



47R1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R

In 1997 the voters overwhelmingly passed a special tax to fund park
and recreation services in McCloud. Unfortunately the park has still
shown a deficit each year. Rising costs of utilities and maintenance
are partially responsible as is the structure of how the tax is currently
assessed. In 1997 the approved tax rate was the same for all land
parcels, regardless of how many dwellings each parcel had. Measure
R restructures the tax to more accurately reflect the actual demand
each property creates for such services.

For a cost increase of 92 cents per month (for a single family
residence) Measure R will eliminate the current park deficit and
secure the future of Hoo Hoo Park. If Measure R is not approved,
the important youth baseball and soccer programs in McCloud will
suffer and may be lost as their Hoo Hoo Park playing fields will
deteriorate and become unsafe. The very popular park playground
equipment will be taken out of service rather than replaced when it
fails. The nine acres of beautiful lawn will be maintained less making
the park much less attractive and usable.

On any given day there is always somebody taking advantage of
the park's attractions. Whether it is a family get-together with two
or three generations sharing, laughing and playing together or children
running off some of their never-ending energy; Hoo Hoo Park serves
the entire community while offering a view that’s one jn a million.
The positive impact Hoo Hoo Park has can be seen on the smiling
faces of all who visit it. Measure R ensures that our wonderful park
stays open to the public and remains clean and safe for everyone.

Please do not let our park down.

Vote Yes on Measure R

Residents of McCloud and Members of the McCloud Recreation
Council

s/ Dawn Snure
s/ Patricia Ballard
si Lori Griffith
si Shelly Adams

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST
THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED