CITY OF YREKA
MEASURE L

RESOLUTION NO. 2455

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF YREKA
PROPOSING THE INCREASE OF THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY
TAX OF THE CITY OF YREKA BE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS
FOR APPROVAL AND FIXING TIME FOR ELECTION

BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Yreka as follows:

Section. 1. Authority. This Resolution is adopted pursuant to
Government Code Section 53720, et seq.

Section 2. Title. This Resolution may be cited as the "Transient
Occupancy Tax Resolution of 2003".

Section 3. Proposal. California Government Code Section 7280
provides that cities may levy a tax on the privilege of occupying a room
or other lodging for not more than 30 days, called a "transient occupancy
tax", and, Section 3.12.030 of the Yreka Municipal Code establishes the
City of Yreka’s transient occupancy tax at eight percent (8%), which tax
was last increased in 1989. It is proposed that a general tax measure
to increase the transient occupancy tax to ten percent be submitted to
the voters of the City of Yreka at the primary election on Tuesday, March
2, 2004. Such action is taken pursuant to California Constitution article
XIIIC, §2(b) which requires that any general tax be passed by a two-
thirds vote of the legislative body, and by a majority of the voters yoting
in an election on the tax which is consolidated with a regularly scheduled
general election of members of the governing body.

Section 4. Rate to be Charged as a General Tax. The City
Council does hereby find that a general tax which is an increase of
the transient occupancy tax by 2%, and which will be collected by
the operators of hotels as provided in Chapter 3.12 of the Yreka
Municipal Code, is in the best interests of the City of Yreka.

Section 5. The City Council finds and declares that this is a
general tax, for general governmental purposes, and not a special
or ad valorem tax.

Section 6. Method of Collection. This general tax, if confirmed
by the voters, shall be collected as provided in Chapter 3.12 of the
Yreka Municipal Code.

Section 7. Election Date. The proposed general tax shall be
submitted to the voters of the City of Yreka at the election to be included
and consolidated with the election held on March 2, 2004. Notice of
the time and place of holding the election is given and the County
Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional
notice of the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

Section 8. Effective Date of Tax. This Resolution, being for the
enactment and imposition of a general tax, shall be submitted to a
vote of the people by the qualified voters at the general election on
March 2, 2004. The tax shall become valid and binding if a majority
of the voters voting thereon vote in its favor at said election and
shall be effective on the date that the City Council certifies the
results of said election.

Section 9. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this Resolution is for any reason held to be invalid,
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, by the decision of a court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions of this Resolution, the application thereof,
and the general taxes imposed shall not be effected thereby but shall
remain in full force and effect, it being the intention of the voters to
adopt each and every section, subsection, part, clause, sentence
phrase regardless of whether any other section, subsection, part,
clause, sentence or phrase or the application thereof is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional. The City Council of the City of Yreka
hereby declares that it would have passed this Resolution and each
section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective
of the fact that one or more of the sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared invalid, unconstitutional or unlawful.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the
City of Yreka, pursuant to its right and authority, that the following
question is ordered submitted to the voters of the City of Yreka and
placed on the ballot for vote at the election to be held March 2, 2004:

"Shall the City Council of the City of. Yreka increase by two
percent (2%) the general tax for the privilege of transient occupancy

in any hotel as defined in Chapter 3.12 of the Yreka Municipal Code,
which increase would set the total transient occupancy tax at ten
percent of the rent charged by the operator.

YES_______	NO	.__"

Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given,
and the County Clerk is authorized, instructed, and directed to given
further or additional notice of the election, in time, form and manner
as required by law.

IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED, that the election be included and
consolidated with the election on March 2, 2004.

Passed and adopted at a regularly scheduled meeting of the
City Council, this 4th. day of December, 2003, by the following vote:

AYES:	Amaral,	Griffin,	Greiner,	Harms,	&	McNeil

NAYS:	None

ABSENT: None

Isl Eric Harms,

Mayor of the City of Yreka

APPROVED AS TO FORM:	Attest:

Isl Mary Frances McHugh, Isl Liz Casson, City Clerk
City Attorney

The foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution Number 2455 as adopted by
the Yreka City Council on December 4, 2003.

Isl Liz Casson, City Clerk

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE L

City of Yreka Increase Of The Transient Occupancy Tax Of The
City Of Yreka Be Submitted To The Voters For Approval And
Fixing Time For Election

The City of Yreka is proposing a General Tax Measure to be
submitted to the voters in the City of Yreka. The proposed tax is
a general tax, for general governmental purposes, and not a special
or ad valorem tax.

The tax requires a majority vote of those voting on the measure.
Revenue raised by the tax would go to the general fund of the City
of Yreka to be used for general governmental purposes. Examples
of general governmental purpose expenditures are local services
such as fire, police, recreation, parks, senior programs, and local
access television, which are services often used by travelers.

The transient occupancy tax of the City of Yreka is contained in
Chapter 3.12 of the Yreka Municipal Code. This tax would apply to
hotels as defined in the Yreka Municipal Code. The tax would be
collected, as provided in the Yreka Municipal Code, from persons
occupying hotels for 30 consecutive days or less. The cities of
Weed, Mt. Shasta and Dunsmuir have transient occupancy tax rates
of ten percent (10%). The current tax of the City of Yreka is eight
percent (8%) of the rent charged by the operator. This measure
would increase the tax by two percent (2%).

If the proposed general tax receives the approval of a majority
of the voters voting on the measure, the tax would become effective
on the date the City Council certifies the results of the election.
The proposed general tax is not limited to any time period. If approved
by a majority of the voters voting on the measure, the tax would
remain in effect until later amended.

A “Yes" vote favors passage of this general tax, while a "No"
vote is against passage of this general tax.

Mary Frances McHugh, City Attorney, City of Yreka

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure L.
If you desire a copy of the Resolution proposing Increase of
the Transient Occupancy Tax, please call the Siskiyou County
Clerk’s Office at 842-8086, or toil free at 1-800-854-2000,
extension 8086, and a copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF OR AGAINST
THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

47-501

47501