November 2, 2004 General Election

Total Yes Votes: 921 63.7%

Total No Votes: 524 36.3%

CITY OF FARMERSVILLE

(required to pass: majority of votes cast)

Measure U

City of Farmersville Revenue Measure Part 1. Shall Farmersville
voters enact a one-half cent sales tax with independent annual
audits, to partially ensure essential government functions, including
police, fire and other general fund service will continue in the future,
providing a supplement to existing general fund revenues?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE U

The City of Farmersville Revenue Measure, Part 1, approves a one-
half cent increase to the Transactions and Use Tax (“sales tax”)
within the City of Farmersville. The increase will result in local sales
tax being raised from 7.25% to 7.75%. The tax would be collected at
the same time and in the same manner as existing sales taxes.

The revenues from the increased sales tax are not designated for any
specific purpose, and may be used for general City functions, such as
police protection, fire services, and street and park maintenance and
repairs. If approved by the voters, the sales tax will be adopted by
ordinance to become effective no sooner than January 1, 2005.

The sales tax increase is expected to generate approximately
$175,000 per year, which would assist the City with replacing general
fund revenues lost in previous years due, in part, to significant State-
level funding cuts to local government.

If the Farmersville Revenue Measure, Part 1, is defeated, the City
would be required to decrease general fund expenses for the 2004-
2005 fiscal year in the anticipated amount of $43,700, and following
years, in the anticipated amount of $175,000 annually. These
reductions would adversely impact City programs including police, fire

and park maintenance; and may result in the elimination of
approximately 3 police officer positions within the City.

A “Yes” vote on the Farmersville Revenue Measure, Part 1, will
approve an increase in the local sales tax from its current rate of
7.25% to 7.75%. A “No” vote will maintain the City’s current 7.25%
sales tax rate.

Michael L. Farley
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of the Farmersville
Revenue Measure, Part 1. If you desire a copy of the Measure,
please call the City Clerk’s Office at: (559) 747-0458 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

The existing Transactions and Use Tax (“sales tax”) on taxable goods
purchased within the City of Farmersville is 7.25%. A large portion of
sales tax collected within Farmersville is allocated to the State of
California. Of the 7.25% in sales tax collected, a small portion (3/4 of
1%) of local sales tax revenue returns to the City to be used towards
the total cost of police, fire, parks, street repairs, and other vital
services for its citizens.

To balance its own budget, California has recently required local
governments to contribute more of their sales tax and other sources
of revenue to the State; leaving less to fund vital City services.
Having already cut non-essential services, Farmersville must either
find additional revenue sources, or decrease police, fire and other
essential general fund services to its citizens.

Because the passage of this measure is essential to maintaining
necessary levels of essential services for the City of Farmersville, we
strongly encourage you to vote YES on Farmersville Revenue

Measure U, Part 1. The following are some important points to
consider:

• Approving Farmersville Revenue Measure U, Part 1. will
increase local sales tax bv only one-half of a cent on each
dollar of sales taxable.

•	A large portion of the funds raised by this measure would come
from individuals who reside outside the City.

•	The increased sales tax would not require businesses located
within the City of Farmersville to increase prices.

•	Adequate police and fire protection within the City enhances
our community and increases property values.

•	Without additional funds from this measure, Farmersville will be
required to cut essential services; including the possible
elimination of at least 3 police positions.

To preserve the quality of life which makes Farmersville a great place
to live, we urge you to VOTE YES ON FARMERSVILLE REVENUE
MEASURE U, PART 1.

s/ Eric C. Swansen

City Manager

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED