VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in favor of, or against, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

MONTE RIO UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE I

To retain high quality teachers, provide for necessary

I educational programs and materials, avoid increased class
sizes, and maintain counseling and music programs, shall
the Monte Rio Union School District be authorized to levy
an annual tax of $49 per taxable parcel for five years, beginning
July 1,2004, with annual audits and a complete exemption for
parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or over
and other exemptions as set out in the full text of the measure?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

The Monte Rio Union School District has called an election on a special tax
measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval
before a school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $49 per year per parcel for each parcel
of land within the District’s boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege
of using the parcel, would begin on July 1,2004, and would remain in effect for
no more than five years.

Proceeds of the tax could only be used for purposes set out in the measure,
which include retaining high quality teachers, providing necessary educational
programs and materials, avoiding increases in class size, and maintaining
counseling and music programs.

If the tax is approved, the school board must create a special, separate
account to be established for deposit of the proceeds of the tax. Each year,
beginning with the year ending December 31, 2004, the measure calls for
preparation of a report by an independent financial auditor, stating the amount
received and expended from the tax for that year, and the status of any
projects, and description of any programs, funded from the proceeds of the tax.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that
receives a separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from
property tax, or on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt
from this tax. The measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or
partially owned and occupied by a person who will be 65 years of age or older
on or before August 1,2t)04, or May 1 of any subsequent year for which the tax is
assessed. Persons claiming exemptions based on ownership by a senior citi-
zen would need to apply to the District for this exemption the first year it applied
to them. The measure describes what process must be followed to appeal any
decision regarding exemption, and apply for a refund of the tax, if appropriate. <

If two-thirds of the voters in the Monte Rio Union School District who vote on
this measure vote "yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be
levied. The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property )
taxes starting with the 2004-2005 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: s/ Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

-02-

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in favor of, or against, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE I

We hope you share our concern for the education of our children.

Unlike most neighboring districts, the Monte Rio Union School District has
never had a parcel tax. But with this year’s state cutbacks, the school must
come to the community for help.

We understand that nobody likes to pay taxes. Understanding this, the
dedicated staff at Monte Rio School has done their best for years to make do
with limited resources. The District has achieved a State rating in the “Very
Good” range, in spite of the fact that the state classifies 60% of Monte Rio
students as “socio-economically disadvantaged”. But they have reached the
point where there is nothing left to cut without significant impact on the quality
of our children’s education.

Maintaining current programs would have meant a shortfall of about $100,000.
To absorb half of the shortfall, the Superintendent has already voluntarily reduced
his own salary and benefits, reduced the business manager’s time, and cut
custodial staff by one half person. Any additional cuts would have to come from
teaching staff. As a way of avoiding a drastic negative impact on the quality of
academic programs, the Board is asking us to approve a parcel tax of $49 per
parcel — about $4 per month. All $49 will go directly to Monte Rio School.
(Seniors over sixty-five can be exempt, parcels under $1,500 in value are
exempt, and contiguous parcels with a single use are counted as one parcel.)

Four dollars ($4.00) a month is not very much to ask. We urge you to vote "Yes
on I” on your mail-in ballot. Surely our children are important enough that we
can invest what amounts to half of the cost of a movie each month to preserve
their future.

Please don’t abandon our children. Vote Yes on I.

s/ Kristin Thurman-Fein	s/	Lee Torr, IV

s/ Steve Baxman

NO REBUTTAL WAS SUBMITTED TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE I

-03-

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in favor of, or against, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE I

Wise counsel dictates that when you have dug yourself into a hole — stop
digging. Facing a statewide financial crisis, it is time to stop spending and
tighten our belts. As painful as this can sometimes be, there can be benefits.
When we are forced to live within our means, we will choose to spend on those
programs we collectively deem most valuable and delay programs of lesser
value. This school district has not made the annual progress (between 2002 -
2003) required by the State toward academic proficiency. Existing resources
should be directed toward academic achievement rather than non-academic
activities. Why reward the District with additional tax revenues for non-
academic programs when it has not met its primary goals?

We urge you to take a good look at your current property tax bill’s special
assessments and add the requested parcel tax. Then, ask yourself, is this the
right time for the District to ask me for more money? We already paid our share
of taxes, but where did the money go?

The State spends more than $9,600 per pupil and we are still considerably
below the national average in student achievement. The financial crisis has
made it imperative for all areas of government to rethink how money is spent,
especially education which represents more than 40 percent of California’s
budget. We urge you to send a strong message to the District’s board and
management to rethink how existing funds will be spent by voting No on this
measure.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION
sl Jeanne Levin, Director/Past President s/ Jack Atkin, Treasurer
sl John B. Landis, Vice President sl Fred Levin, Executive Director

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE I

Did the Sonoma County Taxpayers Association (SCTA) even read Measure I,
or did they just pull their generic negative argument off the shelf? One
wonders, because it is hard to imagine how they could be so inaccurate.
Maybe it has to do with the fact that the signers live in Santa Rosa and not in
Monte Rio. They obviously know very little about our local school.

SCTA claims that the District has "not made the annual progress required by
the State toward academic proficiency.’’ The truth is that the District not only
met, but also exceeded state requirements. The state assigned target base
score from 2002 was 724 and the District’s 2003 score was 733.

SCTA claims that Measure I would “reward the District with additional tax
revenues for non-academic programs”. The truth is that the funds will be used to
reduce or avoid teacher layoffs. Does SCTA consider teachers “non-academic”?
SCTA claims that “The State spends more than $9600 per pupil”. We have no
idea where that number comes from. The truth is that the District will receive
$4,487 per pupil from the state in base revenue limit monies in 2003/2004.
This is down from $4,548 per pupil in 2002/2003, a loss of $61 per pupil.
Please support our local kids and Monte Rio Union. Vote “Yes” on Measure I.
sl Jim Maresca, Co-Chair	s/	Lisa Palmer, President

Friends of Monte Rio School	Monte	Rio School Board

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in favor of, or against, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE I

MONTE RIO UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION ACT OF 2004

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Monte Rio Union
) School District Excellence in Education Act of 2004" or as “Measure I”.

I	TERMS OF EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION SPECIAL TAX

i Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this
measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of
$49.00 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no
more than 5 years, commencing July 1,2004. The qualified special tax shall be
known and referred to as the “Excellence in Education Tax”. Proceeds of the
Excellence in Education Tax shall be authorized to be used to retain high
quality teachers, provide for necessary educational programs and materials,
avoid increases in class sizes, and maintain counseling and music programs.
Exemptions. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the community,
any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be
exempt from the Excellence in Education Tax upon proper application to the
District. Exemptions will also be made for contiguous parcels that form a single
economic unit under the same name and ownership, which shall be charged as
one parcel, and for parcels that are restricted from being developed by existing
laws and regulations. Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District
on or before August 1,2004 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any
one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the
parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant
continues to qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Excellence in
Education Tax, the Board of Education shall cause an account to be
established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the
Excellence in Education Tax remain unexpended, the Superintendent or chief
financial officer of the District shall cause an independent financial auditor to
prepare a report to be filed with the Board of Education no later than December
31 of each year, commencing December 31,2004, stating (1) the amount of
Excellence in Education Tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the
status of any projects or description of any programs funded from proceeds of
the tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other
appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and may be
incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit,-or other appropriate
routine report to the Board of Education.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall constitute
the specific purposes of the Excellence in Education Tax, and proceeds of the
tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

I	LEVY	AND COLLECTION

I The Excellence in Education Tax shall be collected by the Sonoma County
• ' Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be subject to
the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-
Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for
unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the Excellence in
Education Tax shall not decrease the funds available from other sources of the
District in any period from the effective date hereof.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in favor of, or against, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE I, CONT.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property in
the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes
from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has
approved for an Exemption from the Excellence in Education Act as described
above to the Sonoma County tax collection officials. The Sonoma County
Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason other than the
District’s approved exemptions of any parcel from taxation shall be final and
binding for the purposes of the Excellence in Education Tax. Taxpayers
wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so under
the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to
Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other
applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Excellence in
Education Taxes paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax
refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent
value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of
this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain
in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in favor of, or against, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

IMPORTANT!

THIS ELECTION IS BEING CONDUCTED ENTIRELY BY MAIL

NO POLLING PLACE WILL BE ESTABLISHED.

YOUR OFFICIAL BALLOT MUST BE RECEIVED BY
THE SONOMA COUNTY REGISTRAR OF VOTERS OFFICE
NO LATER THAN 8:00 P.M., TUESDAY, JUNE 8,2004.

POSTMARKS ARE NOT CONSIDERED.

TO BE SURE YOUR VOTE IS COUNTED,

MAIL YOUR BALLOT WELL IN ADVANCE OF ELECTION DAY.

IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL
THE SONOMA COUNTY REGISTRAR OF VOTERS OFFICE
AT 707-565-6800 OR 1-800-750-VOTE (8683).