McCloud community services district
MEASURE S

RESOLUTION 09, 2004

A RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING AN ELECTION TO LEVY A
SPECIAL TAX TO FINANCE STREET LIGHTING SERVICES

WHEREAS, the McCloud Community Services District is
authorized by California Government Code 61600 et seq. and its
enabling legislation to provide street lighting services; and

WHEREAS, the voters in McCloud approved In a special election
dated June 16,1997 a parcel fee in the amount of $32,40 per parcel
per year to fund street lighting services; and

WHEREAS, since implementation of the street lighting fee in
1997, the expenses of operating the street lighting services have
exceeded revenues generated by the fee in the amount of $3,389
in fiscal year 1997/98, $1,629 in fiscal year 1998/99, $120 in fiscal
year 1999/00, and $1,146 in fiscal Year 2002/03; and

WHEREAS, the President of the District Board of Directors
established a Long Range Planning Advisory Committee to evaluate
the long term operational and funding needs of the street lighting
services provided by the District. Said committee completed its
evaluation; its report and recommendations were approved and
adopted by the Board of Directors on June 28, 2004; and

WHEREAS, the approved Long Range Planning Advisory
Committee report recommended replacing the existing street lighting
fee paid by benefiting property owners with a new special tax which
would increase the rate of the tax. The Committee also recommended
that the Board add an annual escalation factor in the rate of the
special tax of 2% to ensure that the special tax revenue keeps up
with the cost of inflation; and

WHEREAS, California Government Code Sections 53720 through
53730 and 53739 authorize the imposition of a special tax by a
local agency after voter approval pursuant to Article XIIIC and XIIID
of the California Constitution.

WHEREAS, if this proposed measure to levy a special tax for
street lighting services does not receive voter approval at the
November 2,2004 election, the parcel fee for street lighting services
enacted in 1997 shall remain in full force and affect.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Directors
of the McCloud Community Services District Board of Directors that
the following measure be placed on the ballot for vote in the general
election to be held on November 2, 2004 for a special parcel tax
to be collected in the same manner and at the same time as ad
valorem property taxes are collected by the County of Siskiyou Auditor
- Controller - Tax Collector;

SHALL THE MCCLOUD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT LEVY
A NEW SPECIAL PARCEL TAX COMMENCING IN FISCAL YEAR
2005-06 TO PROVIDE STREET LIGHTING SERVICES, TO
REPLACE THE EXISTING PARCEL FEE FOR SUCH SERVICES
APPROVED BY THE VOTERS OF THE DISTRICT ON JUNE 16,
1997, AT THE RATES SPECIFIED IN RESOLUTION 09, 2004,
SUBJECT TO A FIXED ANNUAL INCREASE OF TWO PERCENT
(2%) PER YEAR?

All Parcels on Streets Served by Street Lights $42.20 per Year

McCLOUD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT

s/ Catherine Young/President of the Board

The foregoing resolution Resolution 9,2004 was introduced at a regular
meeting of the Board of Directors of the McCloud Community Services
District held on July 26, 2004 and adopted by the following vote:

Ayes: Dragseth, Terry, Toreson, Young

Noes: None

Absent: Goates
ATTEST:

si Peter J. Kampa/Secretary of the Board

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE"S"

The McCloud Community Services District is proposing a special
tax measure to be submitted to the voters in the McCloud Community
Services District. The measure, if approved by two thirds of the
electors voting on the question, would authorize the McCloud
Community Services District to levy a new special tax of Forty Two
and 20/100 Dollars ($42.20) per year to be added to each parcel
as defined in the resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of
the McCloud Community Services District on July 26, 2004. This
special tax, if approved by the voters in the McCloud Community
Services District, would replace the street lighting parcel fee
approved and enacted by the voters on June 16, 1997; otherwise,
the street lighting parcel fee approved and enacted on June 16,
1997, would remain in full force and effect. If this measure is
approved, commencing with fiscal year 2005-2006, the total amount
of tax would not exceed Forty Two and 20/100 Dollars ($42.20) per
year for "all parcels on streets served by street lights." The special
tax would be subject to a fixed annual increase of two percent (2%)
per year after fiscal year 2005-2006.

If confirmed by the voters, the special tax would be levied effective
July 1, 2005. The special tax would be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as ordinary County property taxes are
collected and would be subject to the same penalties and procedures
in the case of delinquency.

The special tax would be levied to establish a source of funds
so that the McCloud Community Services District could operate and
maintain street lighting services for the health, welfare and protection
of life and property within the McCloud Community Services District.
The funds could not be used for any other purposes.

A "yes" vote favors passage of the special parcel tax; a "no“
vote is against the passage of the special parcel tax.

si Donald R. Langford

Assistant County Counsel

47-SI

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Municipal and other local governments have long provided for the
lighting of local public streets. Residents and businesses have
generally appreciated this service, as they reduce vandalism and
crime, while limiting the number and extent of vehicle accidents and
the amount of property damage caused by those accidents.

The light poles and lights that provide illumination of the McCloud
streets are owned by the Pacific Power Company. The District pays
Pacific Power for electricity, as well as for the use of those poles
and lights. This service is supported through a monthly voter approved
fee.

Measure S proposes a parcel tax to replace the current fee, taxing
those parcels which benefit from the existing light poles. This tax
would, for those properties which benefit, increase the monthly cost
by $0.82 per month, or $9.84 for the first year. This increase, plus
the 2% per year cost-of-living raise that is included in the tax proposal,
will enable the District to continue to pay the constantly increasing
costs of electricity, keeping McCloud’s streets illuminated and
inviting.

The undersigned are convinced that street lights reduce vandalism
and crime and that they help reduce vehicle accidents. Please support
the $0.82 per month increase and keep the lights on for the
community’s safety.

si Tim Dickinson

si Lynne French

si April A. Gray

s/ Anne Simons

si Clarence Dalton

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST
THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

ii in iii