Measure L: Continuation of Utility Users Tax, City of Hercules

In order to maintain vital city services and prevent severe cuts in police, public safety, parks and recreation, and city services in Hercules, shall Ordinance 395 be adopted continuing the existing 6% utility users tax?

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
In 1991, the City of Hercules adopted its first Utility Users Excise Tax. That tax has been continuously collected since its adoption.
This measure, if approved, will continue the Utility Users Tax for a period of 20 years at the same 6% rate that has been collected since 1991. It will remain applicable to telephone communication services, electricity usage, gas usage, water usage and video service usage, as defined. All taxes will be collected by the service providers and remitted to the City. The tax will automatically expire in 20 years, unless it is again extended by a vote of the citizens of Hercules.
If this measure passes, the 1991 ordinance will be replaced by the proposed ordinance with no effect on other City ordinances. If this measure fails, the City will experience a substantial decrease in general fund revenue and will be compelled to consider corresponding decreases in City services.
Alfred Cabral
City Attorney
City of Hercules
The above statement is an Impartial analysis of Measure L. If you desire a copy of the full text of the measure, it may be obtained from the Hercules City Clerk by calling (510) 799-8215, and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Arguments For Measure L
Yes on Measure L to ensure our city's future. Hercules is a great, safe place to live. We enjoy a high quality of life with low crime, beautiful parks, and recreation services. By voting yes on Measure L, Hercules residents have an opportunity to keep our city moving in the right direction.
Measure L is a continuation of the existing utility users tax. Hercules depends on the current utility users tax to provide our residents with vital city services. The utility users tax pays for services such as public safety, police protection, child care programs, and park and recreation services.
Measure L is not a new tax, but simply a continuation. There is a 20 year sunset provision after which the voters can approve or disapprove the continuation after that time.
Measure L will generate $1.3 million annually for the city. Measure L is solely based on usage, so residents control the amount they pay.
Measure L ensures that money will only pay for city services. All city expenditures from this tax will be subject to an annual independent audit to make sure the city is spending the money accordingly.
If Measure L is not approved, the City of Hercules will be forced to make drastic cuts to public safety and recreational services. The city will be forced to eliminate nearly 25% of the police force, reduce the training that officers receive and cut emergency operations programs. The city will also be forced to increase fees on park and recreation services, facility rentals, child care and youth programs.
Please join law enforcement, community leaders, and local businesses in voting yes on Measure L.
Joanne Ward, Mayor Frank Batara, Vice Mayor Adelfo "Ed" Balico, Council Member Kris Valstad, Council Member

(No argument against Measure L was submitted.)

Full Text of Measure L







RESOLUTION NO. 04-129

DECLARING RESULTS OF THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION HELD ON
NOVEMBER 2,2004

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election was held in the City of Hercules on Tuesday,
November 2,2004 as required by law; and

WHEREAS, notice of said election was duly and regularly given, voting precincts were
properly established and furnished, and in all respects said election was held and conducted and
the votes cast thereat received and canvassed and the returns thereto made, determined and
declared in time, form and manner as required by laws of the State of California providing for
and regulating municipal elections in general law cities; and

WHEREAS, the Council has received the certification of the County Clerk certifying the
results of said election and finds that the number of votes cast, the names of the persons voted for
and other matters required by law, to be as hereinafter stated; and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, DETERMINED AND DECLARED by the

City Council of the City of Hercules as follows:

That a General Municipal Election was held and conducted in the City of Hercules on
Tuesday, the 2nd day of November 2004 in time, form and manner as required by law.

That there were 15 voting precincts established in said City of Hercules for the purpose of
holding said election, and

That the number of votes cast in said City of Hercules at said election was 8,884 votes, and

That the names of the persons receiving votes and offices for which they received votes,
and the number of votes received by each of said persons are as follows:

Howard Jones	Council Member	2,876

Charleen Raines	Council Member	3,319

Donald Kuehne	Council Member	2,939

Joanne Ward	Council Member	3,647

Adelfo “Ed” Balico	Council Member	4,132

Kristian “Kris” Valstad	Council Member	3,311

That the Measures receiving votes and the number of votes received by each Measure are as
follows:

Measure L

Utility Users Tax

Yes

No

6,280

1,923

Measure M

General Plan Amendment -
Franklin Canyon

Yes

No

5,214

3,054

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, DETERMINED AND DECLARED that at the
General Municipal Election held in the City of Hercules on November 2, 2004, Adelfo Balico,
Charleen Raines and Joanne Ward were elected to the office of City Council Member for the full
term of four (4) years from and after November 2, 2004; that Measure L and Measure M passed
as determined by a majority of the votes cast.

The foregoing Resolution was duly and regularly adopted at a special meeting of the City
Council of the City of Hercules held on the 14th day of December 2004 by the following vote of
the Council:

AYES:	Balico, Batara, Evans-Young, Valstad, Ward

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

RESOLUTION NO. 09-089

AUTHORIZING THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TO EXECUTE AN AGREEMENT WITH
EAST BAY MUNICIPAL UTILITIES DISTRICT (EBMUD) FOR AN AMOUNT NOT TO
EXCEED $56,680 TO PROVIDE FOR THE COLLECTION OF THE WATER PORTION OF
UTILITY USERS TAX

WHEREAS, East Bay Municipal Utilities District has not collected the water portion of the
Utility Users Tax for the City of Hercules since June 2004 when it was implemented; and

WHEREAS, in November 2007, negotiations were resumed by City staff and EBMUD to fully
implement the collection of the Utility Users Tax; and

WHEREAS, negotiations have resulted in the implementation of the Utility Users Tax with
EBMUD proposing a one-time fee for computer programming of $38,000, bill design, printing and
mailing costs of $8,000 and an administrative fee of 4% of revenues collected which is approximately
$10,680; and

WHEREAS, it is estimated the annual water portion of the Utility Users Tax is approximately
$267,000 and the average single family account would pay $37.00 per year; and

WHEREAS, ongoing implementation of a new Customer Information Service which would
include the City of Hercules Utility Users Tax on the EBMUD regular bill will commence in late
September 2010 for an approximate cost of $22,000.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Redevelopment Agency of the City of
Hercules as follows:

1.	The Agency Board hereby authorizes the City Manager to execute an agreement with East
Bay Municipal Utilities District to provide collection of the water portion of the Utilities
Users Tax.

2.	The Agency Board hereby authorizes the appropriation and/or expenditure of an amount not
to exceed $56,680 from the unappropriated general fund balance, account no. 100-4625-618-
20-00.

The foregoing Resolution was duly and regularly adopted at a regular meeting of the City Council
of the City of Hercules held on the 22nd day of September, 2009 by the following vote of the Council:

AYES:	Balico, Kuehne, Valstad, Ward, McDonald

NOES:	None

ABSENT:

None

ORDINANCE NO. 395

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF HERCULES, CALIFORNIA
CONTINUING AN EXISTING UTILITY USER’S TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF HERCULES, CALIFORNIA DO HEREBY
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Sections 8-8.101 through and including 8-8.308 of the Hercules Municipal
Code are hereby repealed and replaced with the following sections 8-8.101 through and
including 8-8.322.

TITLE 8, CHAPTER 8

Article 1. General

Section 8-8.101. Purpose

The purpose of this ordinance is to impose a utility users excise tax as a revenue measure
necessary to pay the usual and current expenses of conducting the municipal government of the
City. This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the Utility Users Tax Ordinance.

Section 8-8.102. Definitions

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions set forth in this section govern the
construction of this ordinance

Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this section govern the
construction of this Chapter:

A.	"Person" shall mean, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust, common law
trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate, club, joint stock company, joint
venture, limited liability company, corporation (including foreign, domestic, and non-profit),
municipal district or municipal corporation (other than the City) cooperative, receiver,
trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court.

B.	“Billing Address” shall mean the mailing address of the service user where the service
supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.

C.	“Charges for Mobile Telecommunications Services” has the same meaning and usage as set
forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Sections 116 and 124) and
the regulations thereunder.

D.	"City" shall mean the City of Hercules.

E.	“City Manager” means the City Manager of the City, or his or her authorized representative.

1

F.	"Cogenerator" shall mean any corporation or person employing cogeneration (as defined in
Section 218.5 of the California Public Utilities Code) for producing power for the generation
of electricity for self use or sale to others from a qualified cogeneration facility (as defined in
the federal Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of1978 and regulations thereunder).

G.	"Exempt Wholesale Generator" shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Federal
Power Act (15 U.S.C.S. 79z-5a) and regulations thereunder.

H.	"Gas" shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel which may
be substituted therefor.

I.	“Mobile Telecommunications Service” has the same meaning and usage as set forth in the
Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations
thereunder.

J.	"Month" shall mean a calendar month.

K.	"Non-utility Supplier" shall mean:

(1)	a service supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution services to all or a
significant portion of the City, which generates electricity for sale to others, and shall
include, but is not limited to, any publicly-owned electric utility, investor-owned utility,
cogenerator, exempt wholesale generator, municipal utility district, federal power
marketing authority, electric rural cooperative, or other supplier or seller of electricity;

(2)	an electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer, aggregator, pool operator,
or other electricity supplier other than a supplier of electric distribution services to all or a
significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies electricity or supplemental services
to electricity users within the City; and,

(3)	a gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer, or broker, other than a supplier of gas
distribution services to all or a significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies gas
to users within the City.

L.	"Place of primary use" means the street address representative of where the customer's use of
the telecommunications service primarily occurs, which must be the residential street address
or the primary business street address of the customer. In the case of mobile
telecommunications services, "place of primary use" must be within the licensed service area
of the home service provider, and shall have the same meaning and usage as set forth in the
Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 116 et. seq.) and the regulations
thereunder.

M.	"Service Address" means the residential street address or the business street address of the
gas, electric, water or video service user. For a telephone communication service user,
"service address" means:

L. ^

f"'

L._

(1)	The -location of the telecommunications equipment to which a service user’s call is
charged and from which the call originates or terminates, regardless of where the call is
billed or paid; or,

(2)	If the location in subsection (M)(l) is unknown, the service address means the location
of the service user's place of primary use.

N.	"Service Supplier" shall mean any regulated or non-regulated entity, or person, including the
City, that provides telephone communication, electric, or gas service to a user of such
services within the City, and includes an entity or person required to collect, or self-collect
under Section 8-8.204 of this Chapter, and remit a tax as imposed by this Chapter, including
its billing agent in the case of electric, gas, water or video service.

O.	"Service User" shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed under the provisions of this
Chapter.

P.	"State" shall mean the State of California.

Q.	"Tax Administrator" shall mean the Finance Director of the City.

R.	“Telephone Communication Services” shall include “communications services” as defined in
Sections 4251 and 4252 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C.A.), and the regulations
thereunder, and shall include teletypewriter exchange and similar data services, and any
service that is capable of transmitting telephonic quality communications [including the use
of Internet Protocol (IP) or other similar means], whether provided by analog, digital,
electronic, radio or similar means through “interconnected service” with the “public switched
network” [as these terms are commonly used in the Federal Communications Act and the
regulations of the Federal Communications Commission - see 47 U.S.C.A. Section 332(d)] or
over digital networks by which communications with a substantial portion of the public is
available (e.g., voice using internet protocol or VoIP), and whether such transmission occurs
by wire, teletypewriter, cable, cable modem or digital subscriber line (DSL), internet, fiber-
optic, light wave, laser, microwave, switching facilities, satellite, radio wave [including, but
not limited to, mobile telecommunications service, cellular service, commercial mobile
service and commercial mobile radio service (see 47 U.S.C. Section 332(d)(1) and Part 20.3
of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations), personal communications service (PCS),
specialized mobile radio (SMR), and other similar services regardless of radio spectrum
used], or any other similar facilities, and whether charges for such service are based on time,
distance, or on any other basis.

S.	“Electrical corporation” and “Water corporation” shall have the same meanings as defined in
Sections 218 and 241 of the California Public Utilities Code, except that “Water
corporation” shall also be constmed to include any municipality or governmental agency
engaged in the selling or supplying of water to a service user, and “electrical corporation”
shall also be construed to include any municipality or person engaged in the selling or
supplying of electrical power to a service user.

T.	“Video Service Supplier” means any person, company, or service which provides one or
more channels of video programming, including any communications that are ancillary,
necessary or common to the use and enjoyment of the video programming, to or from an
address in the City, including to or from a business, home, condominium, or apartment,
where some fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for that service,
whether or not public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or
communications. A “video service supplier” includes, but is not limited to, multichannel
video programming distributors [as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 522(13)]; open video
systems (OVS) suppliers; suppliers of cable television; master antenna television; satellite
master antenna television; multichannel multipoint distribution services (MMDS); direct
broadcast satellite to the extent federal law permits taxation of its video services, now or in
the future; and other suppliers of video programming or communications (including two-way
communications), whatever their technology.

U.	“Video Services” means any and all services related to the providing of video programming
(including origination programming), including any communications that are ancillary,
necessary or common to the use or enjoyment of the video programming, regardless of the
content of such video programming or communications. “Video Services” do not include
services for which a tax is paid under Section 8-8.201 of this Article.

Article 2. Taxes Imposed and Tax Rate

Section 8-8.201 Telephone Users Tax

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City who uses telephone
communication services, including intrastate, interstate, and international telephone
communication services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of six (6%)
percent of all charges made for such telephone communication services. If the billing
address of the service user is different from the service address, the service address of the
service user shall be used for purposes of imposing the tax, regardless of where the telephone
communication service may originate, terminate, or pass through. Charges for mobile
telecommunications services are subject to taxation under this Chapter if the customer's place
of primary use is in the City, regardless of where the mobile telecommunications service may
originate, terminate, or pass through.

B.	As used in this section, the term "telephone communication services" shall not include
"private mobile radio service," as defined in Part 20 of Title 47 of the Code of Federal
Regulations, or “private mobile service,” as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 332(d)(3), which
is not interconnected with the public switched network or is not provided over digital
networks by which communications with a substantial portion of the public is available (e.g.,
voice using internet protocol or VoIP). The tax imposed under subsection (a) above shall not
be imposed upon any person for using telecommunication services to the extent that,
pursuant to Sections 4252 and 4253 of the Internal Revenue Code, the amounts paid for such
communication services are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed under Section
4251 of the Internal Revenue Code. In the event that the federal excise tax on
"communication services" as provided in Sections 4251, 4252 and 4253 of the Internal
Revenue Code is subsequently repealed, any reference in this Section 8-8.201 and in Section 4

\ I

[ I

i.:

4

8-8.201(R) to such law, including any related federal regulations, private letter rulings, case
law, and other opinions interpreting these sections, shall refer to that body of law that existed
immediately prior to the date of repeal, as well as to any judicial or administrative decision
interpreting such federal excise tax law which is published or rendered after the date of
repeal.

C.	As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any other

services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
service user in exchange for the telephone communication services. The term "charges" shall
also include charges to a service user by a hotel or motel for telephone communication
services used in the City when such charges are incidental to the right of occupancy in such
hotel or motel. The collection of the tax from the service user shall be the responsibility of
the hotel or motel owner. "Charges" shall not include charges for services paid for by
inserting coins in coin-operated telephones except that where such coin-operated telephone
service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any
fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be included in the base for computing the
amount of the tax due.

D.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may issue and disseminate to telephone
communication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this
Chapter, an administrative ruling which identifies those telephone communication services
that are subject to the tax of subsection (A) above and/or identifies the sourcing of such
services for tax administration purposes. This administrative ruling shall not impose a new
tax, revise an existing tax methodology as stated in this Section, or increase an existing tax,
except as allowed by California Government Code Section 53750(h)(2)(A). An
administrative ruling shall not constitute a new tax or an increase in an existing tax if such
administrative ruling is:

(1)	consistent with the existing ordinance language; and,

(2)	merely reflects a change in, clarification to, or new rendition of:

(a)	the definition, interpretation, or application of substantial nexus by a court of
competent jurisdiction or by preemptive state or federal law, for purposes of taxation;

b)	the sourcing of taxable transactions, which furthers administrative efficiency and
minimizes multi-jurisdictional taxation; or,

c)	the definition, interpretation, of application of the federal excise tax rules,
regulations, and laws pertaining to “communications services” {Sections 4251, 4252
and 4253 of the Internal Revenue Code) by the Internal Revenue Service, or by a state
or local agency that assumes an interpretative role of those rules, regulations, and
laws in the event that the federal excise tax on “communications services” is repealed.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telephone communication services subject
to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the Tax Collector that the service
user has previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such telephone
communication service, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to the extent of the
amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state or city, provided, however, the
amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this section.

F.	The tax on telephone communication services imposed by this section shall be collected from
the service user by the service supplier. The amount of the tax collected in one (1) month
shall be remitted to the Tax Collector and must be, received by the Tax Collector on or before
the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

Section 8-8.202 Electricity Users Tax

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using electricity in the City. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of six (6) percent of the charges made for such
electricity, and for any supplemental services or other associated activities directly related
and/or necessary for the provision of electricity to the end-user, which are provided by a
service supplier or non-utility supplier to a service user. The tax shall be collected from the
service user by the service supplier or non-utility service supplier, or its billing agent.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax shall not apply to any person, who qualifies, and Iras'
been accepted, for the California Alternate Rates for Energy (CARE) Program pursuant to
California Public Utilities Code Sections 327 and 739J et. seq., and as it may be amended
from time to time. In the event that the CARE Program is repealed or otherwise ceases to
exist in a substantially similar form, the exemption granted under this subsection shall
automatically terminate.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components and items
that are: (i) necessary or common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service; or, (ii)
currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for electric service
by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall
include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	energy charges;

(2)	distribution and transmission charges;

(3)	metering charges;

(4)	stand-by, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support, regulation, emergency, or other
similar charges for supplemental services to a service user under Section 8-8.204,
which produces electricity for self-use;

(5)	customer charges, service establishment or reestablishment charges, demand charges,
fuel or other cost adjustments, power exchange charges, independent system operator
(ISO) charges, stranded investment or competitive transition charges (CTC), public
purpose program charges, nuclear decommissioning charges, trust transfer amounts
(bond financing charges), franchise fee, franchise surcharge, annual and monthly
charges, and other charges, fees and surcharges which are necessary to or common
for the receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service; and,

(6)	charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or programs, which are mandated
by the California Public Utilities Commission, or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or
line item basis on the customer billing.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user
in exchange for the electricity or services related to the provision of such electricity.

D.	The Tax Collector, from time to time, may survey the electric service suppliers to identify the
various unbundled billing components of electric retail service that they commonly provide
to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the charges therefor,
including those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition
of providing such electric service. The Tax Collector, thereafter, may issue and disseminate
to such electric service suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components and
items which are: i) necessary or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service;
or, ii) currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for electric
service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such
components and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection (A) above.

E.	As used in this section, the term “using electricity” shall not include the mere receiving of
such electricity by an electrical corporation or governmental agency at a point within the City
for resale.

F.	The tax on electricity provided by self-production or by a non-utility supplier or an electric
utility not under the jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be collected and remitted in the manner
set forth in Section 8-8.204. All other taxes on charges for electricity imposed by this section
shall be collected from the service user by the electric service supplier or its billing agent.
The amount of the tax collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax Collector on or
before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month or, at the option of the person required
to collect or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of the tax measured
by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service user, which
must be received by the Tax Collector on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following
month, provided that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit,
as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if
approved by the Tax Collector, may be applied against any subsequent tax bill that becomes
due.

Section 8-8.203 Gas Users Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using gas in the City, which is transported

through a pipeline distribution system. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of
six (6) percent of the charges made for such gas, including all services related to the storage,
transportation, and delivery of such gas. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax shall not
apply to any person who qualifies, and has been accepted, for the California Alternate Rates
for Energy (CARE) Program pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Sections 327 and
739.1 et. seq., and as it may be amended from time to time. In the event that the CARE
Program is repealed or otherwise ceases to exist in a substantially similar form, the
exemption granted under this subsection shall automatically	terminate.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components and items
for gas service that are: i) necessary or common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of gas
service; or, ii) currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for gas
service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges”
shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

7

1.	the commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas owned by the service
user (including the actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lifting, storage,
gathering, trunkline, pipeline, and other operating costs associated with the
production and delivery of such gas), which is delivered through a gas pipeline
distribution system;

2.	gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent not included in
commodity charges);

3.	storage charges; provided, however, that the service supplier shall not be required to
apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services when the service supplier cannot,
as a practical matter, determine the jurisdiction where such stored gas is ultimately
used; but it shall be the obligation of the service user to self-collect the amount of tax
not applied to any charge for gas storage by the service supplier and to remit the tax
to the appropriate jurisdiction;

4.	capacity or demand charges, service establishment or reestablishment charges,
transition charges, customer charges, minimum charges, annual and monthly charges,
and any other charges which are necessary or common to the receipt, use and
enjoyment of gas service; and

5.	charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs, which are mandated by the
California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or
line item basis on the customer billing.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user
in exchange for the gas or services related to the delivery of such gas.

D.	The Tax Collector, from time to time, may survey the gas service suppliers to identify the
various unbundled billing components of gas retail service that they commonly provide to
residential and commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the charges therefor,
including those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory agencies as a condition
of providing such gas service. The Tax Collector, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to
such gas service suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components and items
which are: i) necessary or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; or, ii)
currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for gas service by a
local distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such components and
items shall be subject to the tax of subsection A above.

E.	There shall be excluded from the calculation of the tax imposed in this section, charges made
for gas which is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline distribution system.

8

F.	The tax on gas provided by self-production or by a non-utility supplier not under the
jurisdiction of this Chapter shall be collected and remitted in the manner set forth in Section
Section 8-8.204. All other taxes on charges for gas imposed by this section shall be collected
from the service user by the gas service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax
collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax Collector, and must be received by the
Tax Collector on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month; or, at the option
of the person required to collect or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount
of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the
service user, which must be received by the Tax Collector on or before the twentieth (20th)
day of the following month, provided that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment
or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter.
The credit, if approved by the Tax Collector, may be applied against any subsequent tax bill
that becomes due.

Section 8-8.204 Collection of Tax from Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Gas or

Electricity.

A.	Any service user subject to the tax imposed by Sections 8-8.202 or 8-8.203, hereof, which
produces gas or electricity for self-use, or which receives gas or electricity directly from a
non-utility supplier not under the jurisdiction of this ordinance, or which otherwise is not
having the full tax due on the use of gas or electricity in the City that is directly billed and
collected by the service supplier or its billing agent, shall report said fact to the Tax Collector
and shall remit the tax due directly to the Tax Collector within thirty (30) days of such use. In
lieu of paying said actual tax, the service user may, at its option, remit to the Tax Collector
within thirty (30) days of such use an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in
the previous month, or upon the pattern payment of similar customers of the service supplier
using similar amounts of gas or electricity, provided that the service user shall submit an
adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each
calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Collector, may be applied against any
subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

B.	The Tax Collector may require said service user to identify its non-utility supplier and
provide, subject to audit, invoices, books of account, or other satisfactory evidence
documenting the quantity of gas or electricity used and the cost or price thereof. If the service
user is unable to provide such satisfactory evidence, or, if the administrative cost of
calculating the tax, in the opinion of the City, is excessive, the City may determine the tax by
applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service user would have incurred if the gas
or electricity used had been provided by the service supplier, which is the primary supplier of
gas or electricity within the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available from the
City.

Section 8-8.205 Water Users Tax.

A.	There is imposed a tax upon every person using water in the City which is transported and
delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The tax imposed by this section shall be at
the rate of six (6%) percent of the charges made for such water.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components and items
that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of water service; or, ii)
currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for water service
by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall
include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	water commodity charges (potable and non-potable);

(2)	distribution or transmission charges;

(3)	metering charges;

(4)	customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment charges,
franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and monthly charges, and other charges,
fees and surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or
enjoyment of water service; and,

(5)	charges, fees, or surcharges for water services or programs, which are mandated by a
water district or a state or federal agency, whether or not such charges, fees, or
surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user
in exchange for the water services.

D.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the water service suppliers in the City
to identify the various unbundled billing components of water retail service that they
commonly provide to residential and commerciaVindustrial customers in the City, and the
charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by a water district or a state or
federal agency as a condition of providing such water service. The Tax Administrator,
thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such water service suppliers an administrative ruling
identifying those components and items which are: i) necessary for or common to the
receipt, use or enjoyment of water service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been
included in a single or bundled rate for water service by a local distribution company to a
class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject to the tax
of subsection A above.

E.	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this section is computed
charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline distribution
system; and charges made by a municipal water department, public utility or a city or
municipal water district for water used and consumed by such department, public utility or
water district in the conduct of the business of such department, utility or district.

F.	The tax on water service imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by
the water service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month
shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on
or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month.

Section 8-8.206 Video Users Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using video services in the City from a
video service supplier. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of six percent
(6%) of the charges made for such video services.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services, components and items
that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of video service; or, ii)
currently are or historically have been included in a single or bundled rate for video service
by a local video service supplier to a class of retail customers. The term “charges” shall
include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

(1)	franchise fees and access fees (PEG), whether designated on the customer’s bill or
not;

(2)	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of video services;

(3)	late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees;

(4)	activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

(5)	all programming services (e.g., basic services, premium services, audio services,
video games, pay-per-view services, video on demand, and electronic program guide
services);

(6)	equipment leases (e.g., converters, remote devices); and,

(7)	service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services, and special
services.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user
in exchange for the video services.

D.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the video service suppliers in the City
to identify the various components of video service that are being offered to customers within
the City, and the charges therefor. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and
disseminate to such video service suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those
components: i) that are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of video
service; or, ii) which currently are or historically have been included in a bundled rate for
video service by a local distribution company. Charges for such components shall be subject
to the tax of subsection A above.

E.	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the video service
supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of such services. In die case of video service, the
service user shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk video service (e.g., an apartment
owner), unless such service is resold to individual users, in which case the service user shall
be the ultimate purchaser of the video service. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month
shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on
or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month

11

Article 3 Procedures

Section 8-8.301 Constitutional and Statutory Exemptions.

A.	The taxes imposed by this Chapter shall not apply to:

(1)	Any person or service if imposition of such tax upon that person or service would be
in violation of a federal statute, the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of the State of California; and

(2)	The City.

B.	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this Chapter pursuant to subsection
A shall file an application with the Tax Collector for an exemption; provided, however, this
requirement shall not apply to a service user that is a state or federal agency or subdivision
with a commonly recognized name, or is a service user of telephone communication services
that has received a federal excise tax exemption certificate for such service. Said application
shall be made upon a form approved by the Tax Collector and shall state those facts, declared
under penalty of perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption, and shall include the
names of all utility service suppliers serving that service user. If deemed exempt by the Tax
Collector, such service user shall give the Tax Collector timely written notice of any change
in utility service suppliers so that the Tax Collector can properly notify the new utility
service supplier of the service user's tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply
with this section shall not be entitled to a refund of utility users taxes collected and remitted
to the Tax Collector from such service user as a result of such non-compliance. Upon request
of the Tax Collector, a service supplier or non-utility supplier, or their billing agents, shall
provide a list of names and addresses of those customers which, according to their billing
records, are deemed exempt from the utility users tax. With respect to a service user of
telephone communication services, a service supplier of such telephone communication
services doing business in the City shall, upon request of the Tax Collector, provide a copy of
the federal exemption certificate for each exempt customer within the City that is served by
such service supplier.

C.	The decision of the Tax Collector may be appealed pursuant to Section 8-8.313 of this
Chapter. Filing an application with the Tax Collector and appeal to the City Administrator
pursuant to Section 8-8.313 of this Chapter is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

Section 8-8.302 Effect of Bundling Taxable Items with Non-Taxable Items.

Except as otherwise provided by state or federal law, or as approved in writing by the Tax

Administrator, if one or more non-taxable items are bundled or aggregated together with one or

more taxable items (as provided for by this Chapter) under a single charge on a service user’s

bill, the entire single charge shall be deemed taxable.

Section 8-8.303 Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under this

Chapter, “substantial nexus” and “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of the

12

imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by
state and federal law, and as it may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by
statutory enactment.

Section 8-8304 Duty to Collect: Procedures.

The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit the taxes imposed by the provisions of this
Chapter shall be performed as follows:

A.	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as, and along with, the
collection of the charges made in accordance with the regular billing practice of the service
supplier. Where the amount paid by a service user to a service supplier is less than the full
amount of the charge and tax which was accrued for the billing period, a proportionate share
of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid. The Tax Administrator
shall have the power to make an assessment for delinquent taxes as provided for in Section 8-
8.308 of this Chapter thereby relieving the service supplier from the obligation to collect
these delinquent taxes.

B.	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall commence with the
beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to the service user where all charges
normally included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this Chapter. Where
a person receives more than one billing, one or more being for different periods than another,

' the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing period.

Section 8-8.305 Filing Return and Payment.

Each person required by this Chapter to remit a tax shall file a return to the Tax Collector, on
forms approved by the Tax Collector, on or before the due date. The full amount of the tax
collected shall be included with the return and filed with the Tax Collector. The Tax Collector is
authorized to require such additional information as he or she deems necessaiy to determine if
the tax is being levied, collected, and remitted in accordance with this Chapter. Returns are due
immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code
Section 7284.6, the Tax Collector, and its agents, shall maintain such filing returns as
confidential information exempt from disclosure provisions of the Public Records Act.

Section 8-8.306 Collection Penalties - Service Suppliers and Self-Collectors.

A.	Taxes collected from a service user, or self-collected by a service user subject to Section 8-
8.204 of this Chapter, are delinquent if not received by the Tax Collector on or before the due
date. Should the due date occur on a. weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received
by the Tax Collector on or before the first regular working day following the weekend or
legal holiday. A direct deposit, including electronic fund transfers and other similar methods
of electronically exchanging monies between financial accounts, made by a service supplier
in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection, shall be considered timely if the
transfer is initiated on or before the due date, and the transfer settles into the City’s account
on or before the following business day.

13

B.	If a service supplier, or a service user subject to Section 8-8.204 of this Chapter, fails to remit
any tax collected, on or before the due date, said person shall pay a penalty for such
delinquencies at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is delinquent in the
remittance, and shall pay interest at the rate of three-quarters of one percent (%%) per month,
or any traction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on
which the remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

C.	The Tax Collector shall have the power to impose additional penalties upon persons required
to collect and/or remit taxes pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter for fraud or gross
negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the
tax collected and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed by the Tax Collector.

D.	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that is accrued under
the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required to be paid.

Section 8-8.307 Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application Errors.

A.	The Tax Collector shall make a deficiency determination if he or she determines that any
person required to collect or self-collect taxes pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter has
failed to collect and remit the proper amount of tax by improperly or failing to apply the tax
to one or more taxable services or charges.

B.	Hie Tax Collector shall mail a notice of such deficiency determination to the person required
to pay or remit the tax, which notice shall refer briefly to the amount of the taxes owed, plus
interest at the rate of three-quarters of one percent (%%) per month, or any fraction thereof,
on the amount of the tax from the date on which the tax should have been received by the
City. Within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of service of such notice, the person
may request in writing to the Tax Collector for a hearing on the matter. If the person fails to
request a hearing within the prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency
determination shall become a final assessment, and shall immediately be due and owing to
the City.

C.	If the person requests a hearing, the Tax Collector shall cause the matter to be set for hearing,
which shall be held within thirty (30) days after receipt of the written request for hearing.
Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Collector to such
person at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax Collector desires
said person to produce specific records at such hearing, such notice may designate the
records requested to be produced.

14

D.	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Collector shall hear all relevant testimony and
evidence, including that of any other interested parties. At the discretion of the Tax Collector,
the hearing may be continued from time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation
of additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the hearing, the
Tax Collector shall issue a final assessment (or non-assessment), thereafter, by confirming,
modifying or rejecting the original deficiency determination, and shall mail a copy of such
final assessment to person owing the tax. The decision of the Tax Collector may be appealed
pursuant to Section 8-8.313 of this Chapter, Filing an application with the Tax Collector and
appeal to the City Manager pursuant to Section 8-8.313 of this Chapter is a prerequisite to a
suit thereon.

E.	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received by the Tax Collector
on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the date of receipt of the notice of final
assessment. The penalty for delinquency shall be fifteen percent (15%) on the total amount
of the assessment, along with interest at the rate of three-quarters of one percent (%%) per
month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date
of delinquency, until paid. The applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the City
seeking payment of a tax assessed under this Chapter shall commence from the date of
delinquency as provided in this subsection E.

F.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall be
deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established by a
proof of mailing.

Section 8-8308 Administrative Remedy - Non-Paying Service Users.

A.	Whenever the Tax Collector determines that a service user has deliberately withheld the
amount of the tax owed by the service user from the amounts remitted to a person required to
collect the tax, or whenever the Tax Collector deems it in the best interest of the City, he or
she may relieve such person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under this Chapter from
certain named service users for specific billing periods. Whenever the service user has failed
to pay the amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more billing periods, the service
supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect taxes due. The service supplier shall
provide the City with the names and addresses of such service users and the amounts of taxes
owed under the provisions of this Chapter.

B.	In addition to the tax owed, the service user shall pay a delinquency penalty at the rate of
fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay interest at the rate of three-
quarters of one percent (%%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax,
exclusive of penalties, from the due date, until paid.

C.	The Tax Collector shall notify the non-paying service user that the Tax Collector has
assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment
of such taxes, including penalties and interest. The notice shall be served on the service user
by personal delivery or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid,
addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was made by the person required
to collect the tax; or, should the service user have a change of address, to his or her last
known address.

D.	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Collector within thirty (30) days from the
date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the Tax Collector may impose an additional
penalty of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the total tax that is owed.

Section 8-8.309 Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any such tax collected from a service user
which has not been remitted to the Tax Collector shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the
person required to collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the service user. Any person
owing money to the City under the provisions of this Chapter shall be liable to an action brought
in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount, including penalties and interest as
provided for in this Chapter, along with any collection costs incurred by the City as a result of
the person’s noncompliance with this Chapter, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys
fees and court costs. Any tax required to be collected by a service supplier or owed by a service
user is an unsecured priority excise tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A. Section 507(a)(8)(C).

Section 8-8310 Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax Collector.

A.	The Tax Collector shall have the power and duty, and is hereby directed, to enforce each and
all of the provisions of this Chapter.

B.	The Tax Collector may adopt administrative rules and regulations not inconsistent with
provisions of this Chapter for the purpose of interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and
enforcing the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of
such administrative rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Collector's office.

C.	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Collector may make administrative
agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict requirements of this Chapter
and thereby: (i) conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier (or service
user subject to Section 8-8.204 of this Chapter) so long as said agreements result in the
collection of the tax in conformance with the general purpose and scope of this Chapter; or,
(ii) to avoid a hardship where the administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly
outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax
Collector's office, and are voidable by the Tax Collector or the City at any time.

16

D.	The Tax Collector may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance with the requirements
of this Chapter, of any person required to collect and/or remit a tax pursuant to this Chapter.
The Tax Collector shall notify said person of the initiation of an audit in writing. In the
absence of fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit period of review shall not exceed
a period of three (3) years next preceding the date of receipt of the written notice by said
person from the Tax Collector. Upon completion of the audit, the Tax Collector may make a
deficiency determination pursuant to Section 8-8.307 of this Chapter for all taxes, penalties
and interest owed and not paid, as evidenced by information provided by such person to the
Tax Collector. If said person is unable or unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable
the Tax Collector to verify compliance with this Chapter, the Tax Collector is authorized to
make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable estimate shall be entitled to a
rebuttable presumption of correctness.

E.	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the Tax Collector may
extend the time for filing any statement required pursuant to this Chapter for a period of not
to exceed forty-five (45) days, provided that the time for filing the required statement has not
already passed when the request is received. No penalty for delinquent payment shall accrue
by reason of such extension. Interest shall accrue during said extension at the rate of three-
quarters of one percent (%%) per month, prorated for any portion thereof.

F.	The Tax Collector shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a right to
exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this Chapter.

G.	The Tax Collector, with the written approval of the City Attorney, may compromise a claim
pursuant to this Chapter where the portion of the claim proposed to be released is less than
the amount set by separate resolution of the City Council relating to the settlement of general
liability claims against the City, and, with the approval of the City Attorney and the City
Council, may compromise such a claim where the portion proposed to be released is equal to
or greater than the amount set by separate resolution of the City Council relating to the
settlement of general liability claims against the City.

H.	Notwithstanding any provision in this Chapter to the contrary, the Tax Collector may waive
any penalty or interest imposed upon a person required to collect and/or remit for failure to
collect the tax imposed by this Chapter if the non-collection occurred in good faith. In
determining whether the non-collection was in good faith, the Tax Collector shall take into
consideration industry practice or other precedence.

Section 8-8.311 Records.

A.	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the City any tax
imposed by this Chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three (3) years, all
records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have been
liable for the collection of and remittance to the Tax Collector, which records the Tax
Collector, or the Tax Collector's designated representative, shall have the right to inspect at a
reasonable time.

17

B.	The City may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a person to deliver, to the Tax
Collector, copies of all records deemed necessary by the Tax Collector to establish
compliance with this Chapter, including the delivery of records in a common electronic
format on readily available media if such records are kept electronically by the person in the
usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to delivering the subpoenaed
records to the Tax Collector on or before the due date provided in the administrative
subpoena, such person may provide access to such records outside the City on or before the
due date, provided that such person shall reimburse the City for all reasonable travel
expenses incurred by the City to inspect those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and
other similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or hourly wages of those persons
designated by the City to conduct the inspection.

C.	The Tax Collector, or the Tax Collector's designated representative, is authorized to execute
a non-disclosure agreement approved by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of
customer information pursuant to California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6 and
7284.7. The Tax Collector, or the Tax Collector's designated representative, may request
from a person providing transportation services of gas or electricity to service users within
the City a list of the names and addresses, and other pertinent information, of its
transportation customers within the City pursuant to Section 6354(e) of the California Public
Utilities Code.

D.	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect, and/or remit the
tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax Collector the name, address and
telephone number of each billing agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the
service supplier to bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, ii) upon request of the
Tax Collector, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records in the possession
of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the opinion of the Tax Collector, is
necessary to verify the proper application, calculation, collection and/or remittance of such
tax to the City.

E.	If any person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably denies the Tax
Collector, or the Tax Collector's designated representative, access to such records, or fails to
produce the information requested in an administrative subpoena within the time specified,
then the Tax Collector may impose a penalty of $500 on such person for each day following:

i)	the initial date that the person refuses to provide such access; or, ii) the due date for
production of records as set forth in the administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in
addition to any other penalty imposed under this Chapter.

Section 8-8.312 Refunds.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid, paid more than once, or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Collector under this Chapter, it may
be refunded as provided in this section.

B.	Where the amount of any individual refund claim is in excess of the amount set by separate
resolution of the City Council relating to the settlement of general liability claims against the
City, City Council approval shall be required. The Tax Administrator may refund any tax
that has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected
or received by the Tax Administrator under this Chapter, provided that no refund shall be
paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant or his or her guardian,
conservator, executor, or administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax
Administrator within one year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said
tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant's right to the refund by written records
showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim on behalf of a
class or group of taxpayers.

C.	The submission of a written claim, which is acted upon by the City Council, shall be a
prerequisite to a suit thereon. (See Section 935 of the California Government Code.) The City
Council shall act upon the refund claim within the time period set forth in Government Code
Section 912.4. If the City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the time
prescribed by Government Section 912.4, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by
the City Council on the last day of the period within which the City Council was required to
act upon the claim as provided in Government Code Section 912.4. It is the intent of the City
Council that the one year written claim requirement of this subsection be given retroactive
effect; provided, however, that any claims which arose prior to the commencement of the one
year claims period of this subsection, and which are not otherwise barred by a then applicable
statute of limitations or claims procedure, must be filed with the Tax Administrator as
provided in this subsection within ninety days following the effective date of this ordinance.

D.	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection B. of this section, a service supplier that
has collected any amount of tax in excess of the amount of tax imposed by this Chapter and
actually due from a service user (whether due to overpayment or to erroneous or illegal
collection of said tax), may refund such amount to the service user, or credit to charges
subsequently payable by the service user to the service supplier, and claim credit for such
overpayment against the amount of tax which is due upon any other monthly returns to the
Tax Administrator, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one year
from the date of overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. The Tax
Administrator shall determine the validity of the service user’s claim of credit, and the
underlying basis for such claim.

E.	Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, whenever a service supplier, pursuant to an
order of the California Public Utilities Commission, makes a refund to service users of
charges for past utility services, the taxes paid pursuant to this Chapter on the amount of such
refunded charges shall also be refunded to service users, and the service supplier shall be
entitled to claim a credit for such refunded taxes against the amount of tax which is due upon
the next monthly return. In the event this ordinance is repealed, the amounts of any
refundable taxes levied under the authority of the repealed ordinance shall be borne by the
City.

19

F.	Notwithstanding subsections (b) and (c) above, a service supplier shall be entitled to take any
overpayment as a credit against an underpayment whenever such overpayment has been
received by the City within the three (3) years next preceding a deficiency determination or
assessment by the Tax Collector Administrator pursuant to Section 8-8.310(D), or during any
year for which the service supplier, at the request of the Tax Collector, has executed a waiver
of the defense of the statute of limitations with regard to any claim the City may have for a
utility users tax. A service supplier shall not be entitled to said credit unless it clearly
establishes the right to the credit by written records showing entitlement thereto. Under no
circumstances shall an overpayment taken as a credit against an underpayment pursuant to
this subsection qualify a service supplier for a refund to which it would not otherwise be
entitled under the one-year written claim requirement of this section.

Section 8-8.313 Appeals.

A.	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund
pursuant to Section 8-8.312 of this Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or
administrative ruling of the Tax Collector. Any person aggrieved by any decision (other than
a decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 8-8.312 of this Chapter), deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Collector, shall be required to
comply with the appeals procedure of this section. Compliance with this section shall be a
prerequisite to a suit thereon. [See Government Code Section 935(b).] Nothing herein shall
permit the filing of a claim or action on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

B.	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant
to Section 8-8-312 of this Chapter), deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative
ruling of the Tax Collector; he or she may appeal to the City Manager by filing a notice of
appeal with the City Clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of the decision, deficiency
determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax Collector which aggrieved the
service user or service supplier.

C.	The matter shall be set for hearing no more than thirty (30) days from the receipt of the
appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of the time and place of the hearing, as well
as any relevant materials, at least five (5) calendar days prior to the hearing. The hearing
may be continued from time to time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the
appealing party, the Tax Collector, the City Manager, and any other interested person may
present such relevant evidence as he or she may have relating to the determination from
which the appeal is taken.

D.	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City’s files, the City
Manager shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or reversing the
determination from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given within fourteen (14)
days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the reasons for the decision. The
notice shall specify that the decision is final and that any petition for judicial review shall be
filed within ninety (90) days from the date of the decision in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1094.6. If the City Manager fails or refuses to act on a refund claim
within the fourteen (14) day period, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the
City Manager on the fourteenth (14th) day.

20

E.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage prepaid, and shall be
deemed received on the third calendar day following the date of mailing, as established by a
proof of mailing.

Section 8-8.314 No Injunction/Writ of Mandate.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,
action, or proceeding in any court against this City or against any officer of the City to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected
and/or remitted.

Section 8-8315 Remedies Cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Chapter or which are available under any other
provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California False Claims Act
(Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the California Unfair Practices Act (Business and
Professions Code Section 17070 et seq.), are cumulative. The use of one or more remedies by
the City shall not bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this Chapter.

Section 8-8.316 Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

If a tax under this Chapter is added, repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base is changed, the
Tax Collector shall follow the notice requirements of California Public Utilities Code Section
799. Prior to the effective date of the ordinance change, the service supplier shall provide the
Tax Collector with a copy of any written procedures describing the information that the service
supplier needs to implement the ordinance change. If the service supplier fails to provide such
written instructions, the Tax Collector, or his or her agent, shall send, by first class mail, a copy
of the ordinance change to all collectors and remitters of the City’s utility users taxes according
to the latest payment records of the Tax Collector.

Section 8-8.317 Severability.

If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Chapter or
any part thereof is for any reason held to be invalid, unlawfiil or unconstitutional, such decision,
and the decision not to enforce such, shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this
Chapter or any pSh thereof. The Cjty^ouncil hereby declares that it would have passed each
section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared invalid, unlawful or unconstitutional.

Section 8-8.318 Future Amendment to Cited Statute.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal statute in this Chapter
shall mean such statute as it may be amended from time to time.

Section 8-8.319 Limitation of Actions

The validity of this ordinance or of any tax levied pursuant to this ordinance shall not be
contested in any action or proceeding or defense unless such action or proceeding or defense
shall have been brought or raised in a court of competent jurisdiction within 60 days from the
date of the adoption of this ordinance. Unless an action or proceeding is commenced or such
defense raised within said period, this ordinance and any tax levied pursuant to this ordinance
shall be held valid and in every respect legal and incontestable.

Section 8-8.320 Sunset

This Chapter shall automatically sunset, and its provisions shall become ineffective, twenty (20)
years from its effective date unless it is reauthorized by the voters.

Section 8-8.321 Ratification of Prior Utility User Tax Collection

The voters of the City of Hercules hereby ratify and approve the past collection of the Utility
Users Excise Tax under Title 8, Chapter 8 of the Hercules Municipal Code as it has existed since
its effective date in 1991.

Section 8-8.322 Effective Date

If a majority of the voters voting thereon approve this Ordinance, it shall become effective ten
days after the results of the election are declared by the City Council.

THE FOREGOING ORDINANCE was first read at a regular meeting of the Hercules
City Council on the 8th day of June 2004 and was passed and adopted at a regular meeting of the
Hercules City Council on the 22nd day of June 2004, by the following vote:

AYES:	Balico,	Batara, Evans-Young, Valstad,	Ward

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

RESOLUTION NO. 04-060

APPROVING THE 2004-2005 AND 2005-2006 FISCAL YEARS CITY OF HERCULES
TWO YEAR (BIENNIAL) OPERATING AND CAPITAL BUDGET PLAN, BOTH WITH
AND WITHOUT THE UTILITY USERS TAX REVENUE, IN THE AMOUNTS OF
$30,054,863 AND $23,727,593 RESPECTIVELY WITH THE UTILITY USERS TAX
REVENUE, AND IN THE AMOUNTS OF $28,791,502 AND $22,457,112 RESPECTIVELY
WITHOUT THE UTILITY USERS TAX REVENUE, AND APPROVING THE FIVE-
YEAR (2004-2009 FISCAL YEARS) CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM IN THE
AMOUNT OF $69,656,319

WHEREAS, the City has prepared and adopted annually the operating and capital budgets
of the various funds of the City with the intent of providing a policy program for City services
and a financial system to carry out the planned program of services; and

WHEREAS, the City Manager has prepared and is submitting a two year (biennial)
operating and capital budget for fiscal years 2004-2005 and 2005-2006; and

WHEREAS, the City Manager has reviewed the proposed budget with the Council in a
series of Work Sessions, Meetings and a Joint Public Hearing; and

WHEREAS, the those reviews included prioritization of the capital projects, presentation
of individual operating budgets, and the impact on those operating budgets if the City were to
lose the Utility Users Tax revenue in the validation vote in November; and

WHEREAS, as presented, the total proposed operating, capital and transfers-out budgeted
expenditures, with the Utility Users Tax revenue included as a revenue source, in the 2004-2005
fiscal year is $30,054,863 for all departments and funds, and in the 2005-2006 fiscal year is
$23,727,593 for all departments and funds, and has corresponding revenues and transfers-in from
all sources of $27,766,109 in the 2004-2005 fiscal year for all departments and funds, and of
$24,957,216 in the 2005-2006 fiscal year for all departments and funds, with any individual fund
differences where expenditures exceed revenues being made up from its own Fund Balances or
temporary loans from other funds; and

WHEREAS, if the Utility Users Tax revenue is lost in the validation vote in November,
said loss would directly and only impact the General Fund operating departments of the City;
and

WHEREAS, as presented, the total proposed operating, capital and transfers-out budgeted
expenditures, without the Utility Users Tax revenue included as a revenue source, in the 2004-
2005 fiscal year is $28,791,502 for all departments and funds, and in the 2005-2006 fiscal year is
$22,457,112 for all departments and funds, and has corresponding revenues and transfers-in from
all sources of $26,516,109 in the 2004-2005 fiscal year for all departments and funds, and of
$23,657,216 in the 2005-2006 fiscal year for all departments and funds, with any individual fund
differences where expenditures exceed revenues being made up from its own Fund Balances or
temporary loans from other funds; and

WHEREAS, the two year operating and capital budget program reflects cost containment
efforts in all departments, and the maintenance of all existing programs and services at the
existing levels; and

WHEREAS, the budget, as presented, does not include provisions for any potential
unknown State takeaways resulting from what might be in its budget resolutions; and

WHEREAS, the City portion of the prioritized five year Capital Improvement Program for
the fiscal years 2004-2005 through 2008-2009 is presented in the all funds total amount of
$69,656,319 which includes the reappropriation of uncompleted capital projects from prior years
and appropriations for new projects, for some of which there is not available funding currently;
and

WHEREAS, it will be necessary to carry over certain encumbrances and. committed
expenditures from the 2003-2004 fiscal year to the 2004-2005 fiscal year, and the 2004-2005
fiscal year to the 2005-2006 fiscal year; and

WHEREAS, the City Council held a Joint Public Hearing on June 16,2004 for the purpose
of reviewing and discussing the biennial 2004-2005/2005-2006 fiscal years operating and capital
budgets and providing the opportunity for public input and discussion.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City Council of the City of Hercules
hereby approves both of the biennial 2004-2005/2005-2006 fiscal years operating, capital and
transfers budgets for all City funds as detailed in attachments hereto, for both the ‘with’ and the
‘without’ Utility Users Tax revenue scenarios.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that monies be, and they are hereby, appropriated in the
amount of $30,054,863 for the 2004-2005 fiscal year, and in the amount'of $23,727,593 for the
2005-2006 fiscal year, assuming the inclusion of the Utility Users Tax revenue, for all funds of
the City in the manner and for the purposes set forth in the 2004-2005/2005-2006 budget
document.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that monies be, and they are hereby, appropriated in the
amount of $28,791,502 for the 2004-2005 fiscal year, and in the amount of $22,457,112 for the
2005-2006 fiscal year, assuming the exclusion of the Utility Users Taix revenue, for all funds of
the City in the manner and for the purposes set forth in the 2004-2005/2005-2006 budget
document. This budget scenario would be implemented in November if the Utility Users Tax
validation vote fails to pass.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the five year Capital Improvement Program be
approved in the all funds total amount of $69,656,319 for the five year period from the 2004-
2005 fiscal year through the 2008-2009 fiscal year, recognizing that not all listed projects are
currently funded, but that staff will pursue any and every funding opportunity that is available to
accomplish the program.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the City Council authorizes the use of Available
Fund Balances in those funds where projected expenditures are greater than projected revenues,
and that the Interim Finance Director/Treasurer be authorized to make loans during the two fiscal
years from the one fund to another fund as deemed necessary and as appropriate.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Interim Finance Director/Treasurer and/or
his/her designee are hereby authorized to carry over from the 2003-2004 fiscal year to the 2004-
2005 fiscal year and from the 2004-2005 fiscal year to the 2005-2006 fiscal year any
encumbered amounts, or any other amounts for items that are deemed necessary to the continuity
of providing service to the community or are necessary for the initiation and completion of
planned projects, programs or services.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Interim Finance Director/Treasurer and/or
his/her designee are hereby authorized to approve payment of goods and services received by the
City in accordance with the City’s approved budgets, programs and policies.

The foregoing Resolution was duly and regularly adopted at a regular meeting of the City
Council of the City of Hercules held on the 22ndday of June 2004, by the following vote of the
Council:

AYES:	Balico, Batara, Evans-Young, Valstad, Ward

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

RESOLUTION NO. 04-062

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERCULES,
CALIFORNIA, GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF AN ELECTION ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2004 FOR THE SUBMISSION OF A PROPOSED
MEASURE CONTINUING THE UTILITY USERS TAX

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Hercules, California, desires to submit to the
voters of the City at the next regular Municipal election a proposed measure relating to the
utility user tax; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized by statute to submit the proposed measure to
the voters; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HERCULES,
CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State nf California relating to
general law cities, the following ballot measure shall be submitted to th£ voters of the City of
Hercules at the next regular municipal election to be held on Tuesday, November 2, 2004:

In order to maintain vital city services and prevent severe cuts in
police, public safety, parks and recreation, and city services in
Hercules, shall Ordinance 395 be adopted continuing
the existing 6% utility users tax?

Yes

No

Section 2. The ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content as required

by law.

Section 3. The City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to procure and furnish
any and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and all supplies, equipments and paraphernalia
that may be necessary in order to properly and lawfully conduct the election.

Section 4. The polls shall be open on the day of the election and shall remain open
continuously on that same day when the polls shall be closed, all as required by the laws of the
State of California.

Section 5. In all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be held and
conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

1

Section 6. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City
Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the election, in
time, form and manner as required by law.

The foregoing Resolution was duly and regularly adopted at a regular meeting of the City
Council of the City of Hercules held on the 22nd day of June 2004 by the following vote of the
Council:

LJ

AYES:	Balico, Batara, Evans-Young, Valstad, Ward

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

2