

CAMPBELL UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
DISTRITO NG UNYON NG MATAAS NA PAARALAN NG CAMPBELL

M’o 'ester® vds 3* yj state government wth oca: \inds that cannot oe taken oy the state 'educe class size mtam qualified teachers 'esforelexpand offerngs in science

mathematics English Advanced P*acement music foreign language and other classes and morove academics and safety at Branham Del Mar Leigh P'osoect. Westmont
Camder and Boynter - gr School shall CamobeH Urnon Hi<^ School District assess cancels $85tyear for five years with citizen oversight and exemotions for residents 65 years
and cider''

jzrr < 5rc -ga xrdcng xawas -g camahalaar ig estadc sa camamagitar ig mga cxai na ocndong hmdi makukuha ng estado cawasan ang ato ng kiase oanatuhm ang mga
c.w»cflradcng :,/c ca ^patavefon arc -ga naalay sa aghar maternal:na, Ingles Mataas na Pagla agay mus ka canyagang wia at bang mga rase at oanusayn ang oag-aarai na
awader <c 31 <a< gtasar sa Maraas *a =aaraiar *g Brar^ar. Dei Mar i_e>g' Prospect, Westmont, Camden at Boynton ang Dstnto ng Unyon ng Mataas na Paaraian ng Campbell ay
casar arc “agcara*» sa -ga sanea ~g Sc-c/ar/ ca'a sa "a^g tar/ 'a Tay sagcatartay ng mamamayan at hmdi oaoatawan ang mga residenteng 65 taon at mas matanda0

YES

00

NO

HINDI

¥

¥

MEASURE M

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

California law permits a school district to levy a special tax on parcels of
land within the district if the tax is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting in

an election.

The Board of Trustees of the Campbell Union High School District
proposes a special tax of $85 per parcel, per year, for 5 years. A vote for the
special tax is also a vote to increase the appropriations limit by the amount of
the increased special tax.

The purpose of the special tax is to restore funds cut by state government
with local funds that cannot be taken by the state, reduce class size, recruit and
retain qualified teachers, restore and expand offerings in core academic
programs and enrichment classes such as science, mathematics, English,
Advanced Placement, music, foreign language and other classes and programs
required for high quality education, provide technology services, and improve
campus and classroom safety at Branham, Del Mar, Leigh, Prospect,
Westmont, Camden, and Boynton High Schools. The school district will appoint
a citizens' oversight committee.

The school district will make available an exemption from the special tax to
each individual who will be 65 years of age before July 1 of the assessment
year, owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, uses that parcel as his or her
principal place of residence, and applies to the school district on or before July
1, 2005 or July 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Once a qualified
applicant applies for an exemption, the exemption will continue for the
remaining term of the assessment so long as the applicant continues to use the
parcel as his or her principal residence.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve a special tax on parcels within Campbell
Union High School District.

A “no” vote is a vote not to approve the special tax.

Ann Miller Ravel
County Counsel

By: Is/ Lisa Herrick

Deputy County Counsel

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE M

High School Funding Measure for Campbell Union High School District

on parcels of To restore funds cut by state government with local funds that cannot be
tens voting in | taken by the state, reduce class size, retain qualified teachers, restore/expand
offerings in science, mathematics, English, Advanced Placement, music, foreign
language and other classes, and improve academics and safety at Branham,
Del Mar, Leigh, Prospect, Westmont, Camden and Boynton High Schools; shall
Campbell Union High School District assess parcels $85/year, for five years,
with citizen oversight and exemptions for residents 65 years and older?

The following programs and services shall be supported by the special
local education tax:

Expanded class offerings in core academic programs and
enrichment classes

Class size reduction

Teacher retention and recruitment

Campus and classroom safety

Technology services

Other programs required for high quality education

The parcel tax will be imposed at the rate of $85 per year for each
assessor’s parcel within the School District. An exemption from the assessment
will be made available to each individual in the District who will attain 65 years
of age prior to July 1 of the assessment year, and who owns a beneficial
interest in the parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of
residence, and who applies to the Schools on or before July 1, 2005, or July 1
of any succeeding assessment year. Any one application from a qualified
applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the
assessment so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her
principal residence.

AMUJMf Nf IN I AVOI» Of Mf AM/Rf M

Our local (iiyli actionI* hava Uaou a valuable part of OUT community for over a
century They've prepared Ittoneende of (sludenk for jot* end universities, and
(hen e/i^llnnl lepulati'in bel|»e keep our probity values high

The Campbell UrttoTt High f;ctvx»l District alrearly operates with nearly the
lowest administrative cnele in feaofa Clara County Unfortunately, state budget
cuts continue to irnpar.l rair Softools

It'slime for us In Slap in and protect liiarn

Our local high v>vx<is have always ^minted wilt) balanced budgets They ve
stayed fiscally solvent in lough times t»y making cuts that never touched a single
| elective or instructional program until this year, when class offerings had to be
reduced

Continued stale budget cuts will directly impact the educational opportunity and
instructional quality available to students For the First time in 104 years, local
high schools are turning to residents for a parcel lax We hope you join us in
supporting them

Measure M will

•	Restore and improve academic offerings in basic subjects, including
English, science, math and foreign language

•	Preserve art. music and Advanced Placement courses

•	Help krjep classes small to allow for more personalized teaching

•	Enable the district to recruit and retain the qualified, experienced
teachers who make a real difference in children's lives

•	Protect and improve campus safety

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M
There they go again.

The Campbell Union High School Districl proponents in the* argume,it fu»
Measure K say, “For the first time in 104 years, local high schools ere
turning to residents for a parcel tax".

This would give you the impression they ve never asked for money before
The facts say otherwise

On November 2, 1999, voters of the district passed a W5.000.000 bond
measure.

Check the facts yourself at: www.smartvoter.org/1999noy/ca/Bt.l/rneas/C/

And. according to their web site www.cuhsd.org/ltfiDfindex.html. that s just pari
of the $117,000,000 spending program

They say Measure M will ‘Restore and improve academic offerings in bee*',
subjects’.

That means they have cut basic offerings in order to pay higher salaries to
administrators. Is that what you want?

They say. ’Measure M will expire in five years’.

That gives you the impression this is just a temporary tax increase Bi/t will
salanes and expenses decline after five years? Or, will they be back again
asking for another tax increase?

The public education propaganda machine has done a great job pleading
poverty while raking in more of your money each year. Don t be taken in by
this con job.

Make no mistake about it This tax increase isn’t “for the kids- q .. jor
employees of the district.

Just Say NO to new tax increases Vote NO ON Measure M.

See www VoteNOonM us for more details.

/s/ Allen Hacker

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

/s/ Dennis Umphress

President Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association

Isl Jack E. Davis

Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

Isl Elizabeth C. Brierty

Board Member, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Assn

"

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

lr higt, Khoex English students read fiction and non-fiction books,
teaming tc diffe-entiat* between them.

noweve- the board of directors of the Campbell Union High School
Dsmc; neeos to go back to school, because they've failed.

“her resolution to place this tax increase on the ballot says “To restore
♦unds cut by state government with local funds...".

“hey would have you believe there have been massive budget cuts in
eoucationa spending

The facts say otherwise.

Because y Prop 98 and its mandated spending on public education our total
2-ojectfc3 pe* California student spending is UP this coming year, not

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

The opponents are uninformed in their cntcism of Measure M

| The facts speak for themselves

The high cost of living in our area and shnnking school budgets make u ll;
for CUHSO to maintain competitive teacher salanes with surrounding
Passage of Measure M is important for recruiting and retaining ^
experienced teachers

I The argument that Prop 98 will protect local school funding is simply wrong A
the Mercury News ated on Jufy 1. ‘The Governor s plan suspends Propose
98 and would increase that debt [to education) to $5.2 billion

These enormous state deficits have forced CUHSD to make lough cuts
| educational programs and make it increasingly difficult to keep quaW
teachers.

Measure M is the only way to raise funds that are guaranteed to stay in
Campbell Union High School District and no Measure M funds can be taker
| the state or used for administrative salanes Naysayers will try to contuse
issue by discussing state funding, but Measure M is entirely about and for
local schools and community property values.

Fscal	Total	Spending	Measure M will be assessed for only 5 years.
Year	Govt Spending	Per Student	Campbell Union High School District has always been fiscally respom
2002-03	(53.8 billion	(9,112	Measure M is the first time in the district's 104-year history that CUHSD
			asked for the community's help.
2003-04	(56.2 billion	(9,398	1 On November 2, help our local high school students prepare tor the luturi
2004-05	(58.1 billion	(9,614	protect strong local property values- Vote YES on Measure M

■"ne pubic education propaganda machine has done a great job pleading I/s/	or	»,	„	..	.	.	.	_

poverty wniie raking in more of your money each year. Don’t be taken in by this P es'denUCE0 Sll,con Valley Manufactunng Group

03,1	I	Isl	Jim Beall

County Supervisor

Most of the per-student expenses are for salaries. California educators are I ,s/ Susan Hamrner

the highest paid teachers in the U.S. - making even more than teachers in ' Fomier San Jose M and former state Board o{ Ed

expensive Hawaii and Alaska. As a consequence, they have the highest	uuuauon	Memoer

pensions as well Many are retiring with pensions worth 90% of the base I /s/ Tara Sheedy

salary of their last years teaching. Don’t you wish you had it so good? I CUHSD Teacher of the Year 2003-2004

I /s/ George Miskulin

lAar.e no mistake about it This tax increase isn't “for the kids" it's for the Board member Congress of California Seniors
employees of the district	1

Just Say NO to new tax increases Vote NO ON Measure M.
See n*p.. 'www VoteNOonM us for more details.

tv Alien Hacker

Char. Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

is Dennis Umphress

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers’ Association

Itl Jack Davis
Bjsnessman

M Elizabeth C. Bnerly
Board member - Silicon Valley Taxpayers’ Association