EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

To increase student literacy, provide students training in modern
technology, and improve student safety throughout the District including
Andrew Hill, Evergreen Valley, Foothill, Independence, James Lick, Mt.
Pleasant, Oak Grove, Piedmont Hills, Santa Teresa, Silver Creek,
Overfelt and Yerba Buena High Schools, shall East Side Union High
School District levy an annual tax of $50 per parcel provided spending is
annually reviewed by an independent citizens’ oversight committee and
all funds are spent locally and not transferred to the State?

PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the registered voters
voting on the proposition, the District will be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of
$50 per parcel for the specific school projects listed in the Project List described below,
subject to all the accountability requirements specified below.

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this proposition in order
that the voters and taxpayers in the District may be assured that their money will be
spent wisely. As required by the laws of the State of California, the proceeds of the
qualified special tax will be deposited into a special account established by the District
and will be applied only to the specific purposes identified below. The District has
covenanted to have on file with its governing board no later than January 1 of each year
a report stating the amount of the funds collected and expended and the status of any
project authorized to be funded.

PROJECT LIST

The statement shown below is a part of the ballot proposition and must be
reproduced in any official document required to contain the full statement of the
proposition.

The proceeds of the parcel tax will be expended to finance the payment of costs
and expenses of the District which are designed to achieve the following purposes. The
specific purposes of the parcel tax are described as follows:

*	Increase student academic performance through literacy

*	Training of students to use modern technology

*	Increasing student safety

09/09/2004 14:05 FAI 4099987350

CANDIDATE SERVICES

@002

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K
Over the past years, California school districts have experienced severe reductions In revenues received from the State Numerous revenue steams have either been eliminated or reduced. Consequently, last summer, Esst Side reduced its budget by approximately $7,000,000. Without additional support, we win be forced to reduce by another $10,000,000 for next school year. As a result the East Side students have been deprived of opportunities and services sorely needed and deserved.  Now is the time to do something about student literacy, technology and safety. All money raised by Measure Kwaibe spent In the classroom helping to ensure that each and every student finishes high school with the ability to read and write. The money raised by Measure K wW help to ensure that each and every student becomes technologically literate. No child should be afraid to go to school. Measure K will help us protect our students by upgrading classroom safety and improving the security of every high school In the District  Now Is the time to ask yourself, what kind of education do you believe our children deserve? If you're fired of being told it's the other guy's fault, if you're tired of your tax dollars being sent up to Sacramento and disappearing Into a black hole, if you're tired of our children being shortchanged by the system, then join us along with the hundreds of other businesspeople, parents, teachers, senior citizens and community leaders in voting YES on Measure K.  By law, every dollar generated by Measure K will be spent locally and not one dm can be taken by the State and spent elsewhere.  Support Measure K! You can make a difference!  Is/ Rose Amador President & CEO, Center for Training and Careare/Worknet  is/Nancy W.Sctmlen Teacher of the Year 2003  /s/Pomest Williams Coundlmember, D2, San Jose  far Ron Gonzales Mayor Ron Gonzales  /$/Blanca Alvarado Santa Clara County Supervisor	When this hastily drawn up measure was placed on the ballot the East Side Union High School District Board of Trustees came up with an arbitrary amount that they thought people would pay, rathe1 than an amount thafs a function of a well thought out plan to Improve the quality of our children’s education.  The argument in favor of Measure K is fall of half-truths:  1.	“Without additional support we wB be forced to reduce by another $10,000,000 for next school year.* According to the budget presented at the 6/3/04 school board meatina. no further cuts are (famed. In fact current woiections show a budaet sumtns.  2.	"Protect our students." That is what Measure G money is for. If the dlsbfct stopped spendmg Measure G money on computer systems for the district headquarters, they would have more for student safety.  3.	“Tax dollars deappearing in a black hole." The major black hole is at ESUHSD.  4.	“You can make a difference.’ This is (rue, Mike a difference by telling the district they cant have more of your tax dollars until they start spending money where it is most needed.  District leaders have not shown § propensity to be accountable for tire dollars already under their control. Join us in sending them a message: we will not let them tax us without first devising a realistic measure that will provide the best return on the community's educational investment  Abase mjeotthis measure with a resounding NO!  See HWW.VefsNoOMC.lfa for mere information.  fa/ Dennis Umphress President Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association  fa/Aden Hacker  Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County  fa/Jack E, Davis  V/^f|A,J A Art— afnifrtH  silicon vaiiey taxpayer Association  fa/Elizabeth C. Briefly District Homeowner

PR8251-2

SC Ballot Type Q00 - Page ooo

EXHIBIT B

BALLOT MEASURE
ABBREVIATED FORM

To increase student literacy, provide students training in modern
technology, and improve student safety throughout the District including
Andrew Hill, Evergreen Valley, Foothill, Independence, James Lick, Mt.
Pleasant, Oak Grove, Piedmont Hills, Santa Teresa, Silver Creek,
Overfelt and Yerba Buena High Schools, shall East Side Union High
School District levy an annual tax of $50 per parcel provided spending is
annually reviewed by an independent citizens’ oversight committee and
all funds are spent locally and not transferred to the State?