<impartial> 
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY OF MARIN TRAFFIC RELIEF AND BETTER TRANSPORTATION ACT IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL MEASURE A	THIS MEASURE

Measure A is a special tax measure by the Transportation Authority of Marin to implement a 20 year Transportation Plan to reduce local traffic congestion. The Transportation Authority of Marin is a local transportation authority that was created pursuant to the California Public Utilities Code, and is governed by a Board consisting of one member from each of the cities and towns in Marin, plus the Board of Supervisors.  Measure A states that the Transportation Plan would maintain and improve bus services, including special services for seniors and disabled persons; fully fund and complete Highway 101 carpool lanes through San Rafael; maintain and improve roads, bikeways, sidewalks, and pathways; and reduce school related congestion and provide safe access to school. As a special tax, the proceeds of the tax may be used only for the purposes set forth in the measure.	BEGINS ON THE NEXT PAGE
If approved a two-thirds majority of the voters, Measure A would authorize the Transportation Authority to levy a 'A -cent sales tax to implement the Transportation Plan, with annual audits on expenditures, and would create an independent Citizens' Oversight Committee.	
Dated: August 14,2004	<impartialend>





<impartialsigs> PATRICK K. FAULKNER County Counsel	<impartialsigsend>
	






<full> FULL TEXT OF ORDINANCE MEASURE A
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY OF MARIN

ORDINANCE 2004-01

AN ORDINANCE OF THE TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY OF MARIN
ADOPTING THE MARIN COUNTY TRANSPORTATION SALES TAX EXPENDITURE PLAN,
IMPOSING A ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX,
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF LIMITED TAX BONDS TO
FINANCE TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS OF THE PLAN, AND
SETTING AN ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT OF $50 MILLION

SECTION 1. FINDINGS

Whereas the Transportation Authority of Marin ("TAM") does hereby find and declare the following:

I.	On March 2,2004, the Marin County Board of Supervisors (“Board of Supervisors”) created TAM by Resolution No. 2004-21, pursuant to
Section 180050 of the California Public Utilities Code (“PUC"). As required by California PUC Section 180051(a) and California Government
Code Section 65089(a), a majority of City and Town Councils of Marin County, representing a majority of the incorporated population of
Marin, have concurred on the membership of TAM and designated TAM as the Congestion Management Agency for Marin County.

II.	Pursuant to California PUC Section 180206(a), TAM approved a Final Transportation Sales Tax Expenditure Plan ("Expenditure Plan”) on
May 6,2004 to present to the Board of Supervisors and Marin City and Town Councils for approval. As required by California PUC Section
180206(b), the Board of Supervisors and a majority of the City and Town Councils representing a majority of the incorporated population of
Marin approved the Expenditure Plan. Therefore, TAM can now adopt the Expenditure Plan and adopt a retail transactions and use tax
ordinance that requests the Board of Supervisors to place a one-half cent retail and transactions use tax measure to finance the Expenditure
Plan on the November 2,2004 ballot for consideration by the Marin electorate pursuant to California PUC Section 180201. Being a special
tax, the ballot measure would require 2/3-voter approval in order to pass.

III.	The Expenditure Plan has been shaped by more than four years of planning and outreach, including recent, extensive feedback from all City
and Town Councils, the Board of Supervisors, and many stakeholder groups on the draft plan. The implementation of transportation
programs and projects outlined the Expenditure Plan would benefit the citizens of Marin County.

IV.	The Expenditure Plan outlines a program for spending a one-half of one percent sales tax increase, which can only be spent on
transportation purposes in Marin County. The Expenditure Plan, with a single goal that is supported by four implementation strategies, is
designed to protect the environment and quality of life enjoyed in Marin County and to provide a high degree of accountability, while
maintaining the flexibility needed to respond to emerging transportation issues over a 20-year period.

V.	Pursuant to the CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4), adoption of this retail transactions and use tax ordinance and Expenditure Plan does
not qualify as a project subject to the requirements of CEQA.

SECTION 2.	ADOPTION

Now, therefore, based on the findings in Section 1 above, TAM does hereby ordain the adoption of the Expenditure Plan attached to this ordinance

and identified as "Exhibit A.”

Now, therefore, TAM does hereby further ordain adoption of a transactions and use tax ordinance as follows:

SECTION 3.	TITLE

This ordinance shall be known as the "TAM Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance."

SECTION 4.	PERIOD OF TAX

This ordinance is intended to impose and collect in Marin County a one-half of one percent transactions and use tax for transportation purposes.

The tax authorized by this ordinance shall be imposed for a twenty-year period, beginning April 1, 2005 or as soon thereafter, as the tax may be lawfully imposed.

SECTION 5. PURPOSE

The Board of Supervisors, the cities of Belvedere, Larkspur, Mill Valley, Novato, San Rafael, and Sausalito, and the towns of Corte Madera,
Fairfax, Ross, San Anselmo, and Tiburon, representing all of the cities and towns in Marin County and all of the incorporated population have
approved the Expenditure Plan as required by Public Utilities Code Section 180206(b). Pursuant to Public Utilities Code Section 180201, TAM
requests the Board of Supervisors to call for a special election to be held on November 2, 2004 and submit a measure to the voters of Marin
County for their approval which would, if so approved, authorize TAM to impose a one-half of one percent transactions and use tax for a period of
twenty years and authorize TAM to issue limited tax bonds to finance the transportation improvements set forth in the 20-Year Expenditure Plan.

The purposes of this ordinance are as follows:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Revenue and Taxation
Code Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code, which directs the
Board of Supervisors to adopt the tax ordinance for voter approval, exercising the taxing power granted to TAM created by the Board of
Supervisors by Resolution 2004-21 pursuant to Public Utilities Code Division 19.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of
the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered
and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Retail Transactions and Use Tax.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a manner that will, to the degree possible consistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance.

E.	To improve, construct, maintain, and operate certain transportation projects and programs contained in the Expenditure Plan, which is
incorporated herein by this reference and attached as “Exhibit A” to this ordinance, and as may be amended pursuant to applicable
requirements.

F.	To set a maximum term of twenty years during which time this tax shall be imposed pursuant to the authority granted by Division 19 of

the Public Utilities Code. 

SECTION 6. CONTRACT WITH STATE

Prior to the operative date, TAM shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax; provided that, if TAM shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract.

SECTION 7. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE OF ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in this County at the rate of one-half of one
percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible persona) property sold at retail in this County on and after the operative
date. This tax shall be imposed for the maximum period of twenty years described in Section 4 herein.

SECTION 8. PLACE OF SALE

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state or has more than one place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

SECTION 9. USE TAX RATE OF ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in this County of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative tax date for storage, use, or other consumption in this County at the rate of one-half of one percent of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. This tax shall be imposed for the maximum period of twenty years described in Section 4 herein.

SECTION 10. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part I of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of
this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

SECTION 11. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES

In adopting the provisions of Part I of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of TAM shall be substituted therefore. The substitution, however, shall not be made when the word State is used as part
of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the
State of California if the substitution would require action to be taken by or against the Authority or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather
than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance. The
substitution shall not be made in those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior borders of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use, or other consumption
remains subject to tax by the state under the said provisions of that code. The substitution shall not be made in Sections 6701,6702, (except in
the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,6797, or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. The name of the County shall be substituted for
the word "state" in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this state" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203. A
retailer engaged in business in the County shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the County or participates within the County in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited
to soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the County or through any representative,
agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under authority of the retailer. "A retailer engaged in business in the County" shall
also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter I (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the County.

SECTION 12.	PERMIT NOT REQUIRED

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not
be required by this ordinance.

SECTION 13.	EXEMPTIONS. EXCLUSIONS. AND CREDITS

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the
State of California or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside Marin County and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County, which is shipped to a point outside the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by
delivery to such point by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the County shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter I (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with 9840 of the Vehicle Code, by
registration to an out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his principal place of residence.

b. With respect to commercial vehicles by registration to a place of business out-of-county, and a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property for any period of time for which the lessor is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections B.3 and B.4 above, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance the storage, use, or other consumption in this County of tangible

personal property:

1.	Other than fuel or petroleum products, purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire of compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

2.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

3.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property under a lease, which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

4- For the purposes of subsection C.3 above, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time during
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions

tax paid to a district or retailer imposing a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with

respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

SECTION 14.	PROPOSITION

There shall be proposed to the voters of Marin County the following proposition:

To reduce local traffic congestion by implementing a 20-year Transportation Plan that:

■	Maintains and improves bus service, including special services for seniors and disabled persons;

■	Fully funds and completes Highway 101 carpool lanes through San Rafael;

*	Maintains and improves roads, bikeways, sidewalks, and pathways;

*	Reduces school-related congestion and provides safe access to school;

Shall Marin County voters authorize a Yz-cent sales tax to implement the plan, with annual audits and an independent Citizens’ Oversight

Committee?

SECTION 15.	LIMITATION ON ISSUANCE OF BONDS

The Authority is authorized to issue bonds to finance capital outlay expenditures. The maximum bonded indebtedness is limited by PUC Section
180250.

SECTION 16. USE OF PROCEEDS

The proceeds of the taxes imposed by this ordinance shall be used solely for the projects and purposes set forth in the Expenditure Plan attached
as “Exhibit A” and for the administration thereof.


SECTION 17.	APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT

For purposes of Article XIIIB of the State Constitution, the appropriations limit for the Authority for fiscal year 2004-05 and thereafter shall be
$50,000,000, unless that amount should be amended pursuant to applicable law.

SECTION 18.	AMENDMENTS

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part I of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and
use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code shall automatically become a part of this
ordinance; provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

SECTION 19.	ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against the state or
TAM, or against any officer of the state or TAM, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

SECTION 20.	EFFECTIVE DATE. PUBLICATION. AND SEVERABILITY

The Transportation Authority of Marin does hereby further ordain the following:

1 • Effective Date and Publication. This ordinance shall be, and is hereby declared to be, in full force and effect at the close of the polls on the
day of election at which the proposition is adopted by two-thirds vote of the electors voting on the measure. A summary shall be published
once before July 9,2004 (15 days after its passage), with the names of the Commissioners voting for and against same, in the Marin
Independent Journal, a newspaper of general circulation, published in the County of Marin.

2. Severability. If any term, provision, or portion of this ordinance is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void, or

unenforceable, the remaining portions of this ordinance shall continue in full force and effect unless amended or modified by the County.

SECTION 21.	VOTE

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Transportation Authority of Marin, on the 24th day of June, 2004 by the following vote to-wit:

AYES:	Commissioners:	Susan Adams, Amy Belser, Peter Breen,	Hal Brown, Jerry	Butler,	Pat Eklund, Alice Fredericks, Barbara

Heller, Steve Kinsey, Joan Lundstrom, Cynthia	Murray, Annette	Rose,	Dick Swanson

NOES:	Commissioners:	None

ABSENT:	Commissioners:	Tom Byrnes, Melissa Gill, Lew Tremaine

si STEVE KINSEY, CHAIR
TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY OF MARIN

ATTEST:

si Craig Tackabery
Executive Director <fullend>








<summary> Marin County Transportation Sales Tax
I Expenditure Plan

Executive Summary

Why does Marin County need a transportation sales tax?

Our transportation system is in crisis. The days of being able to build more
or wider roads to deal with increasing mobility needs are over. To maintain
mobility, we must provide a balanced transportation system that includes all
modes - roadways and transitways, bikeways and pedestrian facilities - and
includes services that are targeted to the diverse communities within Marin
County. Despite our increasing needs, funding continues to shrink, resulting in
delays to our most important projects and reducing our alternatives.

Even projects that we once thought had sufficient funding are now in
jeopardy as a result of our current statewide fiscal crisis. The Highway
101 Carpool Lane Gap Closure Project (“gap closure”)*, which would complete
the “gap” in the high occupancy vehicle lane on Highway 101 through San
Rafael, has lost some of its promised funding as a result of the State’s financial
problems. Without a new source of local funds, this critical transportation proj-
ect will suffer long delays, and
may not be completed for anoth-
er decade. Additionally, funding

for local bus transit service continues to be insufficient to meet even the reduced
service levels implemented in November 2003. Local funds are needed to end the
spiral of “service cuts and fare increases” that will otherwise continue to decimate
our local transit network, just as commute patterns change to favor more in-county
commutes.

One of the few avenues for funding that can be directly Implemented by Marin
County residents is a transportation sales tax. This transportation sales tax
Expenditure Plan* outlines a program for spending a half-cent (14-cent) increase in
sales taxes, which can only be spent on transportation purposes in Marin County.
This plan is intended to provide a high degree of accountability, while maintaining
the flexibility needed to respond to emerging transportation issues over a 20-year
period. The program focuses on meeting local needs with locally generated funds,
allowing state and federal sources to be focused on regional needs.

Becoming a “Self-Help” County* will help Marin get its fair share of state and federal sources. While a sales tax alone
will not solve all of our transportation problems, implementing a transportation sales tax, approved by two-thirds of the voters of
Marin County, opens new opportunities for leveraging* or matching our local money with state and federal sources that require
a local share. Using leveraging, our local sales tax has the potential of generating more funding from outside sources than
the amount generated locally, while setting Marin County on a course of independence that will allow us to determine our own
priorities for transportation projects.

How will the Sales Tax Expenditure Plan help improve mobility within Marin County?

The plan has a single goal, supported by four implementation strategies, designed to protect the environment and quality of life
enjoyed in Marin County. Each strategy is supported by specific but flexible programs (described in detail in the body of the plan)
that have been designed to provide a high degree of accountability to voters.

What is not included in this Plan?

No single source of funding can implement all of the transportation projects planned for
Marin County. Expenditures to create or operate regional rail programs and the Highway
101 Marin-Sonoma Narrows Project are specifically not included in the sales tax expen-
diture plan. In addition, to minimize local funding of regional projects, the only project
on Highway 101 eligible for sales tax funding is the Highway 101 Carpool Lane “Gap
Closure” described in Strategy 2.

These funds cannot be taken by
the state or any other agency or
used for any other purpose than ,
those stated in the Plan.

By generating local funds specifically
targeted for local transportation
improvements, the Transportation
Sales Tax Expenditure Plan will enable
Marin to:

•	Compete successfully for State and Federal
grants requiring local matching funds,
allowing local tax dollars to fund more
projects

•	Fund the projects with the greatest local
impact based on measurable performance
criteria

•	Ensure that funds are distributed fairly
throughout the County

Marin County’s transportation problems
have gotten worse just as transportation
funding has become more scarce. A
transportation sales tax is the most
feasible method available to fund the
projects that will meet Marin’s most
pressing problems:

•	Reducing congestion on Highway 101

•	Maintaining and improving our local roads and
other infrastructure

•	Maintaining and improving bus transit services
both within Marin County and to San Francisco

•	Maintaining and improving specialized
paratransit services for seniors and the disabled

•	Reducing local congestion around schools and
providing safe routes to schools


Figure ES-1 articulates the goal of the sales tax and summarizes each of the
implementation strategies.

The plan's implementing strategies provide improvements to all travel modes,
providing a richness of choices for those that drive and for those that cannot (or
choose not to) drive for all of their trips. By increasing both the variety and qual-
ity of travel options available to Marin County residents and workers, the plan’s
implementing strategies provide a clear path to improving future mobility.

These strategies are designed to maximize the efficiency of our transportation investment in three key ways:

•	Coordinated Funding - The projects and programs within each of the strategies are designed to complement and
reinforce one another by providing necessary infrastructure and capital investments, supportive programs, or both. All
strategies work toward supporting the single goal of the Expenditure Plan.

•	Independence - By developing its own source of local transportation funding, Marin County can plan its transportation
future independent of other agencies that may not have the best interests of Marin County at heart.

•	Matching or Leverage - By becoming a “self-help county"* Marin can gain access to external funds and grants. The
projects and programs outlined in this plan are expected to bring an increased share of funding from other sources.

Plan .Development and Implementation

This plan represents the culmination of over four years of planning, preparation, and public involvement. The plan has been
heavily influenced by the input of five Citizens Advisory Committees, representing the diverse interests of the County, and by the
input of all of the cities and towns in the County.

If passed, this Transportation Sales Tax Expenditure Plan will be managed by the
Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM)*, an agency created to plan, finance, and
oversee implementation of transportation programs. The Authority* includes rep-
resentatives from each of the cities and towns in Marin County, as well as all five members of the County Board of Supervisors,
who work together to improve mobility in the County. Public input will be guaranteed throughout the implementation process
with a Technical Advisory Committee* made up of many of the public stakeholders in the County assisting in project prioritization.
A Citizens' Oversight Committee* will report directly to the public and will be made up of private citizens representing a diverse
range of interests within the community. All decision processes will encourage broad public input.

Figure ES-1 - Sales Tax Expenditure Plan Summary

GOAL: Improve mobility and reduce local congestion for everyone who lives or works in Marin County by providing a variety of high quality transportation options designed to meet local needs.		
Implementation Strategy	%	Est, 20-year Revenue  ($Millions)
1. Develop a seamless local bus transit system that improves mobility and serves community needs, including special transit for seniors and the disabled (paratran- sit services).	55%	$182.38
2. Fully fund and ensure the accelerated completion of the Highway 101 Carpool Lane Gap Closure Project through San Rafael.	7.5%	$24.87
3. Maintain, improve, and manage Marin County’s local transportation infrastructure, including roads, bikeways, sidewalks, and pathways.	26.5%	$87.87
4. Reduce school related congestion and provide safer access to schools.	11%	$36.48
TOTAL	100%	$331.6 M

If passed, the duration of the tax will
be 20 years, ending in 2025.

The plan has been designed to balance \
flexibility with accountability. Under no 
circumstances can the proceeds of this
sales tax be used for anything other:
than the specific transportation projects 
described in this Expenditure Plan.

Marin County I Transportation Sales Tax Expenditure Plan			
Background  Today, more than 80% of all daily trips originating in Marin County are made in autos on roads b transportation infrastructure is being overburdened as our demand to travel continually increases, and work in Marin County. In a recent poll, transportation issues, including reducing congestion on local transportation systems, were identified as the most important issues facing Marin County today.  There is no single solution to our transportation problems, just as there is no single source that projects in Marin County are funded in a variety of ways, including grants from federal and state government, local share of gas tax and sales tax, and other means. However, current funding will not be adequate to maintain the existing trans will not keep pace with the demands of an increasingly mobile Marin County. In fact, Marin County $2 billion in transportation projects in Marin County that should be completed over the next 25 year available for these projects.  Even projects that we once thought had sufficient funding are now in jeopardy as a result of our cu of the Highway 101 Carpool Lane Gap Closure Project through San Rafael. Without a new source will not be completed until at least 2015. Additionally, funding for local transit service continues to levels implemented in November 2003. A new source of local funds is needed to end the spiral of s continue to decimate our local transit network, just as commute patterns change to favor more in-county commutes.  Recognizing that the future of our county depends on the mobility provided by a safe and comprehensive transportation network that includes many different travel options, Marin County and its partners are continually advocating for new funding sources for transportation. One of the few avenues for funding that can be directly controlled by Marin County residents is a transportation sales tax. While the sales tax will not close the funding gap, it provides a significant opportunity to improve our transportation system.  Figure 1 Transportation Sales Tax Expenditure Plan - Implementation	Strategy to standards established decades ago. Our This comes as no surprise to the people who live Highway 101 and maintaining and improving our ay.  fully fund all of our mobility needs. Transportation government, local shares of gas tax and sales transportation system over the coming 20 years, and County’s 2003 Transportation Vision identified nearly, with only about $300 million in known revenue statewide fiscal crisis, including completion of local funds, this critical transportation project are insufficient to meet even the reduced service cuts and fare increases that will otherwise county commutes.  Transportation sales tax funds can be directly controlled by Marin County and can only be used on the local transportation projects specified in this Plan.  Strategies		
GOAL: Improve mobility and reduce local congestion for everyone who lives or works in Marin  County by providing a variety of high quality transportation options designed to meet local needs			
Implementation Strategy			Est. 20-year revenue ($ Millions)

1. Develop a seamless local bus transit system that improves mobility and serves community needs, including special transit for seniors and the disabled (paratransit services).  •	Maintain and improve existing levels of bus transit service throughout Marin County  •	Improve the frequency of buses in high volume corridors  •	Implement small bus and community-based shuttles in many neighborhoods  •	Implement school bus service enhancements  •	Maintain and expand the rural bus transit system  •	Improve bus services between Marin County and San Francisco  •	Maintain and expand transit services and programs for those with special needs - seniors, persons with disabilities, youth, and low-income residents  •	Invest in bus transit facilities for a clean and attractive transit system  •	Provide matching funds for bus transit improvements		55.0%	$182.38 M
2. Fully fund and ensure the accelerated completion of the Highway 101 Carpool Lane Gap Closure Project through San Rafael.		7.5%	$24.87 M
3. Maintain, Improve, and manage Marin County’s local transportation infrastructure, including roads, bikeways, sidewalks, and pathways.  •	Maintain, improve, and manage our major roadways, bikeways, sidewalks, and pathways  •	Maintain, improve, and manage our local roadways, bikeways, sidewalks, and pathways		26.5%	$87.87 M
4. Reduce school related congestion and provide safer access to schools.  •	Maintain and expand the Safe Routes to Schools Program  •	Provide crossing guards at key intersections  •	Provide capital funding for Safe Pathways to School projects		11.0%	$36.48 M
TOTAL		100%	$331.6 M
* See glossary for definition of term.  Page 1			


This Transportation Sales Tax Expenditure Plan outlines a program for spending a half-cent (1/2-cent) increase in sales taxes, to be entirely dedicated to transportation purposes in Marin County. This plan is intended to provide a high degree of accountability, while maintaining the flexibility needed to respond to emerging transportation issues over a 20-year period. The program focuses on meeting local needs with locally generated funds, allowing state and federal sources to be focused on regional needs. As with other sales taxes, rent, grocery purchases, healthcare, water, and utilities would be exempted from the new tax, minimizing the impact on lower-income households. Furthermore, this Expenditure Plan has been designed to provide significant benefits to lower-income households by funding bus transit and other improvements that benefit those who do not own or choose not to drive cars.  A half-cent (1/2-cent) transportation sales tax is expected to generate an average of $16.5 M per year over 20 years in new revenue, net of expenses for administration, debt service and bond issuance costs,1 or a total of $331.6 M (million) over 20 years. This source alone will not solve all of our transportation problems. But, implementing a transportation sales tax, approved by two-thirds of the voters of Marin County, demonstrates to regional, State, and Federal funding agencies that Marin County is a "self-help county,” willing to contribute to its own transportation future. It opens new opportunities to compete for state and federal grants that require a local match. Using this approach, our local sales tax has the potential for generating more funding from outside sources than the amount generated locally, while setting Marin County on a course of independence that will allow us to set our own priorities for transportation projects.		
I The Transportation Sales Tax Expenditure Plan in Summary 1		
Marin County 20-Year Transportation Sales Tax Expenditure Plan Details		
Strategy #1  Develop a seamless local bus transit system that improves mobility and serves community needs, including special transit for seniors and the disabled (paratransit services).	% ,	Est. 20-year revenue ({Millions)
	55%	$182.38 M
I What can local bus transit funds be used for?		
1. Maintain and expand local bus transit service  •	Maintain and expand existing levels of bus transit service throughout Marin County  •	Improve frequency of bus service in high volume corridors  •	Improve bus service between Marin County and San Francisco  •	Provide new small bus service and community-based shuttles in many neighborhoods  •	Restore night service as demand requires  •	Provide school bus service enhancements	37.0%	$122.69 M
2.Maintain and expand the rural bus transit system  • Expand Stage Coach service to and from West Marin	3%	$9.95 M
3. Maintain and expand transit services and programs for those with special needs - seniors, persons with disabilities, youth, and low-income residents  •	Maintain and expand services for seniors and persons with disabilities currently provided by Whistiestop Wheels  •	Provide supplemental taxi services  •	Expand group transportation and shuttle services focused on seniors  •	Provide fare discounts for very low-income residents, including youth, seniors, and persons with disabilities	9%	$29.84 M
4. Invest in bus transit facilities for a clean and efficient transit system  •	Build bus transit hubs in Novato and Southern Marin  •	Purchase clean fuel vehicles  •	Improve bus transit stop amenities (e.g., bike racks, shelters, benches, etc.)	6%	$19.90 M
TOTAL	55%	$182.38 M
The goal and strategies presented in this Transportation Sales Tax Expenditure Plan represent the culmination of extensive input from the public and from the cities and towns throughout the County. The plan was developed with Advisory Committees, representing diverse interests, including representatives of environmental groups, social representatives, advocates for every travel mode, and advocates for underserved populations, including seniors, per with limited incomes. The plan represents the collective wisdom of those groups, as well as the best technical information was further shaped by input from the cities and towns in Marin County, who each had an opportunity to review and was being completed.	over four years of planning and the assistance of five Citizens’ justice organizations, business sons with disabilities, and those available today. The plan comment on the draft plan as it  the sales tax, resulting in  	
Gross sales tax revenue is estimated to be $19.6 M annually. The Plan assumes a $30 M bond issue in the first year of approximately $2.65 M in annual debt service, and an annual 5% administration cost.		


The Transportation Sales Tax Expenditure Plan has a single goal:

Improve mobility and reduce local congestion for everyone who lives or works in Marin County by providing a variety of
high quality transportation options designed to meet local needs.

The plan recognizes that there is no single mode of travel that can fulfill all of our transportation needs. Rather, it takes the best advantage of
different modes to create a multi-modal transportation system that will improve mobility for auto drivers, transit riders, and those that walk or bike
throughout all of Marin County.

Plan Components

The plan is organized around four strategies designed to protect the environment and quality of life enjoyed in Marin County. Each strategy is
supported by specific but flexible programs (described in subsequent sections of the plan) that have been designed to provide a high degree of ac-
countability to voters. Recognizing that the revenue generated by a sales tax is variable and dependent on the health of the economy, each program
has been allocated a percentage of receipts. An estimated dollar amount over the 20-year life of the tax is also provided. As receipts increase or
decrease, the amounts allocated to each program may fluctuate, but the overall percentage will be maintained.

The strategies outlined in Figure 1 will help achieve the goal of the Expenditure Plan by providing congestion relief and enhancing mobility, bringing
improvements to all travel modes and providing a richness of choices for those that drive and for those who cannot (or choose not to) drive for all
of their trips. The specific investment choices made in each implementation strategy will be based on measurable benchmarks and performance
criteria, ensuring that the proceeds of the tax are used efficiently and effectively.

It is no longer possible to meet our mobility needs solely by building new or wider roads. Looking to the future, one thing is clear - to manage
congestion we will have to provide a range of choices that will enable people to travel differently, creating a sustainable transportation system that promotes mobility and maintains the quality of life we enjoy in Marin County.	Bus Transit investments will be evaluated every two years through a transit |

planning process that includes extensive public input from all areas of the |
This strategy is supported by a variety of bus transit county. Transit investments will be prioritized based on an analysis of the I
programs that are designed to work together with the following measurable performance criteria:	

By providing a dedicated source of local funds for public
bus transit, Marin County’s Transit District will

be able to plan and implement services that are tailored to the needs of local residents. Providing local funding will also increase our opportunities
to match or leverage State and Federal funding sources to further enhance our local transit service. Working with the public at all levels, as well as
Marin County's cities and towns, the Transit District* will be able to design services that take advantage of smaller, cleaner vehicles that are matched
to the demand in our neighborhoods. In order to respond to changes In demand for bus transit services over the 20-year life of the Expenditure
Plan, the Transit District will provide an updated Short Range Transit Plan* to the Authority every two years, with significant opportunity for public
input both at the countywide and local levels. This plan will measure the effectiveness of bus transit investments as well as planning for the future.
Updated performance data will be provided to the Authority annually.

Maintain and Expand Local Bus Transit Service

Without a dedicated local funding source, local bus transit service cuts are likely to continue. In the past, Marin County has been able to count on
the toll revenue generated by the Golden Gate Bridge, Highway and Transportation District* to help fund its bus transit needs. The growing needs
for bus transit service both in the Highway 101 corridor and between communities within Marin County, coupled with increasing expenditures on the
bridge itself, have made everyone who lives and works in Marin County vulnerable to service cuts and fare increases that are largely outside of our
control.

Bus Transit investments will be evaluated every two years through a transit
planning process that includes extensive public input from all areas of the
county. Transit investments will be prioritized based on an analysis of the
following measurable performance criteria:

*	Fills a gap in the bus transit network

*	Meets productivity standards based on passengers per hour

*	Meets cost effectiveness standards based on subsidy per trip

*	Relieves congestion as measured in total ridership

■ Provides seamless connections to regional service

*	Eliminates “pass ups” or overcrowding on existing routes

*	Promotes environmental justice based on demographic analysis

*	Attracts outside funding sources, including federal, state and toll revenue as well as other
local funds

This program will provide the funding necessary for Marin County to protect its local
bus transit service and ensure that service levels are not only maintained, but also
significantly enhanced in the longer term. This program provides the County with the
necessary financial independence to ensure that local bus transit service supports
countywide goals for enhanced mobility and meets the needs of its residents and
workers both now and in the future.

The transportation sales tax provides a unique
opportunity for Marin County to plan and implement
transit services focused on Marin County needs.


In order to maximize the effectiveness of Marin County s transit dollars, the Marin County Transit District (MCTD) will develop a Short Range Transit
Plan, with updates every two years. The planning process will provide many opportunities for public input from all areas of the county, enabling
Marin County to strategically target transit investments over the 20-year life of the Expenditure Plan. All transit investments will be evaluated based
on an analysis of a consistent set of performance-based criteria (listed In the sidebar on page 6), which will ensure that funds are spent where they
will provide the greatest benefit. The final local transit implementation plan will be approved by the Transit District in a public hearing prior to sending
the plan to the Authority* which will also approve the plan in a public forum.

Priority Projects

The Marin County Transit District has developed a number of priority investments for local transit improvements that may be funded by this sales
tax. They include improvements in nearly every neighborhood in Marin County.

These candidate projects would have a high priority for service improvements over the life of the Plan:

Provide transit service every 15 minutes in the following
corridors:

•	Highway 101 corridor connecting all communities in the corridor
and San Francisco

•San Rafael to College of Marin via Andersen Drive/Sir Francis
Drake

•	San Rafael to San Anselmo via Red Hill/4th Street

•	San Rafael Transit Center to Civic Center and Northgate Mall

Provide transit service at least every 30 minutes in the following
corridors:

•	Sausalito to Marin City and the Toll Plaza via Bridgeway

•	Mill Valley on Miller Avenue and East Blithedale

•	Corte Madera and Larkspur via Tamalpais/Magnolia and Sir
Francis Drake

•	San Anselmo to Fairfax via Sir Francis Drake and Red Hill Road

•	San Rafael via Lincoln to Civic Center, Merrydale and on to Kaiser
Hospital

•	Novato service in the Hamilton area, in the Ignacio area east of
Palmer and South Novato Boulevard.

•	Novato service from neighborhoods to Vintage Oaks Shopping
Center

•	Corridor service from Novato to San Rafael transit center with
connections to College of Marin.

Provide accessible neighborhood scaled shuttles using small
buses in the following communities

•	Novato, building on the EZ Rider Shuttle and serving the proposed
transit hub

•	Mill Valley, implementing the “Millie” shuttle designed locally

•	Sausalito, building on the “Sally" shuttle developed by the City of
Sausalito

•	Belvedere and Tiburon, providing ferry connector and flexible
service to lower density hilly areas

•	San Rafael, connecting local employment centers with downtown
and the transit center

•	Ross Valley, connecting the local communities in the valley

•	Maintain and expand the West Marin Stagecoach

•	Restore night service as demand requires

•	Restore ferry connector shuttles to communities with high demand

•	Flexible services for hillier or less populated areas with transit
demand

Provide enhanced school bus service using creative school trans-
portation solutions

•	Expand traditional yellow school buses for younger children

•	Develop multi-purpose shuttles that serve schools as well as other
needs

•	Improve public transit service to schools, and after school
programs

Improved[Frequency in High Volume Corridors

This program will provide funding to maintain and improve intercommunity bus

transit service and service along major bus transit corridors. Marin County	I Marin County Transit District will contract for local	|

has a number of bus transit corridors that are busy enough to justify frequent	services in order to procure the highest quality	I

service. These include all day services in the Canal — downtown San Rafael	and lowest cost transit system for Marin County	I

- Marin City corridor, services between San Rafael and San Anselmo, and ser-	residents. Decisions about priorities for transit system	I

vices to local colleges, as well as peak period services to major employers in	investments will be made locally by the Transit District	I

Novato, San Rafael, and other locations. These services require larger buses	and the Transportation Authority of Marin.	I

to address capacity constraints and are designed to operate at high frequency 

to meet existing and latent demand.

Bus services between Marin County and San Francisco on the Highway 101 corridor provide both local and regional mobility to Marin County
residents and employees. These services may also be funded under this category, provided that the Golden Gate Bridge, Highway and Transporta-
tion District maintains the toll revenue that currently funds these regional services. The intent of this “maintenance of effort” provision is to ensure
that the value of toll subsidies to regional routes is preserved and that sales tax funds are not used to replace toll revenues allocated to support
the regional network. The specific language defining maintenance of effort will be included in the Short Range Transit Plan approved by the Marin
County Transit District and the Transportation Authority of Marin. The maintenance of effort provision will be included in any funding agreement for
these San Francisco oriented services between the Marin County Transit District and the Golden Gate Bridge Highway and Transportation District,
subject to approval by both Boards of Directors. Any sales tax funds provided to the Golden Gate Bridge, Highway and Transportation District will
be used only for specific transit purposes.

Marin County Transit District will contract for local |
services in order to procure the highest quality I
and lowest cost transit system for Marin County I
residents. Decisions about priorities for transit system 1
investments will be made locally by the Transit District 1

and the Transportation Authority of Marin.	

Small Bus and Community-Based Services in Many Neighborhoods

There are many transit markets in Marin County that are better served by small buses and community-based shuttles that address specific markets
in less urban areas. Local services may be designed best on the community level, with implementation provided through the Marin County Transit
District. The West County Stagecoach is an example of a system developed at the grassroots level that has exceeded all expectations. This suc-
cess can be replicated in other Marin County communities. Each community will have the opportunity to work with the Transit District to define their
greatest local transit needs and to identify potential solutions, such as shuttles and jitneys using small, efficient transit vehicles.

School Bus Service Enhancements

The need for enhanced school-oriented bus services in Marin County is very clear, as many schools are poorly served by transit routes that are not
coordinated with arrival and dismissal times and that do not reach into the neighborhoods. The Short Range Transit Plan will take a creative approach to school bus service, investigating opportunities for targeted shuttles, yellow bus system enhancements, and other improvements that will
work together with the other programs in this Expenditure Plan to create a new generation of transit riders.

Maintain and Improve the Rural Bus Transit System

"The Stagecoach" service operating in West Marin has been an amazing success. What began as a one-year demonstration project has resulted in a
sizeable grassroots following and higher-than-projected ridership. Although service is very limited, demand for this service continues to grow. Despite
the success of the Stagecoach, there is no funding available to continue services beyond the current year. This program would maintain the existing
Stagecoach service and would focus on opportunities for expansion, including seven-day per week service and developing a north-south route.

Priority

include:

Special Needs Transit projects

Maintain and Expand Transit Services and Programs
for Those with Special Needs

Nearly everyone knows a senior or a person with a disability who needs help with his or her
mobility. The availability of a high quality alternative to driving enhances safety on the roads,
and enhances the quality of life of people who depend on these services;

The Marin County Transit District currently contracts with Whistlestop Wheels to provide spe-
cialized services for older adults and persons with disabilities. Demand for these services
has continued to exceed the ability to increase service. Over the past five years, demand
for paratransit has increased by 25%, far outpacing the availability of existing funds. Stud-
ies predict that over the next 20 years Marin will be the “oldest” county in the Bay Area, with
more than 35% of its residents over age 65. Without the new funding that this tax provides,
services to seniors and persons with disabilities will need to be reduced, making it more dif-
ficult for people to continue to live independently as they get older.

Services for seniors and persons with disabilities will be planned with the support of the ex-
isting consumer-based Paratransit Coordinating Council (PCC)*, which advises the Transit
District on the needs of these communities and public input from all areas of the county. The
Transit District will explore options for adding shuttles, scheduled group trips, and subsidized
taxi service to the current mix of paratransit* options. In addition, the Transit District will work with the PCC and members of the senior and disability
community to design fare programs that will ensure that no person is made homebound because they are unable to pay for transit services.

Seniors and persons with disabilities are not the only groups with specialized needs. This program includes assistance for our youth and the low-
est income families who are unable to afford current transit fares. This program will provide funds for discounted transit passes for youth, seniors,
disabled, and low-income riders. The youth discounts will build on the success of the current “Ride and Roll” program and will work together with
other school enhancements to develop early and life-long transit riding habits. Discounts to low-income riders will provide mobility and access to
jobs and basic services to those with no alternative.

> Maintaining and expanding transportation
services for seniors and disabled

•	Continue and extend paratransit services to all
of Marin County

■	Develop new shared ride, wheelchair
accessible taxi service that augments
paratransit services

■	Expand group transportation and shuttle
services focused on seniors

*	Provide discounted fares for very low-income
seniors and persons with disabilities, as well as
the lowest income members of our community

Provide discounted transit passes to youth

Invest in Bus Transit Facilities for a Clean and Efficient Transit System;		Bus Transit Facilities priorities include:	1
Innovative bus transit operation will require an investment in vehicles and facilities. This will include		• Bus transit hubs in Novato and	1
providing clean-fueled vehicles, new bus transit hubs in Novato and Southern Marin for efficient and		Southern Marin	%
safe transferring between routes, and amenities at bus stops, including enhancements of bus stop		* Clean fuel vehicles	1
accessibility to pedestrians and cyclists and improved information for transit riders.		• Bus transit stop amenities (e.g., bike	£  $
Bus transit facilities investments will be prioritized to coordinate with transit service projects based		racks, shelters, benches, lighting, pay phones,	
on the criteria outlined on page 4. High priority will be given to opportunities to match or leverage		access improvements)	1
funds in order to help transportation sales tax dollars go farther.		• Bike racks on buses	|
Replacing older diesel buses with clean fuel technology, Including electric hybrid or other		• Accurate signage and real-time	
alternative fuel buses, will improve the environment and attract new riders to transit.		information for riders	
	
Strategy #2  Fully fund and ensure the accelerated completion of the Highway 101 Carpool Lane Gap Closure Project through San Rafael.		%	Est. 20-year revenue (Millions)
		7.5%	$24.87 M
I What can Gap Closure funds be used for?			
•	Completion of final construction segments through Central San Rafael and Puerto Suello Hill  •	Noise reduction strategies to improve quality of life in adjacent neighborhoods	•	Aesthetic and landscaping improvements  •	Completion of the north-south bicycle way through Puerto Suello Hill to improve bicycle safety		

The transportation sales tax allows
us to complete the Gap Closure
Project by 2008. This has been the
highest priority project in Marin
County for over a decade.

Highway 101 in Marin County is one of the busiest traffic corridors in the Bay Area. Spillover traffic from
this congested freeway impacts our cities and our neighborhoods, whether or not we travel on the high-
way. Creation of a continuous carpool lane on Highway 101, for use by buses as well as carpools, will
speed transit service making it more attractive to more users, while having a significant impact on conges-
tion. For more than a decade, the Highway 101 Gap Closure project has been the top priority project
in Marin County. Now, even with construction underway, the State's fiscal crisis threatens our ability to
deliver the final phases of this essential project in a timely manner.

This project was to be funded entirely with State sources; however, the recent statewide financial crisis has left the project short of its remaining
$65.2 million funding need. By using sales tax revenue to complete this project, Marin County will be able to take advantage of nearly $41 million of
dedicated State funding. With these funds, the project will be completed by 2008. Without sales tax funds, the project is unlikely to be completed
until 2015 and risks losing additional committed funds.

The project will provide a dedicated lane in both directions between Lucky Drive and North San Pedro Road,
to be used by buses and carpools during peak hours. This project will fill in a critical “gap” in the continuous
carpool lane that could speed carpodls and buses throughout the County. The funding included in this project
will make sure that this is the best project possible for all residents of Marin County by improving the aesthetics and landscaping and reducing the impacts of freeway noise on local neighborhoods with various noise
reduction strategies, including the use of sound-absorptive materials on soundwalls. The project also includes
completion of the north-south bicycle route through Puerto Suello Hill, ensuring that this important project is
implemented along with freeway improvements.

If additional outside funding becomes available for this project in the future, sales tax revenues dedicated to this
project would be redirected to transit projects outlined in Strategy 1.

Funding for the Gap Closure
project includes elements that
will improve this project in the
neighborhoods adjacent to it,
including landscaping, noise
reduction, and improvements
to bicycle and pedestrian
safety in the area.

Strategy #3  Maintain, improve, and manage Marin County’s local transportation infrastructure, including roads, bikeways, sidewalks, and pathways.	%	Est.  20-year revenue ($Miliions)
	26.5%	$87.87 M
What can local infrastructure funds be used for?		
•	Road maintenance and congestion relief projects on major roads and on local roads  •	Safety improvements for all modes  •	All projects will consider all users, including transit riders, bicyclists, pedestrians, and auto drivers  •	Projects could include crosswalk and curb cut enhancements, bike lane and pathway construction, bus bulbs, intersection improvements, and pavement and drainage improvements, as well as system enhancements such as signal coordination, real time information, and other tools to maximize the efficiency of our transportation system	26.5%	$87.87 M
TOTAL	26.5%	$87.87 M

Every trip begins or ends on a local road. Pedestrians,
bicyclists, bus passengers, and drivers of all types de-
pend on a well-maintained and effective local roadway
network that serves travel both within and between com-
munities.

Local roads are the largest single public investment in
the County. Without a well-designed and maintained
roadway system, there are limited opportunities to pro-
vide adequate bus service or to connect bikeways and
pedestrian pathways through the County. This program
will help to reduce the maintenance shortfall on Marin
County’s roadways, improving safety and eliminating de-

Potential roadway, bikeway, sidewalk, and pathway improvements may include:

•	Pavement and drainage maintenance, including signage and striping

•	Signalization and channelization to improve traffic flow and safety at key intersections

•	Transit and traffic flow improvements to eliminate conflicts between buses and cars

•	Transportation Systems Management and Demand Management projects that
make the most of our infrastructure investments

•	Improvements to reduce the response times for emergency vehicles and
improve safety

•	Bike path construction and maintenance of bike paths

•	Sidewalk and crosswalk construction and maintenance, and other pedestrian
infrastructure improvements to safety and mobility

•	Accessibility improvements to make our streets and roads usable by all

' See glossary for definition of term.

Page 6

lays resulting from poor maintenance. The program is designed to improve the mobility of all local travelers, including those that drive and those
that use other modes.

Members of the Technical Advisory Committee, to be created
by the Authority’s governing board, will include representatives
from and nominated by the following:

•	Marin Managers Association (2 members)

•	Marin Public Works Association (3 members)

•	Marin County Planning Directors Group (1 member)

•	Golden Gate Bridge, Highway and Transportation District

(1 member)

•	Marin County Paratransit Coordinating Council (1 member)

•	Marin County Transit District (1 member)

•	Marin County Office of Education (1 member)

•	Environmental Organizations of Marin County (1 member)

•	Bicycle and Pedestrian Organizations (1 member)

•	Business Organizations (1 member)

The need for funding projects on the roadway system is clear. A recent study
completed by the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC) projects
that Marin County will have a shortfall of $256 million over the next 25 years
for maintenance of existing roadways, even with existing local funds from
bonds and other measures included. MTC also concluded that Marin Coun-
ty's roads are among the worst in the region. Failing to maintain our roads
now will be even more costly later, as roadway conditions deteriorate and
negatively impact all transportation modes.

Projects included under this strategy are designed to minimize accidents, and
improve operations and traffic flow for all people and transportation modes
using the roadway or other infrastructure investment.

As projects are prioritized for funding, each project will be required to con-
sider the needs of all roadway users. Project sponsors will be required to
coordinate with adjacent jurisdictions to maximize economic efficiency and
minimize construction impacts. The goal is to develop a comprehensive plan
for improving critical roadways at the time an investment is made. Where
feasible, locally defined bicycle and pedestrian projects will be implemented at the time a roadway is improved. Improvements could include striping
and signing of bicycle lanes and bikeways, sidewalk improvements, curb ramps, and other accessibility and safety improvements.

Funds allocated to this strategy will be evenly divided between the major roads of Countywide significance that are used by most people in Marin
County, and local priorities developed by each jurisdiction in the County. In all cases, roadway projects will consider all of the modes in the right-of-
way, focusing on transit, bicycle and pedestrian safety, and access for the disabled.

Major Roads and Related Infrastructure

Major roads often cross city limits and serve multiple communities. Projects on these roads must emphasize coordination between jurisdictions.
Half of the funding allocated to this strategy (approximately $43.9 M) will be spent on the most heavily travelled and significant roads and related
infrastructure in Marin County. The remaining half will be spent on local roads and related infrastructure, based on priorities developed by each
jurisdiction.

Priorities for major roadway and infrastructure projects will be determined by the Public Works
Directors of each city, town, and the county working together with a Technical Advisory Commit-
tee* that is representative of the broad interests of Marin County. All investment decisions will be
evaluated using measurable performance criteria, listed in the sidebar at the left side of this page.

The process will provide opportunity for public input and will be approved by the Transportation
Authority in a public meeting as part of the Strategic Plan.

To ensure that each community in Marin County receives an equitable share of sales tax funds,
expenditures for major infrastructure projects will be distributed to the five planning areas of the
County based on their population (50%) and road miles (50%). This distribution will be balanced
every six years:

The following roads of countywide significance are included as priority candidates for funding.

These roads are used by nearly every Marin County resident. Additional roads may be consid-
ered if the needs of high priority roads within a planning area have been addressed.

• Atherton Avenue/San Marin Boulevard

The following performance criteria will be
used to prioritize major road projects:

•	Condition of roadway (Pavement Condition
Index)

•	Average daily traffic

•	Transit frequency

•	Bicycle and pedestrian activity

•	School access

•	Accident history

•	Opportunities for matching funds

•	Geographic equity

■	Novato Boulevard/South Novato Boulevard

•	D Street/Wolfe Grade

•	Las GallinasAvenue/Los Ranchitos Road/Lincoln Avenue

■	North San Pedro Avenue to the China Camp State Park Boundary or
Sunny Oaks Drive

■	Point San Pedro Avenue to the China Camp State Park Boundary
or Biscayne Drive

■	Red Hill Avenue/4th Street/2nd and 3rd Streets

■	Andersen Drive

■	Magnolia Avenue/Corte Madera Avenue/Camino Alto

1 Redwood Avenue/Tamalpais Drive/Madera Boulevard/Tamal Vista
Boulevard/Fifer Avenue/Lucky Drive/Doherty Drive
1 Sir Francis Drake Boulevard from Interstate 580 to Platform Bridge

Figure 2 Funding Allocations for

Major Infrastructure Projects

Planning Area	Current Distribution	
	Based on 50% Population & 50% Road Miles (1)	Estimated  20-Year  Revenue
Northern Marin	19.6%	$8,611,260
Central Marin	25.4%	$11,159,490
Southern Marin	21.7%	$9,533,895
Ross Valley	20.2%	$8,874,870
West Marin	13.1%	$5,755,485

(1) Formula based on 2000 population and road miles data.
Percentages will be reviewed at the start of tax collection and adjusted
to reflect the most current information on that date.

* See glossary for definition of term.

Page 7

21-565

21565

•	Bridgeway Corridor (Bridgeway/Richardson Street/2nd Street/

South Street/Alexander Ave.)

•	Paradise Drive

•	E. Blithedale Avenue

•	Miller Avenue/Almonte Boulevard

Local Roads for All Modes

Local roads are the most basic unit of the transportation network because they
connect our neighborhoods and business districts and provide linkages to major
roads and transportation services. Local road priorities are determined by individual
jurisdictions that can best evaluate local needs and their connectivity to the larger
system.

Half of all funds allocated in this strategy (approximately $43.9 M) will be distributed
on an annual basis to each city, town, and Marin County based on a combination of
miles of roads to be maintained and population. As with the major road program,
each project will be required to consider the needs of all roadway users. Where
feasible, locally defined bicycle and pedestrian projects will be implemented at the
time a roadway is improved. Improvements could include striping and signing for
bicycle lanes and bikeways, sidewalk improvements, curb ramps, and other acces-
sibility and safety improvements.

Figure 3 shows the amount of funding that each jurisdiction can expect from this
program, based on the current formula of 50% roadmiles/50% population. Local
priorities would be determined by each jurisdiction's Public Works Director with ap-
proval of their governing board in a public meeting.

Figure 3 Funding Allocations for Local

Infrastructure Projects
by Community"__________

Agencv	: 2004 % of Total	Estimated 20-Year Revenue Projection
Belvedere	1.04%	$458,232
Corte Madera	3.20%	$1,405,124
Fairfax	2.79%	$1,225,121
Larkspur	4.16%	$1,825,569
Mill Vallev	5.99%	$2,633,638
Novato	17.00%	$7,466,928
Ross	0.99%	$435,826
San Anselmo	4.70%	$2,064,919
San Rafael	20.16%	$8,855,643
Sausalito	2.84%	$1,248,178
Tiburon	3.46%	$1,521,530
County	33.67%	$14,794,292
Total	100.00%	$43,935,000

Sources: 2004 California Department of Finance Population Estimates,
2003-04 Marin County Road List, and 2004 road miles data from Marin
City and Town Public Works Directors.

** Formula based on 2000 population and road miles data. Percentages
will be reviewed at the start of tax collection and adjusted to reflect the
most current information on that date.

	%	Est. 20-year revenue
Strategy #4  Reduce school related congestion and provide safer access to schools.		($Millions)
	11%	$36.48 M

1. Safe Routes to Schools  • Ongoing funding to support this successful and popular program that promotes walking, biking, taking transit, or carpooling to school	3.3%	$10.94 M
2.Crossing Guards  • Crossing guards at 70 intersections along major roads serving schools	4.2%	$13.93 M
3. Provide capital funds for Safe Pathways To School projects		
• Safety improvements around Marin County schools in conjunction with the Safe Routes to Schools Program, including sidewalk improvements, safer crosswalks and crossings, bicycle and pedestrian safety improvements, and speed reduction measures	3.5%	$11.61 M
TOTAL	11%	$36.48 M

In Marin County, school-related trips are a significant component of traffic congestion. In fact, over 21 % of all trips in the morning peak period are
school related. Congestion around schools is a serious and growing problem both for families with students and non-students alike. Everyone who
travels in Marin County recognizes how much lighter traffic is on days when schools are off, even when it is not a common day off for workers.

A survey done by the Safe Routes to Schools program shows that without programs that target student and parent behavior and provide safe alterna-
tives to driving, as many as 80% of students are driven in single student occupant autos to school. This creates severe local congestion at arrival
and dismissal times, as well as deteriorating safety for those that walk and bike to school. In addition, many of Marin County's schools draw students
from throughout the County and beyond, putting many school trips on Highway 101 and the major roads traveled for all trip purposes. There are
currently over 75 elementary, middle, and high schools in Marin County, with a total of at least 40,000 students in grades K-12 - 50,000 including
college students. Clearly, reducing single student occupant auto trips to schools will have the immediate benefit of reduced congestion, as well as
long-term benefits to public health, the creation of lifelong sustainable habits, and increasing the opportunities for success of all alternative modes.

The programs in this strategy will be assessed every two years by the Technical Advisory Committee, through a public process involving parents,
school officials, and students throughout the County. These countywide programs will be managed by the County of Marin. This investment of

Page 8

21-566

21566

transportation sales tax funds will be combined with school bus projects already described in Strategy 1, to make a significant improvement in local
congestion while encouraging safe and healthy behavior in our young people.

The Safe Routes to Schools program combines classroom education, special
community events, and coordination between school officials, parents and
public works officials to create safe environments for walking, biking, and taking
transit to school. At schools that participate in the program, single student
vehicle traffic has been reduced by more than 15%.



Safe Routes to Schools

Safe Routes to Schools is a proven program designed
to reduce local congestion around schools while instilling
healthy and sustainable habits in our young people. The
program includes several components including classroom
education, special events, and incentives for choosing al-
ternative modes to schools, as well as technical assistance to identify and remove the barriers to walking, biking, carpooling, or taking transit to
school. The program, which is currently managed by the County of Marin, is in its fourth year of operation and has proven its ability to increase
alternative mode use to schools, reducing single student occupant auto trips to participating schools by at least 15%.

Current funding for Safe Routes to Schools does not extend beyond the 2004 school year. Without a new source of local funds, the Safe Routes
program will terminate after the current school year. This strategy will maintain and expand the successful Safe Routes program to all schools within
Marin County. The funding for other programs included under this strategy, Crossing Guards and Safe Pathways, will be closely coordinated with
the activities of Safe Routes to Schools.

This program would fund crossing guards for some of the County’s most critical intersections,
including the following potential locations:

•	Novato: Diablo Blvd.; Center Rd.; along Ignacio Blvd., in front of Sinaloa Middle School

•	San Rafael: in front of Vallecito School; and Bahia Way; and Canal St. in front of Bahia Vista School

•	San Anselmo: Butterfield Rd. and Sir Francis Drake

•	Fairfax: at the pedestrian crossing in front of St. Rita’s School

•	Southern Marin: CaminoAlto, East Blithedale Ave., Miller Ave., Tiburon Blvd., and others

•	Ross Valley: Numerous crossings of Sir Francis Drake, serving many schools



School Crossing Guards

One of the greatest barriers to using al-
ternative modes to schools is the difficulty
of crossing Marin's busiest streets. Even
with pathway improvements, students’
parents are reluctant to allow their chil-
dren to walk or bike to school if they must
cross a busy street. While some schools
have attempted to implement volunteer
crossing guard programs, experience has suggested that this is not a reasonable long-term strategy, as volunteers can not be counted on every day,
in all types of weather, regardless of their personal schedules. Other Bay Area counties, such as Santa Clara and San Francisco, have realized that
to eliminate liability concerns and to ensure that there are well trained crossing guards with back-ups for every critical intersection, they must contract
with a professional company that specializes in crossing guard programs.

This program will use trained crossing guards for up to 70 intersections throughout Marin County. The intersections will be prioritized by the Public
Works Directors together with the Technical Advisory Committee along with other school related projects, and approved by the Authority. At schools
that have volunteer or other types of crossing guard programs, sales tax funds will augment the work that is already being done, making sure that
these local funds are put to their best use. The process will provide opportunities for public input.

Provide Capital Funding for Safe Pathways to Schools

Safe Pathways to School is the capital improvement element of the Safe Routes to Schools
program. Where the Safe Routes program identifies circulation improvements needed for safe
access to schools, the Safe Pathways program will provide funding for the engineering, environ-
mental clearance, and construction of pathway and sidewalk improvements in all Marin County
communities, including safety improvements at street crossings.

Although Safe Pathways projects target improvements around schools, they benefit the entire
community, creating a safe network of bicycle and pedestrian facilities, enhancing safety and
reducing local congestion.

Safe Pathway projects are expected to attract matching funds from other sources and may be
used in combination with road funds to accelerate pathway improvements in school areas. Ad-
ditional input will be solicited in a public forum that includes input from parents, school officials,
and other community stakeholders. Specific projects will also be approved by the Transporta-
tion Authority of Marin in their Strategic Plan.*

Safe Pathways Projects will be selected
based on performance criteria that focus on
improving safety throughout the County. All
projects will come from approved Safe Routes
plans, supported by parents, school officials,
and the local jurisdiction.

•	Relieves an identified safety or congestion
problem along a major school route

•	Completes a “gap" in the bicycle and
pedestrian system along a major school route

•	Maximizes daily uses by students and others

•	Attracts matching funds

•	Respects geographic equity

Transportation Sales Tax Governance and Organizational Structure

Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM)

This transportation sales tax is authorized under the Local Transportation Authority and Improvement Act, California Public Utilities Code Section
180000 et. seq. In approving this tax, the voters will authorize that the Transportation Authority of Marin (referred to as the Authority) be given the
responsibility to collect and administer the tax proceeds. All monies raised by this sales tax will be available for expenditure only on the transporta-
tion projects identified in the Sales Tax Expenditure Plan. The make-up of the Authority's governing board is as follows:

•	All five members of the Marin County Board of Supervisors, and

•	One representative from each of the eleven incorporated cities and towns in Marin County.

All representatives to the Authority's governing board will be elected officials within Marin County. This composition provides a balance between the
needs of the county as a whole and the priorities of individual cities, towns, and communities.

The Transportation Authority of Marin will be established for the purpose of authorizing and implementing this transportation sales tax. The Authority
will incorporate the duties of the existing Congestion Management Agency, ensuring that all key transportation decisions are made in a single place.
The duration of the tax will be 20 years from the initial year of collection, which will begin in April 2005. The tax will therefore terminate on March
31,2025.

Staffing and Administration

The Transportation Authority of Marin will hire the staff and professional assistance required to administer the proceeds of this tax and carry out the
mission outlined in the Expenditure Plan. The total cost for salaries and benefits for administrative employees will not exceed 1% of the revenues
generated by the transportation sales tax. Other administrative costs, such as rent, supplies, and fees paid to the State Board of Equalization for
collecting the tax and financial, legal, or consulting services are not included in the 1% cap.

Work Program and Strategic Plan

All of the programs included in this Expenditure Plan are considered essential for the transportation needs of Marin County. The Authority will
prepare an annual Work Program and Budget and a biennial Strategic Plan, which will identify the priorities for projects and the dates for project
implementation based on project readiness, ability to generate matching or leveraged funds, and other relevant criteria. The Strategic Plan must be
approved by a two-thirds vote of the total commissioners on the Authority Board, following a noticed public hearing on the draft Strategic Plan and
a 45-day public comment period.

The allocation of funds described in this plan will be achieved over the life of the plan and may vary from year to year only as approved in the Stra-
tegic Plan and only in such a way that the distribution will hot change over the life of the plan, unless the plan is specifically amended.

Bonding* and Financing

The Transportation Authority of Marin will have the authority to bond and use other financing mechanisms for the purposes of expediting the delivery
of transportation projects and programs and to provide economies of scale. Bonds, if issued, will be paid with the proceeds of the transportation
sales tax. The costs and risks associated with bonding will be presented in the Authority’s Strategic Plan, and will be subject to public comment
before any bond sale is approved.

The Authority will also be able to use other means to accelerate the delivery of projects and programs, including seeking outside grants and matching
or leveraging tax receipts to the maximum extent possible. The Authority will also have the ability to set aside a reserve fund of up to 10% of the
annual receipts from the tax for contingencies, to ensure that the projects included in this plan are implemented on schedule.

Accountability

All business of the Authority will be conducted in an open and public meeting process. The Authority will approve all spending plans described in this document and will ensure that adequate This plan has been designed for the J
public involvement has been included in the preparation of all spending plans. The Authority will highest possible levels of accountability |
be required to hire an independent auditor who will audit all sales tax expenditures, ensuring that and public involvement in our 1
expenditures are made in accordance with the plan.	transportation planning process. -

The Authority will be guided by an Administrative Code covering all aspects of its operation.
This plan has been designed for the j
highest possible levels of accountability
and public involvement in our
transportation planning process.

Citizens ’ Oversight Committee

The Citizens’ Oversight Committee will be created by the Authority's governing board with the assistance of the League of Women Voters. The
unique feature of this Committee is that it will report directly to the public and will be charged with reviewing all expenditures of the Authority. The
responsibilities of this Committee are:

•	The Committee must hold public hearings and issue reports, on at least an annual basis, to inform Marin County residents how funds are being
spent. The hearings will be open to the public and must be held in compliance with the Brown Act, California’s open meeting law. Information
announcing the hearings must be well-publicized and posted in advance.

•	The Committee will have full access to the Authority’s independent auditor and i
and to comment on the auditor's reports.

I have the authority to request and review specific information

•	The Committee must publish an annual report. Copies of these documents must be made widely available to the public at large.

Citizens’ Oversight Committee members will be private citizens who are neither elected officials of any government nor public employees from any
agency that either oversees or benefits from the proceeds of the transportation sales tax. Membership will be restricted to individuals who live
in Marin County. Members will be required to submit a statement of financial disclosure, and membership will be restricted to individuals without
economic interest in any of the Authority’s projects.

The Committee will be designed to reflect the diversity of the County. The committee will consist of 12 members., Each organization represented
on the Citizens’ Oversight Committee will nominate its representative, with final appointments approved by the governing board of the Authority.
Membership will be as follows:

•	One member will be selected from each of the planning areas in Marin County by the Authority Board members representing that area (Northern
Marin, Central Marin, Ross Valley, Southern Marin, and West Marin). (Totaling 5 members)

•	Seven members will be selected to reflect a balance of viewpoints across the County. These members will be nominated by their respective
organizations and appointed by the Board of the Authority, as follows:

° One representative from a taxpayer group

- One representative from the environmental organizations of Marin County

° One representative from a major Marin employer

° One representative from the Marin County Paratransit Coordinating
Council, representing seniors and persons with disabilities

One representative from the League of Women Voters

One representative from an advocacy group representing
bicyclists and pedestrians

One representative from a school district, including
parents

Amendments to the Plan

The Authority's Board may annually review and propose amendments to the Expenditure Plan to provide for the use of additional Federal, State,
and local funds, to account for unexpected revenues, or to take into consideration unforeseen circumstances. To modify this Plan, an amendment
must be approved by a two-thirds majority of the total commissioners on the Authority Board, following a noticed public hearing and a 45-day public
comment period. Following the 23 vote of the Authority, any plan amendment will be submitted to each of the cities and towns in Marin County
and to the Board of Supervisors for their approval. Amending the Plan will require a majority vote of 50+% of the cities representing 50+% of the
incorporated population, as well as a majority vote of the Board of Supervisors.



Implementing Guidelines

This plan is guided by principles that ensure that the revenue generated by the transportation sales tax is spent in the most
efficient and effective manner possible, consistent with the desires of the voters of Marin County. The principles outlined in
this section provide flexibility needed to address issues that may arise during the life of the plan. The specific operations of the
Authority are further addressed in its Administrative Code.

1.	The Transportation Authority of Marin is charged with a fiduciary duty in administering the transportation sales tax proceeds in accordance with the
applicable laws and this Expenditure Plan. Receipt of these tax proceeds may be subject to appropriate terms and conditions as determined by
the Authority in its reasonable discretion, including, but not limited to, the right to require recipients to execute funding agreements and the right
to audit recipients' use of the tax proceeds.

2.	All meetings of the Transportation Authority of Marin will be conducted in public according to state law, through publicly noticed meetings. The
annual budget of the Authority, annual work plan, biennial Strategic Plan, and annual report will all be prepared for public scrutiny. The interests
of the public will further be protected by the Citizens' Oversight Committee, described previously in this Plan.

3.	Under no circumstances may the proceeds of this transportation sales tax be applied to any purpose other than for transportation improvements
benefiting Marin County. The funds may not be used for any transportation projects or programs other than those specified in this Plan without
an amendment of the Expenditure Plan.

4.	Revenue generated by this sales tax will not be used to create or operate regional rail programs or used for regional highway projects (Highway
101) with the exception of the Highway 101 Carpool Lane “Gap Closure” project described in Strategy 2.

5.	Actual revenues may be higher or lower than expected in this Plan, due to changes in receipts and/or matching or leveraging capability. Estimates
of actual revenue will be programmed annually by the Transportation Authority of Marin during its annual budget process. Because the Expendi-
ture Plan is based on percentage distributions, dollar values in this Plan are estimates only. Actual revenues will be programmed over the life of
the Plan based on the percentage distributions identified in the Plan.

6.	The actual requirement for funds in a specific program could be higher or lower than expected due to changes in funding outside of this transporta-
tion sales tax, or due to changes in project costs or feasibility. Should the need for funds for any program within a strategy be less than the amount
to be allocated by the sales tax, or should any project become infeasible for any reason, funds will first be reprogrammed to other programs or
projects in the same strategy area with a two-thirds vote at a noticed public hearing. Should the need for funds in the entire strategy area be less
than the amount to be allocated by the transportation sales tax, the Authority Board may amend the Expenditure Plan to reallocate funds to the
other strategy areas following its procedures for a plan amendment.

7.	If additional funding from other sources becomes available for the Highway 101 Carpool Lane Gap Closure Project (Strategy #2), or if the actual
expenditures are less than allocated, then the equivalent amount of transportation sales tax receipts will be redirected to projects in Strategy #1.

8.	All projects funded with these transportation sales tax funds will be required to complete appropriate California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA)
and other environmental review as required.

9.	Funds may be accumulated by the Authority or by recipient agencies over a period of time to pay for larger and long-term projects. All interest
income generated by these proceeds will be used for the transportation purposes described in the Expenditure Plan.

10.	The Transportation Authority of Marin will have the capability of loaning transportation sales tax receipts at prevailing interest rates to other
agencies for the implementation of needed transportation projects, provided that there is a guaranteed revenue stream to repay such a loan and
provided that the loan will not interfere with the implementation of programs or projects defined in the Expenditure Plan.

11.	Matching or leveraging of outside funding sources is strongly encouraged. Any additional transportation sales tax revenues made available
through their replacement by matching funds will be spent based on the principles outlined in 6 and 7 above.

12.	New incorporated cities/towns or new bus transit agencies, that come into existence in Marin County during the life of the Expenditure Plan could
be considered as eligible recipients of funds through a Plan Amendment.

Transit District

Transportation Authority of Marin (TAM) - an agency created for the purpose of administering this sales tax, the
Authority will be responsible for programming funding for all transportation programs in Marin County. The TAM
Board will include representatives from each city and town in Marin County, plus the five members of the Board of
Supervisors. The Authority will function as the Congestion Management Agency for Marin County.

Selling municipal bonds will allow the Transportation Authority of Marin to accelerate capital projects by pledging
future revenues for the repayment of bonds and getting needed capital funds "up front” for project implementation.

A 12-member committee consisting of 5 representatives selected from the five planning areas and 7 representing
diverse interest groups in Marin County. Reports directly to the public on all issues related to the Expenditure Plan
and sales tax.

The 20-year plan for spending sales tax funds.

The Gap Closure Project includes the completion of the bus and carpool lane on Highway 101 through San Rafael.
This project is designed to relieve a critical bottleneck on Highway 101.

The agency responsible for the Golden Gate Bridge, as well as regional transit including ferries and bus service
between Sonoma, Marin, and San Francisco counties. Golden Gate currently operates local transit services in
Marin County under contract to the Marin County Transit District.

High Occupancy Vehicle or Carpool lane, open to vehicles with 2 or more occupants, including buses, during peak
hours.

Matching local sales tax dollars with other funds on a one-to-one or other percentage basis from local, regional,
State, or Federal sources, to stretch local sales tax dollars by attracting new grant funding to Marin County.

The existing local transit district, MCTD currently contracts for local transit services with Golden Gate Transit,
which currently operates local services in Marin. MCTD also currently contracts for paratransit services with
Whistlestop Wheels, as well as contracting for the West County Stagecoach. MCTD is governed by two city
representatives and five representatives from the Board of Supervisors. Under the plan, MCTD will develop
detailed transit plans with public input for approval by the Transportation Authority of Marin.

Specialized transportation services for seniors and persons with disabilities who are unable to use regular bus
routes.

The established group of seniors, people with disabilities, and their advocates who advise the Marin County
Transit District on paratransit and accessibility needs.

A county with a local sales tax for transportation is called a "self-help” county, because the tax demonstrates
that the County is willing to “help itself to solve its own transportation problems. A self-help county has greater
opportunities to compete for regional, State, and Federal grants by providing matching funds.

A five-year plan required for every transit agency in the Bay Area, this document is the primary opportunity to
identity transit needs and develop priorities.

A detailed plan of expenditures and revenue completed by the Transportation Authority of Marin every two years.
The plan projects the use of sales tax funds, as well as other funding that may be available to projects in the plan.
The Strategic Plan also considers the need for bonding or other financing techniques to accelerate projects.

A committee made up of Public Works staff, other city staff and representatives of diverse public interests who will
prioritize infrastructure improvements and make recommendations to the Transportation Authority of Marin.

See “Authority.” <summaryend>








<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Measure A is a responsible, carefully designed plan to relieve traffic
congestion, create safer streets, and improve transportation in Marin
County.

Measure A fully funds and accelerates completion (7 years earlier) of
carpool lanes on Highway 101 in San Rafael. This will improve commute
traffic, increase bus ridership and carpooling, and reduce air and noise
pollution.

Measure A provides local control over Marin County bus service, offering
the best opportunity to maintain existing service, add routes and greater
frequency, and enhance services for seniors, disabled persons, and
youth.

Measure A enables Marin County Transit District to utilize smaller, clean
fuel buses in a cost-effective system designed to meet Marin’s needs,
including commuter service, and emphasizing service within the county.

Measure A funds local roadway maintenance and improvements.
Because of state cutbacks, limited road maintenance has resulted in
significant deterioration. Measure A will help every Marin community
regain control over their roadway maintenance to improve safety.

Measure A provides funds for improving bike lanes, sidewalks and
pathways for children walking and biking to school.

Measure A reduces school-related congestion, which causes 21% of the
morning commute traffic in Marin County. Programs like Safe Routes to
Schools, yellow school bus service, student discount bus service, and
crossing guards will be funded.

Measure A increases Marin County’s ability to receive matching state
and federal funds for transportation improvements, making our local
dollars go further.

Police, firefighters and paramedics support Measure A because traffic
relief means faster response times and safer passage in emergencies.

Measure A doesn't fund rail service or widening the Marin-Sonoma
Narrows.

Audits will be conducted annually. An independent Citizens’ Oversight
Committee will monitor expenditures to ensure funds are spent as voters
approved.

Please join the Marin Conservation League, League of Women Voters,
Commission on Aging, North Bay Council and many others - vote YES
on A. <favorend>






<favorsigs> s/ Cynthia Murray
Marin County Supervisor

s/ William J. McCubbin
President /CEO

s/ Robert E. Marcucci
San Rafael Fire Chief, Retired

s/ Marjorie W. Maoris
Sierra Club Marin Group, Executive Committee

s/ Mary Jane Burke
Marin County Superintendent of Schools <favorend>






<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE A

We have carefully analyzed Measure A from a taxpayer's standpoint.
Marin will not get what we need from this.

Highway 101 is our BIGGEST traffic headache, yet only 7-1/2 cents of
each tax dollar collected over 20 years goes to fix it.

Over 90% of the tax collected is aimed at “feel good” projects negotiated
with city and town councils to obtain their support for the tax.

Measure A also provides the opportunity for another civic budgetary
“shell game” where we end up paying twice for projects like street paving
in areas that already have paving budgets.

We’ve already paid for paving with our property taxes and now we’re
asked to pay again through sales tax.

The oversight committee established in Measure A will investigate only
where money is spent, they will not be able to “unspend" it or be involved
in approving projects in advance.

Santa Barbara voted a half-cent sales tax over 10 years ago to fix 101;
it's still “broken”. Over $200 million collected there was spent on 13
other projects instead of fixing 101. (www.Fix101.org).

County property tax revenue increases are approaching $100 million
from high priced home sales since 2000. Where has all the money
gone?

State and federal money is available to fix 101. Our County supervisors
pursued a $16,000 pay raise for themselves. Now they need to
vigorously pursue funding to fix 101 for the rest of us.

We can do a lot better than Measure A. Please vote No on A. <rebutfavorend>







<rebutfavorsigs> s/ Michael C. Cunningham, Vice President
Marin T axpayers Association

s/ David J. Zappetini
Former San Rafael City Council Member

s/ Paul C. Chignell, Mayor
Town of San Anselmo

s/ Dennis A. Brown <rebutfavorsigsend>







<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

The half-cent sales tax increase is a bad idea for several reasons. First
and foremost, it’s a regressive tax that hurts the most, those who can
afford it the least. The poorest among us will pay the biggest percentage
of their incomes for this tax increase.

Second, we already pay among the highest state income tax, property
tax, gasoline tax, and sales tax in the nation. Where is all that money
going? How do Florida, Texas, Arizona, Washington State, etc. get by
without a state income tax? Where is Marin's property tax windfall from
skyrocketing home prices and sales going? Apparently more to generous
public employee retirement benefits than to county transportation
infrastructure.

Third, Highway 101 is Marin’s BIGGEST traffic problem yet gets the least
attention under Measure A. It’s an antiquated design not configured to
provide efficient traffic flows based on current demand. It provides
probably 80% of the county’s transportation solution, it generates 80% of
the traffic pain, yet will get less than 8% of the money raised by Measure
A. Matching state and federal funds are NOT guaranteed if measure A
passes. We already pay 36 cents per gallon gasoline tax; where is all
that money going? Certainly not to solve the risk to public safety posed
by the lack of an efficient highway in Marin. Imagine the gridlock that will
occur if we experience a disaster!

With influential legislators like John Burton, Barbara Boxer, and Diane
Feinstein, why is Marin’s transportation infrastructure not getting from the
state and federal governments the priority it deserves? Why is the
politicians’ answer for everything, "go tax yourself!”? We can do better
than Measure A. Our officials need to demand state and federal funding,
and better allocate existing tax revenues.

Please vote No on A: <againstend>





<againstsigs> s/ M.C. Cunningham
V.P. Marin United Taxpayers

s/ David J. Zappetini
Former San Rafael City Councilmember

s/ Robert E. O'Brien
s/ Dennis A. Brown <againstsigsend>








<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

In their zeal to use Measure A to criticize every tax, the opponents of
Measure A offer no solutions to Marin County traffic problems. They say
traffic is terrible but propose nothing viable to fix the problem. Measure A
provides a prudent, responsible plan to relieve traffic and make our
streets safer.

We must pass Measure A, if we want:

•	Safer streets: Measure A maintains local streets, enhances
sidewalks, pathways and bike lanes for children walking and
biking to school, and by relieving traffic, minimizes accidents
and improves response times for emergency vehicles
throughout Marin.

• Less traffic: Measure A removes the 101 bottleneck, providing
the MAXIMUM funding needed to complete carpool lanes on
101. Without Measure A, carpool lanes construction will drag
out until 2015 or later.

•	An effective bus system-especiallv for seniors, disabled
people and youth: Measure A funds will stabilize the system,
preventing drastic cuts, and increase bus and paratransit
ridership by improving convenience, reliability and comfort.

•	Less Pollution: Measure A will reduce air and noise pollution
by increasing use of clean fuel buses, vanpools, carpools, and
bikeways.

• Accountability: Measure A requires annual audits and an
independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee to ensure funds
are spent as voters approved. Measure A funds cannot be
taken by the state.

•	Affordable Transportation SOLUTIONS Non-Measure A sources
of funding are scarce and unreliable. Doing nothing will
provide no relief or improvements. The longer we wait to act,
the more it will cost.

Measure A is the right plan to relieve traffic and create safer streets.

Please VOTE YES. <rebutagainstend>






<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Elissa Giambastiani
President & CEO San Rafael Chamber of
Commerce

s/ Wendi Kallins
Program Director Safe Routes to School

s/ Jana Haehl
President, Marin Conservation League

s/ Robert T. Doyle
Marin County Sheriff

s/ Steve Kinsey
Chair, Transportation Authority of Marin <rebutagainstsigsend>

