
<impartial> COUNTY OF VENTURA
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL*
MEASURE"A"

This measure combines three questions related to the formation and funding
of the Ventura County Regional Open Space District ("District”) into a single
ballot measure for voter approval.

Under this measure, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Ventura is
submitting: (1) a District formation resolution; (2) a Ventura County sales tax
ordinance (Ordinance No. 4301); and (3) a District appropriations limit, all as
described below, to the voters for approval to form and fund the Ventura
County Regional Open Space District. The sales tax ordinance will become
operative only if two-thirds of the qualified voters countywide vote "Yes" on
this measure. The District formation and the establishment of the District
appropriations limit will not occur unless the sales tax ordinance is
approved. Thus, a "Yes" vote by two-thirds of those voting is necessary for
the three questions to be approved.

On May 25,2004, a District formation resolution was adopted by the
Ventura County Board of Supervisors, subject to voter approval of the
combined formation, sales tax and appropriations limit questions.
Subsequently, this resolution was approved by the Ventura County Local
Agency Formation Commission (VCLAFCO). If this measure is approved by
two-thirds vote, the formation resolution will cause the formation of the
District. The governance, boundaries, purpose, powers and limitations of the
District are described in the companion VCLAFCO Impartial Analysis of
Measure "A.”

On June 8,2004, the Ventura County Board of Supervisors adopted
Ordinance No. 4301. If this measure is approved by two-thirds vote, this
ordinance will become operative and will cause in both the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of Ventura County the levy of a retail transactions
and use tax (a sales tax) at a rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) for
a period not longer than 10 years. The tax would be in addition to any
existing or future sales tax. The proceeds of this sales tax can only be
expended as set forth in the Expenditure Plan incorporated into the
ordinance. Under the Expenditure Plan expenditures must be made for
agricultural land preservation and open space land and parkland purposes
as follows: (1) a minimum of 85% of the District’s funding must be spent for
property acquisition purposes; (2) administrative costs cannot exceed 3%;
and (3) remaining funds may be expended for open space, agriculture and
parkland maintenance, operations, monitoring or acquisition. The
Expenditure Plan also establishes categories, standards, and criteria for
acquisitions. The Ordinance also contains necessary administrative
provisions and provisions establishing its operative date.

California law requires that, upon creation of the District, an appropriations
limit be established. The appropriations limit is a limitation on the District’s
authority to spend the proceeds of taxes and the proceeds of certain state
subventions during any one fiscal year. Both the formation resolution and
Ordinance No. 4301 call for the establishment of an appropriations limit for
the District in the amount of $75 million, subject to voter approval, and direct
the combination of this question with the formation and sales tax questions.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure "A." If you desire a
copy of the Board of Supervisors' formation resolution and Ordinance No.
4301, which comprise this single combined measure, please call the
elections official’s office at (805) 654-2781, and a copy will be mailed at no
cost to you. <impartialend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "A"

Measure A gives Ventura County residents a unique opportunity to keep
Ventura County a special place for future generations.

Measure A creates an Open Space District. The District’s mission will be to
preserve and protect as much of our county’s most threatened open spaces
and working farms and ranches as possible.

VENTURA COUNTY NEEDS MEASURE A NOW. Los Angeles urban
sprawl constantly presses in our direction. There is tremendous pressure to
break our vital SOAR urban growth boundaries that restrict sprawl.
Development of our precious agricultural and open space lands will
irreversibly change Ventura County and damage our quality of life.

Permanently protecting the most threatened parcels is the only way to
ensure they will remain open space in the future. Measure A does that.

Measure A raises $25 million a year, funded by a 1/4-cent sales tax to
purchase critical parcels of land or the development rights to that land. All
transactions will be voluntary and market-based - the Open Space District
cannot use eminent domain.

Measure A funds will enable the county to attract millions of dollars in
matching state, federal and private funds.

Throughout Ventura County, the Open Space District will:

PROTECT water quality by preserving vital wetlands, rivers and coastal
areas.

SAFEGUARD open spaces, natural areas and greenbelt buffers that are
essential to our - and our grandchildren’s - quality of life.

PRESERVE some of the richest working farmland in the world and help
keep agriculture sustainable.

EXPAND and improve parks and trails to provide safe places for our
children.

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

Measure A contains strict fiscal safeguards. A fiscal oversight committee
and annual independent audits will ensure that all funds are spent properly.
The life of the 1/4-cent tax is limited to just ten years so voters can see if this
investment is serving us well.

Please vote YES on Measure A. <favorend>





<favorsigs> s/Steve Bennett
Chairman, Ventura County Board of Supervisors

s/Graham Chisolm
Executive Director, The Nature Conservancy, California Program
s/Patricia Y. Murray
President, League of Women Voters of Ventura County

s/Karen Schmidt
Executive Director, SOAR

s/David Schwabauer
President, Ventura County Farm Bureau
<favorsigsend>