<impartial> MEASURE “I”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

Measure I would authorize the San Bernardino County Transportation Authority to continue an existing one-half
of one percent retail transactions and use tax applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the
County of San Bernardino for a period of thirty (30) years to be used solely for countywide transportation
improvements and traffic management programs as set forth in Ordinance No. 04-01 of the San Bernardino
County Transportation Authority. If approved by two-thirds of the voters, the continuation of the tax would begin
on April 1,2010, immediately after the expiration of the existing voter approved tax.

Ordinance No. 04-01 (printed in full in this Voter Pamphlet) requires that the proceeds of this tax be used only for
transportation improvement and traffic management programs set forth and described in the Transportation
Expenditure Plan (the “Plan” also printed in full in this Voter Pamphlet) and in the manner set forth in the Plan.
The Plan divides the County into six subareas and directs that revenues generated from each subarea be
accounted for separately and then be expended on transportation projects of direct benefit to that subarea.

The Plan also requires that financial audits of each jurisdiction’s expenditure of Measure I funds be conducted on
a yearly basis and establishes an Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee. This Committee will provide
citizen review to ensure that all Measure I revenues are spent in accordance with Ordinance No. 04-01 and the
Plan.

This Measure also requires that all future development located in the County pay its fair share for transportation
facilities needed as a result of the new development. <impartialend>







<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “I”

Vote YES on Measure I to relieve traffic congestion and keep San Bernardino County moving -- without raising taxes!

Vote YES to synchronize traffic signals, repair potholes and improve roadways countywide.

Vote YES to add lanes, upgrade on- and off-ramps and improve safety on Interstates 10, 15 and 215; Routes 18, 30 38, 58, 60, 62,
138, 247 and 330; U.S. 395; High Desert Corridor and Needles Highway.

Vote YES to provide new and more frequent Metrolink service.

Vote YES to keep bus fares low and expand special transit services for seniors and riders with disabilities and to create a new
express bus system to Ink communities.

Vote YES to provide local matching funds to secure state and federal highway dollars. State and federal funds are insufficient; we
must have a local source.

Vote YES to ensure firefighters, police and ambulances can get through gtraffic in emergencies.

Measure I continues the half-cent sales tax that has funded 3,000+local road projects, 332 new freeway lane miles, Metrolink
trains and special transit service since 1989.

Measure I safeguards your tax dollars:

•	An independent oversight committee will closely monitor how funds are spent and review annual external audits.

•	Measure I does not raise taxes above current levels.

•	99%	of Measure I funds must be spent for transportation projects and services. Only 1 % may be used to operate

the program.

Without Measure I, traffic relief will be delayed for decades. Measure I guarantees transportation dollars raised in each area
of the county will stay in each area to fight traffic congestion and unsafe roads.

The Automobile Club of Southern California - AAA, taxpayer organizations, chambers of commerce countywide, environmentalists,
community groups and thousands of your neighbors agree: Vote YES on Measure I.

For more information, visit www.vesonmeasurei.com. Vote YES on Measure I. <favorend>








<favorsigs> s/ Larry R. Sharp, Chair, San Bernardino County Taxpayers For Traffic Relief
s/ Thomas McKernan, President and CEO, Automobile Club of Southern California
s/ Penny Lilburn, Senior Center Executive Director
s/ Gary S. Penrod, Sheriff, County of San Bernardino
s/ Michele Spears, President/Ceo, Victorville Chamber of Commerce <favorsigsend>






<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “I”

VOTE NO
ON MEASURE I

The sales tax that the politicians want the people to pay for roads is nothing more then a road tax. Will you be fooled and tax yourself
once again? We pay gasoline and diesel fuel tax for transportation. Where has that tax money gone? How much of our money do
the politicians need for roads? The politicians say that this is not a new tax. That it is an extension of a tax. What is the difference
between a new tax and an extension of a tax, it’s still a tax. It is a tax that we will have to pay. A tax is a tax no matter what you call it.
The people adopted this tax in 1989 and it is scheduled to end in 2010. Now the politicians want this tax for 30 more years.

VOTE NO
ON MEASURE I

State politicians have taken transportation dollars to solve our State’s ongoing budget problems. The people of this state passed
Proposition 42 in 2002 to give a portion of the state’s gasoline and diesel fuel tax for transportation. However, the politicians used a
loophole in the law to send that money to the General Fund.

VOTE NO
ON MEASURE I

The politicians used our tax money to send out 463,000 copies of a political mailer to get us to vote for this tax. This political mailer
cost the taxpayers $113,243. Just think about it. That money could have gone for a new local street. Just look out your window, do
you have a new street? Or do you have potholes.

VOTE NO
ON MEASURE I

PLEASE DON’T BE FOOLED BY THE POLITICIANS <againstend>





<againstsigs> s/ Patrick (Pat) Aleman, Homeowner/Taxpayer <againstsigsend>






<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “I

The opponent of Measure I doesn’t offer any reasonable alternatives to crushing traffic congestion, which has become the most
troubling local issue of the decade. But supporters offer a balanced plan that continues 16 years of success in helping to make
San Bernardino County the great place to live that it is today -- without raising taxes.

Traffic and air quality will continue to degrade if we don’t Vote YES to renew Measure I. And our neighborhoods will be overrun by
traffic.

Vote YES so we can spend more time at home with our families, not stuck in traffic. Vote YES to provide the transportation system
needed to support local jobs, industry and small businesses.

Vote YES to synchronize traffic signals and repair potholes on local streets and to upgrade and increase capacity on
Interstates, state highways, the High Desert Corridor and Needles Highway.

Vote YES to provide new and more frequent Metrolink service, to expand special transit services for seniors and riders with
disabilities and to create a new express bus system to link communities.

Vote YES to impose taxpayer protections unprecedented in San Bernardino County, including an independent oversight committee
to monitor, review annual audits and report to the public on whether your tax dollars are being used efficiently.

Somebody can always come up with reasons why we shouldn’t do something. But when we are presented with a reasonable
solution to address our transportation needs, we shouldn’t let it pass us by.

Vote Yes on Measure I. <rebutagainstend>






<rebutagainstsigs> s/Jim Rissmiller, Chairman San Bernardino County Taxpayers Association
s/Jack B. Meinert, President, Chino Senior Club

s/ Larry J. Clark, Secretary/Treasurer San Bernardino County Police Chiefs and Sheriff Association
s/Wilson F. So, Board Member Apple Valley Unified School District
s/Jim Townsend, President, Rancho Cucamonga Firefighters Association <rebutagainstsigsend>







<full> MEASURE “I”

SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
ORDINANCE NO. 04-01

AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE CONTINUATION OF A ONE-HALF OF ONE
PERCENT RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX BY THE SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY
TRANSPORTAION AUTHORITY FOR LOCAL TRANSPORTATION PURPOSES AND THE
TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN

PREAMBLE

This one-half of one percent retail transactions and use tax is statutorily dedicated for
transportation planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance only in San Bernardino
County and cannot be used for other governmental purposes or programs. There are specific
safeguards in this Ordinance to ensure that funding from the Measure “I” one-half of one percent
transactions and use tax is used in accordance with the specified voter-approved transportation
project improvements and programs. These safeguards include:

■	The specific projects and programs included in the Expenditure Plan will be funded by
revenue raised by this transactions and use tax. The transportation Expenditure Plan
can be changed only upon approval by a majority of all cities in the County representing a
majority of the incorporated population and approval by the San Bernardino County
Board of Supervisors.

■	An Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee is created to provide for citizen review to
ensure that all Measure “I” funds are spent in accordance with provisions of the
Expenditure Plan and Ordinance.

■	Continuation of San Bernardino County’s one-half of one percent transactions and use
tax is for transportation programs only and is not intended to replace traditional revenues
generated through locally-adopted development fees and assessment districts. Collection
of the one-half of one percent transactions and use tax will start upon the expiration of
the Existing Tax.

■	The San Bernardino County Transportation Authority will continue to seek maximum
funding for transportation improvements through State and federal programs. The
Authority will not provide transactions and use tax revenue to any city or to the County
unless all transportation revenues currently used by that agency are continued to be used
for transportation purposes.

The San Bernardino County Transportation Authority ordains as follows:

SECTION I. SUMMARY. This Ordinance provides for the continued imposition of a retail
transactions and use tax of one-half of one percent for local transportation purposes for a period
of thirty (30) years, the authority to issue limited tax bonds secured by such taxes, the
administration of the tax proceeds and a county transportation Expenditure Plan.


SECTION II. MANDATED TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS.

A.	Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee. Beginning on April 1, 2010, an
Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee will be established as specified in Exhibit B of this
Ordinance to provide citizen review and to ensure that all Measure “I” funds are spent in
accordance with provisions of the Expenditure Plan and Ordinance. Exhibit B contains the
specific terms and conditions for an Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee and its review of
periodic independent financial audits.

B.	Administrative Costs. The Authority shall expend only that amount of funds generated
from the tax that is necessary and reasonable to carry out its responsibilities for audit,
administrative expenses, staff support, and contract services. In no case shall the funds
expended for salaries and benefits exceed one percent (1 %) of the annual net amount of revenue
raised by the tax.

C.	Maintenance of Effort. The Authority, by the enactment of this Ordinance, intends the
additional funds provided government agencies by this measure to supplement existing local
revenues being used for street and highway purposes. Transactions and use tax revenue shall
not be used to replace existing road funding programs or to replace requirements for new
development to provide for its own road needs. Under this Measure, funding priorities should be
given to addressing current road needs, easing congestion, and improving roadway safety.

The government agencies shall maintain their existing commitment of transportation funds for
street, highway and public transit purposes, and the Authority shall enforce this provision by
appropriate actions, including fiscal audits of the local agencies.

SECTION III. DEFINITIONS. The following definitions shall apply in this Ordinance:

A.	“The Expenditure Plan” means the San Bernardino County Transportation Authority
Expenditure Plan (attached as Exhibit A and adopted as part of this Ordinance) including any
future amendments thereto.

B.	“County” means the County of San Bernardino.

C.	“Authority” means the San Bernardino County Transportation Authority. The
San Bernardino County Transportation Commission has been designated to serve as the
Authority under the provisions of Public Utilities Code Section 180050.

D.	“Existing Tax” means the one-half of one percent retail transactions and use tax adopted
pursuant to Ordinance No. 89-01 and Ordinance No. 90-01.

SECTION IV. AUTHORITY. This Ordinance is enacted, pursuant to the provisions of Division 19
(commencing with Section 180000) of the Public Utilities Code, and Section 7252.16 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

SECTION V. CONTINUED IMPOSITION OF RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX.

Upon voter approval of Measure “I,” the Authority shall continue to impose, in the incorporated
and unincorporated territory of the County of San Bernardino, a transactions and use tax for
transportation purposes (referred to as “the tax”) at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) for
a period of thirty (30) years beginning April 1, 2010. There shall be no coincidental assessment
of the current tax (which will expire on March 31, 2010) and the tax to be imposed pursuant to this
Ordinance. The tax shall be imposed by the Authority in accordance with Section 180201 of the

Public Utilities Code and Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code. The provisions of Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 7261 and 7262 are
incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein. The tax shall be in addition to
any other taxes authorized by law, including any existing or future state or local sales tax or
transactions and use tax.

SECTION VI. PURPOSES. Revenues from the tax shall be used for transportation purposes
only and may include, but are not limited to, the administration of this division, including legal
actions related thereto and costs of the initial preparation and election, the construction,
maintenance, improvements, and operation of local streets, roads, and highways, state highways
and freeways, public transit systems including rail, and related purposes. These purposes include
expenditures for planning, environmental reviews, engineering and design costs, and related
right-of-way acquisition. Expenditures also include, but are not limited to, debt service on bonds
and expenses in connection with issuance of bonds.

SECTION VII. RETURN TO SOURCE. After deduction of required Board of Equalization fees
and authorized administrative costs, revenues generated from each specified subarea within
San Bernardino County as outlined in the Expenditure Plan will be expended on projects of direct
benefit to that subarea. Revenues will be accounted for separately for each subarea and then
allocated to specified project categories in each subarea. Decisions on how revenues are
expended within the subareas will be made by the Authority Board of Directors, based upon
recommendations of local representatives. Other than the projects identified in the Cajon Pass
Expenditure Plan, revenues generated within a subarea shall be expended outside of that
subarea only upon approval of two-thirds (2/3) of the jurisdictions within the affected subarea.

SECTION VIII. CONTRIBUTIONS FROM NEW DEVELOPMENT. No revenue generated from
the tax shall be used to replace the fair share contributions required from new development.
Each local jurisdiction identified in the Development Mitigation Program must adopt a
development financing mechanism within 24 months of voter approval of this Measure “I” that
would:

1.	Require all future development to pay its fair share for needed transportation facilities as a
result of the development, pursuant to California Government Code Section 66000 et seq. and as
determined by the Congestion Management Agency.

2.	Comply with the Land Use/Transportation Analysis and Deficiency Plan provisions of the
Congestion Management Program pursuant to California Government Code Section 65089.

The Congestion Management Agency shall require fair share mitigation for regional transportation
facilities through a Congestion Management Program update to be approved within 12 months of
voter approval of this Measure “I.”

SECTION IX. ADMINISTRATION OF PLANS. The Authority shall impose and collect the tax,
and shall administer the Expenditure Plan consistent with the provisions and priorities of the
Expenditure Plan and consistent with the authority cited herein.

SECTION X. BONDING AUTHORITY. Upon voter approval of Measure “I”, the Authority shall
have the power to sell or issue, from time to time, on or before the collection of taxes, bonds, or
other evidence of indebtedness, including, but not limited to, capital appreciation bonds, in the
aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding of not to exceed the estimated proceeds
of the tax, as determined by the Expenditure Plan, and to secure such indebtedness solely by way of future collection of taxes, for capital outlay expenditures for the purposes set forth in
Section V hereof, including the carrying out of transportation projects described in the
Expenditure Plan.

SECTION XI. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. The annual appropriations limit has been
established pursuant to Ordinance 89-01 pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California
Constitution and Section 180202 of the Public Utilities Code. The appropriations limit has and
shall be subject to adjustment as provided by law.

SECTION XII. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES. Subject to voter approval, this
Ordinance shall become operative on the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after adoption of this Ordinance. Prior to the operative date of this Ordinance, the
Authority shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incidental to
the administration and operation of this Ordinance.

SECTION XIII. ELECTION. The Authority requests the Board of Supervisors to call an election
for voter approval of the attached proposition Measure “I” (Exhibit C), which election shall be held
on November 2, 2004, and consolidated with other elections to be held on that same date, that
the measure retains its designation as Measure “I,” and that it appear first in order on the local
San Bernardino County ballot before all other local measures. The election shall be called and
conducted in the same manner as provided by law for the conduct of elections by a county. The
sample ballot to be mailed to the voters shall be the full proposition as set forth in this Ordinance,
and the voter information handbook shall include the entire Expenditure Plan. Approval of the
attached proposition and the imposition of the tax shall require the affirmative vote of 2/3rds of the
electors voting on the attached proposition at the election described in this section.

SECTION XIV. EXPENDITURE PLAN AMENDMENTS. The Expenditure Plan may only be
amended by the following process:

1.	Beginning in 2015, and at least every ten years thereafter, the Authority shall review and,
where necessary, propose revision to the Expenditure Plan. Such review shall consider
recommendations from local governments, transportation agencies and interest groups, and the
general public.

2.	The Authority shall notify the cities/towns and Board of Supervisors of the proposed revision
and initiation of an amendment, reciting findings of necessity.

3.	Actions of the city/town councils and Board of Supervisors to approve or to oppose the
amendment shall be formally communicated to the Authority within 60 days of notice of initiation
of amendment.

4.	The boundaries of subareas shall be amended only by unanimous approval of all the
jurisdictions in the subareas where an amendment is proposed to include or exclude territory.

5.	Approval of the amendment by a majority of the cities/towns constituting a majority of the
incorporated population provided, however, that any amendment of the Victor Valley Expenditure
Plan (Schedule E) shall also require a two-thirds vote of the jurisdictions within the Victor Valley
subarea.

6.	Approval of the amendment by the Board of Supervisors.

7.	Approval of the amendment by the Authority.

SECTION XV. SEVERABILITY. If any tax or provision of this Ordinance is for any reason held
invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, that holding shall not affect the
validity or enforceability of the remaining taxes or provisions, or the existing tax and the Authority
declares that it would have passed each part of this Ordinance irrespective of the validity of any
other part.

SECTION XVI. THE EXISTING TAX. Nothing in the Ordinance is intended to modify, repeal,
alter or increase the Existing Tax. The provisions of this Ordinance shall apply solely to the retail
transactions and use tax adopted herein and not to the collection or administration of the Existing
Tax.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the San Bernardino County Transportation Authority at its
meeting on June 2, 2004 by the following vote:

AYES: Alexander, Burgnon, Dale, Hertzmann, Ulloa, Norton-Perry, Chastain, Nuaimi, Cortes,
Lindley, McCallon, Christman, Eaton, Valentine, Ovitt, Gilbreath, Wilson, Bagley,
Rothschild, Riddell, Cook, Biane, Hansberger, Postmus, Aguiar, Young

NOES: None

ABSENT: Nehmens, Valles, Pomierski
ABSTENTION: None

William J. Alexander, Chairman

San Bernardino County Transportation Authority

Attested: _________________

Vicki Watson
Clerk of the Board <fullend>







<summary> Exhibit A

Transportation Expenditure Plan

Revenue Estimates and Distribution. Allocation of revenue authorized by Ordinance
No. 04-01 is established within this Expenditure Plan. Funds shall be allocated by percentage of
the actual revenue received. An estimate of revenues and allocation among categories is
reflected in Schedule A - Transportation Improvement Program. The estimated revenue is based
upon 2004 value of money and is not binding or controlling.

Return to Source. After deduction of required Board of Equalization fees and authorized
costs, revenues generated from each specified subarea within San Bernardino County will be
expended on projects of direct benefit to that subarea. Revenues will be accounted for
separately for each subarea and then allocated to specified project categories. Decisions on how
revenues are expended within the subareas will be made by the Authority Board of Directors,
based upon recommendation of local representatives.

Subarea Identification. The San Bernardino Valley Subarea will include the cities of Chino,
Chino Hills, Colton, Fontana, Grand Terrace, Highland, Loma Linda, Montclair, Ontario, Rancho
Cucamonga, Redlands, Rialto, San Bernardino, Upland and Yucaipa and unincorporated areas in
the east and west portions of the San Bernardino valley urbanized area. The Mountain-Desert
area will include the following subareas: (1) The North Desert Subarea, which includes the City of
Barstow and surrounding unincorporated areas; (2) The Colorado River Subarea, which includes
the City of Needles and the surrounding unincorporated areas of the East Desert; (3) The
Morongo Basin Subarea, which includes the City of Twentynine Palms, Town of Yucca Valley,
and surrounding unincorporated areas; (4) The Mountain Subarea, which includes the City of Big
Bear Lake and surrounding unincorporated areas of the San Bernardino Mountains; and (5) the
Victor Valley Subarea, which includes the Cities of Adelanto, Hesperia, and Victorville; the Town
of Apple Valley; and surrounding unincorporated areas including Wrightwood.

Contribution from New Development. No revenue generated from the tax shall be
used to replace the fair share contributions required from new development.

Requirement for Annual Financial and Compliance Audits of Measure “I”
Funds. The San Bernardino County Transportation Authority and each agency receiving an
allocation of Measure “I” revenue authorized in this Expenditure Plan shall undergo an annual
financial audit performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and
government auditing standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States.
Compliance audits also shall be conducted to ensure that each agency is expending funds in
accordance with the provisions and guidelines established for Measure “I” revenue.

Cajon Pass Expenditure Plan. Three percent of the revenue generated in the
San Bernardino Valley Subarea and the Victor Valley Subarea will be reserved in advance of
other allocations specified in this plan in an account for funding of the 1-15/1-215 Interchange in
Devore, 1-15 widening through Cajon Pass, and truck lane development. Cajon Pass serves as
the major transportation corridor connecting the two urbanized areas within San Bernardino
County and is in need of the identified improvements. These improvements are critical
components to intra-county travel for residents of both the Victor Valley and San Bernardino
Valley. Projects to be constructed from the Cajon Pass Expenditure Plan are listed in
Schedule C.

San Bernardino Valley Subarea Expenditure Plan, in that area described as the
Valley Subarea, project categories shall be established as specified below. The San Bernardino
Valley Subarea Expenditure Plan is illustrated in Schedule D.

A.	State and Federal Transportation Funds. A proportional share of projected state and
federal transportation funds shall be reserved for use solely within the Valley subarea.

B.	Revenue Estimates. Tax revenues generated by Ordinance No. 04-01 for the Valley subarea
over a thirty year period are estimated to be $4,520 million. Approximately $881 million in state
and federal funds and approximately $777 million in contributions from new development are
projected for the area over this period, for an estimated total Valley area revenue of $6,178
million for transportation improvements. Revenue estimates are not binding or controlling.

C.	Freeway Projects. 29% of revenue collected in the San Bernardino Valley Subarea shall
fund freeway projects within the San Bernardino Valley Subarea. Projects to be constructed with
Freeway Projects funds are listed in Schedule D1. Cost estimates for such projects are not
binding or controlling.

D.	Freeway Interchange Projects. 11% of revenue collected in the Valley Subarea shall fund
Freeway Interchange Projects. Projects to be constructed with Freeway Interchange Projects
funds are listed in Schedule D2. Equitable geographic distribution of projects shall be taken into
account over the life of the program.

E.	Major Street Projects. 20% Over the thirty-year life of Measure “I,” the Major Street Projects
category will accrue approximately 18% of revenue collected in the Valley. Upon initial collection
of revenue, the Major Street Projects category will receive 20% of revenue collected in the Valley.
Effective ten years following initial collection of revenue, the Major Street Projects allocation shall
be reduced to no more 17% but to not less than 12% upon approval by the Authority Board of
Directors and the Express Bus/Bus Rapid Transit Service allocation shall be increased by a like
amount. Amendments beyond those authorized in this section shall require a formal amendment
as provided in the Measure “I” Ordinance.

Major Street Projects are defined as congestion relief and safety improvements to major streets
that connect communities, serve major destinations, and provide freeway access. The Major
Street Projects portion of the San Bernardino Valley program shall be expended pursuant to a
five-year project list to be annually adopted by the Authority after being made available for public
review and comment. Funding priorities shall be given to improving roadway safety, relieving
congestion, street improvements at rail crossings and shall take into account equitable
geographic distribution over the life of the program.

F.	Local Street Projects. 20% of revenue collected in the Valley Subarea shall be distributed
among local jurisdictions in the Valley Subarea for Local Street Projects. Allocations to local
jurisdictions shall be on a per capita basis using the most recent State Department of Finance
population estimates for January 1, with the County's portion based upon unincorporated
population in the Valley Subarea. Estimates of unincorporated population within the Valley
Subarea shall be determined by the County Planning Department, reconciled with the State
Department of Finance population estimate for January 1 of each year.

Local Street Projects are defined as local street and road construction, repair, maintenance and
other eligible local transportation priorities. Local Street Project funds can be used flexibly for any
eligible transportation purpose determined to be a local priority, including local streets, major
highways, state highway improvements, transit, and other improvements/programs to maximize
use of transportation facilities. Expenditure of Local Street Project funds shall be based upon a
Five Year Plan adopted annually by the governing body of each jurisdiction after being made available for public review and comment. Local Street Project funds shall be disbursed to local
jurisdictions upon receipt of the annually adopted Five Year Plan. The local adopted Five Year
Plan shall be consistent with local, regional, and state transportation plans.

G.	Metrolink/Rail Service. 8% of revenue collected in the Valley Subarea shall fund
Metrolink/Rail Service. Eligible expenditures of Metrolink/Rail Service funds include purchase of
additional commuter rail passenger cars and locomotives for use on Metrolink lines serving
San Bernardino County; construction of additional track capacity necessary to operate more
passenger trains on Metrolink lines serving San Bernardino County; construction of additional
parking spaces at Metrolink stations in San Bernardino County; and provision of funds to match
State and Federal funds used to maintain the railroad track, signal systems, and road crossings
for passenger rail service in San Bernardino County, construction and operation of a new
passenger rail service between the cities of San Bernardino and Redlands, and construction and
operation of an extension of the Gold Line to Montclair Transit Center for San Bernardino County
passengers traveling to San Gabriel Valley cities, Pasadena, and Los Angeles. Projects to be
funded by Metrolink/Rail Service funds are listed in Schedule D5.

H.	Senior and Disabled Transit Service. 8% of revenue collected in the Valley Subarea shall
fund Senior and Disabled Transit Service. 6% of revenue collected in the Valley Subarea in this
category shall be expended to reduce fares and enhance service for senior citizens and persons
with disabilities. Eligible expenditures in the Senior and Disabled Transit Service category shall
include: (1) The provision of funding to off-set a portion of future senior and disabled fare
increases that would apply to fixed route, Community Link and complementary paratransit
services. (2) The provision of local funds to help off-set operating and capital costs associated
with special transit services provided by transit operators, cities and non-profit agencies for
seniors and persons with disabilities. (3) At least 2% of the revenue collected in the Valley
Subarea in this category will be directed to the creation of a Consolidated Transit Service Agency
which will be responsible for the coordination of transit services provided to seniors and persons
with disabilities.

I.	Express Bus/Bus Rapid Transit Service. 2% Over the thirty-year life of Measure “I,” the
Express Bus/Bus Rapid Transit Service category will accrue approximately 4% of revenue
collected in the Valley. Upon initial collection of revenue, the Express Bus/Bus Rapid Transit
Service category will receive 2% of revenue collected in the Valley. Effective ten years following
initial collection of revenue, the Express Bus/Bus Rapid Transit Service category shall be
increased to at least 5%, but no more than 10% upon approval by the Authority Board of
Directors. The Major Street Projects category shall be reduced by a like amount. Amendments
beyond those authorized in this section shall require a formal amendment as provided by the
Measure “I” Ordinance.

Funds in this category shall be expended for the development, implementation and operation of
express bus and bus rapid transit service, to be jointly developed by the Authority and transit
service agencies serving the Valley Subarea. Eligible projects to be funded by Express Bus/Bus
Rapid Transit Service funds shall include contributions to operating and capital costs associated
with implementing high-speed, express-type bus service in high-density travel corridors.

J.	Traffic Management Systems. 2% of revenue collected in the Valley Subarea shall fund
traffic management systems. Eligible projects under this category shall include signal
synchronization, systems to improve traffic flow, commuter assistance programs, freeway service
patrol, and projects which contribute to environmental enhancement associated with
transportation facilities.

Mountain/Desert Expenditure Plan. In that area described as the Mountain/Desert
Area, the following Expenditure Plan requirements shall apply. Schedules E, F, G, H, I illustrate
estimated revenue and projects to be constructed in each Mountain/Desert subarea.

A.	State and Federal Transportation Funds. A proportional share of projected state and
federal transportation funds shall be reserved for use solely within the Mountain/Desert subareas.

B.	Revenue Estimates. Tax revenues generated by Ordinance No. 04-01 for the
Mountain/Desert region over a thirty year period are estimated to be $1,250 million.
Approximately $165 million in state and federal funds and approximately $369 million in
contributions from new development are projected for the area over this period, for an estimated
total Mountain-Desert area revenue of $1,784 million for transportation improvements. Revenue
estimates are not binding or controlling.

C.	Local Street Projects. 70% of revenue collected within each subarea shall be apportioned
for Local Street Projects within each subarea. 2% of revenue collected within each subarea shall
be reserved in a special account to be expended on Project Development and Traffic
Management Systems. Eligible Project Development and Traffic Management Systems projects
may include, at the discretion of local subarea representatives, costs associated with corridor
studies and project study reports, projects to improve traffic flow and maximize use of
transportation facilities, congestion management, commuter assistance programs, and projects
which contribute to environmental enhancement associated with highway facilities. Expenditure
of Project Development and Traffic Management Systems funds shall be approved by the
Authority Board of Directors, based upon a recommendation of subarea representatives and the
Mountain/Desert Committee. If, after five years of revenue collection and every five years
thereafter, the local representatives and the Mountain/Desert Committee make a finding that
Project Development and Traffic Management Systems funds are not required for improvements
of benefit to the subarea, then revenue in the Project Management and Traffic Management
Systems category may be returned to the general Local Street Projects category. Such return
shall be allocated and expended based upon the formula and requirements established in the
general Local Street Projects category.

After reservation of 2% collected in each subarea for Project Development and Traffic
Management Systems, the remaining amount of funds in the general Local Street Projects
category shall be allocated to local jurisdictions based upon population (50 percent) and tax
generation (50 percent). Population calculations shall be based upon the most current State
Department of Finance estimates for January 1 of each year. Estimates of unincorporated
population within each subarea shall be determined by the County Planning Department,
reconciled with the State Department of Finance population estimate. Tax generation calculations
shall be based upon State Board of Equalization data. Schedules E, F, G, H, I reflect the
estimate of revenue available for Local Street Projects in each Mountain/Desert subarea.

Projects in the general Local Street Projects category are defined as local street and road
construction, repair, maintenance and other eligible local transportation priorities. Local
Transportation Project funds may be used flexibly for any eligible transportation purpose
determined to be a local priority, including local roads, major streets, state highway
improvements, transit, including but not limited to, fare subsidies and service enhancements for
seniors and persons with disabilities, and other improvements/programs to maximize use of
transportation facilities. Expenditure of Local Transportation Project Funds shall be based upon
the Five Year Plan adopted annually by resolution of the governing body of each jurisdiction after
being made available for public review and comment. Local Street Project funds shall be
disbursed to local jurisdictions upon receipt of the annually adopted Five Year Plan. The locally
adopted Five Year Plans shall be consistent with other local, regional, and state transportation
plans.

D.	Major Local Highway Projects. 25% of revenue collected within each subarea shall be
reserved in a special account to be expended on Major Local Highway Projects of benefit to the
subarea. Major Local Highway Projects are defined as major streets and highways serving as
primary routes of travel within the subarea, which may include State highways and freeways,
where appropriate. Major Local Highway Projects funds can be utilized to leverage other state
and federal funds for transportation projects and to perform advance planning/project reports.
Expenditure of Major Local Highway Projects funds shall be approved by the Authority Board of
Directors, based upon a recommendation of subarea representatives and the Mountain/Desert
Committee. If, after five years of revenue collection and every five years thereafter, the local
representatives and the Mountain/Desert Committee make a finding that Major Local Highway
Projects funds are not required for improvements of benefit to the subarea, then revenue in the
Major Local Highway Projects category may be returned to jurisdictions within the subarea. Such
return shall be allocated and expended based upon the formula and requirements established in
the general Local Street Projects category.

E.	Senior and Disabled Transit Service. 5% of revenue collected within each subarea shall be
reserved in an account for Senior and Disabled Transit Service. Senior and Disabled Transit is
defined as contributions to transit operators for fare subsidies for senior citizens and persons with
disabilities or enhancements to transit service provided to seniors and persons with disabilities.
In the Victor Valley subarea, the percentage for Senior and Disabled Transit Service shall
increase by .5% in 2015 with additional increases of .5% every five years thereafter to a
maximum of 7.5%. Such increases shall automatically occur unless each local jurisdiction within
the subarea makes a finding that such increase is not required to address unmet transit needs of
senior and disabled transit users. In the North Desert, Colorado River, Morongo Basin, and
Mountain Subareas, local representatives may provide additional funding beyond 5% upon a
finding that such increase is required to address unmet transit needs of senior and disabled
transit services. All increases above the 5% initial revenue collected for Senior and Disabled
Transit Service shall come from the general Local Street Projects category of the subarea.

Expenditure of Senior and Disabled Transit Service funds shall be approved by the Authority
Board of Directors, based upon recommendation of subarea representatives and the
Mountain/Desert Committee.

F.	Mountain/Desert Committee. The Mountain-Desert Committee of the Authority shall remain
in effect and provide oversight to implementation of the Mountain/Desert Expenditure Plan.

Measure “I” Transportation Expenditure Plan Schedules

SCHEDULE A
Countywide Measure “I” Revenue and Distribution

Estimated Countywide Measure “1” Distribution		Amount
Cajon Pass Expenditure Plan  (3% of San Bernardino Valley Subarea and Victor Valley Subarea Revenues - See Schedule C)	$	170 Million
Total San Bernardino Valley Subarea Expenditure Plan  (See Schedule D)	$ 4,520 Million	
Total Mountain-Desert Expenditure Plan	$ 1,250 Million	
Victor Valley Subarea (See Schedule E)	$	852 Million
North Desert Subarea (See Schedule F)	$	95 Million
Mountains Subarea (See Schedule G)	$	119 Million
Morongo Basin Subarea (See Schedule H)	$	125 Million
Colorado River Subarea (See Schedule 1)	$	59 Million

SCHEDULE B
Transportation Improvement Revenues

Total Countywide Transportation Revenues		Amount
Estimated Countywide Measure “1” Revenue	$	6,120 Million
(Less 1% Administration and 2% Board of Equalization Collection Charge)		($ 1801 Million
Countywide Measure “1” Revenue Available for Transportation Projects (See Schedule A)	$	5,940 Million
Estimated State and Federal Revenues	$	1,106 Million
Estimated Contributions from New Development		1.146 Million
Total Estimate Revenue Available for Transportation Projects	$ 8,192 Million	

Cajon Pass Expenditure Plan

Project Description	Amount
1-15 Widening and Improvement through Cajon Pass	$ 170 Million
Devore Interchange Widening and Improvements at 1-15/1-215	$ 40 Million
1-15 Dedicated Truck Lane Development	$ 20 Million
Total Cajon Pass Projects Cost	$ 230 Million
Cajon Pass Measure “1” Revenue	$ 170 Million
State and Federal Revenues	$ 60 Million
Total Cajon Pass Projects Revenues	$ 230 Million

SCHEDULE D
San Bernardino Valley Subarea Expenditure Plan

Project Category	Measure  tt  Percentage	Amount	
Freeway Projects (See Schedule D1)	29%	$ 1,311 Million	
Freeway Interchange Projects (See Schedule D2)	11%	$	497 Million
Major Street Projects* (See Schedule D3)	20%	$	814 Million
Local Street Projects (See Schedule D4)	20%	$	904 Million
Metrolink/Rail Service (See Schedule D5)	8%	$	362 Million
Express Bus/Bus Rapid Transit Service* (See Schedule D6)	2%	$	180 Million
Senior and Disabled Transit Service	8%	$	362 Million
Traffic Management Systems	2%	$_	90 Million
Total San Bernardino Valley Subarea Measure “1” Revenue	100%	$4,520 Million	
* Percentage distribution adjusts to serve transportation needs. Amount shown is average over 30-year Measure.			

FIGURE D

San Bernardino Valley Subarea Expenditure Plan

Senior and Disabled Transit Service 8%

Traffic Management Systems 2%

Express Bus/Bus Rapid Transit Service 2%

Metrolink/Rail Service 8%

Local Street Projects 20%

Freeway Projects 29%

Freeway Interchange Projects 11%

Major Street Projects 20%

SCHEDULE D1

San Bernardino Valley Expenditure Plan Freeway Projects Detail

Freeway Projects		Amount
1-10 Widening from 1-15 to Riverside County Line	$	610 Million
1-15 Widening from Riverside County Line to 1-215	$	180 Million
1-215 Widening from Riverside County Line to 1-10	$	300 Million
1-215 Widening from SR-30/210 to 1-15	$	120 Million
SR-30/210 Widening from 1-215 to 1-10	$	140 Million
Carpool Lane Connectors	L	90 Million
Total Freeway Projects Cost	$	1,440 Million
Freeway Projects Measure “1” Revenue	$ 1,311 Million	
State and Federal Revenues	L	129 Million
Total Freeway Projects Revenues	$	1,440 Million

SCHEDULE D2

San Bernardino Valley Expenditure Plan Freeway Interchange Projects Detail

Freeway Interchange Projects	Amount
Improvements including but not limited to:  1-10 Interchanges at Monte Vista, Grove/Fourth St, Vineyard, Cherry, Citrus, Cedar, Riverside, Mt. Vernon, Tippecanoe, Mountain View, California, Alabama, Wabash, Live Oak Canyon, Wildwood Canyon  1-15 Interchanges at 6th St/Arrow, Baseline, Duncan Canyon, Sierra  SR-60 Interchanges at Ramona, Central, Mountain, Grove, Vineyard  1-215 Interchanges at University Parkway and Palm	

SR-30/210 Interchanges at Waterman, Del Rosa, Highland, 5th St, and Baseline

Freeway Interchange Projects Measure “1” Revenue  State and Federal Revenues Contribution from New Development Total Interchange Projects Revenues	$ 497 Million  $ 32 Million $ 333 Million $ 862 Million

SCHEDULE D3	

San Bernardino Valley Expenditure Plan Major Street Projects Detail

Major Street Projects	Amount
Improvements to major streets that connect communities, serve major destinations, and provide freeway access, such as but not limited to: Edison, Pine, Central, Mountain, Grove Foothill/Fifth, Baseline, Valley, Stover, Jurupa Tippecanoe, Anderson, University, Palm	

Lugonia, Barton, improvements to relieve traffic on Yucaipa Blvd

Railroad Crossing Improvements, such as but not limited to Milliken and Hunts Ln

Major Street Projects Measure “I” Revenue $ 814 Million
State and Federal Revenues $ 82 Million
Contribution from New Development	$ 444 Million

Total Major Street Projects Revenues	$ 1,340 Million

SCHEDULE D4

San Bernardino Valley Expenditure Plan Local Street Projects Detail

Local Street Projects	Amount
Distribution to cities and County for street repair and improvements  Local Street Projects Measure “1” Revenue State and Federal Revenues Total Local Street Projects Revenues	$ 904 Million  $ 187 Million $ 1,091 Million
SCHEDULE D5	
San Bernardino Valley Expenditure Plan Metrolink/Rail Service Detail	
Metrolink/Rail Service	Amount
Contributions to the following projects:  Metrolink  Redlands Extension Gold Line Extension  Metrolink/Rail Service Measure “1” Revenue  State and Federal Revenues Total Metrolink/Rail Service Revenues	$ 362 Million  $ 330 Million $ 692 Million
SCHEDULE D6	
San Bernardino Valley Expenditure Plan Express Bus/Bus Rapid Transit Service Detail	
Express Bus/Bus Rapid Transit Service	Amount
Express Bus/Bus Rapid Transit Service Measure “1” Revenue  State and Federal Revenues Total Express Bus/Bus Rapid Transit Service Revenues	$ 180 Million  $ 121 Million $ 301 Million

SCHEDULE E

Victor Valley Subarea Expenditure Plan

_ ., Measure“1” Project Category Percentage	Amount
Local Street Projects 70%	$ 596 Million
Major Local Highway Projects 25%	$213 Million
Senior and Disabled Transit Service 5% Total Victor Valley Subarea Measure “1” Revenue 100%  Victor Valley Expenditure Plan Detail	$ 43 Million $852 Million
Local Street Projects  Distribution to cities and County for street repair and improvements New construction to relieve Bear Valley Rd, Ranchero new east/west roadways  Local Street Projects Measure “1” Revenue  State and Federal Revenues Contribution from New Development, Major Streets Total Local Street Projects Revenues	$ 596 Million  $ 39 Million $ 281 Million $ 916 Million
Major Local Highway Projects	

Contributions to Projects including but not limited to:

New Interchanges at 1-15 and Ranchero, Eucalyptus, LaMesa/Nisqualli

High Desert Corridor

1-15 Widening through Victor Valley

SR-138 Widening and Improvements

US-395 Widening and Improvements  Major Local Highway Projects Measure “1” Revenue  State and Federal Revenues Contribution from New Development, Freeway Interchanges Total Major Local Highway Projects Revenues	$ 213 Million  $ 112 Million $ 88 Million $ 413 Million
Senior and Disabled Transit Service	$ 43 Million
	

Project Category	Measure “1” Percentage	Amount
Local Street Projects	70%	$ 66 Million
Major Local Highway Projects	25%	$ 24 Million
Senior and Disabled Transit Service	5%	$ 5 Million
Total North Desert Subarea Measure “1” Revenue	100%	$ 95 Million

North Desert Expenditure Plan Detail
Local Street Projects

Distribution to cities and County for street repair and improvements
Improvements including but not limited to Lenwood Rd, Armory Rd,

Rimrock Rd and Main St

Local Street Projects Measure “I” Revenue $ 66 Million
State and Federal Revenues	$ 2	Million

Total Local Street Projects Revenues	$ 68 Million

Major Local Highway Projects	$	24	Million

Contributions to Projects including but not limited to:

SR-58 Widening and Improvements

US-395 Widening and Improvements

Lenwood Rd and Vista Rd Grade Separations in Barstow

Senior and Disabled Transit Service	$	5	Million


Project Category	Measure “1” Percentage	Amount
Local Street Projects	70%	$ 83 Million
Major Local Highway Projects	25%	$ 30 Million
Senior and Disabled Transit Service	5%	$ 6 Million
Total Mountains Subarea Measure “1” Revenue	100%	$119 Million

Mountains Expenditure Plan Detail
Local Street Projects

Distribution to cities and County for street repair and improvements

Local Street Projects Measure “I” Revenue $ 83 Million

State and Federal Revenues	$	5	Million

Total Local Street Projects Revenues	$	88 Million

Major Local Highway Projects	$	30	Million

Contributions to Projects including but not limited to:

SR-18 & SR-38 Safety and Traffic Flow Improvements
SR-330 Safety and Traffic Flow Improvements
SR-138 Safety and Intersection Improvements
SR-18 Safety and Intersection Improvements

Realignment and Rehabilitation of Daley Canyon Rd and Kuffel Canyon Rd

Senior and Disabled Transit Service (5%)	$	6	Million


Project Category	Measure “1” Percentage		Amount
Local Street Projects	70%	$	88 Million
Major Local Highway Projects	25%	$	31 Million
Senior and Disabled Transit Service	5%	i	6 Million
Total Morongo Basin Subarea Measure “1” Revenue	100%	$ 125 Million	

Morongo Basin Expenditure Plan Detail
Local Street Projects

Distribution to cities and County for street repair and improvements

Local Street Projects Measure “I” Revenue $ 88 Million

State and Federal Revenues	$ 5	Million

Total Local Street Projects Revenues	$ 93 Million

Major Local Highway Projects	$	31	Million

Contributions to Projects including but not limited to:

SR-62 & SR-247 Widening and Safety Improvements
SR-62 Widening and Safety Improvements between the Morongo
Basin and the Coachella Valley

Senior and Disabled Transit Service	$	6	Million

MIOrdinance-kal
Page 19

Project Category	Measure “1” Percentage	Amount
Local Street Projects	70%	$ 41 Million
Major Local Highway Projects	25%	$ 15 Million
Senior and Disabled Transit Service	5%	$ 3 Million
Total Colorado River Subarea Measure “1” Revenue	100%	$ 59 Million

Colorado River Expenditure Plan Detail
Local Street Projects

Distribution to cities and County for street repair and improvements

Local Street Projects Measure “I” Revenue $ 41 Million

State and Federal Revenues	$ 2 Million

Total Local Street Projects Revenues	$ 43 Million

Major Local Highway Projects	$	15	Million

Contributions to Projects including but not limited to:

Needles Highway Widening and Realignment from 1-40 to the
Nevada State Line
Reconstruction	of J Street and Construction of new Bridge

in Needles connecting 1-40 to Arizona

Senior and Disabled Transit Service (5%)	$	3	Million


Exhibit B

Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee (HOC)

ITOC Goal and Function. Voter approval of this Measure “I” shall result in creation of an
Independent Taxpayer and Oversight Committee (ITOC) as follows:

The ITOC shall provide citizen review to ensure that all Measure “I” funds are spent by the
San Bernardino County Transportation Authority (hereby referred to as the Authority) in
accordance with provisions of the Expenditure Plan and Ordinance No. 04-01.

Audit Requirement. A bi-annual fiscal and compliance audit shall be performed in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and Government Auditing Standards
issued by the Comptroller General of the United States. The audit shall review the basic financial
statements of the San Bernardino County Transportation Authority as defined by the
Governmental Accounting Standard Board and the financial and compliance audits of the
member jurisdictions.

Role of Financial and Compliance Audit and the ITOC. The itoc shall review the
annual audits of the Authority; report findings based on the audits to the Authority; and
recommend any additional audits for consideration which the ITOC believes may improve the
financial operation and integrity of program implementation.

The Authority shall hold a publicly noticed meeting, which may or may not be included on the
agenda of a regularly scheduled Board meeting, with the participation of the ITOC to consider the
findings and recommendations of the audits.

Membership and Selection Process. The Authority shall have an open process to
select five committee members, which shall include solicitation of trade and other organizations to
suggest potential nominees to the committee. The committee members shall possess the
following credentials:

•	One member who is a professional in the field of municipal audit, finance and/or
budgeting with a minimum of five years in a relevant and senior decision-making
position in the public or private sector.

•	One member who is a licensed civil engineer or trained transportation planner with at
least five years of demonstrated experience in the fields of transportation and/or
urban design in government and/or the private sector. No member shall be a
recipient or sub- recipient of Measure “I” funding.

•	One member who is a current or retired manager of a major publicly financed
development or construction project, who by training and experience would
understand the complexity, costs and implementation issues in building large scale
transportation improvements.

•	One member who is a current or retired manager of a major privately financed
development or construction project, who by training and experience would
understand the complexity, costs and implementation issues in building large scale
transportation improvements.

•	One public member, who possesses the knowledge and skills which will be helpful to
the work of the ITOC.

•	The Chair and the Executive Director of the Authority shall serve as ex-officio
members of the ITOC.

Terms and Conditions for Committees. Committee members shall serve staggered
four-year terms. In no case shall any voting committee member serve more than eight years on
the HOC.

•	Committee members shall serve without compensation, except they shall be
reimbursed for authorized travel and other expenses directly related to the work of
the HOC.

•	Committee members cannot be a current local elected official in the county or a full
time staff member of any city, the county government, local transit operator, or state
transportation agency.

•	Non-voting ex-officio committee members shall serve only as long as they remain
incumbents in their respective positions and shall be automatically replaced by their
successors in those positions.

•	If and when vacancies on the HOC occur on the part of voting committee members,
either due to expiration of term, death or resignation the nominating body for that
committee shall nominate an appropriate replacement within 90 days of the vacancy
to fill the remainder of the term.

ITOC Operation Protocols.

•	Given the thirty-year duration of the tax extension, the ITOC shall be appointed 180 days
after the effective date of the tax extension (April 1, 2010) and continue as long as
Measure “I” revenues are collected.

•	Authority Board of Directors and staff shall fully cooperate with and provide necessary
support to ensure the ITOC successfully carries out its duties and obligations.

Conflict Of Interest. ITOC voting members shall have no legal action pending against the
Authority or San Bernardino Associated Governments and are prohibited from acting in any
commercial activity directly or indirectly involving the Authority or San Bernardino Associated
Governments, such as being a consultant during their tenure on the ITOC. ITOC voting members
shall not have direct commercial interest or employment with any public or private entity, which
receives the transportation tax funds authorized by the voters in this Ordinance.

Exhibit C

Measure “I” Local Transportation Improvement Program

To relieve traffic congestion, improve safety and match state/federal transportation funds for:

Widening/improving 1-10, 1-15, 1-210, 1-215, SR-60, SR-62, SR-18, US-395;
Improving freeway interchanges countywide;

Improving local streets and roads;

Expanding transit for seniors and disabled riders; and
Expanding Metrolink commuter rail;

Shall San Bernardino County voters continue the existing half-cent transportation sales tax
(Ordinance 04-01) for thirty years and create an Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee to
insure all voter mandates are met?


SAN BERNARDINO VALLEY

Plus: $1,718 billion in local and
major street/road improvements.

For illustrative purposes only.

See Transportation Expenditure Plan. <summaryend>