31

MONTEREY

=3

Consolidated
General Election

Tuesday, November 2, 2004

Voter Information
Pamphlet

for

ABSENTEE VOTERS

IMPORTANT NOTICE

An Absentee Ballot was automatically
mailed to you because you are a
Permanent Absentee Voter or you live
in a Mail Ballot Precinct.

Mail the Absentee Identification/Return Envelope early enough for
the Post Office to deliver by Tuesday, November 2nd or hand deliver
the Absentee Identification/Return Envelope by no later than
8:00 P.M. on Tuesday, November 2nd to Monterey County Elections,
1370 B South Main Street, Salinas or one of the polling places
located in Monterey County. For the nearest polling place call our
office or visit our website at www.MontereyCountyElections.us

V

Polls are open from 7:00 A.M. to 8:00 P.M.

J

FULLTEXT OF MEASURE C
CITY OF SALINAS

ORDINANCE NO. 2431 (N.C.S.)

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SALINAS AMENDING
CHAPTER 19 OF THE SALINAS CITY CODE REGARDING
BUSINESS LICENSES

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SALINAS:

SECTION 1. Section 19-5 (Branch establishments) of the Salinas
City Code shall be amended to read as follows:

A separate license must be obtained by each branch
establishment or location of the business transacted and
carried on and for each separate type of business at the
same location, and each license shall authorize the licensee
to transact and carry on only the business licensed thereby
at the location or in the manner designated in such license;
provided, that warehouses and distributing plants used in
connection with and incidental to a business licensed under
the provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to be
separate places of business or branch establishments; and
provided, further, that any person conducting two or more
types of businesses at the same location and under the same
management, or at different locations, but which businesses
use a single set or integrated set of books and records, may,
at his option, pay only one tax calculated on all gross receipts
of the businesses under the schedule that applies to the type
of business of such person which requires the highest
percentage payment on such gross receipts, except that a
license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each such
additional branch, type or location shall be paid upon issuance.

SECTION 2. Sections 19-8(f) and 19-8(g) (Exemptions) of the Salinas
City Code shall be deleted in their entirety.

SECTION 3. Section 19-20 (License tax; how and when payable)
of the Salinas City Code shall be amended to read as follows:

Unless otherwise specifically provided, all annual license taxes
measured by gross receipts shall be due and payable in
advance no later than the first day of February of each year;
provided, that license taxes covering new operations
commenced after the first day of January may be prorated
for the balance of the license period.

All other annual license taxes shall be due and payable in
advance no later than the first day of August of each year;
provided, that license taxes covering new operations
commenced after the first day of July may be prorated for
the balance of the license period.

Annual licensees, at their option, may pay the annual tax in
two equal installments, one-half on renewal date and the
balance on the first day of July or January following the
prescribed renewal date.

Except as otherwise herein provided, license taxes, other
than annual, shall be due and payable in advance as follows:

(a)	Quarterly license taxes on the first day of January, April,
July and October of each year;

(b)	Daily license taxes in advance each day.

SECTION 4. Section 19-23 (Retail sales and general business) of
the Salinas City Code shall be amended to read as follows:

Every person conducting, carrying on or managing any
business consisting of selling at retail any goods, wares,
merchandise or commodities, or conducting or carrying on
any trade, occupation, calling or business not otherwise
specifically licensed by other sections of this chapter, shall
pay an annual license tax based on annual gross receipts
as per the schedule and rates set forth herein:

Annual Gross Receipts	Annual Fee
Less than $25,000	25
25,001 - 50,000	50
50,001 - 100,000	100
100,001 - 200,000	150
200,001 - 300,000	200
300,001 - 400,000	300
400,001 - 500,000	400
500,001 - 600,000	500
600,001 - 700,000	600
700,001 - 800,000	700
800,001 - 900,000	800
900,001 - 1,000,000	900
1,000,001 & greater	1000 plus $100 for each $100,000 of gross receipts over $1,000,000.

SECTION 5. Sec. 19-24 (Water utilities) of the Salinas City Code
shall be amended to read as follows:

(a)	Every person conducting, managing or carrying on in the
city the business of selling and distributing water as a public
utility shall pay an annual license tax in a sum equal to three
and three-quarter percent (3.75%) of the gross annual receipts
of such business conducted within the limits of the city.

(b)	If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or
portion of this section is for any reason held void, invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and an
independent provision, and such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions thereof.

SECTION 6. Sec. 19-25 (Wholesalers) of the Salinas City Code
shall be amended to read as follows:

Every person conducting, carrying on or managing a business
selling at wholesale any goods, wares, merchandise or
commodities within the limits of the city, shall pay an annual
license tax of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus an additional
tax of ten dollars ($10.00) per annum for each employee.

SECTION 7. Sec. 19-26(a) (Contractors) of the Salinas City Code
shall be amended to read as follows:

Every person conducting, carrying on or managing a business
who is licensed as a contractor by the state and who
undertakes to, or offers to undertake to, or purports to have
the capacity to undertake to, or submits bid to, or does himself
or by or through others, construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract
from, improve, move, wreck, or demolish any building, highway,
road, railroad, excavation or other structure, project,
development or improvement, or to do any part thereof,
including the erection of scaffolding or other structures or
works in connection therewith, is defined as a contractor, and
shall pay an annual license tax of either: i) one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per annum, plus an additional tax of ten
dollars ($10.00) per annum for each employee; or ii) fifty
dollars ($50.00) per quarter, plus an additional tax of ten
dollars ($10.00) per quarter for each employee.

SECTION 8. Section 19-27 (Professions) of the Salinas City Code
shall be amended to read as follows:

Every person conducting, managing, carrying on or engaging
in any business, profession, occupation or service hereinafter
enumerated in this subsection or similar thereto, shall pay a
license tax of two hundred dollars ($200.00) per annum for
each person practicing his or her profession or occupation
other than a salaried employee, plus an additional tax of ten
dollars ($10.00) per annum for each employee.
____________________________________(CONTINUED	ON	NEXT	PAGE)

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED "AS SUBMITTED" AND
PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.

27509

(FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C Continued)

Abstract and title

Accountant or auditor

Appraiser

Architect

Attorney

Auctioneer

Bacteriologist

Business School

Certified public accountant

Chemist

Chiropodist

Chiropractor

Civil, electrical, mining, chemical, structural, consulting or

hydraulic engineer

Collection agency

Credit reporting bureau

Dentist and dental laboratories

Dermatologist

Detective agency and/or private patrol

Draftsman

Employment office

Entomologist

Feed, grain and fruit broker

Finance companies — savings and loan

Geologist

Landscape architect

Medical laboratory

Mercantile agency

Optician

Optometrist

Osteopath

Physician

Physiotherapist

Podiatrist

Real estate broker
Roentgenologist
Stock broker
Surgeon

Telephone answering service
Travel agency

SECTION 9. Section 19-27.1 (Occupations and services) of the
Salinas City Code shall be amended to read as follows:

Every person conducting, managing, carrying on or engaging
in any business, profession, occupation or service enumerated
in this subsection or similar thereto, shall pay a license tax
of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum for each person
practicing his or her profession or occupation other than a
salaried employee, plus an additional tax of ten dollars
($10.00) per annum for each employee.

Advertising agent
Artist
Assayer
Blue printer
Book agent

Broker or commission agent
Dancing school

Designer, illustrator or decorator

Drugless practitioner

Electrologist

Engraver

Gardener service

Herbist

Illustrator or show card writer

Insurance or claims adjuster

Interpreter

Janitor service

Lapidary

Locksmith
Masseuse
Naturopath
News agency
Oculist

Outdoor advertiser
Pest control
Piano tuner
Public relations
Public stenographer
Sign painter
Surveyor
Taxidermist
Termite inspector
Trading stamps

SECTION 10. Section 19-28 (Taxicabs, trucks and public
transportation) of the Salinas City Code shall be amended to read
as follows:

Every person conducting, carrying on or managing a business
of operating a taxi service within the limits of the city or
conducting or carrying on the business of running or operating
any motor-driven vehicle for the transportation for hire of
freight or merchandise shall pay an annual license of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each such vehicle.

SECTION 11. Section 19-29 (Motels, hotels, inns, motor courts,
etc.) of the Salinas City Code shall be amended to read as follows:

Every person conducting, carrying on or managing a business
of a hotel, motel, auto court, motor court, trailer court, inn
or convalescent home shall pay an annual license tax as
follows:

1 to 15 units	$100.00 per annum
16 to 25 units	150.00 per annum
26 to 70 units	250.00 per annum
Over 70 units	300.00 per annum

For the purpose of this section, the term "unit" shall be defined
to be such room or rooms rented for sleeping purposes and
shall not include dining rooms, kitchens, bathrooms, lobbies
or balconies.

SECTION 12. Section 19-30 (.Coin-operated devices and vending
machines) of the Salinas City Code shall be amended to read as
follows:

Every person conducting, managing or carrying on a business
of distributing, renting, leasing or placing of coin-operated
machines for public patronage in the city shall pay an annual
license tax of one hundred dollars ($100.00). In addition, an
individual license tax, as indicated, shall be paid annually for
each coin-operated machine installed for public patronage,
except in penny arcades. Payment of individual license tax
is the responsibility of the owner or operator of the business
where machine is installed. Provided, however, that distributor
of machine may pay all individual license fees for all machines
installed in the city, if prior arrangements are made with the
city license collector.

Pinball or other coin-operated machine installed for
amusement -- $50.00 per annum
Music device, coin-operated -- $50.00 per annum
Vending machine over five cents per sale - $10.00 per annum
Each coin-operated or vending machine placed, distributed
or located in the city shall have affixed thereto, in printing,
plainly visible to the public, the name, address and telephone
number of the owner of such machine.

SECTION 13. Section 19-31 (Transportation and sales of goods or
services by person having no fixed place of business in city) of the
Salinas City Code shall be amended to read as follows:

________________________________(CONTINUED	ON	NEXT	PAGE)

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED "AS SUBMITTED" AND
PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.

27510

(FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C Continued)

For every person, outside of those conducting a regular place
of business, conducting, managing or carrying on the business
of running, driving or operating any automobile, automobile
truck, automobile tank wagon, or any other vehicle, used for
the transportation, selling, collection or delivery of goods,
wares, merchandise or other personal property of any kind,
at retail or wholesale, from a vehicle, either as his or its
principal business or in connection with any other business,
or of soliciting for work, labor or services to be performed
upon the public streets in or from a vehicle, or to be performed
on goods, wares, merchandise, towels, laundry, or other
personal property, to be taken for such purpose to a plant,
laundry or establishment, inside or outside of the limits of
the city, one hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum, in advance,
per vehicle so used in such business in the city, except when
a different license tax is specially provided by any other section
of this chapter.

Each vehicle so used in such business in the city shall be
separately licensed, and the license collector shall provide
a separate windshield stamp or sticker for each such vehicle,
which stamp or sticker shall identify by number or other
description the vehicle for which the same is issued.

Each vehicle so used in such business shall at all times have
such windshield stamp or sticker displayed on the windshield
of such vehicle which such vehicle is being used for business
purposes in the city.

Any other vehicle may be substituted for the vehicle licensed
at any time upon application to the city collector; provided,
that a substitute windshield stamp or sticker shall be issued
for such substituted vehicle showing the number or other
identification of the substituted vehicle and the number or
other identification of the vehicle for which the same was
substituted. Such substitute stamp or sticker shall at all times
be displayed on the windshield of the substituted vehicle
while the same is being used for business in the city.

SECTION 14. Section 19-32 (Public amusement) of the Salinas

City Code shall be amended to read as follows:

Every person conducting, managing or carrying on in the city
the business of public amusement will pay a license tax as
specified below:

Business	Fee
Amusement rides, except where carnival	$10 per day, $50
or circus license is obtained	per quarter
Billiards, bagatelle, pool table (per table)	$50 per annum
Bowling alley (per lane)	$25 per annum
Carnival	$150 per day
Circus	$150 per day
Exhibitions, boxing, wrestling, public dancing, stage shows	$100 per event
Penny arcade	$300 per annum

SECTION 15. Section 19-32.1 (License tax; bingo facility) of the
Salinas City Code shall be amended to read as follows:

Every person providing a structure, building or facility, without
or for consideration or remuneration to the holder of a bingo
license which was obtained from the city of Salinas pursuant
to Article 5 of Chapter 6 of this Code for the operation of
bingo games, shall pay a license tax of fifteen dollars for
each session of bingo played in said structure, building or
facility. Said tax shall be due and payable monthly on or
before the last day of each month for the taxes owed for the
prior calendar month.

SECTION 16. Sec. 19-33 (Newspapers, radio stations, television
stations, and other communication services) of the Salinas City Code
shall be amended to read as follows:

Every person conducting, carrying on or managing a business
of a daily newspaper, radio station, television station or other
similar communication service shall pay an annual license
tax of two hundred dollars ($200.00), plus an additional tax
of ten dollars ($10.00) per annum for each employee.

SECTION 17. Section 19-34 (Barbers, beauty shops and schools
of cosmetology or beauty culture) of the Salinas City Code shall be
amended to read as follows:

Every person conducting, carrying on or managing a business
of barber, beauty shop, school of cosmetology or beauty
culture shall pay an annual license tax of fifty dollars ($50.00),
plus an additional tax of ten dollars ($10.00) per annum for
each employee. Employees shall include operators, additional
barbers, students, and other employees.

SECTION 18. Section 19-35 (Miscellaneous businesses enumerated)
of the Salinas City Code shall be amended to read as follows:

Every person conducting, carrying on or managing a business
listed below shall pay the license tax specified:

Bootblack, whether or not operated in conjunction with any other business	$25 per annum
Handyman	$50 per annum
Lunch Waqon/Caterer	$50 per annum
Pawnbroker	$500 per annum
Route salesman	$50 per annum
Soliciting, peddling and other transient business not at a fixed location in the city or otherwise covered in this chapter	$50 per day or $200 per quarter
Warehouse space	$100 per annum

Any person who engages in a business not otherwise taxed
by this section and not exempt by state or federal law that
produces gross receipts as defined in Section 19-1 shall pay
the license tax specified:

Annual Gross Receipts	Annual Fee
Less than $25,000	25
25,001 - 50,000	50
50,001 - 100,000	100
100,001 - 200,000	150
200,001 - 300,000	200
300,001 - 400,000	300
400,001 - 500,000	400
500,001 - 600,000	500
600,001 - 700,000	600
700,001 - 800,000	700
800,001 - 900,000	800
900,001 - 1,000,000	900
1,000,001 and greater	1000 plus $100 for each $100,000 of gross receipts over $1,000,000.

SECTION 19. Section 19-35.2 (Manufacturers, processors,
agricultural businesses) shall be added to the Salinas City Code
and read as follows:

Every person engaging in a business consisting mainly of
extracting natural resources, manufacturing, packing, or
processing any goods, wares, merchandise, produce or
agricultural products at a fixed place of business within the
city shall pay an annual license tax of two hundred dollars
($200.00), plus an additional tax of ten dollars ($10.00) per
annum for each employee.

____________________________ (CONTINUED	ON NEXT PAGE)

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED "AS SUBMITTED" AND
PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.

27511

(FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C Continued)

SECTION 20. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall take effect
and be in force thirty (30) days from and after its adoption by the
Council and upon approval of a majority of City electors voting in
the November 2, 2004, election.

SECTION 21. PUBLICATION. The Clerk of the City of Salinas is
hereby directed to cause the following summary of the ordinance
to published by one (1) insertion in The Salinas Californian, a
newspaper of general circulation published and circulated in the City
of Salinas:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance
restores business license tax rates to 1998 levels and
removes the exemption from such tax for manufacturers,
agricultural and other businesses.

This ordinance was introduced and read on this 22nd day of
June, 2004, and was PASSED AND ADOPTED this 22nd day of
June, 2004, by the following vote:

AYES: Councilmembers Barnes, Giuriato, Lutes, Ocampo, Sanchez
De La Rosa, and Mayor Caballero

NOES: None
ABSENT: None
ABSTAINED: None

si ANNA M. CABALLERO, Mayor

ATTEST:
s/ ANN CAMEL, City Clerk

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
BUSINESS LICENSE FEES MEASURE C

This ballot measure, if adopted by a majority of the voters, would
amend Chapter 19 of the Salinas City Code regarding Business
Licenses.

The ballot measure would restore City imposed fees for business
licenses to the levels in effect in 1998. The ballot measure also
removes the exemption from such tax for manufacturers, vegetable-
packing plants, and other businesses.

If this ballot measure is adopted, the due date for annual license
taxes measured by gross receipts would be moved from no later
than the first day of January to no later than the first day of February.
Additionally, all other annual license taxes shall be due and payable
in advance no later than the first day of August of each year.

All revenue generated from the proposed tax increase would be
deposited in the City’s General Fund and, accordingly, all monies
collected pursuant to this amendment would be used by the City to
pay for usual and current City operations and services, including
funding for police, fire, park maintenance, street maintenance, and
recreational facilities and programs. As such, this ballot measure
proposes a “general purpose tax,” rather than a “special purpose
tax," and requires a simple majority vote for adoption.

si RICHARD E. NOSKY, Jr.

City Attorney

Date 7-22-04

ARGUMENTS FOLLOW

ON NEXT PAGE

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED "AS SUBMITTED" AND
PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.

27512

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

The City of Salinas suffered repeated funding cuts when the State
of California slashed support to cities and seized revenues that local
governments once controlled. The City has had to make hard choices
to reduce or eliminate many services, and more cuts will be necessary.

The Salinas Valley Chamber of Commerce and the Grower-
Shipper Association, two of the City’s largest business
organizations, normally oppose additional taxes, recognize the
threat to the City and are leading the effort to halt this fiscal
emergency. They are the authors of the ",A-B-C" tax measures,
which will prevent further erosion of City services by generating
a steady stream of revenue that cannot be taken by the State.

Measure "C" restores the Business License Fees paid by businesses
within the City of Salinas to the rates set in 1998. These fees have
been rolled back to their 1969 levels.

Measure "C" also requires that ALL businesses in the City (unless
exempted by State or Federal regulations) now pay Business License
Fees. Until now, agricultural and manufacturing businesses, some of
the largest in the City, have been excluded from the Business License
Fee requirement.

The Salinas Valley Chamber of Commerce and the Grower-Shipper
Association, whose members include these large agricultural and
manufacturing companies, urge you to support Measure "C" as the
last piece in the three-part action plan needed to avoid additional loss
of City services. These businesses are asking you to tax them - so
we all can keep the City Services we depend on.

si Ernest D. Mill, Chairman of the Board,

Salinas Valley Chamber of Commerce
s/ James W. Bogart, President & General Counsel,

Grower-Shipper Association
s/ Tony Barrera, Alisal Betterment Association
s/ Eric Petersen, Salinas Action League
s/ Dennis Donohue

REBUTTALTO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

A RAID ON TAXPAYERS: "BLANK CHECK" MEASURE C

•	Voters repealed a similar tax increase six years ago. Consumers
pay business taxes too, because these taxes affect the cost of
goods and services.

Some of the same groups that usually support higher Salinas
taxes are trying to deceive you into believing otherwise and voting
for this tax increase.

•	Measure C asks a simple question:

"Do you want a tax increase that gives politicians a blank
check?"

•	Measure C is dangerous because ALL the money can be
given to:

/ Associates of city officials; or most likely,

/ City government employees for higher salaries, retirement benefits,

and more paid time off.

You pay the tax, they pocket your money. It’s that simple.

•	City officials are ignoring the real problem of overspending:

City government employee costs are out-of-control; averaging 10%
more each year for a fulltime employee over a four-year budget period.
Their average cost this year is at $100.000. about 13% higher than
for the cities of Monterey and Marina!

•	General Fund revenue has been fairly level over the past
two years, averaging about $61,000,000. Revenues will
increase as the economy improves.

City and state governments have reached an agreement to preserve
local funding.

•	This is one of three "blank check" tax measures that
together could cost Salinas taxpayers as much as
$12,000,000 the first year.

Join taxpayers uniting to VOTE "NO" on "Blank Check"
Measure C ... it’s our money, not theirs!

si Mark Dierolf, Chairman, ABC NO! NO! NO! "All Blank Checks"
s/ James Dudick, Retired Businessman
s/ Emilio "Joe" Ratto, Retired Business Owner
si Stanley H. Soroken, Small Business Owner
si Louis DeVincenzi, Taxpayer Advocate

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

A RAID ON TAXPAYERS

Vote "NO" on Measure C.

•	Voters repealed a similar tax increase six years ago, and the
economy grew for years along with city government tax revenues.

Consumers pay business taxes too, which affect the cost of goods
and services.

The business license tax is already too high. This measure would
hit some businesses with a tax increase as high as 300% or more.

•	This tax increase measure is one of a series that together
could cost Salinas taxpayers as much as $12,000,000 after the
first year if they are all imposed.

$12,000,000 divided by 619 fulltime Salinas City government
employees equals about $19,000 each. This is most likely where the
money will go. Their average cost is already at $100,000 this year,
about 13% higher than for the City of Monterey.

Salinas City government has a serious spending problem, because
the costs of most government services are negotiated behind closed
doors. Most new and progressive cities open the bidding process to
many public and private service providers. This gives taxpayers the
best service at a competitive cost. Salinas City government needs to
do the same.

The Salinas economy has been strong. The General Fund of Salinas
City government has stayed fairly level recently, even during a recession
and after a reduction in state government funding. They can now expect
more revenue than was previously forecasted because the Governor
and the State Controller have said the state economy is improving.

•	Business and residential taxpayers are uniting to oppose this
and other measures to increase taxes. Higher sales and business
taxes could endanger the Salinas economy bv placing city
businesses at risk along with the jobs of their workers.

Vote against this tax increase and keep the Salinas economy strong.

VOTE "NO" on Measure C.

s/ JohnTresch, Chairman, Salinas Valley Taxpayers Union
si Mark Dierolf, Chairman, ABC NO! NO! NO!
s/ Annemarie Brunken, Retired Business Owner
s/ Thomas M.Tessier, Small Business Owner
si Brett Landon, Licensed Mechanical Engineer

REBUTTALTO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Measure C merely updates a fee structure stuck at 1969 levels,
and eliminates the exemption for agricultural and manufacturing
operations, which are some of the area’s largest businesses. There
is no justification to continue this exemption, and these businesses
have asked to pay the fees. They know the small cost to them will
make a big difference to their employees and customers by helping
to keep City services at their current level.

The "increase as high as 300% or more" ignores the low fees set
35 years ago - for example, doctors and lawyers will now pay $200
instead of $50. Based on annual gross receipts, so a business grossing
$500,000 annually will pay $168 more next year - not a big expense!

The opponents are the usual small group of anti-Salinas, anti-
government, anti-everything naysayers. They represent only a few
perennial dissidents. Their wild financial projections for Measure O
(2002) were proven totally wrong. Now they want us to believe more
rosy economic projections despite the facts. They’re wrong about how
labor negotiations are conducted, wrong about the Salinas economy,
and they don’t realize the General Fund stayed level because the City
spent its reserves.

Independent auditors found the City spends extremely efficiently.
Implying that Measure C revenue will be a windfall for City employees
is wrong and plain irresponsible. People provide services, and they
are fairly paid to do so. Without City services, quality of life and
property values suffer. Measure C will pay for services.

Vote YES on Measure C!

s/ Ernest D. Mill, Chairman of the Board,

Salinas Valley Chamber of Commerce
si James W. Bogart, Grower-Shipper Association
si Tony Barrera, Alisal Betterment Association
si Eric Petersen, Salinas Action League
si Dennis Donohue

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED "AS SUBMITTED" AND
PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.

27513