<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE LOCAL AGENCY FORMATION COMMISSION FORMATION OF THE SOUTH SUTTER RECREATION AND PARK DISTRICT  MEASURES 1 and J EXHIBIT A  At the request of the South Sutter Recreation Association, the Sutter County Board of Supervisors initiated a request to the Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCO) of Sutter County requesting the formation of the South Sutter Recreation and Park District. The District would be and independent district governed by an elected board of directors consisting of five registered electors residing within its boundaries and elected at large by the registered voters of the district.  The purpose of the district would be to provide public recreation for the community living in southern Sutter County.  The proposed district boundaries will comprise all of south Sutter County lying south of Yuba County and easterly of the Feather and Sacramento Rivers. A copy of the map is on file at the Sutter County LAFCO office for review at 1130 Civic Center Boulevard, Yuba City CA. This area contains approximately 83,793 acres and approximately 2,696 persons.  The district is proposed to be financed by a combination of user fees and, if approved by two-thirds of the registered voters of the district, by a special tax which is initially proposed in the annual amount of $45.00 per parcel that is developed with a residence. Properties that do not have homes developed on them would not be subject to the tax. If approved, the special tax may be increased by the district board by an annual amount no greater than the percentage increase of the Consumer Price Index-U (CPI-U) from the prior year. It has been estimated that the initial year of tax revenue would total $36,000.00+ dollars. The monies collected could be used to pay for the continued use and maintenance of existing swimming pool in East Nicolaus that has been maintained by the South Sutter Recreation Association and monies could be used to invest in additional recreational facilities depending upon the decisions made by the board of directors for the district. The district may also seek funding through applying for grant monies that may be available.  A simple majority vote of the registered voters voting in the election is required to form the district and an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the registered voters voting in the election is required to approve the special tax proposed; however, under conditions imposed by LAFCO, the district will only be formed if both the district and special tax are both approved by the voters.  The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measures 1 and J. If you desire a copy of the proposition, please call the Elections Office at 822-7122 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.	<impartialend>







NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF OR AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED