Sample Ballot

D

OFFICIAL BALLOT

PRESIDENTIAL GENERAL ELECTION
Sutter County

November 2, 2004

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

CITY		
CITY OF YUBA CITY		
Vote for no  Member, City Council more than Two		
JOHN MILLER  Business Owner		
TEJ MAAN  Health Director/Farmer		
RORY RAMIREZ  Small Business Owner		
SANDRA M. HILLIARD  Incumbent		cn
KASH GILL  Businessman/Farmer		
JEFFREY SPENCER  Associate Transportation Planner		trra
		
		
City Treasurer Vote for One		
STEVEN C. KROEGER  Incumbent		
		
City Clerk Vote for One		
STEVE JOHNSON  Appointed Incumbent		err
		
MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		
SCHOOL		
YCUSD SCHOOL FACILITIES IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO. 2004-1		
To avoid further overcrowding by building one yr new elementary school and to improve the rv learning environment of students and teachers bv addina air conditionina where it is needed	Bonds  Yes	a
	Bonds  No	CZ3
shall the School Facilities Improvement District No. 2004-1 of the Yuba City Unified School District be authorized to repair, replace, construct and renovate school facilities and equip- ment and issue $25,670,000 in bonds at interest rates within the legal limit with an Independent Citizens Oversight Com- mittee appointed to monitor the way all bond funds are spent? This measure will authorize a tax sufficient for interest on, and redemption of, the bonds.		

51-D011 TURN CARD OVER	D

-^i ittAr nnuntv

51-SBC

YUBA CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOND MEASURE K
EXHIBIT “B”

BOND PROPOSITION OF THE SCHOOL FACILITIES
IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT NO.2004-1
(SFID NO. 2004-1) OF THE YUBA CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT

“Bond Proposition of School Facilities Improvement District No.
2004-1 of the Yuba City Unified School District (November 2, 2004):

In order to construct, renovate, upgrade and provide repair of
existing school facilities at schools benefitting School Facilities
Improvement District No. 2004-1 of the Yuba City Unified School
District, and in so doing increase safety at the school campus and
increase educational effectiveness of classrooms for students, shall
School Facilities Improvement District No. 2004-1 of the Yuba City
Unified School District (“Improvement District”) be authorized to issue
bonds in an amount not to exceed $25,670,000 to construct, renovate,
upgrade and provide repair to school facilities, including the furnishing
and equipping of school facilities listed in Attachment “1,” which is
on file at the offices of the Yuba City Unified School District (“District”)
and incorporated herein by this reference, which bonds shall be
issued for a term not to exceed the statutory maximum, which is
twenty-five (25) years in the case of bonds issued under the authority
of the Education Code and forty (40) years in the case of bonds
issued under the authority of the Government Code, at an interest
rate below the legal maximum, and which Bonds shall be subject
to the following provisions:

(A)	That proceeds of the bonds shall be used only for the construction,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, or replacement of school facilities,
including the furnishing and equipping of school facilities pursuant
to California Constitution Article XIIIA, Section 1(b)(3) and further
that the proceeds of the Bonds shall be used only for the purposes
specified in California Constitution Article XIIIA, Section 1(b)(3)
(as amended by Proposition 39) and not for any other purpose,
including teacher and administrator salaries and any other school
operating expenses.

(B)	That a list of a specific school facilities projects to be funded with
the proceeds of the bonds is attached hereto as Attachment “1
which is on file at the District office and incorporated herein by
this reference and, based upon the adoption of this Resolution,
this Board of Education hereby certifies that it has evaluated safety,
class size reduction and information technology needs in developing
the school facilities listed in Attachment “1," which is on file at the
District office and incorporated herein by this reference.

(C)	That the Board of Trustees of the District shall conduct an
annual, independent performance audit of the proceeds from
the sale of the Bonds until all of those proceeds have been
expended for the school facilities projects identified herein.

(D)	That the Board of Trustees of the District shall conduct an
annual, independent financial audit of the proceeds from the
sale of the Bonds until all of those proceeds have been
expended for the school facilities projects identified herein.

(E)	That the Board of Trustees of the District will appoint a citizens’
oversight committee and conduct annual independent audits
to assure that the Bond proceeds are spent only on school
and classroom improvements and for no other purposes?

Such bond proposition is also for the purpose of making the Yuba
City Unified School District eligible for State matching funds.”

EXHIBIT “B”

Attachment “1”

DESCRIPTION OF FACILITIES TO BE
FINANCED WITH GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS

General Obligation Bonds of School Facilities Improvement 1
District No. 2004-1 of the Yuba City Unified School District
(“Improvement District”) would be used to construct new school
facilities, renovate, upgrade and provide repair of existing school
facilities and provide facilities improvements and upgrades, including,
but not limited to, technology upgrades and related facilities costs,

repair and replacement of restrooms and restroom facilities, heating,
air and ventilation systems, windows and structural changes,
including but not limited to, upgrades to meet current health, safety
and instructional standards which will improve the overall educational
experience for ail students in the District. Such projects include, but
are not limited to, reconstruction, renovation, modernization and
construction of classrooms, libraries, computer labs, playgrounds,
plumbing and, electrical and network infrastructure. Project costs
for expansion of existing facilities may include, but are not limited
to, some or all of the following: infrastructure and related expenses,
construction, acquisition or lease of temporary, portable or permanent
classrooms, instructional support and/or ancillary facilities. Project
costs for furniture and equipment may include, but are not limited
to, some or all of the following: desks and tables, window and floor
coverings, computer, media recording and presentation equipment,
science laboratory equipment, and/or other electronic equipment.

The following projects are specifically identified as projects on
which the bond funds may be expended:

NEW K-8 SCHOOL (SOUTH YUBA CITY):

•	Construction of new K-8 school, including classrooms and
classroom facilities, science labs, support buildings, technology
infrastructure, furnishings, furniture and equipment’

•	Site preparation

•	Design and planning for facilities and infrastructure

PROJECTS AT EXISTING SCHOOL SITES:			
Bond funds will be expended on various projects at existing Yuba City Unified District School Sites. These projects would include: new and replacement windows, modernization projects, adding heating, ventilation and air conditioning, technology upgrades, campus security systems, adding classrooms, reconstruction, renovation, modernization and construction of classrooms, restrooms, libraries, computers labs, playgrounds, athletic facilities, plumbing, electrical and network infrastructure, fields, furnishings and equipment and related projects. The existing District School Sites include all of the following:			
Andros Karperos	April Lane	Barry	Bridge Street
Gray Avenue	Central Gaither	King Avenue	Lincoln
Lincrest	Park Avenue	Robbins	Tierra Buena
	Albert Powell	Yuba City High School	

Project costs may include site preparation, installation costs,
engineering and design cost and expenses, project management
costs and related costs. Allowable project costs also include: costs
of issuing the bonds, informational distribution costs and election
costs authorized under State law.

In preparing the foregoing list, the Board of Trustees of the Yuba
City Unified School District has evaluated safety, class size reduction
and information technology needs. Approval of the Improvement
District’s bond measure does not guarantee that all of the identified
projects within this list will be funded beyond local funds generated
by the bond measure and does not guarantee that the projects will
be completed in any particular order. The District will also pursue
funds from the State of California to complete the identified facilities
projects. The foregoing project lists presumes that the District would
also receive State matching funds.

No Administrator Salaries. Proceeds from the sale of bonds
authorized by this proposition shall be used only for the construction,
acquisition, repair, renovation, rehabilitation, or replacement of
'school facilities, including the furnishing and equipping of school
facilities, or the acquisition or lease of real property for school facilities
as identified herein, and not for any other purpose, including teacher
and administrator salaries and other operating expenses.

"If this Bond measure is approved, the Yuba City Unified School
District Board of Trustees will appoint a citizens’ oversight committee
and conduct annual independent audits to assure that bond funds
are spent only on school and classroom improvements and for no
other purposes.”

r-« rn a

lllllllllllllllllllllllll

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY SUTTER COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE K

RELATING TO MEASURE K, WHICH SEEKS VOTER
APPROVAL OF A PROPOSED BOND ISSUE BY THE YUBA
CITY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

If approved by the voters, Measure K will authorize the sale of bonds
by the Yuba City Unified School District, within the boundaries of School1
Facilities Improvement District (SFID) No. 2004-1, in the amount of
Twenty-Five Million Six Hundred Seventy Thousand Dollars
($25,670,000.00). The vote needed for approval is a super-majority of
55 percent of the voters. If the measure passes, the proceeds of the
bonds shall only be used for the construction, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, or replacement of school facilities, including the furnishing
and equipping of school facilities and shall not be used for any other
purpose, including teacher and administrator salaries and any other
school operating expenses.

Bond funds will be used for projects at existing school sites, including
the following schools: Andros Karperos, Gray Avenue, Lincrest, April
Lane, Central Gaither, Park Avenue, Albert Powell, Barry, King Avenue,
Robbins, Yuba City High School, Bridge Street, Lincoln, and Tierra Buena.
Bond funds may also be expended on the construction of a new
kindergarten through eighth-grade school (K^8), including classrooms
and facilities, science labs, support buildings, technology infrastructure,
furnishings, furniture, and equipment.

If approved, the bond funds would also be used for the purpose of
qualifying for state matching funds by the district.

The bonds would be a debt of the district, not of Sutter County or the
State of California. To this end, principal and interest on the bonds would
be paid from an ad valorem tax levied annually on all property within the
SFID No. 2004-1. Information about the estimated tax rates is provided in
the Tax Rate Statement set out elsewhere in the ballot pamphlet. (The
constitutional restriction on ad valorem taxes above 1 percent of full cash
value of property would not apply to this tax.)

The bonds will only be issued if the tax rate levied to meet the
requirements of section 18, article XVI of California Constitution will not
exceed Sixty Dollars ($60.00) per year per One Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($100,000.00) of taxable property within SFID No. per 2004-1,
when assessed valuation is projected by the district to increase by the
amount allowed by law in accordance with the California Constitution.
The interest rate that the bonds would bear could not exceed the statutory
limit of 12 percent pre annum. The number of years the whole or any
part of the bonds are to run shall not exceed the statutory maximum,
which is 25 years in the case of bonds issued under the authority of
the Education Code, from the date of bond issuance.

Measure K will not otherwise affect existing law. This analysis is
submitted by the Office of the Sutter County Counsel as required by
Elections Code section 9500.

s/ Ronald S. Erickson
Sutter County Counsel

TAX RATE STATEMENT
BOND MEASURE K

An election will be held within the boundaries of School Facilities
Improvement District No. 2004-1 of the Yuba City Unified School District
("SFID No. 2004-1"), which has been formed by the Yuba City Unified
School District (“District”) pursuant to State law on November 2, 2004,
to authorize the sale of up to $25,670,000 in general obligation bonds
of the District, on behalf of SFID No. 2004-1, to finance public school
facilities as further described in the bond proposition. If such bonds are
authorized and sold, the principal thereof and interest thereon will be
payable from the proceeds of tax levies made upon the taxable property
within the boundaries of SFID No. 2004-1. The following information is
provided in compliance with Sections 9400-9404 of the Elections Code
of the State of California.

1.	The best estimate of the tax rate which would be required to be
levied to fund this bond issue during the first year after the sale of
the first series of bonds, based on estimated assessed valuations
available at the time of this statement, is $0.03792 per $100 ($37.92
per $100,000) of assessed valuation in year 2005-06.

2.	The best estimate of the tax rate which would be required to be
levied to fund this bond issue during the first year after the sale of
the last series of bonds, based on estimated assessed valuations
available at the time of this statement, is $$0.03792 per $100 ($37.92
per $100,000) of assessed valuation in year 2005-06.

3.	The best estimate of the highest tax rate which would be required to be
levied to fund this bond issue, based on estimated assessed valuations
available at the time this statement, is $0.03799 per $100 ($37.99 per
$100,000) of assessed valuation in year 2012-13, 2021-22 and 2029-30.
The average tax rate over the repayment period of all of the bonds
(2005-06 through 2029-30) is estimated to be $0.03792 per $100 ($37.92
per $100,000) of assessed valuation.

Voters should note that these estimated tax rates are based on the
assessed value of taxable property within SFID No. 2004-1 as shown
on the official rolls of the County of Sutter, not on the property’s market
value. In addition, taxpayers eligible for a property tax exemption, such
as the homeowner’s exemption, will be taxed at a lower effective rate
than described above. Certain taxpayers may also be eligible to
postpone the payment of taxes. Property owners should consult their
own property tax bills and tax advisors to determine their property’s
assessed value and any applicable tax exemptions.

Attention of all voters is directed to the fact that the foregoing
information is based upon the District’s projections and estimates only,
which are not binding upon the District. The actual tax rates and the
years in which they will apply may vary from those presently estimated,
due to variations from these estimates in the timing of bonds sales, the
amount of bonds sold at any given sale, market interest rates at the
time of each bond sale, and actual assessed valuation over the term
of repayment of the bonds. Actual future assessed valuations will depend
upon the amount and value of taxable property within SFID No. 2004-
1 as determined by the County Assessor in the annual assessment and
the equalization process.

si Patrick Godwin Superintendent

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

In order to keep pace with the dramatic growth of the community
and to avoid severe overcrowding in all of its schools, the Yuba City
Unified School District must raise local funds to receive the state
matching funds needed to build another elementary school. To ensure
a vibrant and successful community, our children deserve a quality
learning environment, including air conditioning where needed,
access to today’s technology, and updated restrooms and facilities.

Your “Yes” vote on Measure K will bring millions of state dollars to
Yuba City to help us build a bright future for our children and community.
The facts are clear:

•	The schools in the southern part of the school district are already
over crowded.

•	A new K-8 school in the southern part of the district will provide
the additional classroom space needed.

•	If a new school is not built, the problems created by over crowding
will begin to impact students in all schools, and many students
may no longer be able to attend the school nearest to their home.

•	On days with high temperatures, when classrooms without air conditioning
can reach 100 degrees, students cannot focus on learning.

•	Our children need access to technology and safe, modern, and
efficient facilities.

At $38 per $100,000 of assessed value, the cost of Measure K
is reasonable and none of these funds can be spent on employee
salaries or administrative costs. An Independent Citizens’ Oversight
Committee will guarantee that Measure K funds are spent only for
their intended purposes.

The District managed the last local bond funds efficiently and
matched $38 million dollars of local funds with state and other funds
to generate $99 million dollars of new schools and improvements
to existing schools.

Please join us in voting yes on Measure K.
si Jasbir Singh Kang,

M.D.

si Jesse I. Santana,

Attorney at Law
si Jim D. Whiteaker,

County Supervisor
si Peter T. Jelavich,

Farmer

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

51-505

51505