IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE W
Prepared by City Attorney

(The Stockton Safe Neighborhood, Gang and Drug
Prevention, Police/Fire Response Measure)

The Stockton City Council has placed Measure W on the
November 2, 2004, ballot asking voters to adopt an ordinance
that would allow the City to impose a special transaction and
use tax of 0.25% (one-quarter of one percent) of the retail
sales price. The proceeds of this tax would be used solely to
maintain and improve the City’s police and fire protection
services.

Effective this year, the State Legislature amended the
California Revenue and Taxation Code to authorize local
governments to seek voter approval for an increase in the
local transactions and use tax (usually referred to as “sales
tax”). Measure W, if approved by the voters, would adopt an
ordinance increasing the sales tax by a quarter cent.

Revenue from the tax would be placed into a special account
that could be used only to pay for the needs of the Police and
Fire Departments, including salaries, equipment, and capital
improvements, as provided for in an Expenditure Plan
approved by the City Council. The revenue would be split
evenly between the departments, although the Council could
alter that division as departmental needs change. According
to the Program Guidelines approved by the City Council for
the use of the tax revenue, the division of funds between the
departments would be in the proportion of 50% to Fire and
50% to Police and can never exceed 60% for one and 40%
for the other, in addition, the City would hire an independent
auditor to review revenue and expenditure annually to ensure
that funds are used solely for public safety services as
provided for in the Expenditure Plan, and that the City
complies with established accounting regulations and
practices. Pursuant to the Guidelines, the City would also
establish a Citizens’ Oversight Committee to provide
additional independent review of revenue and expenditures.
Every five years, the City Council would review the use of
revenue from the tax and report on its effect on the provision •
of police and fire protection services.

A “yes” vote for Measure W is a vote to adopt the ordinance
increasing the local transaction and use tax by one-quarter of
one cent. A “no” vote, is a vote against adopting the
ordinance.

To pass; two-thirds of the votes cast on Measure W must be
“yes” votes.

■ The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure W. if
you desire a copy of Measure W, please call the Stockton City
Clerk’s office at (209) 937-8459, and a copy will be mailed at
no cost to you.

39528

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W

YES on W keeps Stockton neighborhoods safe.

Did you know that the ratio of Stockton police officers to
residents is one of the lowest in our region? The number of
Stockton firefighters has not increased in 25 years although
our population has increased over 190% during that time.

Our growing community needs more police officers and
firefighters.

YES on W increases the number of firefighters by 40, 20 of
which are paramedics. Medical experts agree that during a
medical emergency, the brain starts deteriorating after five
minutes. Fire experts agree a home fire can double in size
every 30 seconds.

YES on W puts 40 more police officers on our streets to
prevent gang and drug-related crimes in our community.

YES on W expands neighborhood-based policing to make our
schools and parks safe.

YES on W addresses the drug problem in Stockton and
provides for more prevention programs to keep our youth off
drugs.

YES on W helps stem the growing problem of crime in our
schools by increasing the number of officers. Protecting our
children must be a top priority,

YES on W improves 9-1-1 response times to medical
emergencies and fires, when a few seconds can mean the
difference between life and death.

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE W
WAS SUBMITTED

YES on W ensures strong fiscal accountability, through
annual, independent audits and the fiscal oversight of a
Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Measure also specifies
that the funds would be exclusively used for frontline police
and fire efforts.

YES on W allows citizens to have local control over public
safety funding, assuring the protection of our community.

Vote YES on W.

Submitted by:

Committee for a Safer Neighborhood Police/Fire Measure

I si Edward Chavez,

Former Chief of Police and Mayor-elect
Is/ Patricia Busher,

Principal with Stockton Unified School District
Isl Norah Lamond,

Nurse
Isl. Gordon W. Gray,

Stockton Police Officers Association
Isl Gregory Biddle,

Stockton Professional Firefighters Association

39529










Stockton Municipal Code, Charter, and Civil Service Rules

Up	Previous	Next	Main	Collapse	Search	Print	No	Frames

Municipal Code Title 3 REVENUE AND FINANCE

Chapter 3.52 FUNDING FOR POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTIONSERVICES
3.52.010 Purpose.

The ordinance codified in this chapter of the Stockton Municipal Code has been adopted for the following
(and other) purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing
with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2
which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on
the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of
the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor
that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practical to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Transactions and

Use Taxes;

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will, to
the degree possible consistent with the provisions of Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the said Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting City transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions thereof.

E.	To provide a source of revenue for maintaining the City’s current level of police and fire protection
services and undertake necessary capital projects to support those services. The revenue generated by the tax
provided for herein shall be restricted to those uses. The tax is, therefore, a special tax. (Prior code § 8-290)

3.52.020 Operative date defined.

“Operative date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the
adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter, the date of such adoption being set forth below. (Prior code § 8-
291)

3.52.030	Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation hereof. If the City has not contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall
be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract. The Council may make any
technical amendments to this chapter required by the State Board of Equalization, except for any changes affecting
the tax rate, its manner of collection, or the purpose for which the revenue from the tax may be used. (Prior code §
8-292)

3.52.040	Imposition of transactions tax.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in
the City at the rate of one-quarter of one percent of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in the City on and after the effective date of this the ordinance codified in this
chapter. The City Council is authorized to establish a tax rate of one-quarter of one percent by resolution. (Prior
code § 8-293)

3.52.050 Presumption as to place of sales.

For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer,
unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or agent to an out-of-State destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-State destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business,
the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the Board of Equalization. (Prior code § 8-294)

3.52.060 Imposition of use tax.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the City of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on or after the operative date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, at the
rate of one-quarter of one percent of the sales price of the property subject to the tax. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to State transactions or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. The City Council is authorized to establish a tax rate of one-quarter of one percent by resolution.
(Prior code § 8-295)

3.52.070 Adoption of certain sections of California Revenue and Taxation Code by reference.

Except as hereinafter provided, and except in so far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Parts 1.6
and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and.T^ation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of said Code,
as amended and in force and effect on the operative date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, applicable to use
taxes are hereby adopted and made a part of this section as though fully set forth herein. (Prior code § 8-296)

3.52.080 Limitations on adoption of State law and collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenueand .Taxation Code wherever the State is
named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

A.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

B.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any agency,
officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.

C.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries
of the State, where the result of the substitution would be to:

1.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or
other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
9ft4.X^9li99.Code, or

2.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not be subject to tax by the State under the said provision of that code;

D.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the

Revenue and Taxation Code.

E.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in
this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203. (Prior code § 8-297)

3.52.090 Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this chapter. (Prior code § 8-298)

3.52.100 Exemptions and exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any
sales tax or use tax imposed by the State or by any City, City and County, or County pursuant to the Bradley-Bums
Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any State-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use
of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his or her agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a
carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the
City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of
time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative
date of said ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (B)(3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or
not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the storage, use or other consumption in
this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any State-

administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire
or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections
6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of said ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (C)(3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subsection (C)(7) of this section, a retailer engaged in business in the City shall
not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but
not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the
authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall
be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax. (Prior code § 8-299)

3.52.110 Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the operative date of the ordinance codified in this chapter to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this chapter, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter. (Prior code §
8-300)

3.52.120 Enjoining collection prohibited.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or
proceeding in any court against the State or this City, or against any officer of the State or this City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection hereunder, or Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and T^	of any tax or

any amount of tax required to be collected. (Prior code § 8-301)

View the mobile version.