LAKE SHASTINA COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
ADOPTION OF A SPECIAL TAX
MEASURE N
RESOLUTION 3-04
A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
LAKE SHASTINA COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
REQUESTING THE SISKIYOU COUNTY CLERK TO PLACE
BEFORE THE VOTERS A SPECIAL TAX LEVY MEASURE
FOR FIRE PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY SERVICES.

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors, has adopted Ordinance 1-91
establishing a tax for fire protection and emergency services; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors is approving a tax increase
measure for the fire department that must be approved by the voters
of the District; and

WHEREAS, the District is authorized by law to conduct an election
to be included on the November 2004 official ballot; and
WHEREAS, passage of this measure shall be used to employ up to
two full-time firefighters/emergency medical personnel and for obtaining,
maintaining and operating fire department equipment, buildings and
fire related services; and
WHEREAS, the following applies:

1) .	Improved Residential and Non-Residential parcels,, except

as set forth below, $120.00 per year. (Billed Quarterly).

2) .	Unimproved Residential and Non-Residential parcels,
except as set forth below, $75.00 per year. (Billed Semi-

Annually).

3) .	The following are exempt from this tax: Any road, greenbelt,

or any property belonging to any county, state or federal

government agency.

4) .	For the purposes of this measure, the following definitions

shall apply:

a)	. “Year” means the fiscal year.

b)	. “Parcel” means a parcel of real property having a

separate assessor’s parcel number, as shown on the
secured tax rolls of the County of Siskiyou.

5) .	Upon adoption of this tax, all District ordinances for fees,

assessments, and other charges previously levied or
approved by the District for Fire Protection and Emergency
Services, except those for the 2004-2005 fiscal year, are
hereby rescinded, provided however, that the then current
outstanding indebtedness for same shall not be deemed
forgiven. If the tax adopted by this measure is at any time
found to be invalid, the rescission of previous fee ordinances,
etc., shall be null and void, and they shall thereupon be
reinstated.

6) .	The board recognizes that because of special circumstances

applicable to particular properties, including but not limited
to size, shape, topography, location, surroundings, and
incombustibility of improvements, variances from the strict
application of the provisions of this measure may be equitable
and appropriate. Any property owner may apply, in writing,
to the District Board for a variance based on such
circumstances. The District Board is hereby authorized to
adopt rules and regulations, and include time limits on the
filing of applications for relief, to implement this section.
The decision of the District Board of Directors in regard to
such applications for relief shall be final.

7) .	Upon approval by the voters, this tax shall become effective

January 1, 2005. (Requires approval of 2/3 of votes cast).

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:

The Siskiyou County Clerk is hereby requested to allow this measure
to be included on the November 2, 2004 official ballot, and to include
the words and figures as follows:

Shall Lake Shastina Community Services District levy a special
tax increase, effective January 1, 2005, for fire department in an
amount not to exceed:

Improved Residential and Non-residential parcels, $10.00
per month.

Unimproved Residential and Non-residential parcels,

$6.25 per month.

Said tax shall be used to employ up to two full-time
firefighters/emergency medical personnel, and obtaining,
maintaining and operating fire department equipment, buildings
and related services.

Yes_______ No_____________

I hereby certify that the forgoing is a full, true and correct copy of
Resolution 3-04 duly passed and adopted by the Board of Directors
of the Lake Shastina Community Services District, Siskiyou County,
California, at a meeting thereof duly held on the 19th day of May
2004, by the following vote:

AYES:	Directors Dean,	Negro and Roths

NOES:	Director	Dilley

ABSENT:	Director	Brezinsky

ABSTAIN:None

s/Craig Dilley, President

ATTEST: s/James Lea, District Secretary

MEASURE N
ADDITIONAL RESOLUTION 7-04

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LAKE
SHASTINA COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT CLARIFYING
RESOLUTION 3-04, WHICH REQUESTED AN ELECTION TO
APPROVE A SPECIAL TAX LEVY MEASURE FOR FIRE
PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY SERVICES.

WHEREAS, on May 19, 2004, the Board of Directors adopted
Resolution 3-04, requesting the Siskiyou County Clerk to place before
the Voters a Special Tax Levy Measure for Fire Protection and
Emergency Services; and,

WHEREAS, Resolution 3-04 contains references to “improved” and
“unimproved” parcels, which terms are not defined therein; and, _

WHEREAS, Resolution 3-04 is intended to establish a total fire tax
of between $6.25 and $10.00 per month, not a tax increase in that
amount; and,

WHEREAS, Resolution 3-04 was intended to take effect on January
1, 2005, during the District’s 2004-2005 fiscal year.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:

1.	For the purposes of Resolution 3-04, an “improved” parcel is one
on which a structure has been constructed which structure is of
such a size and nature as to require a building permit under
applicable Siskiyou County ordinances; an “unimproved’’ parcel
is any other parcel.

2.	The Siskiyou County Clerk is hereby requested to delete the word

“increase” from the first line of the requested language for the
official ballot, so that the same shall read, as amended, as follows:

Shall Lake Shastina Community Services District levy a
special tax, effective January 1, 2005, for fire department
in an amount not to exceed:

3.	The tax increase shall go into effect on January 1, 2005, and
shall be collected starting with the second half of the 2004-2005
fiscal year.

I hereby certify that the forgoing is a full, true and correct copy of
Resolution 7-04, duly passed and adopted by the Board of Directors
of the Lake Shastina Community Services District, Siskiyou County,
California, at a meeting thereof duly held on the 17th day of August,
2004, by the following vote:

Directors Voting Aye, and in favor of the Resolution: Dean, Negro and
Roths

Directors Voting Nay, and against the Resolution: None
Directors Absent: Brezinsky and Dilley

si Jack Dean, Acting Chairperson
ATTEST: s/James Lea, District Secretary

47-N1

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASUREN

The Lake Shastina Community Services District is proposing a
special tax measure to be submitted to the voters in the Lake Shastina
Community Services District. This measure, if approved by two thirds
(2/3) of the electors voting on the question, would levy a special tax for
purposes of funding certain fire protection and emergency services. This
new special tax would replace the existing special tax for fire protection
and emergency services.

The current special tax in the Lake Shastina Community Services
District related to fire protection and emergency services is forty dollars
($40.00) per year for each improved parcel and twenty five dollars
($25.00) per year for each unimproved parcel. If this measure is
approved, all Lake Shastina Community Services District ordinances for
fees, assessments, and other charges for fire protection and emergency
services, except those for the 2004-2005 fiscal year, would be rescinded
but no outstanding indebtedness would be forgiven. The new tax
enacted by this measure would become effective January 1,2005, and
would be in the amount of one hundred and twenty dollars ($120.00) per
fiscal year for each improved parcel and seventy five dollars ($75.00) per
fiscal year for each unimproved parcel. Improved parcels would be billed
quarterly and unimproved parcels would be billed semi-annually.
"A parcel” is defined in this measure as a parcel of real property having
a separate assessor’s parcel number as shown on the Siskiyou County
tax rolls.

Properties which would be exempt from this special tax are roads,
greenbelt, and any property owned by a county, state or federal
government agency. This measure would authorize the Lake Shastina
Community Services District Board of Directors to adopt rules and
regulations as part of a process in which that same Board may grant
variances from this special tax to certain properties where equitable and
appropriate.

This special tax would be levied to establish a source of funds to
employ up to two full-time firefighters/emergency medical personnel and
to obtain, maintain and operate fire department equipment, buildings and
fire related services. The funds could not be used for any other purpose.

A ”yes” vote favors passage of the new special tax; a “no” vote is
against the passage of the new special tax.

si Donald R. Langford
Assistant County Counsel

NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF OR AGAINST
THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

47-N2