
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE H

•,The San Juan Bautista City Council has placed Measure H on the
March 2,2004 ballot asking voters to adopt an ordinance that would
. impose a 2% special transient occupancy tax to fund public restroom
and parking improvements in the City.

■; A transient occupancy tax is a tax on hotei guests staying in hotels
for periods of 30 days or less. The hotei collects the tax from
the guest and remits the tax to the City. Currently, the San Juan
Bautista Municipal Code imposes a transient occupancy tax of 10%
. :of room rental rate. This tax is a general tax, and is deposited into
The City's general fund where it is available to fund general
.governmental services.

^Measure H, if passed by the voters, would adopt an ordinance adding
-{.a new section 3-4-207 to the San Juan Bautista Municipal Code
{imposing a special transient occupancy tax of 2%. The ordinance
|specifies that the proceeds from this new tax may only be used for
£ihe funding of public restroom and parking improvements within the
|Gity, and for no other purpose. If Measure H is adopted by the
|voters, the total transient occupancy tax imposed on hotei guests
will be 12%.

|A "yes" vote is a vote to adopt the ordinance allowing the City to
I impose a special transient occupancy tax of 2% on hotei guests. A
^“no" vote is a vote against adopting this ordinance.

-Measure H requires a "yes" vote of two-thirds of the voters to pass.

s/ Patrick Whitneil,

City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

The City counts on Tourism for a vita! portion of its economic activity,
There is constant request by visitors for public restrooms and better
parking facilities. The proceeds of this additional 2% tax are
dedicated to providing funding for improvements and maintenance
of the needed facilities. The Measure will eliminate undue non-
customer pressure for use of private restroom facilities, whiie
increasing general accessibility to downtown business as a result
of increased visitor services.

Visitors staying in the trailer park and the motels will pay the estimated
revenue of $17,000.00.

Please Vote Yes on Measure H.

s/ Laurence C. Cain,

City Manager

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

