“To improve students’ reading, writing, math, and science skills by recruiting and retaining experienced, highly qualified teachers and support staff; and
by supporting supplemental educational programs and services, shall the Ravenswood City School District levy an annual parcel tax of $98 for five (5)
years, beginning July 1, 2004; and increase the District’s total appropriations limit annually according to statute, with annual citizens’ oversight
committee audits and with exemptions available to individuals aged 65 and older?”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the Ravenswood City School
District propose to levy a special tax for a period of five years beginning
July 1, 2004 and ending June 30, 2009. This tax shall be at a rate not to
exceed $98 per year per parcel.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District which
receives a separate tax bill from the San Mateo County Treasurer-Tax
Collector for ad valorem property taxes. All property which would
otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the
imposition of said special tax. Upon filing an application with the District,
any property owner aged 65 years or older may qualify for an exemption
from the special tax if the property owner occupies the parcel.

The stated purposes of the special tax are to: improve students’ reading,
writing, math and science skills by recruiting and retaining teachers and
support staff and supplemental educational programs and services.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special account.
The Board of Trustees must file an annual report accounting for the parcel
tax revenues collected and the manner in which they have been spent.

This measure would also increase the District’s appropriations limit per
fiscal year in an amount equal to the levy of the special tax for that year, as
permitted by Article XIIIB, section 4 of the California Constitution.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be levied on
property within the boundaries of the Ravenswood City School District
in an amount of up to $98 per year per taxable parcel in the District.
The proceeds of the special tax will be used to improve students’
reading, writing, math and science skills by recruiting and retaining
teachers and support staff and supplemental educational programs and
services. It would also allow the appropriations (spending) limit to be
raised.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be levied
and would not allow the appropriations limit to be raised.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote

“yes.”

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure B. If
you desire a copy of the measure, please call the San Mateo
County Elections Division at (650) 312-5222 and a copy will be
sent to you at no cost.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The Ravenswood City School District needs your YES vote on March 2nd.

Our District is on the rise. In the past year, the district and the community
have come together to make many needed changes. We can now
confidently say that Ravenswood is no longer in danger of an outside
takeover. District staff is focused on improving the educational program
for students. Measure B will make sure that every local child receives the
best education possible - regardless of what Sacramento does to this year’s
budget.

The facts about Measure B are clear.

The funds raised by Measure B will all be spent in our community:

•	To make sure the District can attract and retain experienced, highly
qualified teachers and support staff;

•	To improve student performance in reading, writing and math; and

•	To support supplemental educational programs and services.

A citizen’s oversight committee will audit and monitor the way all of the
funds raised by Measure B are used. These private citizens will report to
the district and the community on an annual basis to make sure Measure B
funds are spent wisely and according to the will of the voters of the school
district.

The cost is reasonable. Measure B will cost each property owner in the
district $98 per year for five years. An exemption will be offered to all
residents of the district who are 65 or older and who own and live in a home
in the district.

Measure B is for our children and for our community. Measure B is an
investment in our future - a future we can control with our YES votes on
March 2nd.

Join us in voting YES on Measure B. Together, let’s build a brighter future
for our community.

/s/ Tasha L. Castaneda	December 12, 2003
Parent	
/s/ Rose Jacobs Gibson	December 12, 2003
San Mateo County Board of Supervisors	
/s/ Marcelino Lopez	December 11, 2003
Ravenswood City School District Board of Trustees	
/s/ Adam Mitchell	December 11, 2003
Ravenswood City School District Board of Trustees	
/s/ Barbara A. Mouton	December 12, 2003
Founding Mayor	

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

•	A “citizen’s oversight committee” appointed by the same crowd that runs
the schools is like a criminal appointing his own jury. Have you ever heard
of a committee returning money to taxpayers because the school was
engaged in wasteful spending? —Neither have we.

•	If Measure B were intended solely to limit budgetary risk on the
downside, it would not ask you to authorize an increase in spending beyond
the Gann limit. Rather, it is about spending more of your hard-earned
money than ever before.

•	Another tax would not reduce budget uncertainties stemming from
Sacramento politics at all. Another tax would guarantee that you would
have less money in your pocket, however, and in the pockets of our
neighbors.

•	Many of our neighbors don’t have $490 to spare! This is not a
“reasonable cost” for the needy, or for people who don’t have children
enrolled in school.

/s/ John J. “Jack” Hickey	December 18, 2003

Chair, Libertarian Party San Mateo County

/s/ Robert Green	December 18, 2003

Pharmacist

/s/ Brian Holtz	December 18, 2003

Software Engineer

/s/ Christopher VA Schmidt	December 18, 2003

Retired Computer Professional

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

Adequate Funding

We all want public schools to be adequately funded—and they are!

Californians pay some of the highest property taxes, state income taxes,
and sales taxes in the nation. —And schools get nearly as much money as
all other state budget categories combined!

Locally, school district revenue more than doubled in less than a decade;
growing from less than $20 million per year to over $40 million annually!

And the District borrowed even more money—floating 2 bond issues in
1996 and 2000. The extra taxes to pay for all that debt will continue to soak
local homeowners (and push rents higher) for decades to come.

Now they want another new tax. How greedy is that?

Enough Already!

It’s time school officials learned a little financial discipline. Say ‘no’ to this
tax hike, and ask them to five within their regular budget like the rest of us.

Thank you.

/s/ Christopher VA Schmidt	December	11,	2003

Secretary, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

When you cast your vote on Measure B, your choices are clear:

■	A Yes vote is a vote to strengthen the district’s ability to improve the
reading, writing, and math skills of the students and by attracting
and retaining the best teachers available.

■	A No vote is a vote to weaken our local public schools and leave the
teaching of math, reading, and writing to the ever-changing
priorities of Sacramento.

Our lone opponent, with offices in Palo Alto, will not feel the impact of the
No vote he urges you to cast. The opponent of Measure B does not live in
our school district. None of his family or neighbors will ever see the
negative impact of a No vote on the Quality in their schools or on the value
of their homes and properties.

Our local students will feel the benefit of your Yes votes. The funds raised
by Measure B will allow our schools to attract and retain highly qualified
teachers. A citizen’s oversight committee will audit and monitor the way
all of the funds raised by Measure B are used. These private citizens — all
residents of the Ravenswood City School District — will report to the
district and the community on the use of Measure B funds.

Please join us - residents, taxpayers, and homeowners in the school district
- and cast a Yes vote for Measure B.

Together, let’s build a brighter future for our community.

/s/ Tasha L. Castaneda	December 17, 2003
Parent	
/s/ Rose Jacobs Gibson	December 17, 2003
San Mateo County Supervisor	
/s/ Adam Mitchell	December 17, 2003
Ravenswood City School District Board of Trustees	
/s/ Barbara A. Mouton	December 19, 2003
Founding Mayor EPA	