Shall Resolution No. 066343 of the County of San Mateo imposing an annual special tax for fire protection and extended police services according
to the schedule therein be approved?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

On November 18, 2003, pursuant to Government Code section 50075,
the Board of Supervisors of the County of San Mateo adopted a resolution
to levy a special tax on property located in County Service Area No. 1 for
fire protection and police services. Section 50075, et. seq. requires that the
proposition for a special tax be submitted to the voters of the District for
approval.

A special tax for these services has been levied since 1982, and most
recently received voter approval in 2000. Presently, the Board of Supervisors
determines the precise amount of the tax annually with a maximum rate of
$65 per year per parcel. Under this measure, the Board of Supervisors would
continue to set annually the exact amount of the tax with a maximum rate of
$65 per year per parcel. The special tax would continue to be levied for a
period of four more years, commencing July 1, 2004 and ending
June 30, 2008, and would be collected by the San Mateo County
Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time as and along with the general ad
valorem taxes. The special tax would be subject to the same penalties as the
general ad valorem tax, and the special tax and penalty shall bear interest at
the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. All
property which otherwise would be exempt from property taxes will also be
exempt from the imposition of the special tax.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow the continuation of a special
tax to be levied on property within the boundaries of the San Mateo
County Service Area No. 1 at a rate no greater than $65 per parcel per
year.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be
levied.

This measure must be approved by two-thirds of the voters voting upon the
measure.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure A. If
you desire a copy of the measure, please call the San Mateo
County Elections Division at (650) 312-5222 and a copy will be
sent to you at no cost.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Adequate Funding

We all want public services to be adequately funded—and they are!

Property tax payers already provide the most reliable stream of revenue
California governments have. Thanks to Prop. 13, valuations normally rise
a steady 2% each year, plus an amount reflecting increased assessments
when properties turn over. It’s a win/win formula—and thanks to booming
property values, revenue now exceeds pre-Prop. 13 levels, even after
accounting for inflation. (There have been transitory exceptions in
individual cities from time to time, but they were more than offset by
natural increases in the immediately preceding or following years).

(See http://www.care.co.sanmateo.ca.us/frames/my_life/home_rolls_d.htm
for historical data.)

In the last 9 years reported by San Mateo County, property tax revenue
increased 5.07%, 2.35%, 2.84%, 3.11%, 4.60%, 8.89%, 8.90%, 10.27%,
and 12.55%. Did you have it so good?

Special parcel taxes reflect nothing more or less than excessive
bureaucratic greed. Can’t make a budget balance? Why set priorities when
you can always ask the voters for another tax increase?

When the voters said ‘no’ to the sheriff’s proposed super-deluxe
solar-powered crime lab in 2000, he went ahead and built it anyway.

Enough Already!

It’s time government officials learned a little financial discipline. Say ‘no’ to
this tax, and ask them to live within their regular budget like the rest of us.

Thank you.

/s/ Christopher VA Schmidt	December	11,	2003

Secretary, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County

NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A SUBMITTED