VENTURA

Voter Information Pamphlet

AVISO / NOTICE

Se puede obtener una traduccion en espanol del folleto
de information para el elector, llamando al 654-2664.

A Spanish translation of voter information pamphlet is
available by calling 654-2664.

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR ABSENT
VOTER BALLOT ON BACK COVER

PHILIP J. SCHMIT COUNTY CLERK AND RECORDER



56-FC-E-366130	56-FC-E

SAMPLE BALLOT

B

OFFICIAL BALLOT

NONPARTISAN BALLOT
COUNTY OF VENTURA

March 2, 2004

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO VOTE OF VOTERS

STATE

Yes	+
No	+

KINDERGARTEN-UNIVERSITY PUBLIC
EE EDUCATION FACILITIES BOND ACT OF
dJ 2004. This twelve billion three hundred million
dollar ($12,300,000,000) bond issue will provide
I funding for necessary education facilities to relieve overcrowding
and to repair older schools. Funds will be targeted to areas of the
greatest need and must be spent according to strict accountability
measures. Funds will also be used to upgrade and build new
classrooms in the California Community Colleges, the California
State University, and the University of California, to provide
adequate higher education facilities to accommodate the growing
student enrollment. These bonds may be used only for eligible
projects. Fiscal Impact: State costs of about $24.7 billion to pay off
both the principal ($12.3 billion) and interest ($12.4 billion) costs on
I the bonds. Payments of about $823 million per year.

Yes	+
No	+

STATE BUDGET, RELATED TAXES, AND
CC RESERVE. VOTING REQUIREMENTS.
PENALTIES. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Permits
I enactment of budget and budget-related tax/appropriation bills with
55% vote. Legislature, Governor forfeit compensation each day
budget is late. Fiscal Impact: Varying impacts from lowering the vote
! requirement for budget-related measures—including changes in
| spending and potentially significant increases in state tax revenues
in some years. Impacts would depend on the composition and
actions of future Legislatures.

Bonds  Yes	+
Bonds  No	+

THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY BOND ACT.

57 One time bond of up to fifteen billion dollars
($15,000,000,000) to retire deficit. Fiscal Impact:

One-time increase, compared to previously
I authorized bond, of up to $4 billion to reduce the state’s budget
shortfall and annual debt-service savings over the next few years.
These effects would be offset by higher annual debt-service costs
in subsequent years due to this bond’s longer term and larger size.

Yes	+
No	+

THE CALIFORNIA BALANCED BUDGET ACT.

EQ Requires the enactment of a balanced budget,

J w addresses fiscal emergencies, and establishes
a budget reserve. Fiscal Impact: Net state fiscal
I effects unknown and will vary by year, depending in part on actions
of future legislatures. Reserve provisions may smooth state
spending, with reductions during economic expansions and
' increases during downturns. Provisions requiring balanced budgets
I and limiting deficit borrowing could result in more immediate actions
to correct budgetary shortfalls.

56-207B-N-P

B

VOTE BOTH SIDES

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

SCHOOL

OAK PARK UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

Yes	+
No	+

To protect high quality education at our neigh-
n4 borhood schools and reduce the impact of
1unprecedented budget cuts on classroom
instruction by retaining qualified teachers,

I avoiding class size increases, maintaining up-to-date textbooks and
preserving essential academic programs that enhance student
achievement shall Oak Park Unified School District assess $197 per
parcel annually for five (5) years with an exemption for seniors,
annual audits, independent citizen oversight, no proceeds for
administrator salaries and all funds remaining in Oak Park to benefit
local children?

56-212B-N-P

VOTE BOTH SIDES

B

56-SB409

llllllllllllllllllllll

56SB409

OAK PARK UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX MEASURE ELECTION
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL*
MEASURE"D4"

Pursuant to the provisions of section 4 of article XIIIA of the California
constitution and sections 50075,50076,50077,50079 and 53722 et seq. of
ine California Government Code, this measure will, if approved by two-thirds
of the votes cast by the voters of the Oak Park Unified School District
("District") voting on the measure, authorize the District to levy a qualified
special tax, in the amount of $197 per parcel annually for five (5) years,
assessed against each parcel of taxable land within the District, for the
following specified purposes: to protect high quality education at the
neighborhood schools and reduce the impact of unprecedented budget cuts
on classroom instruction by retaining qualified teachers, by avoiding class
size increases, by maintaining up-to-date textbooks and by preserving
essential academic programs that enhance student achievement.

The District has committed that no such qualified special tax funds would be
for administrator salaries and that all such funds would remain within the
District to benefit local children.

The District has committed to exempt from the special tax each individual
who applies to the District for exemption and who both is 65 years or over
and owns and occupies as a principal residence a parcel (a unit of land
within the District that receives a separate tax bill).

The District has committed to follow the accountability measures of sections
50075.1 and 50075.3 of the California Government Code and to establish
and appoint members to an independent citizens oversight committee to
ensure the proper expenditure of the qualified special tax funds.

The above statement in an impartial analysis of Measure "D4“. If you desire
a copy of the measure, please call the district elections official’s office at
(818) 735-3212 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

’Section 9500 of the California Elections Code requires the County Counsel to prepare an impartial analysis of
each school measure appearing on the ballot.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "D4"

All six schools that comprise the Oak Park Unified School District rank
among the best in California and the nation. 98% of our students go on to
college. Exceptional teachers, challenging programs, support from parents
and the community contribute to high student achievement.

The recent state budget crisis resulted in significant budget cuts to our
neighborhood schools. The school district has reduced administration and
non-teaching staff to the minimum levels required to ensure student safety
and provide basic educational services. There is no more administration to
cut and no untapped sources of funding. Future cuts will directly impact
classroom instruction - meaning significant teacher layoffs, larger class
sizes and reductions in valued educational programs.

Measure D4, a temporary school assessment, will provide funds to maintain
essential programs and preserve academic performance. Specifically,
Measure D4 will provide funds to avoid reductions in teaching staff, retain
qualified/experienced teachers, avoid increases in class sizes, maintain
up-to-date textbooks/classroom supplies, preserve music/art education, and
maintain college prep/honors courses.

To minimize the cost of Measure D4 to taxpayers, the district has reduced
the amount property owners pay each year to retire school facility bonds. As
a result, the net cost of Measure D4 to the average homeowner is only
about $6 per month.

The cost of Measure 04 is deductible on state and federal taxes. Seniors
are eligible for an exemption. Measure D4 is limited to 5 years and cannot
be extended without voter approval. An independent citizens oversight
committee will ensure Measure D4 funds are properly spent.

All Measure D4 funds will remain in Oak Park to benefit local children. No
funds can be taken away by the State. Good schools help keep our property
values high and help maintain the quality of life in our community.

PLEASE VOTE YES ON MEASURE D4.

s/Cindy Vinson,

President Oak Park Unified Board of Education

s/Wayne Blasman,

Chairman - Friends of Oak Park Schools

s/Theodore (Ted) Dahl,

Friends of Oak Park Schools

s/Susan Allen,

Teacher OVHS/Parent

s/Steven Iceland,

Chairman - Parks & Recreation Advisory Committee

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED.

9206EIA.TXT

9206eaf.txt

5614