EAST SIDE UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

DISTRITO NG UNYON NG MATAAS NA PAARALAN NG EAST SIDE

KTo increase student literacy, provide students training in modem technology, and improve student safety throughout the District including Andrew H Evergreen Vai e, Foot-
Independence, James Lick. Mt. Pleasant, Oak Grove, Piedmont Hills. Santa Teresa, Silver Creek, Overfelt and Verba Buena High Schools, shall East Side Union Hign Scnoo
District levy an annual tax of $50 per parcel provided spending is annually reviewed by an independent citizens' oversight committee and all funds are spent locally and not
transferred to the State?

Upang itaas ang karunungang bumasa’t sumulat ng estudyante, magkaloob sa mga estudyante ng pagsasanay sa modemong teknotohiya, at pahusaym ang kaligtasan ng estudyante sa
buong Distnto kabilang ang Mataas ng Paaralan ng Andrew Hill, Evergreen Valley, Foothill, Independence. James Lick, Mt. Pleasant, Oak Grove. Piedmont Hills. Santa Teresa. Silver
Creek, Overfelt at Verba Buena, ang Distrito ng Unyon ng Mataas na Paaralan ng East Side ay dapat bang magpataw ng taunang buwis na $50 kada parsela sa kondisyong ang paggasta
ay susunin taun-taon ng isang mdependiyenteng komite ng nagbabantay na mamamayan at lahat ng pondo aygagastahin sa lokal na pangangailangan at hindi ililipat sa Estado?

ALUM ROCK UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
DISTRITO NG UNYON NG PAARALAN NG ALUM ROCK

YES

00

NO

HINDI

4

4

t

To improve neighborhood elementary and middle schools by:

Expanding reading, math and science programs;

Reducing oass sizes.

Provdmg one teacher for every 20 students in kindergarten through third grade;
Replacing outdated library books; and
imp'o/ing teacher retention and recruitment

S-a A urn Rory Ur*on E ementary School District levy an annual parcel tax of $100, for five years only, adjusted annually for inflation, with guaranteed annual audits, citizens' oversight and
2i money for administrators salaries7

jpang panusa/n ang mga elementarya at panggitnang paaralan ng kapitbahayan sa pamamagitan ng:

•	Pagoaoaiawak ng mga programa sa pagbabasa, matematika at agham;

•	Pagoawas ng mga laki ng klase;

•	Pagxairaioob ng isang guro para sa bawat 20 estudyante sa kindergarten hanggang ikatlong grado;

•	Pagpapalit ng lipas nang mga libro ng aklatan; at

•	Pagpapahusay ng pagpapanatili at pagkuha ng guro

Ang Distrito ng Unyon ng Paaralang Elementarya ng Alum Rock ay dapat bang magpataw ng taunang buwis sa parsela na $100, para sa limang taon lamang. imaakma taun-taon para sa
impiasyon, na may igmagarantiyang taunang pagsusun, pagbabantay ng mamamayan at walang pera para sa mga suweldo ng mga tagapangasiwa?

YES

OO

NO

HINDI

*

*













MEASURE R

COUNTY COUNSEL S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE R -----------------------------

Ca forrua law permits a school district to levy a special tax on parcas of EXPANDED W
arc n the district if the tax is approved by two-thirds of the voters yotng n SIZES MEASU
ar section.

~‘e Beard of Trustees of the Alum Rock Union Elementary School District
erxeses 3 special tax of $100 per parcel, per year, for 5 years only. A vote for
frie scec 3i tax is aiso a vote to increase the appropriations limit by the amount
of the ncreased special tax.

Tne purpose of the special tax is to improve local elementary and middie
schoos by expanding reading, math, and science programs, reducing class
sizes, providing one teacher for every 20 students in kindergarten through third
grade placing outdated library books, and improving teacher retention and
recruitment No money from the special tax will be used for administrators
saiares.

The proceeds of the special tax will be deposited into a separate fund and
applied only to the specific purposes identified above. No later than January 1
of each year, the school district will prepare an annual report stating the amount
of funds collected and expended and the status of any project authonzed to be
funded. The school district will also appoint a citizens' oversight committee.

A “yes" vote is a vote to approve a special tax on parcels within Alum Rock
Union Elementary School District.

A “no" vote is a vote not to approve the special tax.

To "'cro.e nei

•	Exp

•	-ed

•	"''O

trvn

•	Ref

•	Imp

Sha> Au^ Rc
$100 for f ve)
audits, citizen*

By

registered vol
a qualified sp
the Project L
specified belt

Ann Miller Ravel
County Counsel

By: Isl Lisa Herrick

Deputy County Counsel

Tl

proposition ii
that their me
California, tl
special accr
specific purj:

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE R

EXPANDED MATH AND READING PROGRAMS AND SMALLER CLASS
SIZES MEASURE:

To improve neighborhood elementary and middle schools by:

•	Expanding reading, math and science programs;

•	Reducing class sizes;

•	Providing one teacher for every 20 students in kindergarten through
third grade;

•	Replacing outdated library books; and

•	Improving teacher retention and recruitment

Shall Alum Rock Union Elementary School District levy an annual parcel tax of
$100 for five years only, adjusted annually for inflation, with guaranteed annual
audits, citizens’ oversight and no money for administrators’ salaries?

Parcel Tax Authorization

By approval of this proposition by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the
registered voters voting on the proposition, the District will be authorized to levy
a qualified special tax of $100 per parcel for the specific school projects listed in
the Project List described below, subject to all the accountability requirements
specified below.

Accountability Requirements

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this

■

.j



me rroject List described below, subject to all the accountability requirements

specified below.

Accountability Requirements

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this
proposition in order that the voters and taxpayers in the Distnct may be assured
that their money will be spent wisely. As required by the laws of the State of
California, the proceeds of the qualified special tax will be deposited into a
special account established by the District and will be applied only to the
specific purposes identified below. The District has covenanted to have on file
with its governing board no later than January lof each year a report stating the
amount of the funds collected and expended and the status of any project
authorized to be funded.

Project List

The statement shown below is a part of the ballot proposition and
must be reproduced in any official document required to contain the full
statement of the proposition.

The proceeds of the parcel tax will be expended to finance the
payment of costs and expenses of the District to support the following purposes:

•	Expanding reading, math and science programs:

•	Reducing class sizes;

•	Providing one teacher for every 20 students in kindergarten through
third grade;

•	Replacing outdated library books and;

•	Improving teacher retention and recruitment.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R

[local and statewide budget cuts are seriously damaging our ability to provide
high-quality education for local students. Class sizes are rapidly growing.
■Education programs like physical education, art and music are being cut. Our
I local students need our support.

Measure R will improve our student s reading skills. It will expand reading, math
and science programs on Alum Rock campuses, the fundamental subjects our
students will need to be successful in high school and life.

Children are more likely to succeed if they receive personal attention. Measure
R reduces class sizes in elementary and middle schools and will ensure that
class size is limited to one teacher provide per every 20 students in
kindergarten through the third grade.

Quality education starts with quality teachers. Measure R improves the
Districts ability to recruit and retain well-qualified teachers to our local
classrooms.

Measure R gives parents a greater say in their children s education. It provides
education alternatives such as English/Spamsh language immersion programs,
and separate small schools on existing campuses that specialize in programs
such as the arts and community service.

Measure R improves school safety. Studies show that the hours in which kids
are most likely to get in trouble are the afternoon hours, nght after school lets
out Measure R extends the school day. keeping our kids safe and away from
gangs and drugs. It will also provide new secunty systems, improved lighting,
and door locks at our local schools.

Measure R has built in tax-payer protections to ensure funds are spent wisely.
It requires guaranteed annual audits, a citizen's oversight committee and
absolutely no money for administrators salanes.

Measure R is our opportunity to ensure that our children have the resources
they need to be successful. Please join us in voting yes on Measure R.

f Alfonso Anaya

Supenntendent of Schools. Alum Rock Union School District

\lsl Jim Cunneen

President and CEO San Jose Silicon Valley Chamber of Commerce

Nora Campos

San Jose City Councilmember
Jason A. Rodnguez

Trustee. Alum Rock Union School Distnct

s- Abelardo Morales
Trustee. Alum Rock Union School Distnct

The issues arent educations importance, increased enrollment, or |
Sacramento s budget cuts.

Proposition 98 guarantees that 40% of California’s general funds are spent on I
education. According to the Governor s budget, statewide education I
spending/student continues to INCREASE' The “crisis" isn’t REVENUE: it's |
SPENDING!

•	Property taxes already fund Alum Rock Union School Distnct.

•	Additionally, homeowners are STILL repaying $47,000,000 of Alum Rock |
Union School District's infrastructure bonds.

Last March, Proposition 55 authonzed $12,300,000,000 more to relieve]
overcrowding and repair older K-12 schools!

Why another tax that only property owners pay?

Homeowners are on a property taxing merry-go-round. How many different
'creatively labeled" property taxes are necessary? When is enough enough’?
When do tenants pay their fair share? Tax EVERYONE (the cost/resident
would be dramatically less) or NO ONE!

Only residents vote, whether or not they are homeowners. It’s unfair for those
NOT paying for Measure R to vote for more property taxes! Tenants (41% of
the electorate) escape taxation!

More money DOESN’T guarantee better education. With 25% less
revenue/student. Cupertino's Faria Elementary students are ranked first in the
State!

Measure R:

•	Adversely affects those on fixed incomes (like SENIORS) who can least
afford it

Makes the home ownership dream less attainable.

This is the second parcel tax request by the District (the first was DEFEATED).
History demonstrates Alum Rock Union School District DOESN’T LISTEN1

Your NO vote on Measure R doesn’t mean you are against schools, it means
you are for wise spending.

For more information see www.VoteNoOnR.us

Isl Allen Hacker

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

Isl Dennis Umphress

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association

Isl Jack E. Davis

Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

Isl Elizabeth C. Bnerly

Board Member, Silicon Valley Taxpayers’ Assn.

____ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE R

No specific plan exists on how Alum Rock Unon School Comet
money

All of the money raised by this new tax can be used lo inflate teaches *aa
There s no requirement that any of it 90 to replacing ubfen txvws or expanavig
programs.

There s also no plan to measure how effective Ms money wtf be « refcewrg
problems

Parcel taxes have a number of detrimental features.

Because parcel taxes affect all parcels of property equally and res.oenla
property makes up the bulk of most districts, the burden fails dopropcvtionateh
hard on homeowners

Additionally, these taxes make no distinction regarding atvtv to pax Measure
R impacts most those who can afford it least-those on fixed incomn^md it
taxes uniformly no matter how large expensive tne parcel' A honeowtxe mg
in a modest home could owe the same parcel tax amount as someone who lives
in an expensive mansion, or the owner of a huge office building worth tens ot
millions of dollars.

Single-family residential parcels constitute the bulk of parcels withm this
junsdiction. meaning the vast majonty of the tax burden will disproportionately
fall on single-family residential parcels.

I The use of parcel taxes to get around Proposition 13 s limitation on property tax
increases is accelerating, and taxpayers throughout the state are beginning to
feel the pinch.

Now is the wrong time to heighten financial burdens on already struggling
property owners and their tenants

There are only three voter positions when it comes to taxes

1.	Taxes are too high.

2.	Taxes are about nght.

3.	Taxes are too low.

If you agree with position ‘3’, then you could support this tax However, if you
agree with position *1’ or‘T, then you should vote *NO’ on Measure R.

Visit www.VoteNoOnR.us for more information.

' 1st Allen Hacker

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

Is/ Dennis Umphress

President. Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

Is/ Elizabeth C. Bnerly

Board Member, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

Kt ttUTTAl TO ANOUMI N1 AGAINST Ml ASURE R

Th* ol SfclW budget >'X*' on vXK ohAfren a"d Ckmxws uw-wl

Kx e\u".w> rx* Slate C\»x*>tof wmto* hay* kk»" Rvvk bx S.' mJion on the
das* xce iwJucton mwxdate to xm.t one ttMhif P*r 20 chAtoen to «
k.nxdwgailwn tfvwigh the to«\i

MR reduce* class *im and e-'vi-ee that m ondem »te-' through toe
ttvd giade c a\xe» rvw at o»xe tM hw I'm A1 ctxAfren Without Measure R.
class *«♦» witl Hxvtwas*

Many of Mr craven me entenng tvgh school unpieparod to succeed m toe
tvi>c s.ityech Moasute R expand* reeding, math and science programs

giveyg cm student* the sx.tt* torn need to succeed m tvgh school and pecans
torcotege

Alum Rock races CTv> enges »' fecfwtmg and rotamtoQ teachers Measure R
provides fund* to ensure that we can attract quality teachers to our
classrooms

kteasur* R has built«taxpayer protections to erasure funds ane spent wisely tt
requires the Wowing

•	Guaranteed annual financial audits.

•	Citizen s oversight committee to monitor how funds are spent.

•	Prohibits funds from being used on administrators' salaries,
ensuring that funds go directly toward improving our campuses
and classrooms

•	Expires in five years to ensure that voters can judge thr
performance of our local schools.

Measure R is our only option to ensure class sizes are reduced, reading ma
and science progrants am expanded; quality teachers are hired and'schot
satety improvements an* made

Help us fulfill our education promise to our children by voting yes on Measure

/s/ Abetardo Morales

Trustee, Alum Rock Union Elementary School Dist

Is/ Jason A Rodnguez

Trustee, Alum Rock Union Elementary School Distnct