
<impartial> Impartial Analysis from County Counsel

On August 3, 1988, the Contra Costa Transportation Authority unanimously passed and adopted
Ordinance No. 88-01 (the Contra Costa Transportation Improvement and Growth Management
Ordinance). The purpose of the ordinance was to impose and collect a retail and transactions tax
(sales tax) at the rate of one-half of one-percent (0.5 %) in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of Contra Costa County. As required under the Local Transportation Authority and
Improvement Act (Public Utilities Code section 180000 et seq.), the revenues derived from the
sales tax may be expended for "for the construction and improvement of state highways, the
construction, maintenance, improvement, and operation of local streets, roads, and highways,
and the construction, improvement, and operation of public transit systems." Ordinance No.

88-01 was approved by voters on November 8, 1988, and became operative on April 1, 1989.

The imposition of the sales tax is currently set to expire on March 31, 2009. Under the Act, a
sales tax may be continued in effect if a county transportation authority adopts a tax ordinance by
two-thirds vote and the imposition of the tax is later approved by county electors voting on the
measure at an election. On May 26, 2004, the Contra Costa Transportation Authority
unanimously passed and adopted Ordinance No. 04-02, which amends Ordinance No. 88-01 and
continues the existing half-cent sales tax, subject to voter approval. The sales tax would continue
for an additional twenty-five years, starting on April 1, 2009 and continuing through March 31,
2034.

If this measure is approved by the voters, the revenues derived from the half-cent sales tax will
be expended for the transportation projects and programs set forth in the Contra Costa
Transportation Authority's adopted transportation expenditure plan ("TEP"). The Contra Costa
Transportation Authority has adopted a new TEP (included in the voter information handbook)
to supplement the original 1988 TEP. The new TEP sets forth transportation projects and
programs, including extending and improving the BART system, adding a fourth bore to the
Caldecott Tunnel and improving Highway 24, widening and improving Interstates 80 and 680

and Highway 4, maintaining and improving local streets and roads, and improving transit for
seniors and disabled persons. If approved by the voters, the TEP will become effective on April
1, 2005. This measure seeks voter approval of the amendment of Ordinance No. 88-01, the
continuance of the existing sales tax, and the implementation of the new TEP.

Two-thirds of those voting on the measure must approve the measure in order for it to pass.

A "yes" vote is to approve Ordinance No. 04-02, including the continuation of the sales tax.

A "no" vote is to disapprove Ordinance No. 04-02, including the continuation of the sales tax. <impartialend>






<favor> Arguments For Measure J

Vote YES on Measure J for comprehensive transportation solutions to traffic and congestion in
Contra Costa County. Passage of Measure J authorizes an expenditure plan to relieve congestion
in every major commute corridor in Contra Costa County, providing a balance of road
improvements and mass transit solutions to manage our traffic problems. Measure J will help us
address the transportation demands facing our County. Measure J identifies five regional
transportation priorities for Contra Costa County:

1.	Fix aging highways and build the fourth bore of the Caldecott Tunnel. Major new projects will
improve interchanges, open new lanes— including a fourth bore of the Caldecott Tunnel on
Highway 24— and improve Interstates 80, 680 and Highway 4.

2.	Maintain and improve local streets and roads. The current plan provides critical funds to every
city in Contra Costa County for maintenance of local streets and roads. The new plan will
continue to fund these activities, repaving streets, filling potholes, and upgrading local
transportation infrastructure.

3.	Expand BART and transit programs that have a demonstrated ability to get people out of their
cars. These include substantial new expansions and improvements to the BART system and
express and feeder bus services.

4.	Special transportation services for seniors and people with disabilities. The plan significantly
increases funds to serve people with special transportation needs and our community's growing
senior population.

5.	Improve bike and pedestrian safety. The plan reduces hazards and maximizes safety by
funding improvements in bike and pedestrian infrastructure. Measure J was created through a
two year public planning process that solicited input from citizens throughout Contra Costa
County. It reflects a consensus, drawing support from environmental, social justice, taxpayer,
and transit advocates; union members and business interests; all nineteen cities; and unanimous
support from the Board of Supervisors. For more information, please visit our website http://
www.YesOnMeasureJ.org. Vote YES on Measure J. <favorend>







<favorsigs> Senator Tom Torlakson

Richard Rainey, Retired Sheriff and Former State Senator
Amy Worth, Chair, Contra Costa Transportation Authority
Federal Glover, Chair, Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors
Beverly W. Lane, Director, East Bay Regional Park District <favorsigsend>






<rebutfavor> Rebuttal to Arguments For

VOTE NO ON MEASURE J. Informed environmentalists, taxpayer organizations, and

community activists oppose this Measure C sales-tax renewal. Measure J would NOT reduce
traffic congestion + despite $2 Billion in new spending + because additional traffic will outpace
improvements.

LONG COMMUTES REMAIN. Contra Costa's average commute became sixth worst among
America's 3,142 counties (2000 Census) + and Contra Costa's Transportation Authority admits
that in the past two years alone, "congestion has increased almost 20%." Yet CCTA's tax-funded
promotional materials for Measure J misleadingly show nearly empty roads!

MEASURE C HASN'T WORKED. Why not? o Measure C (voter-approved in 1988) promised
to "assure that new growth pays for the facilities required to meet the demands resulting from
that growth." Didn't happen, o Jurisdictions with new development were to meet minimum
standards. Again, didn't happen.

DON'T TRUST THE POLITICIANS. They've dodged Measure C's promises for 15 years. Now,
they seek endorsement of their irresponsibility. Your "NO" vote on Measure J holds them
accountable.

MEASURE J FAILS TO FULLY FUND KEY PROJECT AREAS + and Bay Bridge funding
fiascos demonstrate the unreliability of state-match money. Measure J would not make buses a
viable transportation alternative. And as conceived, the Caldecott Tunnel project would improve
only reverse commutes + e.g., weekday-morning traffic INTO Contra Costa County.

MEASURE C WON'T EXPIRE UNTIL 2009. Contra Costa's transportation plan should
reasonably balance highways, local streets, public transit, positive trip-reduction incentives,
quality of life, and a healthy economy. Given Measure C's/Measure J's high cost, there's time
enough to plan genuine solutions for Contra Costa's transportation problems.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE J!

More information:

http://cagreens.org/diablo (925-939-9993)
http://www.ecovote.org/local/eastbay.html
http://www.ACCTaxpavers.com (925-930-2825) <rebutfavorend>







<rebutfavorsigs> Ed Dimmick + Measure C Co-Author

East Bay League of Former Mayor

Walnut Creek Conservation Voters Kathleen C. Nimr

Director Diablo Greens Gregory J. Schneider

Jeanne-Marie Rosenmeier, Treasurer Friends of Sycamore Valley, Founding Director <rebutfavorsigsend>






<against> Arguments Against Measure J

LESS THAN 50% OF MEASURE J FUNDS ROADS, OUR GREATEST TRANSPORTATION
NEED. Despite many Billions in new transit subsidies [including Measure J], automobiles will
still provide 82% of Bay Area trips in 2025, transit just 6% [MTC, 2001].

MEASURE J's NUMEROUS OTHER PROBLEMS INCLUDE...

o Strings attached: 90% ($360 Million) of Measure J's "return-to-source" street-maintenance
funds require surrendering your community's autonomy to county bureaucrats and complex
decrees dictating even housing policy.

eBART evasions: even with Measure J, "eBART would still need $107 million" to reach
Brentwood and Byron + and likely impose high-density housing (Contra Costa Times, 10/11/03).

o Fourth-bore and Highway 4 runarounds: these projects need full $430 Million funding.

Measure J makes them partially-funded excuses for other spending. CONTRA COSTA'S
EXISTING TRANSPORTATION SALES TAX (MEASURE C) DOESN'T EXPIRE UNTIL
2009. Authorizing $2.02 Billion in new taxes now is imprudent and unnecessary,
o Taxpayers should weigh genuine 2008-09 transportation needs against tax burdens then, not
prematurely lock in 25 years of new spending now. November 2 marks the fourth tax election
this year for many Contra Costans. More bond schemes, parcel taxes, higher gasoline taxes, and
another bridge-toll increase are already under discussion.

o Exhausted, overtaxed commuters should require better utilization of existing transportation tax
dollars. Proposition 42, California's "Transportation Congestion Improvement Act" (2002), was
supposed to dedicate gasoline sales-tax revenues to transportation needs. Instead, escape clauses
have diverted Billions elsewhere.

o Only 11.2% of the Billions in new bridge-toll dollars (promoted as "traffic relief and approved
as Regional Measure 2 last March) affect roads and bridges. RM2 provides $700 Million for
ferries + twice what highways get + and now, Measure J hands ferries another $45 Million!

CONTRA CO$TA'S TRAN$PORTATION AUTHORITY 1$ PROMOTING MEASURE J
WITH PUBLIC FUNDS. WE HOPE YOU'LL JOIN OUR GRASSROOTS CAMPAIGN,
OPPOSE POLITICIANS' DOUBLE-DIP, BAIT-AND-SWITCH DECEPTIONS, AND...

VOTE NO ON MEASURE J! <againstend>






<againstsigs> Alliance of Contra Costa Taxpayers Citizens for Responsible Government Kenneth E. Hambrick,
Chairman; Kenneth Arras, Chairman East Bay Libertarian Party
Lafayette Taxpayers Association Scott Wilson, Contra Costa Chairman
Donald Lively, Spokesman Save El Sobrante
Marilynne L Mellander, Coordinator <againstsigsend>






<rebutagainst> Rebuttal to Arguments Against

The original transportation measure has been instrumental in funding the widening of Highway
4, BART extensions, the expansion of our highways, interchange improvements, and the
building of the Richmond Parkway + none of this would have happened without this important
measure. Now we have an opportunity to renew this vital transportation improvement measure
and it can be done without increasing taxes.

Waiting means more delays, with greater costs, while renewing now will ensure:

_ A 4th Bore for the Caldecott Tunnel
_ Widening and improving Highways 4, 80 and 680
_ Money for local street and road maintenance
_ BART service farther into East County
_ Transportation for seniors and those with disabilities

Approving Measure J now will allow the funds raised to be leveraged for additional state and
federal money + dollars that would otherwise go elsewhere. Please join the Contra Costa County
Board of Supervisors, the Contra Costa Transportation Authority, and all 19 cities in support of
Measure J. We need to get started. It's time to improve our regional roadways. For more

information about the plan go to http://www.ccta.net or visit the website at http://
www.vesonmeasureJ.org.

Please vote YES on Measure J on November 2nd <rebutagainst> 






<rebutagainstsigs> Congresswoman Ellen Tauscher
Assemblyman Guy Houston

Mark DeSaulnier California Air Resources Boardmember
Contra Costa County Supervisor Maria Alegria

Pinole City Council Member, Contra Costa Transportation Authority Commissioner, California
State Automobile Association President and CEO James Pouliot <rebutagainstsigsend>

