Measure D4

07/01/04-06/30/09

OAK PARK UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

DEC 0 3 2003

RESOLUTION # 03-31	. pHIL!P L SCHMIT, qawjlY CSerk

'	'	Bv ft

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE OAMARKouniY cterk V
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT PROPOSING A QUALIFIED SPECIAL
TAX AND ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION
ORDER

WHEREAS, the Board of Education (the “Board”) believes that such a'qualified special
tax is necessary to maintain quality education for the students of Oak Park Unified School
District (the “District”); and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Sections 50075,-50076, 50077, 50079 and 53722 et seq. of the California Government Code
authorize school districts, upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting oh the measure, to
levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes following notice and a public hearing; and

WHEREAS, tlie annual appropriations limit of the District should be raised concurrently
to allow the District to expend the amounts raised by said tax;

• .NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF OAK PARK UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

That _ the Board has determined in its best judgment that in order to maintain quality
education for the students of the District, an election is advisable and on that basis hereby orders
file Ventura Registfar-Recorder/County Clerk to call an election and submit to the voters of the
District file question of whether to adopt a qualified special tax to attract and retain qualified and
experienced teachers and other school employees, maintain educational programs that enhance
student achievement to maximize learning by our community’s children.

Said qualified special tax shall be in an amount not to exceed $197 per parcel annually
for five (5) years assessed, against each parcel of taxable land in the District. • An annual review
and recommendation shall be completed for the determination of the amount of the qualified
special tax to be assessed for each successive year.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that now receives a separate
tax bill from the Ventura County Assessor’s Office. All property that would otherwise be
exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of said qualified special, tax.

[An exemption shall also be available for a person 65 years or older who owns and
occupies as a principal residence a parcel (as defined above) and applies to the District for such
exemption in accordance with guidelines, established by the District.]

That the date of the election shall be March 2,2004.

That the purpose of the election shall be for the voters in the District to vote on a ballot
measure, a copy of which is attached hereto and marked Exhibit “A” and incorporated by •
reference herein.

That the Board has the authority for ordering the election.
*• *'

That the authority for the specifications of this election order is contained in Section 5322
of the California Education Code.

That this Resolution shall stand as the order to the Ventura County Registrar/County
Clerk to call an election within the boundaries of the District on March 2, 2004,

That the Clerk of the Board is hereby directed immediately to send a certified copy of this
Resolution to the Ventura County Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk (tire “County
Registrar/Clerk”), the Ventura County Board of Supervisors, and the Ventura Comity
Superintendent of Schools so that said Superintendent receives it no later than December 5,
2003.

That the Ventura County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to deliver this
Resolution, which constitutes the order of election, and a formal notice of the election to the
Ventura County Registrar/Clerk no later than December 5, 2003. That the Ventura County
Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to perform the duties under Education Code
Section 5302, to call the election, prepare recommendations, statements, or arguments for the
election as required and to receive petitions, as necessary.

That the Ventura County Registrar/Clerk is hereby requested to prepare a Formal Notice
of Qualified Special Tax Election (the “Notice”) containing the information specified in Section
5361 of the Education Code and Section 12112 of the Elections Code.

Pursuant to Sections 9316 and 9502 of the Elections Code, the Ventura County
Registrar/Clerk is requested to publish the Notice once in a newspaper of general circulation
published in the District so as to provide a reasonable time in which to prepare and print the
arguments, and to permit the 10-calendar-day public examination. The Board requires that a
copy of that published Notice be delivered to the Clerk of the Board, pursuant to Section 12113
of the Elections Code.

Pursuant to Sections 5303, 5320, and 5322 of the Educations Code, the Ventura County
Registrar/Clerk is hereby requested to take all steps to call and hold the election in accordance
with law and these specifications.

The Board of Supervisors of Ventura County is authorized to canvass the returns of the
election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

Pursuant to Section 5303 of the Education Code and Section 1002 of the Elections Code,
the Board of Supervisors of Ventura County is requested to permit the County Registrar/Clerk to
render all services necessary, including those services specified in Sections 12112 and 12105 of
the Elections Code relating to the election, such services to include the publication of a Formal
Notice of School Parcel Tax Election (as described herein) and the mailing of the sample ballot
pursuant to the terms of Section 12112 of the Elections Code.

That the Board requests the governing body of any such other political subdivision, or
any officer otherwise authorized by law, to partially or completely consolidate such election and
to further provide that the canvass be made by any body or official authorized by law to canvass
the returns of the election; and that the Board consents to such consolidation.

Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the qualified special tax shall be collected by
the Ventura County Tax Collector at the same time as and along with, and shall be subject to the
same penalties as general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collector. The tax and penalty
shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

The members of the Board, the Superintendent of the District, and officers of the District
are hereby authorized and directed, individually and collectively, to do any and all tilings and to
execute, deliver, and perform any and all agreements and documents that they deem necessary or
advisable in order to effectuate the purposes of this Resolution, including without limitation, to
prepare and submit for inclusion in the voter information pamphlet an argument in favor of
passage of the ballot measure, All actions heretofore taken by the officers and agents of the
District that are in conformity with the purposes and intent of this Resolution are hereby ratified,
confirmed, and approved in all respects.

The members of the Board, the Superintendent of the District, and officers of the District
are hereby requested and directed, individually and collectively, to provide accountability
measures pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1 that include, but are not limited to, all
of the following: (a) a statement indicating the specific purposes of the qualified special tax; (b)
a requirement that the proceeds be applied only to the specific purposes identified pursuant to
subsection (a); (c) the creation of an account into which the proceeds shall be deposited; and (d)
and annual report pursuant to Section 50075.3 of the Government Code, as provided in Section
20 hereof.

Pursuant to Section 50075.3 of the Government Code, the Board directs that the chief
fiscal officer of the District file a report with the Board no later than January 1, 2005, and at least
once a year thereafter. The annual report shall contain both of the following: (a) the amount of
funds collected and expended; and (b) the status of any project required or authorized to be
funded as identified in subsection (a) of Section 19 hereof.

[Optional Section 20. That the Board shall establish and appoint members to an
independent citizens oversight committee to ensure the proper expenditure of parcel tax funds.]

ADOPTED, SIGNED AND APPROVED this 1st day of December, 2003.

Noes:	O	Abstain:	&	Absent:

OAK PARK UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

ATTEST:

B)

ClVk, Board of Education

EXHIBIT A

OAK PARK UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
BALLOT LANGUAGE FOR SCHOOL PARCEL TAX ELECTION

“To protect high quality education at our neighborhood schools
and reduce the impact of unprecedented budget cuts on classroom
instruction by retaining qualified teachers, avoiding class size
increases, maintaining up-to-date textbooks and preserving
essential academic programs that enhance student achievement
shall Oak Park Unified School District assess $197 per parcel
annually for five (5) years with an exemption for seniors, annual
audits, independent citizen oversight, no proceeds for administrator
salaries and all funds remaining in Oak Park to benefit local
children?”

CLERK’S CERTIFICATE

I, Jim Kalember, Clerk of the Board of Education of the Oak Park Unified School
District, Comity of Ventura, California, hereby certify that the foregoing is a full, true and
correct copy of a resolution duly adopted at a special meeting of the Board of Education of said
District duly held at the regular meeting place thereof on December 1, 2003, and entered in the
minutes thereof, of which meeting all of the members of the Board of Education had due notice
and at which a quorum thereof was present, and that at said meeting the resolution was adopted
by the following vote:

AYES:	4

NOTES:	0

ABSTAIN:	0

ABSENT:	1

An agenda of the meeting was posted at least 72 hours before the meeting at District
Office, 5801 E, Conifer Street, Brookside Elementary School, 165 N. Satinwood Avenue, Oak
Hills Elementary School, 1010 N. Kanan Road, Red Oak Elementary School 4857 Rockfield
Street, Medea Creek Middle School, 1002 Double Tree Road, Oak Park High School, 899 N.
Kanan Road, Oak View High School 5701 E. Conifer Street, Oak Park Library, 899 N. Kanan
Road, Oak Park, California, a location freely accessible to members of the public, and a brief
description of the resolution appeared on the agenda.

I further certify that I have carefully compared the same with the original minutes of said
meeting on file and of record in my office; the foregoing resolution is a full, true and correct
copy of the original resolution adopted at said meeting and entered in said minutes; and that said
resolution has not been amended, modified or rescinded since the date of its adoption, and the
same is now in full force and effect.

Pursuant to Section 8 of the resolution, I have caused a certified copy thereof to be
delivered to the Ventura Registrar-Recorder/County Clerk, the Ventura County Board of
Supervisors, and the Ventura County Superintendent of Schools.

Dated: December 1, 2003

Clerk, Board of Education
Oak Park Unified School District

#687

MINUTES OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING 12-1-03
OAK PARK UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
BOARD OF EDUCATION

CALL TO ORDERMEETING PLACE

The Board of Education President, Cindy Vinson, called the special meeting to order at 5:10 p.m.
at Oak Park Unified School District Offices, 5801 E. Conifer Street, Oak Park.

FLAG SALUTE

Charles Heath led the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag.	'

BOARD PRESENT

Mrs. Cindy Vinson, President

Mrs. Jan Iceland, Vice President

Mr. Jim Kalember, Clerk

Mrs. Marie Panec, Member

Ms. Kelly Viselman, Student Board Representative

BOARD ABSENT

Mrs. Mary Rees, Member

•)

STAFF PRESENT

Dr. Gary Richards, Superintendent

Mr. Martin Klauss, Assistant Superintendent, Business and Administrative Services and
Classified Personnel

Mr. Tony Knight, Assistant Superintendent, Educational Services and Certificated Personnel
Mrs. Cathy Skiba, Director, Pupil Services
Mrs. Carolyn Knight, Administrative Assistant

STAFF ABSENT

Mrs. Linda Sheridan, Executive Assistant
ADOPTION OF AGENDA

On motion of Jim Kalember, seconded by Jan Iceland, the Board of Education approved die
agenda. Motion carried 4-0.

1

Cl APPROVE PARCEL TAX RESOLUTION #03-31

Dr. Richards spoke regarding the decisions this meeting was being convened to make because of.
the major financial impact on the instructional program and operations of the Oak Park Unified
School District. He stated that over the last few months the Board has had numerous discussions
about our financial picture in-light of the State budgetary crises. We have faced an $800,000
deficit this school year and are looking at an additional $1 million deficit for next school year’s
budget. We could be forced to take drastic measures to balance the budget, such as layoff of
both certificated and classified staff and larger class sizes at all grade levels.

Dr. Richards introduced Charles Heath of Tramutola, who gave a presentation outlining the some
of the pertinent survey results that would help the Board to make its decision tonight. Mr. Heath
discussed the pros and cons of both the March and April ballot, what the community values
about the Oak Park Unified School District, statements that could convince voters to vote in
favor of the tax, and finally Tramutola’s recommendation to the Board. Mr. Heath answered
questions .pbsed by the Board prior to making their decision.

On motion of Jan Iceland, seconded by Jim Kalember, the Board of Education approved $197 as
the amount of the parcel tax. Motion carried 4-0;

On motion of Marie Panec, seconded by Jan Iceland, the Board of Education approved the
duration of five (5) years for the parcel tax. Motion carried 4-0.

On motion of Jan Iceland, seconded by Jim Kalember, the Board of Education approved a senior
exemption to the parcel tax. Motion carried 4-0.

On motion of Jan Iceland, seconded by Marie Panec, the Board of Education approved placing
the ballot on the March election. Motion carried 4-0.

Ori motion of Jim Kalember, seconded by Cindy Vinson, the Board of Education approved
appointing a Citizen Oversight Committee. Motion carried 4-0..

On motion of Cindy Vinson, seconded by Marie Panec, the Board of Education approved
Resolution #03-31 of the Board of Education of the Oak Park Unified School District Proposing
a Qualified Special Tax and Establishing Specifications of the Election Order. Motion carried
4-0.