ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION B

Changing the City Charter is serious business. We are talking about permanently amending our
local constitution.” However, the City Bureaucrats have purposely kept you, the voters, in the dark
as to what Construction Manger. (CM) at Risk means. Here are a few facts:

*CM-At Risk is not a recognized and legal project delivery method for cities in the State of
California. That is why the City needs a charter change to allow it.

*CM-At Risk simply means that the City of San Diego will be able to choose any contractor
for any project and the California Public Contract Code, the code that protects fair
competition and ensures that the taxpayer gets the lowest price, will no longer apply.

*CM-At Risk provides large out-of-town contractors with the incentive to become “more
friendly” to our elected officials so that they will be given prime city projects to build.

*CM-At Risk will hurt local contractors, especially small contractors and their local work
force.

The proponents will say that the City is faced with too many cost over-runs and something must
be done. Don’t be fooledl Eliminating competitive bidding will not lower costs and this proposition
has nothing to do with cost containment. If it did, the City would enact any of the numerous
recommendations made by industry experts that actually would lower costs, prevent over-runs
and save the taxpayers money. That is not what is being proposed.

This charter change is simply about making a few “Friends of City Hall” a lot of money at
taxpayer expense. The only thing standing In their way is you - Vote no on Construction
Manager-At Risk and tell the City Bureaucrats there will be no returning to the days when the
proverbial “friends” got all the City contracts.

ANDREW BERG
National Electrical
Contractors Assn.

LISZA M. PONTES

American Subcontractors Association
San Diego County Chapter

JEFF ANDERSON
President

Engineering & General Contractors Assn.

N SD 060-066

CITY OF SAN DIEGO
Proposition C

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROPC

EMERGENCY SERVICES, ROADS, PARKS, TOUR-
ISM AND OTHER SPECIFIED USES ORDINANCE.

Shall the City increase th& transient occupancy tax
(TOT) paid by hotel and motel visitors by 2.5%, and shall these funds, along
with some current TOT funds, be earmarked to fupd Fire-Rescue and Police
emergency services, equipment and facilities; road improvements; park and
coastal improvements; tourism promotion; and library and arts programs; and
shall public audits be conducted of the uses of these funds?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds of the voters.

Full text of this proposition follows the arguments.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City Council has authorized the placement on the ballot a proposition seeking voter approval
of a measure that would amend the City's Municipal Code by raising the Transient Occupancy Tax
[TOT] from the current rate of 10.5% to 13%. The TOT is a tax paid by hotel and motel guests who
reside for one month or less in a hotel or motel in the City. Because the revenues derived from
raising the TOT rate would be dedicated for specific purposes, this ballot measure proposes a
special tax as defined by article XIIIC of the California Constitution. Accordingly, this ballot
measure will take effect only if passed by two-thirds of the City’s voters.

This ballot measure would require that one-half of all TOT revenues be allocated in the City
Manager’s budget for designated purposes. For every 13 cents projected for collection:

a.	Three quarters of a cent would go to a TOT Fire-Rescue Fund for the repair, replacement,
and improvement of fire-rescue facilities, equipment, and infrastructure, over and above
expenditure levels currently being used for such purposes;

b.	One quarter of a cent would go to a TOT Police Fund for Police facilities and equipment, over
and above expenditure levels currently being used for such purposes;

c.	Three quarters of a cent, up to $7,689,632, would go to the Police Department budget. Any
amount projected for collection exceeding $7,689,632 would go to the TOT Police Fund;

d.	Three quarters of a cent would go to a Community Infrastructure Fund for improvements to
neighborhood roads, Mission Bay, and Balboa Park; open space acquisition; and the

■ development of a Parks Systems Master Plan;

e.	One-half cent would go to the TOT Library System Fund for Library System facility
improvements;

f.	One cent would go to the TOT Arts and Culture Fund for Arts and Culture projects, programs,
and support of the Arts and Culture Commission; and,

g.	Two and one-half cents would go to the Tourism Marketing and Promotion Fund, from which
allocations shall be made to the Convention and Visitors Bureau, the Convention Center, and
other entities engaging in the promotion of San Diego as a tourist destination.

These allocations of TOT revenue may not be repealed or amended except by two-thirds vote of
the City's voters, but may be temporarily suspended in the event of a public emergency as
determined by two-thirds vote of the City Council. TOT revenues not subject to allocation may be
used for general governmental purposes according to the discretion of the City Council.

This ballot measure would create a Tourism Promotion Review Board composed of
representatives of the lodging and restaurant industries and the San Diego-Imperial Counties
Labor Council. This Board would have responsibilities over the budget of the Tourism Marketing
and Promotion Fund. Its budget would be submitted to the Council for approval, with the Council
having the final authority to approve the budget, subject only to certain minimum funding levels.
PR-09L0-5	N	SD	060-067

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

Our tax dollars have been wasted on pet projects while urgent needs - such as emergency fire
helicopters - go unfunded. Prop. C prohibits such waste.

VISITORS PAY

Proposition C raises the hotel/motel tax paid by visitors by 2.5 percent - providing millions annually
in new funds for urgent PUBLIC SAFETY and ROAD IMPROVEMENT priorities. It is supported by
tourism businesses because it provides accountability for tourism revenues and NEW FUNDS to
promote tourism and expand our economy.

UPGRADES 9-1-1 - REDUCES EMERGENCY RESPONSE TIMES

Major crimes are UP in San Diego yet DOWN in other major cities. Our firefighters, paramedics and
9-1-1 personnel are forced to work with obsolete1, inadequate or simply inferior equipment and
facilities.

San Diego now ranks near the bottom of major cities in emergency response times. Those critical
extra emergency response minutes cost lives every year - as recent fires have painfully reminded
us.

Proposition C earmarks $20 mill ion per year to address urgent public safety needs - putting money
in a LOCK BOX that can only be used to:

■	Upgrade our aging, outdated, 9-1-1 emergency network.

■	Purchase new fire and paramedic equipment and new fire stations.

■	Purchase modem police equipment and supplies.

These investments will help reduce crime and reduce emergency response times - saving lives
and improving the safety of every local resident.

MILLIONS FOR NEIGHBORHOOD ROAD IMPROVEMENTS

Proposition C also earmarks millions annually for urgent neighborhood street and road
improvements - helping to reduce traffic congestion.

With the city facing huge deficits these critical needs will go unfunded without Proposition C.
TAXPAYER PROTECTIONS
Proposition C protects taxpayers by:

■	REQUIRING elected officials to spend the money as directed by the voters.

■	MANDATING INDEPENDENT PUBLIC AUDITS to ensure the funds are spent as intended.

Vote YES on C - For a safer city and a stronger economy.

RON SAATHOFF
President

San Diego City Firefighters

BILL FARRAR
President

San Diego Police Officers Association

LISA BRIGGS
Executive Director

JESSIE KNIGHT
President

San Diego County Taxpayers Association San Diego Chamber of Commerce

TERRY BROWN
Chairman

San Diego Lodging Industry Association

N SD 060-068

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION C

Prop C, as an editorial in the Union-Tribune noted, is a “badly flawed measure" pushed by
“special interests" that would place “off limits to the City Council1’ a “huge chunk" of the City’s
revenues.

Is it any wonder that Mayor Dick Murphy and two other members of the Council voted against Prop
C? The Mayor was quoted saying that Prop C “limits the city's flexibility to respond to the
changing needs of our citizens."

Prop C mixes apples and lemons. Higher taxes on tourists may or may not be a good idea, but with
Prop C, those taxes come at too high a price - a price extracted by special interests that shouldn't
be permitted to lock in city revenues free of the normal annual review during budget deliberations.

But Prop C isn't just bad public policy. Prop C is a Trojan Horse, with provisions that will probably
shock you.

For example, using recent estimates based on FY2004 by the City Manager, while Prop C would
) raise over $26 million in new tax revenues, Prop C mandates where the City spend over $68 million.
That’s right - Prop C locks In 2.6 times more spending commitments than It would raise.

Prop C isn’t just bad public policy - it's fiscal lunacy.

And, who gets the really big bucks out of Prop C? Fire? Nol Pplice? Not according to the City
Manager. The really big bucks go to the tourist industry. The so-called Tourism Fund is mandated
by Prop C to receive - you have probably already guessed - over $26 million, no doubt just by
chance the same amount that the tax increase would raise.

Is it any wonder we think Prop C i£ corporate welfare at its worst?

Please join us and Vote No On Prop C.

RICHARD RIDER
Chair

San Diego Tax Fighters

J. BRUCE HENDERSON
President

Association of Concerned Taxpayers

KATHLEEN BLATTNER
Nurse Practitioner

EDWARD M. TEYSSIER
Chair

San Diego Libertarian Party

STEVEN CURRIE ,
Information Systems Manager

PR-09L0-7

N SD 060-069

MUNICIPAL CODE AMENDMENT

That Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, of the San Diego Municipal Code is amended by repealing
sections 35.0103, 35.0104, 35.0105, 35.0106, 35.0107, and 35.0108, which collectively have
imposed a 10.5 percent transient occupancy tax for the privilege of occupancy in hotels,
recreational vehicle parks, and campgrounds.

That Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, of the San Diego Municipal Code is amended by adding
new section 35.0103, to read as follows:

§35.0103 Tax Imposed

For the privilege of Occupancy in any Hotel, any Recreational Vehicle Park, or any
Campground, each Transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of 13
percent (13%) of the Rent charged by the Operator.

That Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, of the San Diego Municipal Code is amended by repealing
sections 35.0128, 35.0129, 35.0130, 35.0131, 35.0132, and 35.0133, which collectively have
established the process for utilizing revenues collected from transient occupancy taxes.

•

That Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, of the San Diego Municipal Code is amended by adding
new sections 35.0128, 35.0129, 35.0130, 35.0131, 35.0132, 35.0135, 35.0140, 35.0141,35.0142,
and 35.0143 which sections may not be repealed or amended except at an election and by a two-
thirds vote of the qualified voters of the City of San Diego, to read as follows:

§35.0128 Utilization of Revenues from Tax I mposed by Section 35.0103

a.	There are hereby created the following funds: TOT Fire-Rescue Fund, TOT Police
Fund, TOT Community Infrastructure Fund; TOT Library System Fund; TOT Arts
and Culture Fund, and Tourism Marketing and Promotion Fund.

b.	Except as set forth in section 35.0135, all revenues collected pursuant to the
transient occupancy tax imposed by the City under section 35.0103 shall be
utilized and expended solely in accordance with this section, as follows:

(1)	Three quarters of a cent ($0.0075) of every 13 cents projected for collection
shall be included in the City Manager's budget for deposit in the TOT Fire-
Rescue Fund to be appropriated by the City Council for the repair,
replacement, and improvement of fire-rescue facilities, equipment, and
infrastructure described in section 35.0129. Revenues from said TOT shall n6t.
be used for personnel stationed at existing facilities, but may be used to

. _	provide	personnel	related to new stations as described in section 35.0129. The

TOT Fire-Rescue Fund budget shall be adjusted to actual revenues in the
succeeding fiscal year.

(2)	One quarter of a cent ($0.0025) of every 13 cents projected for collection shall
be included in the City Manager’s budget for deposit in the TOT Police Fund to
be appropriated by the City Council for the Police facilities and equipment
described in section 35.0130. The TOT Police Fund budget shall be adjusted
to actual revenues in the succeeding fiscal year.

(3)	Three quarters of a cent ($0.0075) of every 13 cents projected for collection, up
to $7,689,632, shall be allocated in the City Manager’s budget for the Police
Department. Any amount projected for collection that exceeds $7,689,632
shall be allocated in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b)(2).

(4)	Three quarters of a cent ($0:0075) of every 13 cents projected for collection
shall be included in the City Manager's budget for deposit in the Community
Infrastructure Fund to be appropriated by the City Oouncil as described in
section 35.0131. The Community Infrastructure Fund budget shall be adjusted
to actual revenues in the succeeding fiscal year.

N SD 060-070

1

(5)	One-half cent ($0.0050) of every 13 cents projected for collection shall be
included in the City Manager's budget for deposit in the TOT Library System
Fund to be appropriated by the City Council solely for Library System facility
improvements, except in any fiscal year that the TOT allocation for Library
System facility improvements is less than the TOT allocation provided for in the
Library System Financing Plan dated November 18, 2002, then the amount of
the shortfall will be proportionately deducted from the amounts allocated
pursuant to paragraph (4), (6) and (7) of this section and deposited into the
TOT Library System Fund. The TOT Library System Fund budget shall be
adjusted to actual revenues in the succeeding fiscal year.

(6)	One cent ($0.01) of every 13 cents projected for collection shall be Included in
the City Manager’s budget for deposit in the TOT Arts and Culture Fund to be
appropriated by the City Council solely for Arts and Culture projects,
programs, and administrative support of the Arts and Culture Commission.
The TOT Arts and Culture Fund budget shall be adjusted to actual revenues in
the succeeding fiscal year.

(7)	Two and one-half cents ($0,025) of every 13 cents projected for collection shall
be included in the City Manager’s budget for deposit in the Tourism Marketing
and Promotion Fund to be used in the manner described in section 35.0132.
The Tourism Marketing and Promotion Fund -budget shall be adjusted to
actual revenues in the succeeding fiscal year.

(8)	All transient occupancy tax revenues not allocated pursuant to subsections

(b)(1) through (b)(7) shall be used for general governmental purposes as the
City Council may from time to time provide in accordance with the Charter of
the City of San Diego and the City Council’s Annual Appropriation Ordinance.

§35.0129 TOT Fire-Rescue Fund

Expenditures from the TOT Fire-Rescue Fund shall be in addition to and shall
supplement current expenditure levels being used for fire protection equipment,
communications systems, apparatus, deferred maintenance and facilities. Current
expenditure levels are defined as Fiscal Year 2003 actual expenses increased annually
by an amount equivalent to the annual percentage growth of the General Fund.
However, In any given fiscal year the City Council may make a finding to waive the
requirement to maintain current expenditure level funding, but only if revenue from the
TOT Fire-Rescue Fund and any other funding dedicated for the purposes described in
this section are found to be sufficient to meet the goals and objectives outlined in this
section. Appropriations are eligible to be made from the TOT Fire-Rescue Fund as
follows:

(a)	to purchase and maintain fire apparatus to replace the existing fleet; and

(b)	to purchase and maintain public safety communications systems and equipment,
including a new Mobile Data Communications System to allow for greater
efficiency and improved emergency response time; and

(c)	To eliminate the backlog of deferred maintenance on equipment, apparatus, and
facilities; and

(d)	To develop a needs assessment to (1) identify funding requirements for
maintenance of equipment, apparatus, and fire-rescue facilities; and (2) create a
maintenance plan to ensure that current equipment, apparatus, and fire-rescue
facilities do not become maintenance deferred once the backlog identified in the
needs assessment has been eliminated; and

(e)	After funding is completed for priorities identified in subsections (a) through (d), to
fund development of a long-term plan to address the goal of six-minute emergency
response times in each community and neighborhood, including use of the funds
for purchase of land, construction, equipment and apparatus, and personnel for
new fire stations; and

(f)	Prior to implementing the longterm emergency response time plan, a
maintenance account shall be established to pay for maintenance and repair on all

, new facilities and equipment; and

PR-09L0-9

N SD 060-071

§35.0130

§35.0131

PR-09L0-10

(g)	To maintain a reserve in the-TOT Fire-Rescue Fund of no less than ten percent
(10%) of the TOT funds projected for the fiscal year to be deposited into the TOT
Fire-Rescue Fund.

TOT Police Fund

Expenditures from the TOT Police Fund shall be in addition to and shall supplement
current expenditure levels being used for public safety equipment, communications
systems, police vehicles, deferred maintenance and facilities.

Current expenditure levels are defined as Fiscal Year 2003 actual expenses increased
annually by an amount equivalent to the annual percentage growth of the General
Fund. However, in any given fiscal year the City Council may make a finding to waive
the requirement to maintain current expenditure level funding, but only if revenue from
the TOT Police Fund and any other funding dedicated for the purposes described in
this section are found to be sufficient to meet the goals and objectives outlined in this
section. Appropriations are eligible to be made from the TOT Police Fund as follows:

(a)	to purchase and maintain police vehicles to replace the existing fleet; and

(b)	to purchase and maintain public safety communications systems equipment; and

(c)	To eliminate the backlog of deferred maintenance on equipment, apparatus, and
facilities; and

(d)	To develop a needs assessment td (1) identify funding requirements for
maintenance of equipment, vehicles, and police facilities; and (2) create a
maintenance plan to ensure that current equipment, apparatus, and police facilities
do not become maintenance deferred once the backlog identified in the needs
assessment has been eliminated; and

(e)	After funding is completed for priorities identified in subsections (a) through (d),
TOT revenues shall be used to develop and implement a long-term plan to address
the goal of maintaining two officers per 1,000 residents within the City of San
Diego; and

(f)	Prior to implementing the long-term plan of officers per residents, a maintenance
account shall be established to pay for maintenance and repair of police facilities
and equipment; and

(g)	To maintain a reserve in the TOT Police Fund of no less than ten percent (10%) of
the TOT funds projected for the fiscal year to be deposited into the TOT Police
Fund.

TOT Community Infrastructure Fund

Appropriations are eligible to be made from the TOT Community Infrastructure Fund as
follows:

(a)	Neighborhood Road Improvements. Twenty-three percent (23%) of revenue
projected for deposit into this fund shall be budgeted for deferred maintenance of
City roads and streets, and to mitigate traffic congestion on local neighborhood
streets in the City of San Diego through the implementation of regular repairs and
upgrades including in priority order, but not limited to, neighborhood intersection
signal timing and synchronization, street resurfacing and slurry sealing, and
regular street maintenance equipment purchases.

(b)	Mission Bay Improvements. Twenty-five percent (25%) of revenue projected for
deposit into this fund shall be budgeted for the implementation and new
construction of all capital projects described in and located within the boundaries
of the Mission Bay Park Plan, as amended from time to time.

(c)	Balboa Park Improvements. Twenty-five percent (25%) of revenue projected for
deposit into this fund shall be budgeted for implementation and new construction
of all capital projects described in and located within the boundaries of the Balboa
Park Master Plan, as amended from time to time.

(d)	Coastal Improvements. Seventeen percent (17%) of revenue projected for deposit
into this fund shall first be budgeted as necessary to develop a Coastal
Infrastructure Master Plan for coastal and lifeguard infrastructure capital projects. A

N SD 060-072

priority of the Coastal Infrastructure Master Plan shall be the completion of coastal
erosion projects set forth in the City of San Diego Coastal Erosion Assessment
Update from Sunset Cliffs to Torrey Pines State Beach, Document No. C-11542.
After approval of the Coastal Infrastructure Master Plan by the City Council and
certification by the California Coastal Commission, any funds projected for
collection thereafter shall be budgeted for implementation and new construction of
all capital projects described in and located within the boundaries of the Coastal
Infrastructure Master Plan.

(e)	Open Space Acquisition. Ten percent (10%) of revenue projected for deposit into
this fund shall be budgeted to acquire, maintain, and monitor property within the
Multiple Habitat Planning Area's core biological resource areas and linkages as
identified in the Multiple Species Conservation Program, and other designated
park and open space.

(1)	Parks System Master Plan. For the first three years after this fund is established,
from the revenue projected for deposit into this fund 'and allocated pursuant to
subsections (b), (c), (d) and (e), an equal dollar amount from these allocations
shall be deducted, not to exceed one quarter of a cent ($0.0025) of every 13 cents
projected for collection pursuant to section 35.0128, and budgeted as necessary
for the preparation of a Parks System Master Plan as proposed by the Park and
Recreation Department Budget Working.Group and more fully described in City
Manager’s Report No. 03-115, issued May 30,2003.

§35.0132 Tourism Marketing and Promotion Fund

Appropriations are eligible to be made from the Tourism Marketing and Promotion

Fund as follows:

(a)	Not less than fifty-five percent (55%) of the revenue projected for deposit into this
fund shall be budgeted for use by the operating entity of the San Diego Convention
and Visitors Bureau, to be used solely for the sales, marketing, advertising,
promotions, public relations, operations, and administrative functions of the San
Diego Convention and Visitors Bureau. Provided, further, that a minimum of fifty
percent (50%) of the funds allocated under this subsection shall be used for sales
and marketing functions, programs, and projects. This allocation of Transient
Occupancy Tax shall supplement the revenue generated from the business
operations and membership dues of the San Diego Convention and Visitors
Bureau and shall be used solely for the sales, marketing, advertising, promotions,
public relations, operations, and administrative functions of the San Diego
Convention and Visitors Bureau. Should the San Diego Convention and Visitors
Bureau cease to exist, this revenue shali be automatically, specifically, and
exclusively allocated to its duly empowered successor, as determined by the City
Council, whose sole purpose is to market and promote San Diego in order to
increase the collection of the Transient Occupancy Tax.

(b)	Not less than twenty-two percent (22%) of the revenue projected for deposit into
this fund shali be budgeted for use by the operating entity of the San Diego
Convention Center, including any governmental entity, to be used solely for the
operations, maintenance, and capital requirements (including capital and
operating reserves and financing debt service for future capital projects) of the San
Diego Convention Center. This allocation of Transient Occupancy Tax shall
supplement the revenue generated from the business operations of the San Diego
Convention Center and used solely for the operation, maintenance and capital
requirements (including capital and operating reserves and debt service for future
capital projects) of the San Diego Convention Center. Should the operating entity
of the San Diego Convention Center cease to exist, this revenue shall be
automatically, specifically and exclusively be allocated to its duly empowered
successor, as determined by the City Council, that is identified as the operating
entity of the San Diego Convention Center.

(c)	Not less than two and three tenths percent (2.3%) of the revenue projected for
deposit into this fund shall be budgeted for use by the operating entity of the San
Diego North Convention and Visitors Bureau, to be used solely for the sales,
marketing, advertising, promotions, public relations, operations, and

N SD 060-073

PR-09L0-11

administrative functions of the San Diego North Convention and Visitors Bureau.
Provided, further, that a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the funds allocated under
this subsection shall be used for sales and marketing functions, programs and
projects. This allocation of Transient Occupancy Tax shall supplement the revenue
generated from the business operations and membership dues of the San Diego
North Convention and Visitors Bureau to be used solely for the sales, marketing,
advertising, promotions, public relations, operations, and administrative functions
of the San Diego North Convention and Visitors Bureau. Should the San Diego
North Convention and Visitors Bureau cease to exist, this revenue shall be
automatically, specifically and exclusively allocated to its duly empowered
successor, as determined by the City Council, or to the San Diego Convention and
Visitors Bureau, should no successor exist.

(d)	The allocations described above in subsections (a) through (c) are subject to
adjustment every five years by a concurring two-thirds vote of the Tourism
Promotion Board and the San Diego City Council.

(e)	The balance of the revenue projected for deposit into this fund shall be budgeted
for uses in furtherance of the purpose of generating the collection of additional
Transient Occupancy Taxes by promoting tourism in the City of San Diego, and for
no other purpose. In addition to the budget allocations described above in
subsection (a) through (c), the initial budget shall include allocations to the
following recipients: the San Diego Film Commission; Accessible San Diego; the
San Diego African American Sports Association/Gold Coast Classic; the San Diego
Bowl Game Association/Holiday Bowl; the San Diego International Sports Council;
and the Major Event Revolving Fund and any successors thereto.

(f)	A contingency reserve shall be maintained within the Tourism Marketing and
Promotion Fund of no less than 10 percent and no more than 30 percent of
revenues projected for collection. Reserves shall be administered on
recommendations made by the City of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review
Board and a majority vote of the City Council.

§35.0135 Suspension of Section 35.0128

The City Council may temporarily suspend compliance with section 35.0128 and utilize
the revenues from the tax imposed by section 35.0103 for general governmental
purposes in the event of a'public emergency, including any fiscal emergency, when it is
declared and determined by the affirmative vote, of at least two-thirds of the members
elected to the Council that such a waiver is necessary in order to make General Fund
expenditures to insure the safety and lives and property of the City or its inhabitants.

§35.0140 City of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board

There is hereby created the City of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board. The
Board shall have review and advisory responsibility over the budgeting of all funds
deposited into the Tourism Marketing and Promotion Fund, as provided in section 35.
0132.

§35.0141 Membership of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board

The membership of the City of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board shall be
appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the Council and shall consist of seven (7)
members as follows:

(a)	One (1) person appointed from a nominating slate of no less than three and no
more than six persons submitted by the San Diego County Hotel and Motel
Association who are owners of one or more lodging establishments.

(b)	One person (1) appointed from a nominating slate of no less than three and no
more than six persons submitted by the San Diego County Hotel & Motel
Association who holds the title of General Manager, or its functional equivalent, at
one or more lodging establishments.

(c)	One <1) person appointed from a nominating slate of no less than three and no
more than six persons submitted by the San Diego Lodging Industry Association
who are owners of one or more lodging establishments.

PR-09L0-12

N SD 060-074

(d)	One (1) person appointed from a nominating slate of no less than three and no
more than six persons submitted by the San Diego Lodging Industry Association
who holds the title of General Manager, or its functional equivalent, at one or more
lodging establishments.

(e)	One (1) person appointed from a nominating slate of no less than three and no
more than six persons submitted by the California Restaurant Association, San
Diego Chapter, who owns an establishment licensed by the City to operate as a
restaurant.

(f)	One (1) person appointed from nominating slates of two (2) persons each
submitted by the San Diego Hotel & Motel Association, San Diego Lodging
Industry Association, and the California Restaurant Association, San Diego
Chapter, for a maximum of six nominees, who holds the title of General Manager,
or its functional equivalent, at a major tourist destination located within the City.

(g)	One (1) person appointed from a nominating slate of no less than three and no
more than six persons submitted by the San Diego-Imperial Counties Labor
Council.

§35.0142 Terms of Members of the City of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board

(a)	The members of the City of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board shall
serve without compensation for terms of four (4) years and until their successors
are appointed and qualified. In order to provide for staggered terms, initial
appointments to this Board shall be made so as to provide that the terms of office
of two members shall be for four years; two members for three (3) years; two
members for two (2) years; and one member for one (1) year. The staggering of
terms will be established at the first meeting by a draw of lots.

(b)	Members of this Board may be re-nominated and reappointed, subject to the term
limitations set forth in San Diego City Charter section 43(a). Members of the Board
may be removed, for cause, by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the City Council. If the
status of a person appointed to this Board changes, so that he or she no longer
serves in a representative capacity that would qualify for eligibility for appointment
under section 35.0141 for membership on this Board, then his or her position shall
be deemed vacant, and the Mayor shall appoint a qualified successor, selecting
from the appropriate slate that provided the original nomination as provided in
section 35.0141 to fill out the remainder of the unexpired term as provided in this
section.

(c)	The Board shall have the power and authority upon a majority vote to annually elect
a Chairperson.

(d)	A conflict of interest code shall be adopted for this Board. All members shall be
required to complete and file a Statement of Economic Interests in accordance
with the conflict of interest code. Failure to file a Statement of Economic Interests
will be considered cause for removal.

§35.0143 Responsibilities and Duties of the San Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board

The City of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board shall have the following

responsibilities and duties:

(a)	The Board shall prepare on a annual basis, by no later than April 30th of each year,
a proposed funding budget, based on revenue projections provided by the City
Manager, for the upcoming fiscal year for the allocation, application, and
disbursement of 100 percent (100%) of the funds held in or to be paid to the
Tourism Marketing and Promotion Fund. This budget shall be submitted to the
Council for approval consistent with Article VII of the City Charter with the Council
having the final authority to approve the budget, subject only to the minimum
funding levels outlined in section 35.0132.

(b)	City staff supporting the San Diego Promotion*Review Board, in conjunction with
the City Manager and the City Auditor and Comptroller, shall be responsible for
letting, administering and auditing all contracts awarded pursuant to the budget
described in this section in accordance with City Policy 100-3. The City shall have
the authority to audit any and all aspects of the contracts awarded, as well as any
and all aspects of any other expenditures allocated by the Board.

PR-09L0-13

N SD 060-075

(c)	The Board is authorized and empowered to take acts and actions necessary, in its
discretion, in furtherance of the generation of Transient Occupancy Taxes in the
City by the promotion of tourism in the City, including the power and authority, from
time to time, to:

(1)	Evaluate the status and effectiveness of tourism promotion for the City; and

(2)	Establish priorities in the allocation of funds from the Tourism Marketing and
Promotion Fund; and

(3)	Review and audit the programs of those entities that receive funding from the
Tourism Marketing and Promotion Fund as a supplement to the audits
referenced above in subsection (b) conducted by the City Auditor and
Comptroller. This Board may establish criteria for the review and contract for a
regularly scheduled performance audit of all recipients of revenue from the
Tourism Marketing and Promotion Fund, relative to that portion of the
recipients' budget represented by Tourism Marketing and Promotion Fund
expenditures. The audit of a recipient shall occur no more frequently than
biennially and at least once every four years. This audit shall be performed by
a nationally recognized company qualified in this subject; and

(4)	Adopt rules and regulations, consistent with applicable law, that relate to and
otherwise guide the Board’s operations and procedures.

(d)	The City of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board shall not duplicate,
replicate or in any way replace or compete with the mission, programs or
marketing responsibilities or activities of recipients of Tourism Marketing and
Promotion Fund revenue.

(e)	The City of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board shall not, as a Board,
engage in political activity.

(f)	All costs incurred in administering the activities of the City of San Diego Tourism
Promotion Review Board, including, but not limited to, the cost of a contracted
auditor(s), shall be paid annually from the Tourism Marketing and Promotion Fund,
and shall represent no more than 2 percent of the total annual Tourism Marketing
and Promotion Fund.

(g)	City overhead expenses allocated to and used for administering the City of San
Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board and the Tourism Marketing and
Promotion Fund will be included in the budget of the City of San Diego Tourism
Promotion Review Board, and shall represent no more than 2 percent of the total
annual Tourism Marketing and Promotion Fund.

(h)	All meetings of the City of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board shall be
open to the public and all persons shall be permitted to attend except as to those
matters exempted by the Ralph M. Brown Act (California Government Code
sections 54950, et seq.).

(i)	The City of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review Board and City Council shall
provide annual minimum funding for those organizations specified in section 35.
0132.

G) Discretionary allocations by the City of San Diego Tourism Promotion Review
Board shall follow these guidelines:

(1)	The balance of the annual distribution of Tourism Marketing and Promotion
Fund revenue shall be provided and distributed directly related to the
demonstrated return on investment (ROI) of recipient groups, organizations,
and events.

(2)	The Board shall establish and maintain a Tourism Contingency Reserve, into
which all unallocated annual revenue shall be deposited and held in trust to be
utilized for emergency purposes to maintain the level of tourism business in
the City of San Diego. Except as provided in this section, the criteria for
utilization of the funds of the Tourism Contingency Reserve shall be within the
sole discretion of, be established, or changed only by a two-thirds vote of the
Board. Upon recommendation of the Board, any disbursement of funds from
the Tourism Contingency Reserve shall require a majority vote of the City
Council.

PR-09L0-14

N SD 060-076

That the amendments to Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, of the San Diego Municipal Code
described in this proposition shall not take effect until July 1,2004, and that in the event any of the
amendments to Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, of the San Diego Municipal Code described in this
proposition are found to be unconstitutional or otherwise repealed by act of law, that all
amendments to Chapter 3, Article 5, Division 1, of the San Diego Municipal Code made effective by
the passage of this proposition shall be null and void. In such event, all sections of Chapter 3,
Article 5, Division 1, of the San Diego Municipal Code deemed repealed by this proposition shall
return to full force and effect, and the City shall have the authority to collect a transient occupancy
tax in the amount of 10.5% and allocate such revenues in the manner authorized prior to the
passage of this proposition.

If, at the time this ballot measure is presented to the people for their approval, there is on the
same ballot any additional ballot measures relating to an increase in transient occupancy taxes,
and more than one ballot measure relating to an increase in transient occupancy taxes is approved
by the voters, the ballot measure receiving the most votes shall be declared the prevailing
measure, and shall be given full force and effect.

PR-09L0-15

N SD 060-077