“To improve academic performance and student achievement, emphasizing reading, writing, math, science, and music; attract and retain experienced,
qualified teachers; support small class sizes; provide reading specialists for at-risk children; and preserve school library services, shall
Belmont-Redwood Shores Elementary School District collect $96/year per taxable parcel for ten years, with all funds staying in local schools,
independent community oversight of all expenditures, exemptions for those 65 years and older, and no funds used for administrators’ salaries?”

FULLTEXT

To improve academic performance and student achievement, emphasizing
reading, writing, math, science, and music; attract and retain experienced,
qualified teachers; support small class sizes; provide reading specialists for
at-risk children; and preserve school library services, shall Belmont-
Redwood Shores Elementary School District collect $96/year per taxable
parcel for ten years, with all funds staying in local schools, independent
community oversight of all expenditures, exemptions for those 65 years
and older, and no funds used for administrators’ salaries, by:

1.	Supporting the teaching of the basics, including reading, writing
and math;

2.	Maintaining a well-rounded curriculum by restoring cuts to music,
science programs and school libraries, and guarding against future
cuts;

3.	Maintaining small class sizes and retaining high quality teachers;

4.	Maintaining reading specialists to help struggling students learn to
read; and

5.	Replacing part of the millions of dollars the State has taken from
education in order to avoid even deeper cutbacks in our local
schools

An exemption shall be granted for any parcel owned by one or more
persons 65 years of age or over who occupies said parcel as a principal
residence, upon completion of an application for exemption.

To insure additional accountability, an independent volunteer community
oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees to oversee
all expenditures funded by the measure to ensure that said funds are spent
wisely and used only for purposes approved by the voters. This volunteer
citizens’ committee shall monitor the expenditures of these funds by the
District and shall report on an annual basis to the community on how these
funds have been spent.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the
Belmont-Redwood Shores Elementary School District propose to levy a
special tax for a period of ten years beginning July 1, 2005 and ending June
30, 2015. This tax shall be at a rate not to exceed $96 per year on all
taxable parcels in the District.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District which
receives a separate tax bill from the County Assessor. All property which
would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from
the imposition of said special tax. Any property owner aged 65 years or
older may qualify for an exemption from the special tax if the property
owner occupies the parcel.

The stated purposes of the special tax are for supporting basic
curriculum, including music and science programs and school libraries;
maintaining class sizes; and retaining teachers and reading specialists. The
Board of Trustees must file an annual report accounting for the parcel tax
revenues collected and the manner in which they have been spent. A
community oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board of
Trustees to oversee all expenditures funded by the measure to ensure that
said funds are used only for purposes approved the voters.

This measure would also increase the District’s appropriations limit per
fiscal year, in an amount equal to the levy of the special tax for that year,
as permitted by Article XIIIB, section 4 of the California Constitution.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be
levied on property within the boundaries of the
Belmont-Redwood Shores Elementary School District in an
amount up to $96 per year per parcel for supporting basic
curriculum, including music and science programs and school
libraries; maintaining class sizes; and retaining teachers and
reading specialists. It would also allow the appropriations
(spending) limit to be raised.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax
to be levied and would not allow the appropriations limit to be
raised.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote
“yes.”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Top-quality schools are the backbone of our community and the foundation
of our high property values. Local elementary and middle schools offer an
excellent, well-rounded education to our community’s children: thoroughly
grounded in the basics along with art, music, libraries and other programs.

High student achievement shows how well our local schools educate
children. Rising property values and our high quality of life prove that good
schools benefit everyone.

But today this valuable community resource is at risk.

Enrollment has increased 25% and state cuts are taking their toll. The
Belmont-Redwood Shores Elementary School District has cut over $2
million in the last 4 years. Our schools have lost good teachers, reading
specialists and librarians, reduced science and music, and increased class
sizes.

These cuts have already impacted elementary school classrooms - and more
cuts are on the way. We need to pass Measure G to preserve our excellent
schools.

Measure G puts high priority on what matters most to a good education:

■	The basics - reading, writing and math

■	Elementary school science classes

■	Qualified, experienced teachers

■	Reading specialists to improve basic skills

■	Elementary school music

■	Small classes to ensure individual attention

■	Keeping school libraries open

All Measure G funds will stay in local K-8 schools to improve academics.
Funds cannot be taken by state government or used for administrative
salaries.

Measure G is fiscally conservative and accountable. Independent
community oversight and annual audits are required.

Measure G includes an optional senior exemption so that senior citizens
will not bear a burden they cannot afford.

Measure G is an investment in our community that benefits us all,
whether we have children in school or not. Measure G is good for
children, good for property owners and good for our entire community.
Vote Yes on Measure G.

/s/ Helen Cross	August 10, 2004
48 year resident of Belmont	
/s/ George Metropulos	August 12, 2004
Mayor - Belmont	
/s/ Rosanne S. Foust	August 5, 2004
Past Chair of Redwood City-San Mateo County Chamber of Commerce	
/s/ Jeffrey Gee	August 10, 2004
President, Redwood Shores Comm. Assoc.	
Is/ Helen Kauffold	August 13, 2004
Retired Belmont 1st Grade Teacher	

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Reality Check:

•Property valuations in the District doubled in the past decade—without
any school parcel taxes. (In Burlingame, where the elementary school
district passed 4 parcel tax measures during that time, valuations increased
only 88%.)

•Schools are the beneficiaries of high property values—not the cause. High
achieving parents bring high achieving students—and more taxes—to the
community.

•The proponents have been yelping about imaginary budget cuts for years,
but let’s look at the actual data from the state’s Ed-Data web site:

District	Revenue	per	Student

Revenue_____________________________Attending

94/95	$8,827,976	$4,138
95/96	9,511,149	4,309
96/97	11,140,248	4,781
97/98	12,053,334	5,039
98/99	14,127,650	5,750
99/00	15,715,058	6,862
00/01	17,423,773	7,248
01/02	18,786,810	7,744
02/03	21,038,083	8,483

•The state’s school funding formula does take student population growth
into account. During the past decade, the teacher count increased by 48%,
while the student population increased by only 23%. A bloated budget
means a bloated payroll.

•The average teacher takes home between $60,000 and $70,000 in salary
and benefits (not bad for 186 work days!), and has taught in the District for
9.7 years. How many area businesses can claim employee retention
numbers like that?

•A “citizen’s oversight committee” appointed by the very trustees whom
they are to supervise can hardly be called "independent’. We’d call it a
"sham’.

•Working within a budget is fiscally conservative. Measure G is not.

Is/ John J. “Jack” Hickey	August 19, 2004
Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	
/s/ Harland Harrison	August 19, 2004
Belmont Parent	
/s/ Brian Holtz	August 19, 2004
Candidate For Congress	
/s/ Fred A. Graham	August 19, 2004
Belmont Grandparent	
/s/ Christopher V.A. Schmidt	August 19, 2004
Retired Computer Professional	

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

Our schools are well funded.

Last year, District taxpayers (including renters) contributed $14 million in
property taxes to the elementary school district, and other taxes brought the
total to over $21 million.

(http://www.ed-data.kl2.ca.us/dev/District.asp)

$21 million for 2500 students amounts to $210.000 per classroom of
25 students. That’s enough to pay teachers very good wages—and leave
plenty for building maintenance and overhead.

Budget cuts?? Bull!

In 2001, they claimed financial doom was imminent if voters didn’t
approve a parcel tax. Their ballot measure failed, but the sky didn’t fall.
Chicken Little was wrong, and revenue increased from $14 million to
$17 million—without any parcel tax.

In 2002 they tried again, and failed again. This time revenue increased
from $17 million to $21 million—again without any parcel tax.

This was no surprise, since property taxes automatically increase each year
by 2%, and typically jump still higher, whenever properties change hands.

ONCE MORE, they threaten to axe popular programs if you don’t give
them what they want. But, once more, they dissemble. We consider it bad
taste to use teachers and school children as pretend hostages, when their
budget situation is fine.

Meanwhile, many residents have real budget problems. Hitting them with
a $960 parcel tax (even stretched over 10 years) will have a painful impact
on their lives. Paying this tax could mean missing a critical mortgage
payment, or a health insurance premium, or drowning in credit card debt.
People who carry the balance on their credit cards will owe nearly $3,000
(with interest) in just 10 years.

Have a heart. Don’t raise taxes on our most vulnerable residents. Vote
against this greedy money grab.

/s/ John J. “Jack” Hickey	August 13, 2004
Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	
/s/ Harland Harrison	August 12, 2004
Belmont Parent	
/s/ Christopher V.A. Schmidt	August 12, 2004
Retired Computer Professional	

Measure G’s opponents mislead voters with incorrect information and
mean-spirited attacks on our local schools. It’s absolutely unbelievable they
stoop low enough to call our students “hostages” and Measure G a “greedy
money grab”.

The facts speak for themselves:

State budget cuts aren’t “bull” - they’re a sad reality. Our schools are not
“well-funded”. Local enrollment has risen 25% and basic expenses
continually outpace revenue. The result: over $2 million dollars has been
slashed from the Belmont-Redwood Shores Elementary School District’s
budget over the last four years

That budget squeeze has caused the loss of qualified teachers, reading
specialists and librarians, reduced science and music courses and increased
class sizes. Rising enrollment coupled with decreased funding from the
state will make more cuts inevitable.

Our local schools are great today - but we must invest in them to keep it
that way.

Measure G will enable the Belmont-Redwood Shores Elementary School
District to provide a high-quality, well-rounded education that puts a
priority on what matters most to young students - small class sizes and
high-quality teachers.

No Measure G funds can be taken by the state, guaranteeing our local
schools a source of reliable funding. Not one dollar can be used for
administrative salaries. Citizen oversight guarantees wise spending.

Measure G is not a threat. It is simply our local schools asking our
community to invest in the district that keeps our property values high and
our children academically on top.

Please support local elementary and middle schools by voting YES on
Measure G.

/s/ Mary Morrissey Parden

President/Belmont Chamber of Commerce

/s/ Kristine Brooks

retired 1st. grade Teacher

/s/ Van Ton

Redwood Shores Pre-School Parent

/s/ Allen C. Mueller

35-Year Redwood Shores Homeowner

/s/ H.E. Mason

Retired Belmont City Treasurer

August 20, 2004
August 20, 2004
August 20, 2004
August 20, 2004
August 21, 2004