SCHOOL


FREMONT UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT


In order to maintain high quality education at our local high schools - Cupertino. Fremont Homestead. Lynbrook and Monta Vista High Schools - by preserving core academe
classes, maintaining qualified and experienced teachers and school employees, and continuing programs that help our students qualify for college, shall the Fremont Union High School District levy $98 per parcel annually for 6 years to benefit local schools wtn an exemption for seniors, no money for administrators and all money staying in our communrty7


MEASURE L

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

California law permits a school district to levy a special tax on parcels of
land within the district if the tax is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting in
an election.

The Board of Trustees of the Fremont Union High School District proposes
a special tax of $98 per parcel, per year, for 6 years A vote for the special tax
is also a vote to increase the appropriations limit by the amount of the increased
special tax.

The purpose of the special tax is to maintain high quality education at local
high schools - Cupertino, Fremont, Homestead, Lynbrook and Monta Vista High
Schools - by preserving core academic classes, maintaining qualified and
experienced teachers and school employees, and continuing programs that help
local students qualify for college.

The proceeds of the special tax will be deposited into a special account and applied only to the specific purposes listed above. The school district will
also produce an annual report on the amount of funds collected and expended
and the status of any project authorized to be funded. In addition, the Board of
Trustees of the school district will appoint a Citizens' Oversight Committee to
review the expenditures of the school district to ensure that the parcel tax is expended for authorized purposes and to prepare periodic reports to the school
district and the public about the expenditure of the parcel tax proceeds. 

The proceeds of the parcel tax would not be used for administrators'
salaries and would remain in the community to improve local schools. 

The school district will grant an exemption from the special tax to seniors.
And contiguous parcels of taxable real property owned by a single owner and operated as a single economic unit shall be treated as a single parcel for the
purposes of levying the special tax, upon approval of an application made by the owner to the school district.

A “yes" vote is a vote to approve a special tax on parcels within Fremont
Union High School District.

A “no" vote is a vote not to approve the special tax.

Ann Miller Ravel
County Counsel

By: Isl Lisa Herrick

Deputy County Counsel

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE L

BALLOT MEASURE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

In order to maintain high quality education ai our local high schools- Cupertino, Fremont, Homestead, Lynbrook and Monta Vista Schools- by
preserving core academic closes maintaining qualified and experienced
teachers and school employees and continuing programs that help our
students qualify for college, shall the Fremont Union High Schoo; District levy
$98 per parcel annually for 6 years In benefit local schools with an exemption
for seniors, no money for administrators and all money staying in our
community?

PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION
By approval of this proposition by at hast 2/3 of the registered voters
voting on the proposition, the District will be authorized to levy a qualified
special tax of $98 per parcel for 6 years for the purpose of financing programs
identified below under the heading ’STATEMENT OF PURPOSES', Subject to
all the accountability requirements specified below. A parcel is defined as any
unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax bill from the Santa Clara
County Assessor's Office, except that contiguous parcels of taxable real
property owned by a single owner and operated as a single economic unit shall
he treated as a single parcel for the purposes of levying the special tax, upon
approval of an application made by the owner to the District. 

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this proposition in
order that the voters and taxpayers in the District may be assured that their
money will be spent wisely. As required by the laws of the State of California,
the proceeds of the qualified special lax will be deposited into a special account
established by the District and will be applied only to the specific purposes
identified below. The District has covenanted to have on file with its governing
board no later than January 1 of each year a report stating the amount of the
funds collected and expended and the status of any project authorized to be
funded

In addition, the Governing Board of the District shall appoint a Citizens
Oversight Committee with responsibility to review the expenditures of the
District from the parcel tax to ensure the parcel tax is expended for authorized
imposes, and to prepare periodic reports to the District and the public
concerning the expenditure of the parcel tax proceeds.

STATEMENT OF PURPOSES

The statement shown below is a part of the ballot proposition and must be
reproduced in any official document required to contain the full statement of the
proposition.

The proceeds of the parcel tax will be expended to finance the payment of
costs and expenses of the District which are designed to achieve the following
purposes. The specific purposes of the parcel tax are described as follows:

•	Preserving core academic classes

•	Maintaining qualified and experienced teachers and school
employees

•	Continuing programs that help our students qualify for college


ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L 

We re fortunate to have excelenl local high schools that prepare students tor
conge and successful careers

mi Ive hgh schools that compose the Fremont Union High School Os*xt -
Ckpertmo Fremont. Homestead. Lynbrook and Monta Vista tsgh schools •
exceed state standards lor student achievement and are recognized as
CaMorma Distinguished Schools.

Nnety-six percent ol our students graduate and 90% ol our students go on to
college Unfortunately, this remarkable record ol achievement is at risk

Over the last two years, lundmg (or our high schools has declined while student
enrollment has grown and costs have increased More than S8 million has been
cut from our school district budget

Every effort has been made to avoid cuts that directly impact classroom
instruction Administrative positions were cut and administrative budgets
slashed There is no more administration to cut and no untapped sources oI

funding

Eighteen teaching positions have already been cut. Without additional revenue
our local high schools will lose many more of our outstanding teachers, class
sizes will increase and students will lose core academic classes and programs
they need to graduate and go to college

Measure I will provide essential funding to preserve core academic classes
maintain qualified and expenenced teachers, and continue programs that help
our students graduate and qualify for college

Measure I funds can only be used for the purposes outlined in the measure All
money rased by Measure L will stay in our community to benefit our high
schools None of this money can go to pay administrators.

An independent citizens oversight committee will make sure Measure L funds

are property spent

Measure L will be m effect for six years only. The cost of Measure L is
deductible on your state and federal income taxes. Seniors citizens are eligible

for an exemption

Please vote YES on MEASURE L.

HI Nancy A Newton
FUHSD President Board of Trustees

HI Elaine Alquist

Former Assemblywoman

HI C J. Olson
Farmer - Local Business Owner

HlC Donald Allen
Banker

HI Paul Fong
Prof of Political Science

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

The osues aren t educator s importance or Sacramento s budget cuts

The issues are

Property taxes directly find Fremont Un*n rtgh School Bstoct. and they V*
INCREASED nearty 70% in seven years » toe Stale hadnt cut toe
Districts SfZtamfcnt tas< ad" supo«ment its dsprooortonato firing
(42% moretfudent) «x«d be even more outrageous The 'crisis' Isn't
REVENUE: Hi SPENDING!

Addtwnaffy. homeowners are STILL repaying $144,000,000 of Fremont |
Urwn High School Dstoct s infrastructure bonds

Last March, Proposilon 55 authonzec $12.300.000.000 mote to relieve |
overcrowding reoar older K-12 schools1

The argument in favor dams. "There s no more administration to cut and no
untapped sources of Anting' As long as any admmstration exists there is
sM some room for possible cuts Local ndroduals. businesses, and alumni
could be tapped for donations as a source of funding

Why another tax that only property owners pay?

Homeowners are on a property taxing merry-go-round How many different

'creatively labeled" property taxes are necessary- When is enough enough?
When do tenants and exempted seniors (Fremont Union High School District
offers seniors exemptions for votes) pay their lair share? Tenants and senior
homeowners (56.66% of the electorate escape taxation

To the District "the ends justify the means" Only residents vole whether or not
they are homeowners Its unfair for the majority who WON'T be paying
Measure L to vote for more property taxes'

Ta« EVERYONE o- NO ONE

Measure L:

• Increases everyone s living costs

Makes the home ownership dream even more unattainable

For more information see www.VoteNoOnL.us

Isl Allen Hacker

Chair, Libertanan Party ol Santa Clara County

Isl Dennis Umphress

President. Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association

Isl Mildred Falk
Homeowner

/s/ Jack E Davis

Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

Isl Elizabeth C. Bnerty

Board Member. Silicon Valley Taxpayers Assn

ARGUMt NT AGAINST Ml ASUNt t

No specihc plan exists on how Fremont Union High School t>»H* I ww «i*nd
this money

There s no lequiremenl that any ot it go to piewiviny Core at adem„ d>.»«or
helping students quality lor college

There s also no plan to measure how edeclive this money will be m relieving
problems

Parcel taxes have a number ol detrimental feature*

Because parcel taxes affect all pa/cels ol property equally, and residential
property makes up the bulk ol mosl districts, the burden tails disproportionately
hard on homeowners.

Additionally, these taxes make no distinction regarding ability to pay Measure
L impacts mosl who can afford it least-those on fixed incomes and it taxes
uniformly no matter how large/expensive the parcel' A homeowner living in a
modest home could owe the same parcel tax amount as someone who lives in
an expensive mansion, or the owner ol a huge oltlce building worth lens ol
millions ol dollars

The amount ol this parcel tax is generally the same lor each paicel, and since in
mosl local jurisdictions single-lamily residential parcels constitute the bulk ol
parcels within the jurisdiction the vast maiority ol the tax burden will
disproportionately tail on single-lamily residential parcels

The use of parcel taxes to get around Proposition 13's limitation on property tax
increases is accelerating and taxpayers throughout the stale are beginning to
leel the pinch

Now is the wrong time to heighten financial burdens on already struggling
property owners and their tenants

MBUTTAl TOAKOUMtNt AGAIN)f tttAWKfe t,

The argument wr«en by the Lfttrtenen t'ady
incorrect

agamtf Meenae I * w»

There are only three voter positions when it comes to taxes

1	Taxes are loo high.

2	Taxes are about right

3	Taxes are too low

If you agree with position T, then you could support this tax However, it you
agree with position T or '2’, then you should vote "NO" on Measure L

Visit www.VoteNoOnL.us (or more information

Isl Allen Hacker
Chair. Libertanan Party ol Santa Clara County

Is/ Oenms Umphress
President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

/s/Mildred Falk
Homeowner

is/Jack E Davis
Businessman

isl Elizabeth C Bnerly
Board Member. Silicon Valley Taxpayers Assn

Without Measure I our school Until *4 be tweed to " he**et buogu* wt»
that win impact He quauly ut catwuom n**uc*m •'trade t» we *■<* V*
school students The would mean Mmg men "Me of van wMefanxWv
teachers mueased ctaes sues and eimmabon oI owe ncwUm*
student* need lo graduate and go on to college

Measure I will be m abed lot «x years only No Measure L hmd* av.i go to me
slate, to other school duetts or to pay aUmmalrator* An money '<wa»d 9i
Measure I will stay m our community to Oeneffl w* high school*.

By law. Measure I hmd* can only be uted to

•	Preserve core academe masses

•	Maintain quarihed and expenerted teachei• Wd NhOOl employee*

•	Continue program* that herp our siudenlb quetfy *oa cortege

An independent Cthzens oversight committee will make sure Measuie L 'unos
are properly spent The cost ot Measure L • JeUuctibre gn youi income laxee.
Senior citizens are eligible tor a lull exemption

Measure I • * huge and caretuiiy thought through plan to no*) extieme cuts
and protect the high quality oI education in our cummumty Ucod oca senooux
keep our property values high

Our excellent local high schools that send of students on to cortege depend
on community support Measure I will preserve essential academic programs
and classes

Please vole YES on MEASURE L

Isl Tom Avvakumovits

Teacher/President ol Fremont Education Assn.

Isl Martha J Kan ter

Chancellor. Foothill-Oe Anza Community College District

Isl Paige Hark ness
Student Board Member

Isl Dianne McKenna
Former Member Santa Clare County Board ol Supervisors

Isl Ned Lea
Realtor