VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLET

Containing
MEASURE K
MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT

I

TUESDAY, MARCH 2, 2004

Arguments in favor of or against the proposed measure are the opinions of the authors.

36. 47

1

PARCEL TAX MEASURE K
MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT

To provide funding for Moraga's K-8 schools to maintain small class sizes, to
protect strong academics, and to hire and retain qualified teachers and staff;
shall the Moraga School District be authorized to replace its existing parcel
tax with a levy of $325,00 per year per taxable parcel of real property with an
annual independent audit and exemption for eligible low-income seniors'')

COUNTY COUNSEL'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE K

The governing board of the Moraga School District has adopted a
resolution proposing a qualified special tax (parcel tax) for specified
purposes.

The ballot measure asks voters to decide whether a parcel tax
should be imposed on parcels of taxable real property within the District,
beginning July 1, 2004, to replace the existing parcel tax (which expires on
June 30, 2005) and continue year to year unless and until revoked by the
District. The parcel tax will be collected by the Contra Costa County
Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and in the same manner as ad
valorem property taxes.

The parcel tax would be $325 per year on each taxable parcel in the
District A parcel would be exempt from the parcel tax in any year if the
parcel is otherwise exempt from properly taxes or if no property taxes are
levied on the parcel in that same year. Any parcel owned and occupied by a
low-income person sixty-five years old or older would also be exempt from
the parcel tax upon proper application to the District. This exemption for low-
income seniors will be available annually.

The summary of the ballot measure states that the proceeds of the
parcel tax will be used ftjo provide funding for Moraga’s K-8 schools to
maintain small class sizes, to protect strong academics, and to hire and retain
qualified teachers and staff.” The governing board’s resolution calling for the
election states that the parcel tax proceeds ‘shall be authorized to be used
for maintaining classroom and educational programs including but not limited
to, small class sizes, core academic programs, hmng and retaining qualified
teachers and staff.”

As long as any proceeds of the parcel tax remain unexpended, an
independent financial auditor wiil prepare an annual report stating the amount
of the parcel tax received and expended in the year and the status of any
projects funded or to be funded from the tax proceeds.

1

(MEASURE K
IOOL DISTRICT

chools U> maintain small dass sizes, to
and retain qualified teachers and staff;
luthorizeo lo replace its existing parcel
r taxableiparcel of real property with an
on for eligible low-income seniors?

^PARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
t MEASURE K

Moraga School District has adopted a
tecial tax (parcel tax) for specified

iters to cjecide whether a parcel tax
xable real property within the District,
2 existing parcel tax (which expires on
year unless and until revoked by the
Heeled by the Contra Costa County
time and Hn the same manner as ad

i pea- year <|n each taxable parcel in the
from the phreel tax in any year if the
>erty taxes or if no property taxes are
Any parcel owned and occupied by a
d or older would also be exempt from
to the District. This exemption for low-

iiy.

easure states that the proceeds of the
funding fan Moraga's K-8 schools to
trong academics, and to hire and retain
eming board's resolution calling for the
ceeds "shall be authorized to be used
onal programs including but not limited
irograms, hiring and retaining qualified

.he parcel tak remain unexpended, an
tre an annua report stating the amount
ded in the year and the status of any
le tax proceeds.

Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve the
measure for it to pass.

A “yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax,

A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax. * •

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE K

Moraga's public elementary and middle schools have a strong tradition of
academic excellence. The Moraga School District's conservative fiscal
practices have enabled it to survive recent cuts in State funding without
severely impacting its educational programs. However, the ongoing State
budget crisis and the expiration of the current parcel tax on July 1, 2005 are
threatening the quality of our schools. Moraga's schools need a stable and
reliable source of local funding to maintain the programs that make them
among the best in California.

The State has reduced its funding to the Moraga School District by $900,000
over the last two years. Next year’s projected deficit is $803,000, and by
2007-2008 it grows to over $2 million. The Distnct has already responded by
increasing class sizes, and reducing educational programs and administrative
support. Further reductions will cut deeply into our classrooms, and will
inevitably include the loss of teaching positions. Measure K will enable us to
preserve our current educational programs. Because demand for Moraga
homes is largely dnven by the quality of its schools, every Moraga
homeowner will benefit from Measure K.

Measure K will replace the existing $129 parcel tax with a $325 levy. It
provides for an annual independent audit and an exemption for low-income
seniors. Funding from Measure K will allow our schools to:

•	Maintain small class sizes (of under 30 in grades 4-8 and
20 in grades K-3)

•	Preserve core academic programs

•	Hire and retain qualified teachers

Measure K is an essential investment in our children, our community and our
future. On Tuesday, March 2, vote yes on Measure K,

SIGNED:

DENNIS KELLEHER

PRESIDENT, MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT GOVERNING BOARD

t

2

DALE WALWARK

MEMBER, MORAGA TOWN COUNCIL

MARGARET DEPRIESTER
FORMER MAYOR. TOWN OF MORAGA

SUE OLSEN

REAL ESTATE BROKER

MICHELLE STRATTON

FORMER PRESIDENT, CAMINO PABLO P.T.A AND JOAQUIN MORAGA
P.T.A.

ARGUMENT AGAINST
PARCEL TAX MEASURE K

None filed.

FULL TEXT OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE K

MORAGA SCHOOL DISTRICT
REPLACEMENT PARCEL TAX MEASURE OF 2004

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the
"Moraga School Distnct Replacement Parcel Tax Measure of 2004" or as
"Measure K”.

FINDINGS

The citizens of Moraga recognize excellence in education
as a core community value and essential to the continued attractiveness of
Moraga as a desirable place to live and raise children.

The Moraga School District is determined to maintain its
support for strong academic programs, excellent teaching, and small class
sizes.

State and federal funding levels will not permit the District to
continue to achieve its high goals for our children's education. Local sources
of funding continue to be needed to maintain programs. While contributions
from the Moraga Educational Foundation, Parent Teacher Associations, and
other local sources have increased dramatically, they are not enough to
maintain our existing programs. Further, the District cannot rely on voluntary
contributions to satisfy its basic annual funding requirements.

3

A secure, reliable source of non-State funding is needed to
maintain high academic standards and provide the best education program
possible to the children of Moraga, to attract and retain the best teachers
available, and to preserve small class sizes.

TERMS OF PARCEL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those
voting on this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified
special tax ("Parcel Tax") of $325 per year on each parcel of taxable real
property in the District, as defined below, commencing July 1, 2004, to
replace the District's existing parcel tax. Proceeds of the Parcel Tax shall be
authorized to be used for maintaining classroom and educational programs
including but not limited to, small class sizes, core academic programs, hiring
and retaining qualified teachers and staff.

Low-Income Senior Exemption. In order to provide tax relief

to those members of the Moraga community most in need, any parcel owned
and occupied by a low-income person 65 years of age or older shall be
exempt from the Tax upon application to the District. The exemption shall be
'vailable annually pursuant to procedures to be prescribed by the Governing

board or otherwise as required by law or by the Contra Costa County Tax

Collector. A "low-income person" is a member of a "very low income
household" as defined by California Health and Safety Code Section 50105.
Under current law, this means any household whose income does not
exceed 50 percent of area median income, adjusted for family size and
revised annualiy.

Perpetual Tax. The Parcel Tax shall continue from year to
year unless and until revoked by the District.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of

the Tax, the Governing Board shall cause an account to be established for
deposit of the tax proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the Parcel Tax
remain unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the
District shall cause an independent financial auditor to prepare a report, to be
filed with the Board no later than January 1 of each year, commencing
January 1,2005, stating (1) the amount of Parcel Tax revenues received and
expended in such year, and (2) the status of any project funded or to be
funded from proceeds of the tax. The report may relate to the calendar year,
fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shaft

4

determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget,
audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board.

Specific Purposes. All of toe purposes named in toe
Measure shall constitute toe specific purposes of toe Parcel Tax, and
proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes, as determined by
the Governing Board.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Parcel Tax shall be collected by toe Contra Costa
County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be
subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by toe
Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as
the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of toe
Parcel Tax shall not decrease the funds available from other sources of the
District in any period from the effective date hereof.

"Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as
provided above. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are
levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from
the imposition of the Parcel Tax in such year. An exemption is provided for
low-income seniors as described above.

The District shall annually provide a list of taxable parcels
to the Contra Costa County tax collection officials. The Contra Costa County
Assessor's determination of exemption or relief of any such taxable property
from taxation shall be final and binding for toe purposes of the Parcel Tax.
Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor's determination must
do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property
pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or
other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Parcel Taxes
paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to
the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has
independent value, and the Governing Board and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof.
Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts
hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

5