If u ^ ^ [LJJ

AUG 0 2 2004

CUPERTINO UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

By

RESOLUTION NO. 1823



RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2004, FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING
TO THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE DISTRICT THE QUESTION
OF LEVYING A QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX UPON EACH PARCEL IN
THE DISTRICT FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES AND
ESTABLISHING THE SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, the Board of Education (the “Board”) of the Cupertino Union School
District (the “District”) has determined that the present revenues of the District are inadequate to
fund the cost of education within the District, and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California
Government Code Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. (the “Law”) authorize a school
district, upon approval by 2/3 of the electorate voting on the measure, to levy a qualified special
tax for specified purposes following notice and a public hearing; and

WHEREAS, the Board has on this date held a public hearing which was duly noticed
where all interested persons have been heard on the matter of holding an election in the District
on the matter of levying a qualified special tax on parcels in the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Education desires at this time to order an election to be held
on November 2, 2004, in the District for the purpose of submitting to the voters in the District
the matter of levying a qualified special tax on parcels in the District for educational purposes
and to designate the specifications thereof, under Education Code section 5320 et seq.; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE CUPERTINO
UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, ORDER, AND DETERMINE
AS FOLLOWS:

Section I. Call for Election. The Board hereby orders an election and submits to the
electors of the District the question of whether a qualified special tax shall be levied and
collected in the District for the purposes as set forth more fully in the ballot proposition approved
below. This Resolution constitutes the order of the District to call such election and shall
constitute the “specifications of the election order” under Education Code section 5322.

Section 2. Election Date. The date of the election shall be November 2, 2004, and the
election shall be held solely within the boundaries of the District.

Section 3. Purpose of Election; Ballot Proposition. The purpose of the election shall
be for the voters in the District to vote on a proposition, a full copy of which is attached hereto as
Appendix A, containing the question of whether the District shall levy a qualified special tax in

the District for the purpose stated therein, together with the accountability requirements of
Government Code Section 50075.1. As required by Elections Code Section 13247, the
abbreviated form of the measure to appear on the ballot is attached hereto as Appendix B. The
superintendent or his designee is hereby authorized and directed to make any changes to the text
of the proposition as required to conform to any requirements of the Law or the Santa Clara
County Registrar of Voters.

Section 4. Authority for Election. The authority for ordering the election is contained
in Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California Governnagnt Code
Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. The authority for the specification of this election o?der n
is contained in Section 5322 of the Education Code.

Section 5. Type of Tax, Rate, and Method of Collection. Said qualified special tax
shall in an amount not to exceed $98 per parcel for 6 years assessed against each parcel of
taxable land in the District. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that
receives a separate tax bill from the Santa Clara County Assessor’s Office; except that
contiguous parcels of taxable real property owned by a single owner and operated as a single
economic unit shall be treated as a single parcel for the purposes of levying the special tax, upon
approval of an application made by the owner to the District. All property that would otherwise
be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the qualified special tax. An exemption
shall also be available to persons who are 65 years or older and own and occupy as a principal
residence a parcel (as defined in this Section) and apply to the District for such exemption under
guidelines established by the District.

Section 6. Accountability Requirements. The members of the Board, the
superintendent and officers of the District are hereby requested and directed, individually and
collectively, to provide accountability measures under Government Code Section 50075.1 that
include, but are not limited, to the following: (a) a statement indicating the specific purposes of
the special tax, (b) a requirement that the proceeds be applied only to the specific purposes
identified, (c) the creation of an account into which the proceeds shall be deposited, and (d) an
annual report under Government Code Section 50075.3 as provided in Section 7. Such
accountability measures shall be set forth on the ballot in the form of Appendix A attached
hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

Section 7. Annual Report. Under Government Code Section 50075.3, the Board
directs the chief fiscal officer of the District to file a report with the Board no later than January
1 of each year containing (a) the amount of funds collected and expended and (b) the status of
any project required or authorized to be funded as identified in Section 6(a) hereof.

Section 8. Delivery of this Resolution. The Clerk of the Board is hereby directed to
send a copy of this Resolution to the Santa Clara County Superintendent of Schools, the Santa
Clara County Registrar of Voters (the “County Registrar”) and the Santa Clara County Clerk of
the Board of Supervisors.

Section 9. Consolidation of Election. The County Registrar and the Santa Clara
County Board of Supervisors are hereby requested to consolidate the election ordered hereby
with any and all other elections to be held on November 2, 2004, within the District.

Section 10. Ballot Arguments. Any and all members of this Board or their designees
are hereby authorized to act as an author of any ballot argument prepared in connection with the
election, including a rebuttal argument. The Superintendent, President of the Board, or their
designees, are hereby authorized to execute any document and to perform all acts necessary to
place the parcel tax measure on the ballot.

Section 11. Notice of Election. That the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters is
hereby requested to prepare a formal Notice of Qualified Special Tax Election in time, form and
manner as required by law. The suggested form of notice of the election is as follows:

CUPERTINO UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ELECTION NOTICE

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of
the Cupertino Union School District (the “District”) of
Santa Clara County, that in accordance with law, an
election will be held on Tuesday, November 2, 2004, in
the District, at which election there will be submitted the
question of levying a qualified special tax of $98 on each
nonexempt parcel of land in the District for 6 years for the
purpose of raising money for the cost of public education.

Section 12. Reimbursement for Services Performed. The Cupertino Union School
District agrees to reimburse Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters for services performed when
work is completed on the election upon presentation of a bill.

Section 13. Election Under Law. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, said
election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding school district elections in
the District.

Section 14. Certification by Clerk of the Board. That the Clerk of the Board shall
certify to the passage and adoption of and shall make minutes of the passage and adoption
therefore in the records of the proceedings of the Board of Education of the District, in the
minutes of the meeting at which the same is passed and adopted.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Education of the Cupertino Union School,
County of Santa Clara, this 30th day of July, 2004.

BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE
CUPERTINO UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

ATTEST:

Clerk of the Board

APPENDIX A



BALLOT MEASURE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

In order to maintain high quality education at our neighborhood elementary and
middle schools by attracting and retaining the best teachers and staff; keeping
class sizes small; maintaining essential educational programs including music and
art; and funding programs that enhance student achievement, shall the Cupertino
Union School District levy $98 per parcel annually for 6 years with an exemption
for seniors, no money for administrator salaries and all money staying in our
community to benefit local public schools?

PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least 2/3 of the registered voters voting on the
proposition, the District will be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $98 per parcel for 6
years for the purpose of financing programs identified below under the heading “STATEMENT
OF PURPOSES,” subject to all the accountability requirements specified below. A parcel is
defined as any unit of land in the District that receives a separate tax bill from the Santa Clara
County Assessor’s Office; except that contiguous parcels of taxable real property owned by a
single owner and operated as a single economic unit shall be treated as a single parcel for the
purposes of levying the special tax, upon approval of an application made by the owner to the
District.



ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this proposition in order that the
voters and taxpayers in the District may be assured that their money will be spent wisely. As
required by the laws of the State of California, the proceeds of the qualified special tax will be
deposited into a special account established by the District and will be applied only to the
specific purposes identified below. The District has covenanted to have on file with its
governing board no later than January 1 of each year a report stating the amount of the funds
collected and expended and the status of any project authorized to be funded.

In addition, the governing board of the District shall appoint a Citizens Oversight
Committee with responsibility to review the expenditures of the District from the parcel tax to
ensure the parcel tax is expended for authorized purposes, and to prepare periodic reports to the
District and the public concerning the expenditure of the parcel tax proceeds.

STATEMENT OF PURPOSES

The statement shown below is a part of the ballot proposition and must be reproduced in
any official document required to contain the full statement of the proposition.

The proceeds of the parcel tax will be expended to finance the payment of costs and
expenses of the District which are designed to achieve the following purposes. The specific
purposes of the parcel tax are described as follows:

•	Retaining and attracting quality teachers and staff

•	Maintaining small class sizes

•	Maintaining educational programs including music and art

•	Funding programs that enhance student achievement

APPENDIX B

% >70 - f obJL'

BALLOT MEASURE
ABBREVIATED FORM

In order to maintain high quality education at our neighborhood elementary and
middle schools by attracting and retaining the best teachers and staff; keeping
class sizes small; maintaining essential educational programs including music and
art; and funding programs that enhance student achievement, shall the Cupertino
Union School District levy $98 per parcel annually for 6 years with an exemption
for seniors, no money for administrator salaries and all money staying in our
community to benefit local public schools?







