SALES TAX MEASURE J
CONTRA COSTA TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY

Shall voters approve a Transportation Expenditure Plan to;

» Extend and improve the BART system,

•	Add a Fourth Bore to the Caldecott Tunnel and improve Highway 24,

•	Widen and improve Interstate 80, 680, and Highway 4,

•	Maintain and improve local streets and roads,

•	Improve transit for seniors and disabled persons, and

Authorize a 25-year continuation of the local half-eent sales tax to
implement the Transportation Expenditure Plan, which shall not increase
the current sales tax?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
SALES TAX MEASURE J

On August 3, 1988, the Contra Costa Transportation Authority

unanimously passed and adopted Ordinance No. 88-01 (the Contra

Costa Transportation Improvement and Growth Management
Ordinance). The purpose of the ordinance was to impose and collect a

retail and transactions tax (sales tax) at the rate of one-half of one-
percent (Vz%) in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of Contra
Costa County. As required under the Local Transportation Authority and
Improvement Act. (Public Utilities Code section 180000 et seq.), the
revenues derived from the sales tax may be expended for “for the
construction and improvement of state highways, the construction,
maintenance, improvement, and operation of local streets, roads, and
highways, and the construction, improvement, and operation of public
transit systems.” Ordinance No. 88-01 was approved by voters on
November 8, 1988, and became operative on April 1, 1989. The
imposition of the sales tax is currently set to expire on March 31, 2009.

Under the Act, a sales tax may be continued in effect if a county
transportation authority adopts a tax ordinance by two-thirds vote and the
imposition of the tax is later approved by county electors voting on the
measure at an election. On May 26, 2004, the Contra Costa
Transportation Authority unanimously passed and adopted Ordinance
No. 04-02, which amends Ordinance No. 88-01 and continues the
existing half-cent sales tax, subject to voter approval. The sales tax
would continue for an additional twenty-five years, starting on April 1,
2009 and continuing through March 31,2034,

1

If this measure is approved by the voters, the revenues derived
from the half-cent sales tax will be expended for the transportation
projects and programs set forth in the Contra Costa Transportation
Authority’s adopted transportation expenditure plan (TEP”). The Contra
Costa Transportation Authority has adopted a new TEP (included in the
voter information handbook) to supplement the original 1988 TEP. The
new TEP sets forth transportation projects and programs, including
extending and improving the BART system, adding a fourth bore to the
Caldecott Tunnel and improving Highway 24, widening and improving
Interstates 80 and 680 and Highway 4, maintaining and improving local
streets and roads, and improving transit for seniors and disabled
persons. If approved by the voters, the TEP will become effective on
April 1, 2005.

This measure seeks voter approval of the amendment of
Ordinance No. 88-01, the continuance of the existing sales tax, and the
implementation of the new TEP. Two-thirds of those voting on the
measure must approve the measure in order for it to pass.

A “yes” vote is to approve Ordinance No. 04-02, including the
continuation of the sales tax.

A “no” vote is to disapprove Ordinance No. 04-02, including the
continuation of the sales tax. * 1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
SALES TAX MEASURE J

Vote YES on Measure J for comprehensive transportation solutions to
traffic and congestion in Contra Costa County.

Passage of Measure J authorizes an expenditure plan to relieve congestion
in every major commute corridor in Contra Costa County, providing a
balance of road improvements and mass transit solutions to manage our
traffic problems. Measure J will help us address the transportation demands
facing our County.

Measure J identifies five regional transportation priorities for Contra Costa
County:

1. Fix aging highways and build the fourth bore of the Caldecott

Tunnel. Major new projects will improve interchanges, open new
lanes-- including a fourth bore of the Caldecott Tunnel on Highway 24-
and improve Interstates 80, 680 and Highway 4.

2