MEASURE V	COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE V	AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A UTILITY USERS TAX  The City Council of the City of Saratoga and the people of the City of Saratoga do ordain as follows:  SECTION 1.  Chapter 5 of the Saratoga Municipal Code is hereby amended by adding Article 5.30 thereto to read as follows:  ARTICLE 5.30 Section 1.1 Purpose  This article is enacted solely to raise revenue for the general governmental purposes of the City. All of the proceeds from the tax imposed by this article shall be placed in the City’s general fund and used for the usual current expenses of the City. This Article shall be known and may be cited as the Utility Users Tax Ordinance.  Section 1.2 Definitions  The following words and phrases whenever used in this Article shall be construed as defined in this section.  A.	“Billing Address" shall mean the mailing address of the service user where the service supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer.  !>  B.	“Charges for Mobile Telecommunications Services" has the same meaning and usage as set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Sections 116 and 124) and the regulations thereunder.  C.	"City” shall mean the City of Saratoga.  D.	“City Manager" means the City Manager of the City, or his or her authorized representative.  E.	"Cogenerator" shall mean any corporation or person employing cogeneration (as defined in Section 218.5 of the California Public Utilities Code) for producing power for the generation of electricity for self use or sale to others from a qualified cogeneration facility (as defined in the federal Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 and regulations thereunder).  F.	"Exempt Wholesale Generator" shall have the same meaning as set forth in the Federal Power Act (15 U.S.C.S. 79z-5a) and regulations thereunder.  G.	"Gas" shall mean natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel which may be substituted therefor.  H.	“Mobile Telecommunications Service" has the same meaning and usage as set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4 U.S.C. Section 124) and the regulations thereunder.  I.	"Month" shall mean a calendar month.  J.	"Non-utiiity Supplier” shall mean:
This measure would establish a Utility Users Tax in the City of Saratoga. The tax would be imposed on telephone, electricity, gas, water, and video services. The tax rate would be 4%. The proceeds from this tax would be deposited in the City’s general fund and used for general governmental purposes. The tax would remain in effect for ten years.  The measure provides for certain exemptions. Low-income persons, eligible to participate in the CARE and Lifeline utility discount programs would be exempt from paying the tax on the utility services to which those programs apply (gas, electric, and some telephone services). The measure gives the City Council the authority to establish other classes of exemptions from the tax. Various service providers are exempted from paying taxes on their own utilities. The City is exempted from all taxes. The measure allows the City Council to reduce the tax rate. Any increase in the tax rate would require voter approval.  According to information provided to the City by utility service providers, this tax could increase the City’s general fund revenue by about $2.6 million per year. Detailed information concerning the City's budget is a matter of public record and is available at City Hall.  A "yes” vote on this measure would establish a Utility Users Tax at a  rate of 4%.  A “no" vote on this measure would result in no change in the level of taxation.  This measure must receive a majority of "yes” votes in order to pass.  Isl Richard S. Taylor City Attorney City of Saratoga	

N SC Ballot Type 138 - Page 043

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V ■ Continued

1)	a service supplier, other than an electrical corporation
supplying electricity to all or a significant portion of the City,
which generates electricity in capacities of at least 50 kilowatts
for sale to others, and shall include, but is not limited to, any
publicly-owned electric utility, investor-owned utility,
cogenerator, exempt wholesale generator, municipal utility
district, federal power marketing authority, electric rural
cooperative, or other supplier or seller of electricity;

2)	an electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer,
aggregator, pool operator, or other electricity supplier other
than a supplier of electric distribution services to all or a
significant portion of the City, which sells or supplies electricity
or supplemental services to electricity users within the City;
and,

3)	a gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer, or broker, other
than a gas corporation supplying gas to all or a significant
portion of the City, which sells or supplies gas to users within
the City.

4)	a water service supplier, distributor, wholesaler, marketer, or
broker, which sells or supplies water to users within the City
(other than a supplier of water distribution services to all or a
significant portion of the City).

K.	“Ordinance11 shall mean the Utility Users Tax Ordinance.

L.	"Person" shall mean, without limitation, any natural individual, firm, trust,
common law trust, estate, partnership of any kind, association, syndicate,
club, joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company,
corporation (including foreign, domestic, and non-profit), municipal district
or municipal corporation (other than the City), cooperative, receiver,
trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of any court.

M.	"Place of primary use" means the street address representative of where
the customer's use of the telecommunications service primarily occurs,
which must be the residential street address or the primary business street
address of the customer. In the case of mobile telecommunications
services, "place of primary use" must be within the licensed service area
of the home service provider, and shall have the same meaning and
usage as set forth in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Act (4
U.S.C. Section 116 et. seq.) and the regulations thereunder.

N.	“Self-Collector” means any service user subject to the tax imposed by
Sections 2.2, 2.3 or 2.4, hereof, which produces gas, electricity or water
for self-use, or which receives gas, electricity or water directly from a non-
utility supplier not under the jurisdiction of this Ordinance, or which
otherwise is not having the full tax due on the use of gas, electricity or
water in the City that is directly billed and collected by the service supplier
or its billing agent.

O.	"Service Address" means the residential street address or the business
street address of the gas, electric, water or video service user. For a
telephone communication service user, "service address" means:

1)	The location of the telecommunications equipment to which a
service user’s call is charged and from which the call originates
or terminates, regardless of where the call is billed or paid; or,

2)	If the location in subsection (0)(1) is unknown, the service
address means the location of the service user's place of
primary use.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V - Continued

P.	"Service Supplier" shall mean any regulated or non-regulated entity, or
person, Including the City, that provides telephone communication,
electric, gas, water or video service to a user of such services within the
City, and including any self-collector, that Is required to collect or self-
impose and remit a tax as imposed by this Ordinance, including its billing
agent in the case of electric, gas, water or video service.

Q.	"Service User" shall mean a person required to pay a tax imposed by this
Ordinance.

R.	"State" shall mean the State of California.

S.	"Tax Administrator" shall mean the Finance Director of the City.

T.	“Telephone Communication Services” shall include “communications
services" as defined in Sections 4251 and 4252 of the Internal Revenue
Code (26 U.S.C.A.), and the regulations thereunder, and shall include
teletypewriter exchange and similar data services, and any service that is
capable of transmitting telephonic quality communications [including the
use of Internet Protocol (IP) or other similar means], whether provided by
analog, digital, electronic, radio or similar means through “interconnected
service" with the “public switched network” [as these terms are commonly
used in the Federal Communications Act and the regulations of'the
Federal Communications Commission - see 47 U.S.C.A. Section 332(d)]
or over digital networks by which communications with a substantial
portion of the public is available (e.g., voice using internet protocol or
VoIP), and whether such transmission occurs by wire, teletypewriter,
cable, cable modem or digital subscriber line (DSL), internet, fiber-optic,
light wave, laser, microwave, switching facilities, satellite, radio wave
[including, but not limited to, mobile telecommunications service, cellular
service, commercial mobile service and commercial mobile radio service
(see 47 U.S.C. Section 332(d)(1) and Part 20.3 of Title 47 of the Code of
Federal Regulations), personal communications service (PCS),
specialized mobile radio (SMR), and other similar services regardless of
radio spectrum used], or any other similar facilities, and whether charges
for such service are based on time, distance, or on any other basis.

U.	“Telephone corporation,” “electrical corporation,” "gas corporation," and
“water corporation” shall have the same meanings as defined in Sections
234,218,222 and 241, respectively, of the California Public Utilities Code,
except that “electrical corporation,” “gas corporation," and “water
corporation" shall also be construed to include any municipality, public
agency, or person engaged in the selling or supplying of electricity, gas, or
water to a service user.

V.	“Video Service Supplier” shall mean any person, company, or service
which provides one or more channels of video programming, including any
communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the use and
enjoyment of the video programming, to or from an address in the City,
including to or from a business, home, condominium, or apartment, where
some fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for
that service, whether or not public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery
of the video programming or communications. A “video service supplier"
includes, but is not limited to, multichannel video programming distributors
[as defined in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 522(13)]; open video systems (OVS)
suppliers; suppliers of cable television; master antenna television; satellite
master antenna television; multichannel multipoint distribution services
(MMDS); direct broadcast satellite to the extent federal law permits
taxation of its video services, now or in the future; and other suppliers of
video programming or communications (including two-way
communications), whatever their technology.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V - Continued

W.	“Video Services" means any and all services related to the providing of
video programming (including origination programming), including any
communications that are ancillary, necessary or common to the use or
enjoyment of the video programming, regardless of the content of such
video programming or communications. “Video Services” do not include
services for which a tax is paid under Section 2.1 of this Article.

Article 2. Taxes Imposed and Tax Rate

Section 2.1 Telephone Users Tax

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City, other than a
telephone corporation, who uses telephone communication services,
including intrastate, interstate, and international telephone communication
services. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate of four
percent (4%) of all charges made for such telephone communication
services. If the billing address of the service user is different from the
service address, the service address of the service user shall be used for
purposes of imposing the tax, regardless of where the telephone
communication service may originate, terminate, or pass through.
Charges for mobile telecommunications services are subject to taxation
under this Ordinance if the customer's place of primary use is in the City,
regardless of where the mobile telecommunications service may originate,
terminate, or pass through.

B.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax shall not apply to any person who
qualifies and has been accepted for the lifeline telephone service rate
pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Sections 873, 874 and 876,
and as they may be amended from time to time. In the event that the
lifeline program is repealed or otherwise ceases to exist in a substantially
similar form, the exemption granted under this subsection shall
automatically terminate.

C.	As used in this section, the term "telephone communication services" shall
not include "private mobile radio service," as defined in Part 20 of Title 47
of the Code of Federal Regulations, or “private mobile service," as defined
in 47 U.S.C.A. Section 332(d)(3), which is not interconnected with the
public switched network or is not provided over digital networks by which
communications with a substantial portion of the public is available (e.g.,
voice using internet protocol or VoIP). The tax imposed under subsection
(a) above shall not be imposed upon any person for using
telecommunication services to the extent that, pursuant to Sections 4252
and 4253 of the Internal Revenue Code, the amounts paid for such
communication services are exempt from or not subject to the tax imposed
under Section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code. In the event that the
federal excise tax on "communication services" as provided in Sections
4251, 4252 and 4253 of the Internal Revenue Code is subsequently
repealed, any reference in Section 2.1 of this Ordinance to such law,
including any related federal regulations, private letter rulings, case law,
and other opinions interpreting these sections, shall refer to that body of
law that existed immediately prior to the date of repeal, as well as to any
judicial or administrative decision interpreting such federal excise tax law
which is published or rendered after the date of repeal.

D.	As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the telephone
communication services. The term "charges" shall also include charges to
a service user by a hotel or motel for telephone communication services
used in the City when such charges are incidental to the right of
occupancy in such hotel or motel. The collection of the tax from the
service user shall be the responsibility of the hotel or motel owner.

E.	As used in this section, the term "charges" shall not include charges for
services paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones except
that where such coin-operated telephone service is furnished for a
guaranteed amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any
fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be included in the base for
computing the amount of the tax due.

F.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may issue and disseminate to
telecommunication Service Suppliers which are subject to the tax
collection requirements of this Ordinance, an administrative ruling which
identifies those Telephone Communication Services that are subject to the
tax of subsection (A) above and/or identifies the sourcing of such services
for tax administration purposes. This administrative ruling shall not
impose a new tax, revise an existing tax methodology as stated in this
Section, or increase an existing tax, except as allowed by California
Government Code Section 53750(h)(2)(A). An administrative ruling shall
not constitute a new tax or an increase in an existing tax if such
administrative ruling is:

1)	consistent with the existing ordinance language; and,

2)	merely reflects a change in, clarification to, or new rendition of:

a)	the definition, interpretation, or application of
substantial nexus by a court of competent
jurisdiction or by preemptive state or federal 4aw, for
purposes of taxation;

b)	the sourcing of taxable transactions, which furthers
administrative efficiency and minimizes multi-
jurisdictional taxation; or,

c)	the definition, interpretation, or application of the
federal excise tax rules, regulations, and laws
pertaining to “communications services" (Sections
4251,4252 and 4253 of the Internal Revenue Code)
by the Internal Revenue Service, or by a state or
local agency that assumes an interpretative role of
those rules, regulations, and laws in the event that
the federal excise tax on “communications services”
is repealed.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telephone
communication services subject to tax under this section, any service
user, upon proof to the Tax Administrator that the service user has
previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such telephone
communication service, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed
to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state
or city, provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax
owed to the City under this section.

F.	The tax on telephone communication services imposed by this
section shall be collected from the service user by the service supplier.
The amount of the tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the
Tax Administrator and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the last day of the following month.

N SC Ballot Type 138 - Page 045

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V ■ Continued

Section 2.2 Electricity Users Tax

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person, other than an electric
corporation or gas corporation, using electricity in the City. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of four percent (4%) of the
charges made for such electricity, and for any supplemental services or
other associated activities directly related and/or necessary for the
provision of electricity to the end-user, which are provided by a service
supplier or non-utility supplier to a service user. The tax shall be collected
from the service user by the service supplier or non-utility supplier, or its
billing agent.

B.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax shall not apply to any person, who
qualifies, and has been accepted, for the California Alternate Rates for
Energy (CARE) Program pursuant to California Public Utilities Code
Sections 327 and 739.1 et. seq., and as it may be amended from time to
time. In the event that the CARE Program is repealed or otherwise ceases
to exist in a substantially similar form, the exemption granted under this
subsection shall automatically terminate.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services,
components and items that are: (i) necessary or common to the receipt,
use and enjoyment of electric service; or, (ii) currently, or historically have
been, included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by a local
distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term ''charges"
shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

1.	energy charges;

2.	distribution and transmission charges;

3.	metering charges;

4.	stand-by, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support,
regulation, emergency, or other similar charges for
supplemental services to a self-collector which produces
electricity for self-use;

5.	customer charges, service establishment or reestablishment
charges, demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments,
power exchange charges, independent system operator (ISO)
charges, stranded investment or competitive transition charges
(CTC), public purpose program charges, nuclear
decommissioning charges, trust transfer amounts (bond
financing charges), franchise fee, franchise surcharge, annual
and monthly charges, and other charges, fees and surcharges
which are necessary to or common for the receipt, use and
enjoyment of electric service; and,

6.	charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or
programs, which are mandated by the California Public Utilities
Commission, or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a
bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

D.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the electricity
or services related to the provision of such electricity.

E.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the electric service
suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components of electric
retail service that they commonly provide to residential and
commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the charges therefor,
including those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory
agencies as a condition of providing such electric service. The Tax
Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such electric
service suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components
and items which are: i) necessary or common to the receipt, use or
enjoyment of electric service; or, ii) currently, or historically have been,
included in a single or bundled rate for electric service by a local
distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for such
components and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection (A) above.

F.	As used in this section, the term “using electricity" shall not be construed
to mean:

1.	The storage of electricity by a person in a battery owned or
possessed by him for use in an automobile or other machinery
device apart from the premises on which the electricity was
received, provided, however, that the term shall include the
receiving of electricity for the purpose of using it to charge the
batteries

2.	Electricity used and consumed by an electric utility supplier in

the conduct of its business;	4

3.	The mere receiving of such electricity by an electrical
corporation or governmental agency at a point within the City
for resale;

4.	The use of such electricity in the production or distribution of
water by a water utility or government agency

G.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the electric service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of the tax
collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or
before the last day of the following month; or, at the option of the person
required to collect or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated
amount of the tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month or
upon the payment pattern of the service user, which must be received by
the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following month,
provided that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment or request
for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar
quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may be applied
against any subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

H.	The service supplier, at its option, may assess a service charge of up to
one-eighth of one percent (1/8%) of the tax actually collected by the
service supplier and remitted to the City. The service charge may be
deducted from the tax remitted to the City at the time of remission.

I.	The tax on electricity provided by self-production or by a non-utility
supplier or an electric utility not under the jurisdiction of this Ordinance
shall be collected and remitted in the manner set forth in Section 2.4.

Section 2.3 Gas Users Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City, other than a
gas corporation or electric corporation, using, in the City, gas which is
transported through mains or pipes or by mobile transport. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of four percent (4%) of the
charges made for such gas, including all services related to the storage,
transportation, and delivery of such gas.

N SC Ballot Type 138 - Page 046

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V ■ Continued

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V ■ Continued

B.	Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax shall not apply to any person who
qualifies, and has been accepted, for the California Alternate Rates for
Energy (CARE) Program pursuant to California Public Utilities Code
Sections 327 and 739.1 et. seq., and as it may be amended from time to
time. In the event that the CARE Program is repealed or otherwise ceases
to exist in a substantially similar form, the exemption granted under this
subsection shall automatically terminate.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges" shall apply to all services,
components and items for gas service that are: i) necessary or common to
the receipt, use and enjoyment of gas service; or, ii) currently, or
historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for gas service
by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term
“charges” shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

1)	the commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas
owned by the service user (including the actual costs attributed
to drilling, production, lifting, storage, gathering, trunkline,
pipeline, and other operating costs associated with the
production and delivery of such gas), which is delivered
through a gas pipeline distribution system;

2)	gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the
extent not included in commodity charges);

3)	storage charges; provided, however, that the service supplier
shall not be required to apply the tax to any charges for gas
storage services when the service supplier cannot, as a
practical matter, determine the jurisdiction where such stored
gas is ultimately used; but it shall be the obligation of the
service user to self-collect the amount of tax not applied to any
charge for gas storage by the service supplier and to remit the
tax to the appropriate jurisdiction;

4)	capacity or demand charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, transition charges, customer charges,
minimum charges, annual and monthly charges, and any other
charges which are necessary or common to the receipt, use
and enjoyment of gas service; and

5)	charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs,
which are- mandated by the California Public Utilities
Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a
bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

D.	As used in this section, the term “charges" shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the gas or
services related to the delivery of such gas.

E.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the gas service
suppliers to identify the various unbundled billing components of gas retail
service that they commonly provide to residential and
commercfal/industriai customers in the City, and the charges therefor,
including those items that are mandated by state or federal regulatory
agencies as a condition of providing such gas service. The Tax
Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such gas service
suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components and items
which are: i) necessary or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas
service; or, ii) currently, or historically have been, included in a single or
bundled rate for gas service by a local distribution company to a class of
retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall be subject
to the tax of subsection A above.

F.	The tax imposed by this section is not applicable to:

1)	charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered
through a pipeline distribution system;

2)	charges made for gas used and consumed by a public utility or
governmental agency in the conduct of its business;

3)	charges made by a gas public utility or gas used and
consumed in the course of its public utility business;

4)	charges made for gas used in the propulsion of a motor
vehicle, as authorized in the Vehicle Code of the State of
California.

G.	The tax imposed in this section shall be collected from the service user by
the gas service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of the tax
collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator on or
before the last day of the following month; or, at the option of the person
required to collect or remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated
amount of the tax measured by the tax billed in die previous month or
upon the payment pattern of the service user, which must be received by
the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following month,
provided that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment or request
for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar
quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax Administrator, may b£ applied
against any subsequent tax bill that becomes due.

H.	The service supplier, at its option, may assess a service charge of up to
one-eighth of one percent (1/8%) of the tax actually collected by the
service supplier and remitted to the City. The service charge may be
deducted from the tax remitted to the City at the time of remission.

I.	The tax imposed in this section on gas provided by self-production or by a
non-utility supplier not under the jurisdiction of this Ordinance shall be
collected and remitted in the manner set forth in Section 2.4.

Section 2.4 Water Users Tax.

A.	There Is imposed a tax upon every person using water in the City which is
transported and delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The tax
imposed by this section shall be at the rate of four percent (4%) of the
charges made for such water.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall apply to all services,
components and items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt,
use or enjoyment of water service; or, ii) currently are or historically have
been included in a single or bundled rate for water service by a local
distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term “charges”
shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

1)	water commodity charges (potable and non-potable);

2)	distribution or transmission charges;

3)	metering charges;

4)	customer charges, late charges, service establishment or
reestablishment charges, franchise fees, franchise surcharges,
annual and monthly charges, and other charges, fees and
surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt,
use or enjoyment of water service; and,

PR8274-5

N SC Ballot Type 138 - Page 047

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V - Continued

5)	charges, fees, or surcharges for water services or programs,
which are mandated by a water district or a state or federal
agency, whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges
appear on a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing.

C.	As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the water
services.

D.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the water service
suppliers in the City to identify the various unbundled billing components
of water retail service that they commonly provide to residential and
commercial/industrial customers in the City, and the charges therefor,
including those items that are mandated by a water district or a state or
federal agency as a condition of providing such water service. The Tax
Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such water service
suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components and items
which are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of
water service; or, ii) currently are or historically have been included in a
single or bundled rate for water service by a local distribution company to
a class of retail customers. Charges for such components and items shall
be subject to the tax of subsection A above.

E.	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this
section is computed charges made for water which is to be resold and
delivered through a pipeline distribution system; and charges made by a
municipal water department, public utility or a city or municipal water
district for water used and consumed by such department, public utility or
water district in the conduct of the business of such department, utility or
district.

F.	The tax on water service Imposed by this section shall be collected from
the service user by the water service supplier or its billing agent. The
amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator, and must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before
the last day of the following month.

G.	The service supplier, at its option, may assess a service charge of up to
one-eighth of one percent (1/8%) of the tax actually collected by the
service supplier and remitted to the City. The service charge may be
deducted from the tax remitted to the City at the time of remission.

Section 2.5 Collection of Tax From Service Users Receiving Direct

Purchase of Gas, Electricity or Water

A.	Any service-user who is a self-collector, as defined in Section 1.2(N), shall
report said fact to the Tax Administrator and shall remit the tax due directly
to the Tax Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use. In lieu of
paying said actual tax, the self-collector may, at its option, remit to the Tax
Administrator within thirty (30) days of such use an estimated amount of
tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month, or upon the pattern
payment of similar customers of the service supplier using similar amounts
of gas, electricity or water, provided that the self-collector shall submit an
adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60)
days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the Tax
Administrator, may be applied against any subsequent tax bill that
becomes due.

B.	The Tax Administrator may require said self-collector to identify its non-
utility supplier and provide, subject to audit, invoices, books of account, or
other satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas, electricity or
water used and the cost or price thereof. If the self-collector is unable to
provide such satisfactory evidence, or, if the administrative cost of
calculating the tax, in the opinion of the City, is excessive, the City may
determine the tax by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the
self-collector would have incurred if the gas, electricity or water used had
been provided by the service supplier, which is the primary supplier of gas,
electricity or water within the City. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be
available from the City.

Section 2.6 Video Service Users Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person using video services in
the City from a video service supplier. The tax imposed by this section
shall be at the rate of four percent (4%) of the charges made for such
video services.

B.	As used in this section, the term “charges" shall apply to all services,
components and items that are: i) necessary for or common to the receipt,
use or enjoyment of video service; or, ii) currently are or historically have
been included in a single or bundled rate for video service by a local video
service supplier to a class of retail customers. The term “charges" shall
include, but is not limited to, the following charges:

1)	franchise fees and access fees (PEG), whether designated on
the customer's bill or not;

2)	initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and
receipt of video services;

3)	late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check
fees;

4)	activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees;

5)	all programming services (e.g„ basic services, premium
services, audio services, video games, pay-per-view services,
video on demand, and electronic program guide services);

6)	equipment leases (e.g., converters, remote devices); and,

7)	service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes
of services, and special services.

C.	As used in this section, the term “charges" shall include the value of any
other services, credits, property of every kind or nature, or other
consideration provided by the service user in exchange for the video
services.

D.	The Tax Administrator, from time to time, may survey the video service
suppliers in the City to identify the various components of video service
that are being offered to customers within the City, and the charges
therefor. The Tax Administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to
such video service suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those
components: i) that are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or
enjoyment of video service; or, ii) which currently are or historically have
been included in a bundled rate for video service by a local distribution
company. Charges for such components shall be subject to the tax of
subsection A above.

N SC Ballot Type 138 - Page 048

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V - Continued

E.	The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by
the video service supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of such services.
In the case of video service, the service user shall be deemed to be the
purchaser of the bulk video service (e.g., an apartment owner), unless
such service is resold to individual users, in which case the service user
shall be the ultimate purchaser of the video service. The amount of tax
collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the Tax Administrator, and
must be received by the Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the
following month.

F.	The service supplier, at its option, may assess a service charge of up to
one-eighth of one percent (1/8%) of the tax actually collected by the
service supplier and remitted to the City. The service charge may be
deducted from the tax remitted to the City at the time of remission.

Article 3 Procedures

Section 3.1 Exemptions.

A.	Nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person or service when imposition of such tax upon that person or service
would be in violation of federal statute, the Constitution of the United
States, or the Constitution of the State of California.

B.	The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall not apply to the City.

C.	The City Council may, by resolution, establish one or more classes of
persons or one or more classes of utility service otherwise subject to
payment of a tax imposed by this chapter and provide that such classes of
persons or service shall be exempt, in whole or In part from such tax.

D.	The Tax Administrator shall prepare a list of the persons exempt from the
provisions of this Ordinance by virtue of this section and furnish a copy
thereof to each service supplier.

E.	Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this Ordinance
pursuant to subsection A or B shall file an application with the Tax
Administrator for an exemption; provided, however, this requirement shall
not apply to a service user that is a state or federal agency or subdivision
with a commonly recognized name, or is a service user of telephone
communication services that has received a federal excise tax exemption
certificate for such service. Said application shall be made upon a form
approved by the Tax Administrator and shall state those facts, declared
under penalty of perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption, and
shall include the names of all utility service suppliers serving that service
user. If deemed exempt by the Tax Administrator, such service user shall
give the Tax Administrator timely written notice of any change in utility
service suppliers so that the Tax Administrator can properly notify the new
utility service supplier of the service user's tax exempt status. A service
user that fails to comply with this section shall not be entitled to a refund of
utility users taxes collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator from
such service user as a result of such non-compliance. Upon request of the
Tax Administrator, a service supplier or non-utility supplier, or their billing
agents, shall provide a list of names and addresses of those customers
which, according to their billing records, are deemed exempt from the
utility users tax. With respect to a service user of telephone
communication services, a service supplier of such telephone
communication services doing business in the City shall, upon request of
the Tax Administrator, provide a copy of the federal exemption certificate
for each exempt customer within the City that is served by such service
supplier.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V - Continued

F.	The decision of the Tax Administrator may be appealed pursuant to
Section 3.13 of this Ordinance. Filing an application with the Tax
Administrator and appeal to the City Administrator pursuant to Section
3.14 of this Ordinance is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

Section 3.2 Percentage Rate Reductions Approved by City Council

The City Council may, by order or resolution, establish percentage rate
reductions, as follows:

A.	The City Council may reduce the percentage rate of the tax for any utility
service or class of taxpayers that is subject to the tax of this Article. The
City Council may specify a period of time after which the reduction shall
automatically be repealed.

B.	Upon establishment of an exemption pursuant to section 3.1(C) or
percentage reduction by the City Council pursuant to this section 3.2, the
City Council may subsequently take action to repeal or modify the
exemption or percentage reduction; provided, however, in no event shall
any action taken by City Council cause the percentage rate of the tax to
exceed the voter approved percentage rates set forth in this Article,
without a subsequent voter approval, to the extent such voter approval is
required by law.

C.	Any actions taken by the City Council pursuant to this section 3.2 shall not
constitute an “extension” or “increase” of the tax imposed by this Article,
as authorized by California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2(d), and
California Government Code section 53750(h)(2).

Section 3.3 Effect of Bundling Taxable Items with Non-Taxable Items.

Except as otheiwise provided by state or federal law, or as approved in writing
by Tax Administrator, if one or more non-taxable items are bundled or
aggregated together with one or more taxable items (as provided for by this
Ordinance) under a single charge on a service user's bill, the entire single
charge shall be deemed taxable.

Section 3.4 Substantial Nexus / Minimum Contacts.

For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax
under this Ordinance, “substantial nexus" and “minimum contacts" shall be
construed broadly in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the
utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as it
may change from time to time by judicial interpretation or by statutory
enactment.

Section 3.5 Duty to Collect: Procedures

The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit the taxes imposed by the
provisions of this Ordinance shall be performed as follows:

A.	The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as, and
along with, the collection of the charges made in accordance with the
regular billing practice of the service supplier. Where the amount paid by
a service user to a service supplier is less than the full amount of the
service charge and tax which has accrued for the billing periods, such
amount and any subsequent payments by a service user shall be applied
to the utility charge first until such charge has been fully satisfied. The Tax
Administrator shall have the power to make an assessment for delinquent
taxes as provided for in Section 3.9 of this Ordinance thereby relieving the
service supplier from the obligation to collect these delinquent taxes.

PR8274-7

N SC Ballot Type 138 - Page 049

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V - Continued

B.	The duty of a service supplier to collect the tax from a service user shall
commence with the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable
to the service user where all charges normally included in such regular
billing are subject to the provisions of this Ordinance. Where a person
receives more than one billing, one or more being for different periods
than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing
period.

Section 3.6 Filing Return and Payment.

Each person required by this Ordinance to remit a tax shall file a return to the
Tax Administrator, on forms approved by the Tax Administrator, on or before the
due date. The full amount of the tax collected shall be included with the return
and filed with the Tax Administrator. The Tax Administrator is authorized to
require such additional information as he or she deems necessary to determine
if the tax is being levied, collected, and remitted in accordance with this
Ordinance. Returns are due immediately upon cessation of business for any
reason. Pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code Section 7284.6, the Tax
Administrator, and its agents, shall maintain such filing returns as confidential
information exempt from disclosure provisions of the Public Records Act.

Section 3.7 Collection Penalties - Service Suppliers and Self-Collectors.

A.	Taxes collected by a service supplier from a service user, or self-collected
by a self-collector, are delinquent if not received by the Tax Administrator
on or before the due date. Should the due date occur on a weekend or
legal holiday, the return must be received by the Tax Administrator on or
before the first regular working day following the weekend or legal holiday.
A direct deposit, including electronic fund transfers and other similar
methods of electronically exchanging monies between financial accounts,
made by a service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this
subsection, shall be considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or
before the due date, and the transfer settles into the City’s account on or
before the following business day.

B.	If a service supplier or a self-collector fails to remit any tax collected or due
pursuant to a service agreement, on or before the due date, said person
shall pay a penalty for such delinquencies at the rate of fifteen percent
(15%) of the total tax that is delinquent in the remittance, and shall pay
interest at the rate of three-quarters of one percent (3/4%) per month, or
any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from
the date on which the remittance first became delinquent, until paid.

C.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to impose additional penalties
upon persons required to collect and/or remit taxes pursuant to the
provisions of this Ordinance for fraud or gross negligence in reporting or
remitting at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the amount of the tax
collected and/or required to be remitted, or as recomputed by the Tax
Administrator.

D.	For collection purposes only, every penalty imposed and such interest that
is accrued under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the
tax herein required to be paid.

Section 3.8 Deficiency Determination and Assessment - Tax Application
Errors.

A.	The Tax Administrator shall make a deficiency determination if he or she
determines that any person required to collect or self-collect taxes
pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance has failed to collect and remit
the proper amount of tax by improperly or failing to apply the tax to one or
more taxable services or charges.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V- Continued

B.	The Tax Administrator shall mall a notice of such deficiency determination
to the person required to pay or remit the tax, which notice shall refer
briefly to the amount of the taxes owed, plus interest at the rate of three-
quarters of one percent (3/4%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the
amount of the tax from the date on which the tax should have been
received by the City. Within fourteen (14) calendar days after the date of
service of such notice, the person may request in writing to the Tax
Administrator for a hearing on the matter. If the person fails to request a
hearing within the prescribed time period, the amount of the deficiency
determination shall become a final assessment, and shall immediately be
due and owing to the City.

C.	If the person requests a hearing, the Tax Administrator shall cause the
matter to be set for hearing, which shall be held within thirty (30) days after
receipt of the written request for hearing. Notice of the time and place of
the hearing shall be mailed by the Tax Administrator to such person at
least ten (10) calendar days prior to the hearing, and, if the Tax
Administrator desires said person to produce specific records at such
hearing, such notice may designate the records requested to be produced.

D.	At the time fixed for the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall hear all
relevant testimony and evidence, including that of any other interested
parties. At the discretion of the Tax Administrator, the hearing may be
continued from time to time for the purpose of allowing the presentation of
additional evidence. Within a reasonable time following the conclusion of
the hearing, the Tax Administrator shall issue a final assessment (or non-
assessment), thereafter, by confirming, modifying or rejecting the original
deficiency determination, and shall mail a copy of such final assessment to
person owing the tax. The decision of the Tax Administrator may be
appealed pursuant to Section 3.13 of this Ordinance. Filing an application
with the Tax Administrator and appeal to the City Manager pursuant to
Section 3.13 of this Ordinance is a prerequisite to a suit thereon.

E.	Payment of the final assessment shall become delinquent if not received
by the Tax Administrator on or before the thirtieth (30th) day following the
date of receipt of the notice of final assessment. The penalty for
delinquency shall be fifteen percent (15%) on the total amount of the
assessment, along with interest at the rate of three-quarters of one
percent (3/4%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the
tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date of delinquency, until paid. The
applicable statute of limitations regarding a claim by the City seeking
payment of a tax assessed under this Ordinance shall commence from the
date of delinquency as provided in this subsection E.

F.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage
prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following
the date of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

Section 3.9 Administrative Remedy - Non-Paying Service Users.

A.	Whenever the Tax Administrator determines that a service user has
deliberately withheld the amount of the tax owed by the service user from
the amounts remitted to a person required to collect the tax, or whenever
the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he or she
may relieve such person of the obligation to collect the taxes due under
this Ordinance from certain named service users for specific billing
periods.

B.	The service supplier shall provide the City with the names and addresses
of such service users and the amounts of taxes owed under the provisions
of this Ordinance. Whenever the service user has failed to pay the
amount of tax owed for a period of two (2) or more billing periods, the
service supplier shall be relieved of the obligation to collect taxes due.

PR8274-8

N SC Ballot Type 138 - Page 050

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V - Continued

C.	The Tax Administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that the Tax
Administrator has assumed the responsibility to collect the taxes due for
the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes, including the
penalties and interest authorized in Subsection D. The notice shall be
served on the service user by personal delivery or by deposit of the notice
in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the service user
at the address to which billing was made by the person required to collect
the tax; or, should the service user have a change of address, to his or her
last known address.

D.	If the service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within thirty
(30) days from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her, the
Tax Administrator may impose a delinquency penalty of fifteen percent
(15%) of the amount of the total tax that is owed, and shall pay interest in
the rate of three-quarters of one percent (3/4%) per month, or any fraction
thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of the penalties, from the due
date, until paid.

Section 3.10 Actions to Collect.

Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this
Ordinance shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any
such tax collected from a service user which has not been remitted to the Tax
Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the person required to
collect and remit and shall no longer be a debt of the service user. Any person
owing money to the City under the provisions of this Ordinance shall be liable to
an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount,
including penalties and interest as provided for in this Ordinance, along with any
collection costs incurred by the City as a result of the person's noncompliance
with this Ordinance, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys fees and
court costs. Any tax required to be collected by a service supplier or owed by a
service user is an unsecured priority excise tax obligation under 11 U.S.C.A.
Section 507(a)(8)(C).

Section 3.11 Additional Powers and Duties of the Tax Administrator.

A.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty, and is hereby
directed, to enforce each and all of the provisions of this Ordinance.

B.	The Tax Administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations not
inconsistent with provisions of this Ordinance for the purpose of
interpreting, clarifying, carrying out and enforcing the payment, collection
and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such administrative
rules and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office.

C.	Upon a proper showing of good cause, the Tax Administrator may make
administrative agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the
strict requirements of this Ordinance and thereby: (i) conform to the billing
procedures of a particular service supplier (or a self-collector) so long as
said agreements result in the collection of the tax in conformance with the
general purpose and scope of this Ordinance; or, (ii) to avoid a hardship
where the administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly
outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file
in the Tax Administrator's office, and shall be voidable by the Tax
Administrator or the City at any time.

D.	The Tax Administrator may conduct an audit, to ensure proper compliance
with the requirements of this Ordinance, of any person required to collect
and/or remit a tax pursuant to this Ordinance. The Tax Administrator shall
notify said person of the initiation of an audit in writing. In the absence of
fraud or other intentional misconduct, the audit period of review shall not
exceed a period of three (3) years next preceding the date of receipt of the
written notice by said person from the Tax Administrator. Upon
completion of the audit, the Tax Administrator may make a deficiency
determination pursuant to Section 3.8 of this Ordinance for all taxes,
penalties and interest owed and mot paid, as evidenced by Information
provided by such person to the Tax Administrator. If said person is unable
or unwilling to provide sufficient records to enable the Tax Administrator to
verify compliance with this Ordinance, the Tax Administrator is authorized
to make a reasonable estimate of the deficiency. Said reasonable
estimate shall be entitled to a rebuttable presumption of correctness.

E.	Upon receipt of a written request of a taxpayer, and for good cause, the
Tax Administrator may extend the time for filing any statement required
pursuant to this Ordinance for a period of not to exceed forty-five (45)
days, provided that the time for filing the required statement has not
already passed when the request is received. No penalty for delinquent
payment shall accrue by reason of such extension, interest shall accrue
during said extension at the rate of three-quarters of one percent (3/4%)
per month, prorated for any portion thereof.

F.	The Tax Administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who
asserts a right to exemption from, or a refund of, the tax imposed by this
Ordinance. Pursuant to Section 3.1(D) of this Ordinance, fhe Tax
Administrator shall furnish a copy of the list of exempted person to each
service supplier.

G.	The Tax Administrator, with the written approval of the City Attorney, may
compromise a claim pursuant to this Ordinance where the portion of the
claim proposed to be released is less than the amount set by separate
resolution of the City Council relating to the settlement of general liability
claims against the City, and, with the approval of the City Attorney and the
City Council, may compromise such a claim where the portion proposed to
be released is equal to or greater than the amount set by separate
resolution of the City Council relating to the settlement of general liability
claims against the City.

H.	Notwithstanding any provision in this Ordinance to the contrary, the Tax
Administrator may waive any penalty or interest imposed upon a person
required to collect and/or remit for failure to collect the tax imposed by this
Ordinance if the non-collection occurred in good faith. In determining
whether the non-collection was In good faith, the Tax Administrator shall
take into consideration industry practice or other precedence.

I.	The Tax Administrator shall provide notice to all service suppliers, at least
ninety (90) days prior to any annexation or other change in the city's
boundaries. Said notice shall set forth the revised boundaries by street
and address, along with a copy of the final annexation order from the
Local Agency Formation Commission.

Section 3.12 Records.

A.	It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the
City any tax imposed by this Ordinance to keep and preserve, for a period
of at least three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine
the amount of such tax as he/she may have been liable for the collection
of and remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax
Administrator, or fhe Tax Administrator's designated representative, shall
have the right to inspect at a reasonable time.

N SC Ballot Type 138 - Page 051

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V - Continued

B.	The City may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a person to
deliver, to the Tax Administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary
by the Tax Administrator to establish compliance with this Ordinance,
including the delivery of records in a common electronic format on readily
available media if such records are kept electronically by the person in the
usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative to delivering the
subpoenaed records to the Tax Administrator on or before the due date
provided in the administrative subpoena, such person may provide access
to such records outside the City on or before the due date, provided that
such person shall reimburse the City for all reasonable travel expenses
incurred by the City to inspect those records, including travel, lodging,
meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding the normal salary or
hourly wages of those persons designated by the City to conduct the
inspection.

C.	The Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator's designated
representative, is authorized to execute a non-disclosure agreement
approved by the City Attorney to protect the confidentiality of customer
information pursuant to California Revenue and Tax Code Sections 7284.6
and 7284.7. The Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator's designated
representative, may request from a person providing transportation of gas
or electricity to service users within the City a list of the names and
addresses, and other pertinent information, of its transportation customers,
within the City pursuant to Section 6354(e) of the California Public Utilities
Code.

D.	If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect,
and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: i) provide to the Tax
Administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing
agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the service supplier to
bill, collect, and/or remit the tax to the City; and, il) upon request of the Tax
Administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information or records
in the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in the
opinion of the Tax Administrator, is necessary to verify the proper
application, calculation, collection and/or remittance of such tax to the City.

E.	If any person subject to record-keeping under this section unreasonably
denies the Tax Administrator, or the Tax Administrator's designated
representative, access to such records, or fails to produce the information
requested in an administrative subpoena within the time specified, then
the Tax Administrator may impose a penalty of $500 on such person for
each day following: i) the initial date that the person refuses to provide
such access; or, ii) the due date for production of records as set forth in
the administrative subpoena. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
penalty imposed under this Ordinance.

Section 3.13 Refunds.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid, paid more than once,
or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax
Administrator under this Ordinance, it may be refunded as provided in this
section.

B.	Where the amount of any individual refund claim is in excess of the
amount set by separate resolution of the City Council relating to the
settlement of general liability claims against the City, City Council approval
shall be required. The Tax Administrator may refund any tax that has
been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Ordinance,
provided that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section
unless the claimant or his or her guardian, conservator, executor, or
administrator has submitted a written claim to the Tax Administrator within
one (1) year of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said
tax. Such claim must clearly establish claimant's right to the refund by
written records showing entitlement thereto. Nothing herein shall permit
the filing of a claim on behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V - Continued

C.	The submission of a written claim, which is acted upon by the City Council,
shall be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. The City Council shall act upon
the refund claim within the time period set forth in Government Code
Section 912.4. If the City Council fails or refuses to act on a refund claim
within the time prescribed by Government Section 912.4, the claim shall
be deemed to have been rejected by the City Council on the last day of
the period within which the City Council was required to act upon the claim
as provided in Government Code Section 912.4, It is the intent of the City
Council that the one (1) year written claim requirement of this subsection
be given retroactive effect; provided, however, that any claims which arose
prior to the commencement of the one (1) year claims period of this
subsection, and which are not otherwise barred by a then applicable
statute of limitations or claims procedure, must be filed with the Tax
Administrator as provided in this subsection within ninety (90) days
following the effective date of this Ordinance.

D.	Notwithstanding the notice provisions of subsection B of this section, a
service supplier that has collected any amount of tax in excess of the
amount of tax imposed by this Ordinance and actually due from a service
user (whether due to overpayment or to erroneous or illegal collection of
said tax) may refund such amount to the service user, or credit to charges
subsequently payable by the service user to the service supplier, and
claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which is due
upon any other monthly returns to the Tax Administrator, provided such
credit is claimed in a return dated no later than one (1) year from the date
of overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. The Tax
Administrator shall determine the validity of the service user’s glaim of
credit, and the underlying basis for such claim.

E.	Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, whenever a service
supplier, pursuant to an order of the California Public Utilities Commission,
makes a refund to service users of charges for past utility services, the
taxes paid pursuant to this Ordinance on the amount of such refunded
charges shall also be refunded to service users, and the service supplier
shall be entitled to claim a credit for such refunded taxes against the
amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly return. In the event this
Ordinance is repealed, the amounts of any refundable taxes levied under
the authority of the repealed Ordinance shall be borne by the City.

Section 3.14 Appeals.

A.	The provisions of this section apply to any decision (other than a decision

relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.13 of this Ordinance), deficiency
determination,	assessment,	or	administrative	ruling	of	the	Tax

Administrator. Any person aggrieved by any decision (other than a
decision relating to a refund pursuant to Section 3.13 of this Ordinance),
deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of the Tax
Administrator shall be required to comply with the appeals procedure of
this section. Compliance with this section shall be a prerequisite to a suit
thereon. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a claim or action on
behalf of a class or group of taxpayers.

B.	If any person is aggrieved by any decision (other than a decision relating

to a refund pursuant to Section 3.13 of this Ordinance), deficiency
determination,	assessment,	or	administrative	ruling	of	the	Tax

Administrator; he or she may appeal to the City Manager by filing a notice
of appeal with the City Clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of the
decision, deficiency determination, assessment, or administrative ruling of
the Tax Administrator which aggrieved the service user or service supplier.

PR8274-10

N SC Ballot Type 138 - Page 052

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V - Continued

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE V - Continued

C.	The matter shall be set for hearing no more than thirty (30) days from the
receipt of the appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of the time
and place of the hearing, as well as any relevant materials, at least five (5)
calendar days prior to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from
time to time upon mutual consent. At the time of the hearing, the
appealing party, the Tax Administrator, the City Manager, and any other
interested person may present such relevant evidence as he or she may
have relating to the determination from which the appeal is taken.

D.	Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the City's
files, the City Manager shall issue a written notice and order upholding,
modifying or reversing the determination from which the appeal is taken.
The notice shall be given within fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of
the hearing and shall state the reasons for the decision. The notice shall
specify that the decision is final and that any petition for judicial review
shall be filed within ninety (90) days from the date of the decision in
accordance with Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6. If the City
Manager fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the fourteen (14)
day period, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the City
Manager on the fourteenth (14th) day.

E.	All notices under this section may be sent by regular mail, postage
prepaid, and shall be deemed received on the third calendar day following
the date of mailing, as established by a proof of mailing.

F.	No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this City or
against any officer of the City to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
Ordinance of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected and/or
remitted.

Section 3.15 Remedies Cumulative.

All remedies and penalties prescribed by this Ordinance or which are available
under any other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the
California False Claims Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.) and the
California Unfair Practices Act (Business and Professions Code Section 17070
et seq.), are cumulative. The use of one or more remedies by the City shall not
bar the use of any other remedy for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this Ordinance.

Section 3.16 Notice of Changes to Ordinance.

If a tax under this Ordinance is added, repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax
base is changed, the Tax Administrator shall follow the notice requirements of
California Public Utilities Code Section 799. Prior to the effective date of the
Ordinance change, the service supplier shall provide the Tax Administrator with
a copy of any written procedures describing the information that the service
supplier needs to implement the ordinance change. If the service supplier fails
to provide such written instructions, the Tax Administrator, or his or her agent,
shall send, by first class mail, a copy of the ordinance change to all collectors
and remitters of the City's utility users taxes according to the latest payment
records of the Tax Administrator.

Section 3.17 Severability.

If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Ordinance or any part thereof is for any reason held to be invalid,
unlawful or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portion of this Ordinance or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid, unlawful or unconstitutional.

Section 3.18 Future Amendment to Cited Statute.

Unless specifically provided otherwise, any reference to a state or federal
statute in this Ordinance shall mean such statute as it may be amended from
time to time.

Section 3.19 Limitation of Actions

The validity of this Ordinance or of any tax levied pursuant to this Ordinance
shall not be contested in any action or proceeding or defense unless such
action or proceeding or defense shall have been brought or raised in a court of
competent jurisdiction within sixty (60) days from the date of the adoption of this
Ordinance. Unless an action or proceeding is commenced or such defense
raised within said period, this Ordinance and any tax levied pursuant to this
Ordinance shall be held valid and in every respect legal and incontestable.

Section 3.20 Sunset

This Ordinance shall automatically sunset, and its provisions shall become
ineffective, ten (10) years from its effective date unless it is reauthorized by the

voters.

Section 3.21 Effective Date

If a majority of the voters voting thereon approve this Ordinance, it shall become
effective ten (10) days after the results of the election are declared by the City
Council. Except for amendments that would have the effect of imposing,
extending, or increasing a tax this ordinance may be amended or repealed by
the City Council without voter approval.

Section 3.22 Operative Date

The collection of the tax imposed under this Ordinance shall commence no later
than the time period set forth in California Public Utilities Code section

799(a)(6).

N SC Ballot Type 138 - Page 053

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V
Saratogans have long enjoyed a Quality of Life that sets our City apart from many other cities and has produced one of the highest levels of property value in the State. Continued State budget raids threaten our quality of life.  Since 1992, funding raids by the State of California and the sunset of the prior Utility Tax have reduced City funding by over $18 million. At the same time, rising costs continue to strain our City budget despite budget reductions of 20% from two years ago. This year, for the first time, reserve funds were required to fund critical services.  It's not too late to reverse this downward spiral. We can come together and vote YES on Measure V, which will assess a tax of only 4% on electricity, gas, water, phone, and cable services. This local levy generates funds beyond the State’s reach, is consumption based, expires in 10 years, and includes the standard exemptions for qualifying low-income residents. For a cost of $16 a month for the average household, we can stop the deterioration of our streets, bridges, sidewalks, medians, buildings and parks, and maintain or improve current levels of public safety.  Will our City survive if this tax doesn’t pass? Yes, but it may not retain the same unique character that we currently enjoy. Without an increase in revenues the City will experience:  ° Reduction in the current level of law enforcement services o Continued deterioration of streets, medians, bridges and buildings • Loss of city programs and services such as park maintenance  The Finance Commission and an independent citizens committee recently reviewed city finances and unanimously recommended this measure be placed on the ballot.  If you want to protect your property values and quality of life, then Vote YES on Measure V. Visit www.savesaratoga.com.  Isl Ann Waltonsmith Mayor  Isl Kathleen M King Vice Mayor  Isl Nick Streit City Councilmember  Isl Norman Kline City Councilmember  Isl Dick Allen  Chairman Finance Commission Revenue Review Committee Member	Please ignore the scare tactics and tales of woe for Saratoga offered by the proponents of this tax. These arguments obfuscate the real problem with the measure: it offers no motivation for future councils to spend wisely. On the contrary, it provides a means by which the City Council can defer needed maintenance in the future to fund pet projects that may not be in the interest of the city. It is perpetuating the very problem the proponents are seeking to correct with the tax.  There is no disagreement that the State of California has appropriated tax revenues generated in our city which should have stayed in our city. Nevertheless, it is still the responsibility of the City Council to prioritize basic city functions and maintain levels of service consistent with the expectations of the community. The Utility Tax will DO NOTHING to ensure that future councils won’t raid essential reserves and defer needed maintenance to purchase real estate for the City in the absence of a viable plan for productive use of the property. This is exactly what happened in the past four years, and WE NEED TO MAKE SURE THAT IT DOES NOT HAPPEN AGAIN.  There are other means by which revenues can be raised to support maintenance of our infrastructure that would assure that the funds are spent where promised. Let’s END THE ADDICTION to imprudent spending and VOTE NO on MEASURE V.  Isl Stan Bogosian  Councilmember/Former Mayor  Isl Andrew A Barnes  Chairman Saratoga Good Government Group 4

PR8274-12

N SC Ballot Type 138 - Page 054

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE V	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE V
The Utility Tax is the WRONG measure for Saratoga. There is no way to ensure that the money will be spent as promised. The advisory measure which accompanies this tax is NON-BINDING on the City Council, and funds generated by this tax could be spent by future city councils on pet projects for special interests. In addition, there is NOTHING in the measure that restricts a council from spending the revenue on day-to-day operations instead of infrastructure, and NO INCENTIVE to establish prudent reserves and run an efficient organization. This is precisely the problem with the state government that resulted in the costly bailout by the taxpayers earlier this year.  This tax applies to all utilities, including cellular phone service. It is not unreasonable to predict that on an average, the tax will cost each household in the city an additional $300-400 a year. At a 4% rate, it will raise at least $2.6 million annually in additional revenue for the city. With current revenues of a little over $8 million, this amounts to a 33% increase in revenue. Are Saratogans prepared to build up the city bureaucracy by one-third?  Insist on City fiscal responsibility. Vote NO on Measure V.  Isl Stan Bogosian  Councilmember/Former Mayor  Isl Andrew Barnes  Chairman Saratoga Good Government Group	The opponents state it’s “not unreasonable to predict...the tax will cost each household...$300 to $400 per year." No, it would not be “unreasonable”, it would be FACTUALLY INACCURATE! An accurate cost estimate is $200 per year on average:  The opponents do not dispute the urgent need. They argue the Council might spend the money on things other than repair and maintenance of streets, bridges, sidewalks, medians, buildings and parks, and to maintain or improve current levels of public safety. There is no basis for that argument. Council has been straightforward and candid.  « Saratoga has been prudent and fiscally responsible o Budget cuts of 20% in two years ® Non-essential services cut o City staff has been reduced  e Los Gatos population is 29,500; operating budget $27 million • Saratoga population is 29,500; operating budget $8.5 million o Saratoga: weathiest community in County; lowest city revenue per capita in County  ° Other quiet residential communities without large commercial or retail areas have UUTs to maintain their quality of life « Only 1% of Saratoga's land is commercially zoned « 4% is relatively small; many cities have 7% to 10% UUTs.  Tellingly, only two people signed the argument against Measure V. Qne is a Council member who acknowledges the need for street and infrastructure repair, and the other is using this issue as a political platform to win a Council seat. Neither has presented an alternate plan.  PLEASE VOTE YES ON MEASURE V. Visit www.savesaratoga.com.  Isl Ann Waltonsmith Mayor  Isl Kathleen M. King Vice Mayor  Isl Norman Kline City Council Member  Isl Nick Streit City Council Member  Isl Dick Allen  Chairman, Finance Commission Revenue Review Committee Member

N SC Ballot Type 138 - Page 055