CITY OF OJAI
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE CITY ATTORNEY*
MEASURE "F"

^Measure F (the "Measure") repeals and replaces the City of Ojai,

California’s (“Ojai") current business license ordinance. Similar to the
current ordinance, the Measure requires all persons or entities doing
business in Ojai to obtain and display a business license. Unlike the current
ordinance, however, the Measure permits Ojai to require the payment of a
Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) registration fee and an annual renewal fee of
Ten Dollars ($10.00).

Ojai's current business license ordinance assesses a business license tax
on virtually all businesses of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) per year. The tax has not
changed since 1971. The Measure would assess a business license tax
("Annual Tax") based upon eight (8) Annual Tax.categories: Group A
(manufacturing, wholesale and retail business) would pay an Annual Tax of
One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), plus Eight Dollars ($8.00) per full-time
employee. Group B (services, contractors, property rental, entertainment
and utility business) would pay an Annual Tax of One Hundred Dollars
($100.00), plus Ten Dollars ($10.00) per full-time employee. Group C
(professions) would pay an Annual Tax of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00),
plus Twelve Dollars ($12.00) per full-time employee. Group D (amusement
devices) would pay an Annual Tax of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), plus
Thirty Dollars ($30.00) per each amusement device. Group E (billiard
rooms, pool rooms and bowling alleys) would pay an Annual Tax of One
Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the first pool table, plus Thirty Dollars
($30.00) for each additional table. Group F (apartment houses, motels and
hotels) would pay an Annual Tax of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), plus
Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) for each living unit. Group G (seasonal and
specialized, e.g„ carnivals, circuses, parking lots) would pay an Annual Tax
of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), plus Fifty Cents (500) per One Thousand
Dollars ($1,000.00) of gross sales receipts. Group H (out-of-town
contractors) would pay an Annual Tax of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00),
plus Ten Dollars ($10.00) per full-time employee living in the City.

Ojai’s current business license ordinance does not provide a minimum or
njaximum tax that may be assessed. The Measure provides for a minimum
jinual Tax of One Hundred Eight Dollars ($108.00) and a maximum Annual

..rax of Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000.00). These minimum and maximum

levels may be adjusted each year for inflation.

Both Ojai’s current business license ordinance and the Measure provide that
charitable and non-profit organizations and events are exempt from
licensing and Annual Tax requirements.

The proceeds from the Annual Tax will be used to augment Ojai’s general
fund revenues.

‘Section 9280 of the California Elections Code requires the City Attorney to prepare an impartial analysis of each
City measure appearing on the ballot.

CITY OF OJAI

TITLE AND SUMMARY PREPARED BY THE CITY ATTORNEY*
MEASURE "F”

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF OJAI,
CALIFORNIA ADOPTING A BUSINESS LICENSE TAX

The proposed Business License Ordinance (the "Measure") requires, with
certain exceptions, all persons or entities that do business within the City of
Ojai, California (the "City") to obtain and display a business license and to
pay a license registration fee of Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00), an annual
license renewal fee of Ten Dollars ($10.00) and an annual business license
tax (the "Annual Tax") the amount of which depends on the type of business
being conducted.

The Measure provides for eight (8) Annual Tax categories. Group A
(manufacturing, wholesale and retail business) shall pay an Annual Tax of
One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), plus Eight Dollars ($8.00) per full-time
employee. Group B (services, contractors, property rental, entertainment
and utility business) shall pay an Annual Tax of One Hundred Dollars
($100.00), plus Ten Dollars ($10.00) per full-time employee. Group C
(professions) shall pay an Annual Tax of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00),
plus Twelve Dollars ($12.00) per full-time employee. Group D (amusement
devices) shall pay an Annual Tax of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), plus
Thirty Dollars ($30.00) per each amusement device. Group E (billiard
rooms, pool rooms and bowling alleys) shall pay an Annual Tax of One
Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for the first pool table, plus Thirty Dollars
($30.00) for each additional table. Group F (apartment houses, motels and
hotels) shall pay an Annual Tax of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), plus
Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) for each living unit. Group G (seasonal and
specialized, e.g., carnivals, circuses, parking lots) shall pay an Annual Tax
of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00), plus Fifty Cents (500) per One Thousand
Dollars ($1,000.00) of gross sales receipts. Group H (out-of-town
contractors) shall pay an Annual Tax of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00),
plus Ten Dollars ($10.00) per full-time employee living in the City.

The Measure provides for a minimum Annual Tax of One Hundred Eight
Dollars ($108.00) and a maximum Annual Tax of Five Thousand Dollars
($5,000.00). These minimum and maximum tax levels may be adjusted
each year for inflation.

The Measure also provides for certain exemptions from its requirements,
including service clubs, charitable non-profit organizations, exhibitions,
concerts and lectures. The Measure would become effective if a majority of
the voters voting in the City’s general election to be held on November 2,
2004 approves its provisions.

The Measure repeals and replaces the City’s current business license
ordinance.

A full copy of the Measure is available for inspection at the offices of the Ojai
City Clerk.

‘Pursuant to California Elections Code 9203, the City Attorney has prepared the following title and summary of
the chief purpose and points of the proposed measure.

\

V

9210IA

56225

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "F"

All businesses operating within the City of Ojai are required to obtain a
business license from the City. Funds received from business licenses are
used to pay for many vital City services and a host of programs important to
Ojai residents.

Your support would allow the City to revise its Business License Tax
Ordinance by providing a rate structure based upon a business’ number of
employees. The Measure would streamline administrative procedures and
revise penalties for non-payment. Additionally, the new business license
fees would be tied to the cost of living.

This is NOT a new tax, but represents the first adjustment in more than
three decades to Ojai’s Business License rates. State law requires that
voters must approve any change in this tax rate.

97% of Ojai businesses currently pay only $50 annually to do business in
the city. While the new ordinance would increase this amount to an average
of $145 per year, the fee would be $231 per year if the original fee had been
indexed for inflation.

Ojai’s residents and businesses share in paying the costs for City services;
however, the per capita property tax revenue has increased more than 50%
from 1990 to 2002, while the fee for business licenses has remained
unchanged. Measure F fairly adjusts the business license rate to ensure
equitable sharing of taxes.

Ojai’s current rates are low compared to others in the county; this Measure
will place Ojai’s business licenses more in line with other Ventura County
cities.

The additional revenue resulting from the revision of the Business Tax
Ordinance is sorely needed to hind vital services related to public health and
safety, and to support programs desired by our residents such as library
services, park maintenance, recreation programs and public transportation
services.

s/Julie Rounsavill
City of Ojai Finance Director

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

CITY OF OJAI
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE CITY ATTORNEY*
MEASURE "G'1

Measure G (the "Measure”) would permit the City of Ojai, California ("Ojai”).
to allow the construction of up to fifty (50) low to moderate income senior f
citizen rental units.

California Constitution Article XXXIV requires voter approval before low rent
housing projects may be developed and constructed within California cities.

The voters of Ojai, in 1978, approved the construction of one hundred (100)
senior citizen affordable rental units. This project, known as "Whispering
Oaks", is owned and administered by the Ventura Area Housing Authority
(the “Authority"). If the Measure were to be passed by a majority of the Ojai
voters, a similar, but smaller, project could be constructed by the Authority to
serve the needs of Ojai’s low-income seniors.

The Measure only authorizes Ojai to permit the construction of up to fifty
(50) affordable senior citizen rental units. It does not mandate that the units
be actually constructed. The Ojai City Council would maintain full discretion
to approve or disapprove any affordable senior citizen project, proposed by
the Authority or anyone else.

'Section 9280 of the California Elections Code requires the City Attorney to prepare an impartial analysis of each
City measure appearing on the ballot.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "G"

The City of Ojai is unique in many ways, including having the highest senior
population in the County-almost 18% versus 10% countywide-and it is
expected that this segment of the population will continue to grow in the f
foreseeable future.	I

Ojai’s seniors represent an important part of the community and add to the
quality of life in our town. Seniors are often on a fixed income, and with the
soaring price of real estate further reducing the affordable housing supply, it
is especially difficult for them to find reasonably priced housing within the
City.

Recognizing the importance of addressing this need, Measure G would
allow the City Council to approve construction of up to 50 units for an
affordable senior rental housing project. A potential site on Bryant Street has
been identified near existing senior housing. This project would be funded
by state monies and local revenues designated only for housing purposes.
The project would be subject to City development standards, and would
require environmental review and approval by the City Planning
Commission as well as the City Council. Without your support for this
measure, this opportunity to provide housing to Ojai’s seniors will be lost.

s/Marlene Spencer
Executive Director
Help of Ojai

s/Kathleen T. Richards
Ojai Housing Commissioner

s/Carol B. Smith
City of Ojai Council Member

s/David Bury
City of Ojai Council Member

s/Kale Starbird
Ojai Housing Commissioner

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED






ORDINANCE NO.

Ill

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF OJAI
ADOPTING A BUSINESS LICENSE TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF OJAI, CALIFORNIA DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter 1 of Title 6 of the Ojai Municipal Code is hereby
deleted and replaced with the following:

“CHAPTER 1. BUSINESS LICENSE TAX
“Article 1. General Provisions
“Sec. 6-1.101.	Purpose.

“This chapter is enacted to raise revenue for municipal purposes and
is not intended for the regulation of businesses.

“Sec. 6-1.102.	Registration	and Fees-When Required-Exemp-

tions

“(a) General Requirements. It shall be unlawful for any person
or entity to commence or carry on any trade, calling, business, exhibition,
avocation or occupation within the City limits of the City without having
first procured a business license certificate and paying the registration fee
and annual tax therefor. Thereafter, all business license registration
renewal fees and annual business license taxes shall be payable in advance,
on or before the anniversary date of the issuance of the certificate. Doing
business shall include, but not be limited to, all individuals and firms who
hold a fictitious business name statement, a State Board of Equalization
resale permit or a listing in commercial directories such as the Yellow Pages,
local business guide, real estate multiple listing book, reverse telephone
directory from Pacific Bell or similar listing. Determinations that a firm or
individual is doing business in the City may be appealed to the Finance
Director.

u(b) Fee Exemptions. The Finance Director shall have the
authority to waive business license registration fees and annual taxes to
service clubs or non-profit charitable organizations.

“(c) Non-Profit Festivals. Vendors selling items at weekend
festivals conducted by non-profit organizations shall be exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.

“(d) Child and Adult Care Exemptions. Residential care facili-
ties for children or adults which service six (6) or fewer persons shall not be
subject to the provisions of this Chapter.

“(e) Exhibitions, Concerts or Lectures. The conduct of any
entertainment, concert, exhibition or lecture on scientific, historical, literary,
religious or moral subjects whenever the receipts of any such entertainment,
concert, exhibition or lecture are to be appropriated to any church or school
or to any religious or benevolent purpose within the City shall not be subject
to the provisions of this chapter.

“(f) Amount of Fee. The amount of the business license registra-
tion fee required under this chapter shall be Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00)
or as determined by resolution of the City Council from time to time.

“Sec. 6-1.103. Posting Required.

“Every person, firm or corporation having a business license certifi-
cate under the provisions of this chapter and carrying on a trade, calling,
business, profession, exhibition, avocation or occupation at a particular fixed
and permanent place of business shall keep such certificate posted and
exhibited while the same is in force in some conspicuous place therein.

“Sec. 6-1.104. No Fixed Location of Business-Possession of
Registration Required.

“Every person, firm or corporation having a business license certifi-
cate under the provisions of this chapter who does not carry on a trade,
calling, business, profession, exhibition, avocation or occupation at a particu-
lar fixed and permanent place of business shall carry his or her certificate
with him or her at all times while carrying on such business for which the
certificate is issued and shall exhibit the same to any police officer of the
City or any person authorized by the City to issue certificates or to collect
fees and taxes for the same.

“Sec. 6-1.105.	Trade Names and Separate Locations.

“The business license registration application must include each trade
name and separate location in the City used in the conduct of any business,
delivery, etc., within the limits of the City.

“Sec. 6-1.106. Businesses Requiring Certificate of Occupancy
and Zoning Clearance.

“(a) All commercial, industrial and miscellaneous buildings within
the City which are used for a business requiring a business license certificate
under this chapter must have a certificate of occupancy issued by the

-2-

Community Development Department before a business license certificate
may be issued. Existing buildings which are structurally altered and which
are used for a business requiring a business license certificate under this
chapter must also have a certificate of occupancy issued by the Community
Development Department before a business license certificate may be issued.

“(b) Businesses that handle hazardous materials and chemicals
must receive a Fire Department clearance before a business license
certificate may be issued.

“Sec. 6-1.107. Other Fees.

“(a) No business license certificate issued to any person shall be
transferable to any other person. If a business license certificate is issued
authorizing a person to transact, engage in and carry on a business at a
particular place, such licensee may, upon application therefor and payment
of the fee set forth in this section, have the business license amended to
authorize the transacting, engaging in and carrying on of such business
under the business license at another location to which the business has
been or is to be moved. Businesses requesting an amended business license
certificate shall be subject to a new zoning clearance and Fire Department
review prior to issuance of the amended business license certificate.
Amended business license certificates will be charged a fee of Twenty-Five
Dollars ($25.00) or such other service fee as may be adopted by resolution of
the City Council from time to time.

“(b)	Businesses which require an immediate duplicate copy of their

business license certificate shall pay a fee of Ten Dollars ($10.00) or such
other service fee as may be adopted by resolution of the City Council from
time to time.

“Sec. 6-1.108. Thirty (30)-Day Temporary Registration.

“Businesses which need a business license certificate prior to comple-
tion of the business certification process may request a thirty (30)-day
temporary business license certificate upon payment of the first year’s busi-
ness license registration fee and annual tax. A thirty (30)-day temporary
business license certificate will be issued by the Finance Director for use
during the interim period. However, the temporary business license
certificate may be revoked at any time upon failure to meet the requirements
for a permanent business license certificate. In such case, the annual tax,
but not the registration fee, will be refunded.

“Sec. 6-1.109. Fee and Taxes Deemed Debt to City-Liability.

“The amount of such business license fees and taxes required under
this chapter shall be a debt to the City and such person or entity required to

-3-

have such business license registration shall be liable to the City for the
amount of the business license fee and tax, together with costs of suit and
any attorney’s fees incurred in a civil action brought to collect the fee and/or
tax; provided, however, that criminal prosecution, including arrest and
conviction hereunder, shall not be construed as a waiver of the right of the
City to bring a civil action to collect a business license registration fee and/or
tax.

“Sec. 6-1.110. Renewal Notices.

‘The City shall send out an annual notice to all business certificate
holders in confirming to them that a renewal payment is due. The City shall
send out a second notice prior to the registration certificate due date
reminding the business owner that a renewal payment is due. Both of these
notices are sent as a courtesy only and receipt of the notice is not required
before payment of the annual renewal fee is due.

“Sec. 6-1.111.	Renewal Fee.

“The amount of the business license renewal fee required under this
chapter shall be Ten Dollars ($10.00) or such other service fee as may be
adopted by resolution of the City Council from time to time.

“Sec. 6-1.112.	Refunds Permitted When.

“Where an application, fees and taxes have been submitted and,
because of administrative, legal, procedural or substantive requirements, the
applicant has never commenced the business, the applicant’s fees and taxes
may be returned to the applicant subject to the approval of the Finance
Director.

“Sec. 6-1.113.	License Periods.

(a)	License Years. The license year shall commence on January
1 of each year and shall expire on December 31 of the calendar year issued.

(b)	Annual Period. Licenses shall be issued upon an annual
basis. All fees and taxes shall be due and payable in advance on January 1
of each year.

(c)	Daily Licenses. Fees and taxes for business licenses issued
upon a daily basis shall be due and payable each day in advance.

(d)	Partial Periods. When an annual business license is
required, any person commencing a business after the expiration of the
second quarter of the license year may secure a license for the unexpired

-4-

portion of the license year for the proportionate part of the full business
license fee and tax.

(e) Due Dates. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
payment of the amount of business license fees and taxes shall be made by
each licensee at the time the first or initial business license is issued and
without deduction in the amount of such fees and taxes for the time elapsed
from the commencement of the business license tax.

“Sec. 6-1.114. Administration; Licenses; Issuance; Form.

“It shall be the duty of the Finance Director or his or her designee to:

“(a) Administer the provisions of this chapter and issue such rules
and regulations necessary for its implementation. All decisions of the
Finance Director in this regard are subject to appeal to the City Council.

“(b)	Prepare and issue a business license pursuant to the provisions

of this chapter for every person liable to pay a business license tax. Such
license shall state the amount of the tax paid thereof the period of time
covered thereby, the name of the person to whom the license is issued, the
business licensed and the location where the business is to be carried on.

“(c)	Determine that the proposed business, trade or occupation for

which a business license is sought shall be conducted in a proper location for
the conduct of such business and that such business will be carried on at
such location in such manner that the business will not be in violation of
laws or injuriously affect the public health, peace, safety, morals or general
welfare.

“Article 2. Business License Tax
“Sec. 6-1.201.	Annual Tax.

‘The annual business license tax to be paid by each person commenc-
ing or carrying on any business or engaging in or carrying on the business
of buying, selling or dealing in any of the commodities or engaging in, as a
business, any of the activities designated in this article shall be as set forth
in this article.

“Sec.6-1.202.	Definitions.

“As used in this chapter:

“(a) ‘Contractor' means an individual or entity, as defined by and
as required to be licensed under the California Business and Professions

-5-

Code, generally involved in any aspect of design, construction, maintenance
or repair of structures and improvements to real property.

“(b) ‘Employee’ means any individual, owner, agent or full-time or
full-time equivalent (if one (1) or more part-time employees are engaged to
work) employee who is working at the firm or business on the date that the
business license certificate is issued or renewed.

“(c) ‘Space’ means a table, booth or location that is rented by an
individual, dealer or consignee in an antique or goods outlet on the date that
the business license registration fee is due.

“Sec. 6-1.203. Minimum and Maximum Tax and Annual In-
crease.

“(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the
minimum and maximum annual business license tax for a business in the
City subject to the provisions of this chapter shall be One Hundred Eight
Dollars ($108.00) and Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000.00), respectively.

“(b) The annual business license minimum and maximum tax set
forth hereinabove may be increased annually by resolution of the City
Council using the percentage change in the Los Angeles/Long Beach
Consumer Price Index (All Items) published by the United StateB Depart-
ment of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, or any successor index (Index’).
Failure of the City Council to adopt a resolution increasing the annual
business license minimum or maximum tax in any one fiscal year shall not
prevent the City Council from adopting such a resolution in a subsequent
year. In the event that the City Council adopts a resolution increasing the
minimum and maximum annual business license tax following one (1) or
more years wherein no such resolution has been adopted, such resolution
may cumulate the percentage change of the Index since the last resolution
increasing the minimum and maximum annual business license tax had
been adopted.

“Sec. 6-1.204. Business Categories and License.

“Business license certificates shall be issued based on the following
tax rate categories:

“(a) Group A-Manufacturing, Wholesale and Retail. All
businesses in the manufacturing, wholesale and retail categories shall pay
an annual base tax of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) plus Eight Dollars
($8.00) per employee or space. In no event will this annual tax be less than
the minimum nor more than the maximum annual tax. Businesses not
covered by other business rate categories will also be assessed according to
this rate schedule. Businesses in this group include:

-6-

“(i) Antique and consignment dealers,
“(ii) Bakeries.

“(iii) Bookstores.

“(iv) Candy stores.

“(v) Car Dealers
“(vi) Clothing stores.

“(vii) Computer stores.

“(viii) Department stores.

“(ix) Distributors.

“(x) Doughnut shops.

“(ix) Drugstores.

“(x) Flower shops.

“(xi) Furniture stores.

“(xii) Gardening supply stores.

“(xiii) Gas stations and car washes.

“(xiv) Grocery stores.

“(xv) Hardware, cabinet and paint stores,
“(xvi) Jewelers.

“(xvii) Liquor stores.

“(xviii) Manufacturing.

“(xix) Manufacturer’s representative.

“(xx) Printing, copying and publishing,
“(xxi) Restaurants and delicatessens,
“(xxii) Retail merchants.

-7-

“(xxm)Shoe stores.

“(xxiv) Sporting goods stores.

“(xxv) Stationery and office supply stores.

“(xxvi) Wholesalers.

“(xxvii)Other similar business not specified in this sub-
section.

(b) Group B-Services, Contractors, Property Rental, Enter-
tainment and Utilities. All businesses in the services, contractors,
property rental, entertainment and utilities categories shall pay an annual
base tax of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) plus Ten Dollars ($10.00) per
employee. In no event will the annual tax be lesB than the minimum nor
more than the maximum annual tax. Businesses in this group include:

“(i) Agents with no fixed location.

“(ii) Aircraft leasing.

“(iii) Athletic clubs and gyms.

“(iv) Auto repair, paint and body shops.

“(v) Beauty, nail and hair salon.

“(vi) Child care (seven (7) or more).

“(vii) Computer services and programming.

“(viii) Contractors.

“(ix) Delivery services (based in the City).

“(x) Dry cleaners and laundries.

“(xi) Gardening services.

“(xii) Hotels and motels.

“(xiii) Locksmiths and security.

“(xiv) Mailing services.

“(xv) Photography.

-8-



“(xvi) Property management.

“(xvii) Property repair.

“(xviii) Real estate offices and agents.

“(xix) Rental (car and equipment)

“(xx) Repair.

“(xxi) Schools and instruction (for profit).

“(xxii) Services.

“(xxiii) Tailors.

“(xxiv) Travel agents.

“(xxv) Tree services.

“(xxvi) Other similar businesses not specified in this

subsection.

“(c) Group C-Professions. All businesses in the professions
category shall pay an annual base tax of One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) plus
Twelve Dollars ($12.00) per employee. In no event will the annual base tax
be less than the minimum nor more than the maximum annual tax.
Businesses in this group include:

“(iii) Appraisers.

“(iv) Architects and landscape architects,
“(v) Artists.

“(vi) Attomeys-at-law.

“(vii) Bookkeeping services.

“(viii) Chiropractors.

“(ix) Consultants.

U.

(i) Accountants.

u.

(ii) Advertising.

-9-

“(x) Dentists.

“(xi) Doctors.

“(xii) Engineers.

“(xiii) Geologists.

u(xiv) Health care services and labs.

“(xv) Medical practitioners.

“(xvi) Psychologists.

“(xvii) Surveyors.

“(xviii) Tax counselors.

“(xix) Other similar businesses not specified in this
subsection.

“(d) Group D-Amuaement Devices. The operator of any amuse-
ment device or game shall pay an annual tax of One Hundred Dollars
($100.00) plus Thirty Dollars ($30.00) per device for the privilege of
operating such devices or games.

“(e) Group E-Billiard Rooms, Pool Rooms and Bowling
Alleys. The operator engaged in the operation of a billiard room or pool
room or bowling alley shall pay an annual tax of One Hundred Dollars
($100.00) for the first pool table or billiard table, alley or track and Thirty
Dollars ($30.00) for each additional table, alley or track.

“(f) Group F-Apartment Houses, Motels and Hotels.

“(i) Every person or entity engaged in the business
of conducting, managing or operating an apartment house,
motel or hotel consisting of a building or buildings in the same
ownership, constructed upon one (1) parcel and upon adjoining
parcels of land and comprised of two (2) or more units per
building shall pay an annual tax of One Hundred Dollars
($100.00) plus Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) per unit.

“(ii) In computing the unit count, a unit occupied by
the owner himself or herself personally shall be excluded from
the registration fee due.

-10-

“(iii) In no event shall the annual business license tax
be less than the minimum nor more than the maximum tax.

“Motels and hotels shall pay the higher of the business license
tax computed in Group B above or this Section.

u(g) Group Gr-Seaaonal and Specialized. All businesses in the
seasonal and specialized category shall pay an annual tax of One Hundred
Dollars ($100.00) plus Fifty Cents (50$ per One Thousand Dollars
($1,000.00) of gross receipts as declared by the business owner. In no event
shall the annual business license tax be less than the minimum tax nor more

than the maximum tax. Businesses in this group include:	
“(i)	Adult entertainment.
“(h)	Auctions.
“(iii)	Auto wrecking.
“(iv)	Carnival, circus, rodeo, outdoor shows.
“(v)	Christmas trees and pumpkin patches.
“(vi)	Cocktail lounges.
“(vii)	Massage parlors.
“(viii) Parking lots.	
“(he)	Public dance halls.
“(X)	Street vendors and solicitors.
“(xi)	Temporary vendors and businesses.
“(xii)	Public laundromats.

“(xiii) Amusement or video machine arcades.

“Group H-Contractors (Out of Town). Contractors who are
headquartered outside of the City shall pay a flat tax of One Hundred
Dollars ($100.00) for an annual certificate plus Ten Dollars ($10.00) per
employee living in the City, if any. Contractors who are headquartered
outside of the City and wish to purchase a limited term certificate can obtain
a six (6)-month registration for Fifty Dollars ($50.00). In no event shall the
annual business license tax be less than the minimum tax nor more than the
maximum tax.

Sec. 6-1.205.

Taxes Based upon Gross Receipts.

u(a) Entire Gross Receipts. The business license tax for any busi-
ness which is subject to the provisions of Section 6-1.204(g) of this chapter
shall be based upon the entire annual gross receipts of such business which
receipts are directly attributable to the business activities conducted within
the City.

“(b) Exceptions. No business license hereunder shall be required
for the maintenance or operation of:

“(i) Postage stamp machines; and

“(ii)	Machines dispensing sanitary or hygienic articles

or drinking cups, towels or medicines which machines are
entirely owned and supplied by the owner or operator of the
premises where installed and are maintained solely for the
convenience of the employees, visitors and customers and not
for profit by any other person.

“(c) Reporting. Each person required to obtain a license under
Section 6- 1.204(g) shall submit to the Finance Director a sworn statement
setting forth such information concerning his or her business during the
preceding fiscal year as may be required to enable the Finance Director to
ascertain the tentative amount of the business license tax to be paid
pursuant to this section. If actual information is not available, the applicant
shall submit an estimate of the gross receipts for the period covered by the
license. The actual business license tax shall be ascertained within thirty
(30) days following the period covered by the license on the basis of the
statement upon which the tentative tax is ascertained for the ensuing year,
at which time the licensee shall pay any underpayment of tax and be entitled
to a credit or reimbursement for any overpayment of tax.

“(d) Revocation. Any license to conduct a business issued by the
City in connection with which the City imposes a business license tax upon
coin-operated vending machines within the City may be revoked for the
failure of the licensee to report to the City the gross receipts from such
machines. The City may demand an audit of any such licensee and require
him or her to submit a copy of the state sales and use tax returns filed
relative to such machines and a copy of any other tax statement filed with
any government entity by such person or by any other individual or firm
owning, renting, leasing or operating such machines, disclosing the gross
receipts received from owning, renting, leasing or operating such machines.

Article 3. Penalties and Enforcement

“See. 6-1.301. Enforcement.

“The Chief of Police, the Finance Director and the City Attorney shall
enforce this chapter.

“Sec. 6-1.302.	Penaltiea-Non-Payment.

“(a) Whenever a person, firm or corporation fails to pay a business
license registration or renewal fee or annual business license tax within
fifteen (15) days after the same becomes due, there shall be added a twenty
percent (20%) penalty to the business license registration fee and/or annual
business license tax on the last day of each month after the due date thereof;
provided, however, that the amount of the penalty to be added shall in no
event exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the amount of the business
license registration fee due and/or annual tax; such penalty to be collected
in the same manner as the business license registration or renewal fee and
annual business license tax.

“(b) The City can collect business license registration fees and/or
annual taxes for up to three (3) prior years if the business has been in
operation and unregistered during that period of time. However, in no case
will the penalty amount exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the amount
of the business license registration or renewal fee and/or annual tax due.

“Sec. 6-1.303.	Penalties-Waivers.

“Penalties may be waived in full or in part by the Finance Director for
good cause which shall include, but not be limited to, an unintentional error
or omission in compliance by a business with this chapter.

“Sec. 6-1.804.	Continuing Violations.

“Each and every day, or fractional part of a day, that such trade,
calling, business, profession, exhibition, avocation or occupation specified in
this chapter is conducted, carried on or engaged in, or such thing done,
without such registration or renewal, shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.

“Sec. 6-1.305.	Violation-Penalty.

“Any person or entity violating any	of the provisions or failing to

comply with any of the requirements of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. The City Attorney shall have discretion to prosecute any such
violation of this chapter as an infraction.

Sec. 6-1.306.

Licensee; Suspension; Revocation.

“The Finance Director shall have the power to suspend or revoke any
license granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter upon proof to his
or her satisfaction of the violation by the holder thereof of any rule or
regulation of the Ventura County Health Department or Fire Department,
any law of the City or any law of the state pertaining to the conduct or
operation of the business licensed or upon proof to its satisfaction that the
license was procured by fraudulent representations or that a condition of the
issuance of the license has been violated or that the continuance of the
business by the licensee at the permitted location constitutes a nuisance or
is contrary to the public health, morals, safety, peace or general welfare. If
a license shall be revoked, no new or other license for the same business
shall be issued to the same person within six (6) months after such revoca-
tion.

“Sec. 6-1.307. Appeal.

“Any decision of the Finance Director made pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter shall be appealable to the City Council in accordance with
Chapter 4 of Title 1 of this Code."

SECTION 2. Section 6-6.05 of Chapter 6 of Title 6 of this Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

“Sec. 6-6.05. Licensing.

“Licenses for recreation halls shall be issued by the Chief of Police
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The annual fee for such license
shall be set by resolution of the City Council from time to time.”

SECTION 3.	A new Chapter 7 of Title6 entitled “Amusement Machines and

Arcades”, is hereby adopted as follows:

“CHAPTER 7. AMUSEMENT MACHINES
AND ARCADES

uSec. 6-7.01. Definitions.

‘Tor purposes of this chapter,

“(a) ‘Amusement machines’ shall mean any device, game or
contrivance, including, but not limited to, pinball machines, video games,
computer games, electronic games, shuffleboards, slot machines, juke boxes
and mechanical music boxes, for which a charge is made or payment is
received for the privilege of playing, using or operating the same and which,
as a result of such use, operation or playing, does not entitle the person

-14-



\

•»

using, operating or playing such device to receive the same return in market
value in the form of tangible merchandise each time such device, game or
contrivance is used, operated or played.

“(b)	‘Arcades’ shall mean any business or establishment which has

located on its premises four (4) or more amusement machines which are kept
thereon for the purpose of being played, operated or used by the patrons of
the arcade for money or money’s worth deposited in the amusement machine
played, operated or used.

“See. 6-7.02. Supervision.

“(a) All amusement machines within a premises shall be visible to
and supervised by an adult attendant who shall be present at all times when
any amusement machine is being operated.

“(b) The supervision of patrons on the premises shall be adequate
to insure that there is no conduct which is detrimental to the public health,
safety and general welfare.

“Sec. 6-7.03. Minors; Hours of Operation.

“During the school year, persons under the age of eighteen (18) shall
not be allowed to operate amusement machines Monday through Friday,
except legal school holidays, between the hours of 8:00 AM. and 3:00 P.M.,
unless accompanied by an authorized agent of the school district or such
person’s parent or guardian. It shall be the responsibility of the adult
attendant to enforce this regulation.

“Sec. 6-7.04. Noise.

“Provision shall be made to reduce noise caused by the operation of
the amusement machines and the patrons thereof.

“Sec. 6-7.05. Fire Regulations.

“No amusement machine shall be situated in such a way that its use
will violate any applicable fire regulation or hinder reasonable egress from
and ingress to the premises of the public.

“Sec. 6-7.06. Licensing.

“(a) Licenses for amusement machines or arcades shall be issued
by the Chief of Police pursuant to this chapter. The annual fee for such
license shall be set by resolution of the City Council from time to time.

-15-





“(b) Ifj after the original issuance of a license pursuant to this
section, an applicant desires to increase the number of amusement machines
at the same or at different locations, he or she shall, prior to the installation
of such additional machines, file with the Chief of Police an amendment to
his or her application indicating that the conditions of this section and all
other applicable conditions have been satisfied with respect to such
additional machines.”

SECTION 4. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion
of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the final
decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The City Council declares that it would have
adopted this Ordinance, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, phrases or
portions might be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION S. This Ordinance shall be in full force and shall take effect as
provided by law.

SECTION 6. The Mayor Bhall sign this Ordinance and the City Clerk shall
attest and certify to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance if a majority of the voters
voting in the City’s general election on November 2,2004 approve the proposition asking
whether the voters approve this Ordinance.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 14th day of December ■ 2004.

ATTEST:

Carton atrobei, Uity ueric

C:\WIMX)WS\Dasktop\b>«"«"f V 9.wpd:xoom

-16-





STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

)

COUNTY OF VENTURA )

)

CITY OF OJAI	)

I, Carlon C. Strobel, City Clerk for the City of Ojai do hereby certify that the foregoing
Ordinance No. 772 was adopted by the voters at a General Municipal Election held on November
2,2004 and was subsequently adopted by the City Council of said City, as provided by in
California Election Code Section 9217, at a special meeting thereofheld on the 14th day of
December, 2004 and shall become effective December 24,2004. The result of the vote was as
follows:

AYES:	DeVito,	Smith, Bury, Hanstad, Horgan

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	None

This ordinance shall not be repealed or amended except by a vote of the people, unless provision
is otherwise made in the original ordinance.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the official Seal of said City
this 14th day of December, 2004.

Marion oirooei

City Clerk for the City of Ojai

Ordinance No. 777

cs:election\cert92i7