BEFORE THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS

JUN 2 9 2004

OF THE	TULARE	COUNTY

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

THREE RIVERS MEMORIAL DISTRICT

In the Matter of Proposing the Adoption
of a Special Tax to Raise Revenue to
Remodel and Renovate the District’s
Memorial Building and/or Grounds
Located in Three Rivers; Ordering a
Special Election thereon and
Consolidation of Elections; and
Specifications of the Election Order

)

)

) RESOLUTION NO.06-28-01

)

)

)

)

)

)

)

)

)

)

)

)

WHEREAS, owing to the present and continuing deterioration and need of extensive
repairs to the memorial building and/or grounds (hereinafter referred to as "Building") owned by
the Three Rivers Memorial District (“District”) and located at 43490 Sierra Drive in the
unincorporated area of Tulare County commonly known as Three Rivers, this Board has
determined that it would be in the best interests of this District and the people in the community
and landowners in the District to provide for ongoing and additional operations and projects of
the District, including the operation, maintenance, repair and renovation of the Three Rivers
Memorial Building, as allowed by law; and

WHEREAS, owing to the limited amount of funding, increased maintenance costs, and
the need to provide for ongoing and additional operations and projects of the District, including
the operation, maintenance, repair and renovation of the Three Rivers Memorial Building, as

allowed by law, this Board has further determined that it would be in the best interests of this
District and the people and landowners thereof to finance said renovation and repairs with the
proceeds from a special tax and other available District funds; and

WHEREAS, section 1192.5 of the Military and Veterans Code and sections 50075
through 50077 of the Government Code authorize this District to order an election to allow the
electorate to determine whether such special tax shall be levied; and

WHEREAS, said code sections require that notice be given and a public hearing be held
before a resolution proposing an election on the question of a special tax may be adopted; and
WHEREAS, at its regularly scheduled meeting on June 7,2004, this Board did adopt a
resolution that called a special meeting of this Board for June 28, 2004, set said special meeting
as the required public hearing for proposing an election on the question of adopting the special
tax, published notice of the public hearing as required by law, and considered any and all public
comments on this matter; and

WHEREAS, this Board desires to place the question of a special tax on the ballot in
conjunction with the November 2, 2004 general election;

WHEREAS, the electors who will be entitled to vote on this special tax measure shall be
those electors who reside within the boundaries of the Three Rivers Memorial District; and

WHEREAS, approval of two-thirds (2/3rds) of such electors voting upon the special tax
measure is required for the passage of said measure;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:

1.	This Board has determined that it is in the best interests of this District to

submit to the qualified electors of this District the question of whether the Three Rivers
Memorial District should be authorized to levy a special tax to provide for ongoing and
additional operations and projects of the District, including the operation, maintenance, repair
and renovation of the Three Rivers Memorial Building, as allowed by law; and

C?

Page 2 of 5

2.

A special election is hereby called and ordered to be held within the

boundaries of the Three Rivers Memorial District on the 2nd day of November 2004, at which
election there shall be submitted to the qualified electors the following measure, to wit:

THREE RIVERS MEMORIAL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX TO PROVIDE FOR
ONGOING AND ADDITIONAL OPERATIONS AND PROJECTS OF THE
DISTRICT, INCLUDING THE OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND
RENOVATION OF THE THREE RIVERS MEMORIAL BUILDING, AS
ALLOWED BYLAW

Shall the Three Rivers Memorial District be authorized to levy a special tax, on an
annual basis, upon all persons owning assessable parcels of land within the Three
Rivers Memorial District, at the rate of twenty—six dollars ($26.00) per parcel on
the secured tax roll?

The proceeds of this special tax shall be used solely and exclusively for the
purpose of providing for ongoing and additional operations and projects of the
District, including the operation, maintenance, repair and renovation of the Three
Rivers Memorial Building, as allowed by law.

2.	The Board of Directors of the Three Rivers Memorial District may cancel
or reduce any or all of the special tax at any time if the District receives sufficient funds for the
above-mentioned purposes.

3.	The text of the aforementioned measure, as displayed on each individual
ballot, shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows so as not to exceed the 75 word limit
required by Elections Code Sections 9 and 13247:

THREE RIVERS MEMORIAL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX TO PROVIDE FOR
ONGOING AND ADDITIONAL OPERATIONS AND PROJECTS, INCLUDING THE



Page 3 of 5

REPAIR AND RENOVATION OF THE THREE RIVERS MEMORIAL BUILDING,
AS ALLOWED BY LAW

Shall the Three Rivers Memorial District be authorized to levy a special tax, on an annual
basis, upon all persons owning assessable parcels of land within the Three Rivers
Memorial District, at the rate of $26.00 per parcel? YES _________ NO	_______

4.	As provided in sections 10403 and 23300 et seq. of the Elections Code,
this Board hereby requests that this special memorial district election be consolidated with the
regular statewide general election to be held in the Three Rivers Memorial District on the 2nd
day of November 2004.

5.	The polls for this election shall open and close at the times required by
law. The precincts, places of holding the special election and officers appointed to conduct the
special election shall be the same as those provided for the regular statewide general election
within the Three Rivers Memorial District boundaries.

6.	The special tax on all parcels of land, at the rates specified above, shall be
collected by the County of Tulare through the regular property tax collection process.

7.	The Secretary of this Board shall immediately deliver a copy of this
resolution to the Board of Supervisors and the Tulare County Auditor/Controller/Registrar of
Voters.

8.	The County Auditor/Controller/Registrar of Voters Tulare County is
hereby directed to take all steps necessary for the holding of this consolidated election on
November 2, 2004.

9.	Within fifteen (15) days after the passage of this resolution, the Secretary
of this Board shall cause it to be published in the Kaweah Commonwealth in accordance with the
Elections Code.

/“T*

V7

Page 4 of 5

The foregoing Resolution was adopted upon motion of Director Robert Zapoli, seconded
by Director David Sherwood, at a special meeting on this 28th day of June, 2004, by the
following vote:

AYES: 5
NOES: 0
ABSTAINED: 0
ABSENT: 0

Chairman

Secretary

Page 5 of 5