048

( lA	°	I i >D

lw> \'vWV*v3 L DEM

LOCAL MEASURE** j

?cnrTftSiTSTyi

March 2, 2004
Primary Election

c(n v«

V0ttR[L0crf

'fflfSSfesfi



conny b. McCormack

LOS ANGELES COUNTY
REGISTRAR-RECORDER/COUNTY CLERK
12400 IMPERIAL HIGHWAY, NORWALK, CA 90650

(800)815-2666 OR (562)466-1323
INTERNET - www.lavote.net

•	POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

•	MARK YOUR CHOICES IN THIS BOOKLET AND
TAKE IT WITH YOU TO YOUR VOTING LOCATION

STATE MEASURES

PAGE

9

__ KINDERGARTEN-UNIVERSITY PUBLIC EDUCATION kk FACILITIES BOND ACT OF 2004, This twelve billion three hundred 'J'* million dollar ($12,300,000,000) bond issue will provide funding tor necessary education facilities to relieve overcrowding and to repair older schools. Funds will be targeted to areas of the greatest need and must be spent according measures. Funds will also be used to upgrade and build new classrooms in the Colleges, the California State University, and the University of California, to prc education facilities to accommodate the growing student enrollment. These bonds eligible projects. Fiscal Impact: State costs of about $24.7 billion to pay off bot billion) and interest ($12.4 billion) costs on the bonds Payments of about $823 m	210	yes-pO  211	N0-*O  to strict accountability California Community vide adequate higher may be used only lor the principal ($12.3 llion per year.
_ _ STATE BUDGET, RELATED TAXES, AND RESERVE. VOTING KK REQUIREMENTS. PENALTIES. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Permits enactment of budget and budget-related tax/appropriation bills with 55% vote. Legislature, Governor forfeit compensation each day budget is late. Fiscal Impact: Varying impacts from lowerin for budget-related measures— including changes in spending and potentially s state lax revenues in some years. Impacts would depend on the composition Legislatures.	215	YES-*0  216	no-*o  the vote requirement  gnificant increases in and actions ot future
THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY BOND ACT. One time bond ol up to E7 fifteen billion dollars ($15,000,000,000) to retire deficit. Fiscal Impact: »* One-time increase, compared to previously authorized bond, of up to $4 billion to reduce the slate's budget shortfall and annual debt-service savings over the next lew years. These effects would be offset by higher annual debt-servic years due to this bond's longer term and larger size	219	YES-*o  220	no-kO  e costs in subsequent
_ THE CALIFORNIA BALANCED BUDGET ACT. Requires the KB enactment ol a balanced budget, addresses fiscal emergencies, and establishes a budget reserve. Fiscal Impact: Net state fiscal effects unknown and will vary by year, depending in pad on actions of future legislatures. Reserve provisions may smooth state spending, with reductions during econr increases during downturns. Provisions requiring balanced budgets and limiting d result in more immediate actions to correct budgetary shortfalls.	222	yes^o  223	no«*o  tmic expansions and elicit borrowing could

»

SCHOOL

LAS VIRGENES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL ELECTION

228

229

ELAS VIRGENES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT QUALITY PUBLIC
EDUCATION PRESERVATION ACT OF 2004 To avoid deeper cuts to
neighborhood schools caused by California’s fiscal crisis, which will

compromise essential programs including reading, math, science, music, and art; _______

to retain quality teachers, avoid even larger classes, and maintain up-to-date textbooks and instructional
materials, shall Las Virgenes Unified School District assess $98 per parcel annually for lour years, with
exemption available for seniors, an independent oversight committee, no money lor administrative
salaries, and every dollar slaying in our community to preserve quality education?

YES^O

N0-*O

END OF BALLOT

09-025E

LA 048013

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE E

Las Virgenes Unified School District Quality Public Education Preservation Act
of 2004.

INTRODUCTION & PURPOSE

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the Slate and to maintain the
high quality of neighborhood schools, the Las Virgenes Unified School District
proposes to levy a special assessment for a period of 4 years, beginning July 1,

2004, at the rate of $98 per year, on each assessor’s parcel located within the
School District, with an exemption available for senior citizens, and to implement
accountability measures in connection with the special assessment that are over ,
and above those required by law, including the appointment of an independent
community advisory board to provide oversight and accountability to ensure that
funds are used to:

-	Restore programs and replace funds lost or reduced due to State budget cuts;

-	Sustain achievement in reading, writing, and mathematics for all students at all
grade levels by avoiding increases in class size, while maintaining the ability to
attract and retain quality teachers;

-	Maintain essential academic programs, including science, reading, math,

music, and art;

-	Protect the taxpayers’ investment in education and ensure District
accountability by providing for taxpayer oversight and independent financial
audits of revenues and expenditures.

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL ANY OF THE PROCEEDS OF
THE SPECIAL ASSESSMENT BE USED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE
SALARIES OR BENEFITS.

ASSESSMENT

The special assessment will be imposed at the rate of $98 per year for each
assessor’s parcel located wholly or partially within the School District for a 4-year
period beginning July 1, 2004.

SENIOR CITIZEN EXEMPTION AVAILABLE

An exemption from the assessment will be made available to each individual in
the District who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the assessment year,
and who owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, and who uses that parcel as his )
or her principal place of residence, and who applies to the School District on or
before July 1, 2004, or July 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any one
approved application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for
the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant
continues to use the parcel as his or her principal residence.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900952-1

LA 048-024

f

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE E (Continued)

CONTIGUOUS PARCELS

Any parcels that are contiguous to each other, used solely for owner-occupied
single-family residential purposes and held under identical ownership may, upon
approval of an application from the owners thereof submitted to the School
District, be treated as a single parcel for purposes of the special assessment. Any
one approved application from a qualified applicant will provide for such
treatment for the remaining term of the assessment, so long as all of the parcels
continue to be held under identical ownership and are owner-occupied.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections
50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall
apply to the special assessments levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the
specific purposes of the special assessments shall be those purposes identified
above; (b) the proceeds of the special assessments shall be applied only to those
specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be
created into which the proceeds of the,special assessments must be deposited;
and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Education of the
District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the
proceeds of the special assessments and (ii) the status of any projects or
programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the special
assessments, as identified above.

In addition to the accountability measures required by law, an independent
community oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board of Education to
advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure
that said funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters. The oversight
committee will monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and will
report on an annual basis to the Board and community on how these funds have
been spent.

ASSESSMENT REDUCTION OR SUSPENSION

Annually, as a part of its budget adoption process, the Board of Education shall
determine whether and to what extent the special assessment authorized by this
Measure will be needed in the succeeding budget year. The Board shall endeavor
to reduce the amount of the special assessment imposed annually and to suspend
its collection altogether if and as financially feasible.

PROTECTION OF FUNDING

Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District as a
result of the District’s adoption of a parcel assessment. However, in the event
that any such funds are reduced due to the adoption of this parcel assessment,
then the amount of the special assessment shall be reduced as necessary in order
to restore such State or Federal funding.

PR 900952-2

LA 048-025

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

By Lloyd W. Pellman, County Counsel

Approval of Measure E would authorize the Board of Education (“Board”) of
the Las Virgenes Unified School District (“District”) to levy a special assessment
of $98 per year on each assessor’s parcel located wholly or partially within the
District.

The tax revenues would be used to restore programs and replace funds lost or
reduced due to State budget cuts, sustain achievement in reading, writing, and
mathematics for all grade levels by avoiding increases in class size, maintain the
ability to attract and retain teachers, maintain essential academic programs,
including science, reading, math, music, and art, and protect the investment in
education. The proceeds of the special assessment shall not be used for
administrative salaries or benefits.

The lax would be levied for four (4) years. A person who is age 65 or older prior
to July 1 of the assessment year may apply for an exemption if they own a
beneficial interest in the parcel and use that parcel as their principal residence.
Any parcels that are contiguous, used solely for owner-occupied single-family
residential purposes and held under identical ownership, may upon application,
be treated as a single parcel for purposes of the assessment.

In accordance with Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the specific
purposes of the special assessments shall be identified, the proceeds shall be
applied only to those identified purposes, a separate special account shall be
created into which the proceeds of the assessment shall be deposited, and an
annual written report shall be made to the Board showing the amount of funds
collected and expended from the proceeds of the special assessments and the
.status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the
proceeds. The Board will appoint an independent citizens’ oversight committee
to advise the Board on the expenditures funded by this measure to ensure that
the funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters.

The special assessments shall be collected and administered by the County of Los
Angeles in the same manner as ad valorem real property assessments.

This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.

PR-9009523

LA 048-026

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

We hold our local schools to very high standards. They are among the best in the
state, and annual test scores and college admissions prove it.

Our high quality school district is enormously important to citizens and families
moving to our communities, which raises property values. But the quality of local
schools is threatened by the unprecedented loss of education funding caused by
California’s fiscal crisis - over $3 million to our district. If the quality of local
schools declines, everyone is affected.

Measure E is the only solution we have to ensure that local schools are not
crippled by the state’s budget problems.

Our school district already operates with one of the lowest per-student
administrative overhead costs in California. Further budget cuts will seriously
impact the classroom. Basic educational programs including science, reading,
math, music and art are threatened.

Without Measure E, class sizes will swell and students will receive less individual
attention. Libraries, counseling and many academic programs that make our
schools exceptional will be reduced or eliminated. We will not be able to
compete with neighboring districts to keep our most experienced and qualified
teachers.

Measure E provides local funding which cannot be taken by the state. By law, no
Measure E funds can be used for administrative salaries or benefits. EVERY
DIME will benefit students in our local schools. To ensure this, an independent
citizens’ oversight committee will review all expenditures.

The measure will expire after four years and cannot be renewed without voter
approval. Exemptions are available for those 65 and older.

We cannot wait for Sacramento to fix things when we have so much at stake.
Measure E will protect our local schools and community from devastating
statewide education cuts.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900952-4

LA 048-027

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E (Continued)

Our children are relying on your support. Vote YES on Measure E!

BETTY DE SANTIS

Retired, Founding Member Citizens for Preserving Quality Education

MARY SUE MAURER

Parent and Calabasas Education Commissioner

LEE BACA

Los Angeles County Sheriff

ZEV YAROSLAVSKY
Los Angeles County Supervisor

SANDY FLEISHMAN

California Slate Teacher of the Year 1996

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

PR-900952 5

LA 048-028