FULL TEXT OF MEASURE 0-04

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF GROVER BEACH DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Validation of Existing Ordinance. Ordinance No. 91-7 of the City
of Grover Beach, which established a Utility Users Tax, is hereby validated and
re-approved or approved to the fullest extent permitted by law.

SECTION 2. Readoption of Existing Ordinance. Ordinance No. 91-7 of the City
of Grover Beach is hereby re-enacted.

SECTION 3. Amendment or Repeal. Chapter 12 of Article X of the Grover
Beach Municipal Code may be repealed or amended by the City Council without
a vote of the people except that any amendment that causes the Utility Users
Tax to be imposed at a rate higher than the maximum rate imposed by
Ordinance No. 91-7 may not take effect unless approved by a vote of the
people.

SECTION 4. Findings. The people of the City of Grover Beach find as follows:

(a)	On August 5, 1991, the City Council of the City of Grover
Beach adopted Ordinance No. 91-7 to establish a Utility Users Tax. Ordinance
No. 91 -7 added Chapter 12 to Article X of the Municipal Code.

(b)	In 1986 the State's voters approved Proposition 62 to require
voter approval of local general taxes. The City Council did not seek voter
approval of Ordinance No. 91-7 because a number of appeals courts, including
the court which ruled in the case of City of Woodlake v. Logan (1991) 230
Cal.App.3d 1058, had previously decided that Proposition 62's requirement that
general taxes be submitted to a referendum violated the California Constitution
and was therefore unenforceable. On December 14, 1995, the California
Supreme Court disapproved the Woodlake decision in the case of Santa Clara
County Local Transportation Authority v. Guardino (1995) 11 Cal.4th 220. In
2001, that Court decided Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association v. City of La
Habra (2001) 26 Cal.4th 236, which further suggested that the City should seek
voter approval of Ordinance No. 91-7. The City Council thereafter proposed this
Ordinance to the voters to validate the ordinance.

(c)	As required by Government Code Section 53724(b), this
Ordinance was proposed by the City Council of the City of Grover Beach by the
adoption of Resolution No. 04-49 by the affirmative votes of not fewer than four
of its five members.

SECTION 5. Intent. Section 1 of this Ordinance is intended to authorize the
continued collection of the Utility Users Tax, to validate the adoption of that tax,
and to validate taxes previously collected pursuant to Ordinance No. 91-7.
Section 2 of this Ordinance is intended to re-enact Ordinance No. 91-7 to
authorize future collection of the tax in the event it is determined that Section 1
is not sufficient to do so.

SECTION 6. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase,
or portion of this Ordinance or Ordinance No. 91-7 validated or reenacted by iL
is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Ordinance and Ordinance No. 91-7
shall nonetheless remain in full force and effect. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted each section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this Ordinance and Ordinance No. 91-7, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases,
or portions of this Ordinance and Ordinance No. 91-7 be declared invalid or
unenforceable.

SECTION 7. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the
adoption of this Ordinance by the voters of the City of Grover Beach after the
City Council certifies its passage at the Election, and sign where indicated
below.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE 0-04

Background. In 1986 California’s voters approved Proposition 62 to require
voter approval of local general taxes. California courts found Proposition 62
unconstitutional and the City therefore did not seek voter approval of a 1991
ordinance imposing a utility users tax (UUT). The California Supreme Court has
overturned those earlier decisions and upheld Proposition 62. The City Council
now proposes this measure to allow the voters to validate the 1991 UUT
ordinance.

With limited exceptions, every person who uses electric, gas, telephone, or
cable television service in the City pays a UUT of 1% of utility charges for these
services. The UUT is collected via utility bills. The UUT accounts for 2.8% of
the City’s ongoing General Fund revenues. The City uses UUT proceeds to
provide police and fire protection, recreation, street rehabilitation and other
community services funded through the City’s General Fund.

The Measure. The measure would validate and readopt the UUT ordinance and
validate taxes previously collected under that ordinance. The Measure does not
increase the rate of the UUT or make any changes to the existing UUT. The
City Council is authorized to repeal or reduce the UUT or to amend the
ordinance in other ways that do not increase taxes. However, any future
increase in the UUT would require voter approval.

sI Martin D. Koczanowicz
City Attorney
City of Grover Beach

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 0-04

A YES vote on this measure will not result in a tax increase.

A YES vote will mean that the revenues generated by this tax will be used to
maintain Police, Fire and Life Safety Services, Parks & Recreation Services and
Facilities, Street Rehabilitation Services, and other General Fund activities.

A YES vote will mean that the City Council cannot increase this tax without
voter approval.

A NO vote on this measure would require the City Council to cut the General
Fund budget by $142,200 per year. That would mean budget cuts equal to any
of the following General Fund activities:

•	Two out of ten Police Officer positions; or

•	All three Fire Engineer positions; or

•	All three Maintenance Worker positions; or

•	All of the full-time employees in the Parks & Recreation
Department; or

•	One-half of the annual allocation of funds for Local Street
Rehabilitation.

Any of these cuts would have a negative impact on the quality of life in Grover
Beach.

Your YES vote is needed to preserve public services without a tax increase.

si DEE SANTOS, MAYOR OF GROVER BEACH
SI JOHN P. SHOALS, MAYOR PRO TEM OF GROVER BEACH
si RONALD P. ARNOLDSEN, COUNCIL MEMBER OF GROVER BEACH
s/ DAVID R. EKBOM, COUNCIL MEMBER OF GROVER BEACH
si STEPHEN C. LIEBERMAN, COUNCIL MEMBER OF GROVER BEACH

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE 0-04 WAS FILED

PR-2040-1

N SL 026-021