MEASURE 0

“Shall an ordinance entitled ‘An Ordinance of the Town of Atherton Authorizing the Levy of a Special Tax for Municipal Services and Capital
Improvements and for the Expenditure of Funds Derived from such Tax,’ and numbered 550 be adopted?”

FULLTEXT

“AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF ATHERTON
AUTHORIZING THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX FOR
MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS
AND FOR THE EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS DERIVED
FROM SUCH TAX

The people of the Town of Atherton do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO ADOPT MEASURE. This ordinance
and the tax authorized herein are adopted pursuant to the provisions of the
California Constitution, Articles XIIIA §4, XIIIB §4 and XIIIC §2, and
pursuant to Sections 50075, 50076, 50077 and 53722 et. seq. of the
California Government Code.

SECTION 2. AUTHORIZATION TO LEVY SPECIAL TAX. If, in
any fiscal year commencing July 1, 2005, the City Council shall determine
that municipal services such as police protection, street repair and
maintenance, drainage facility repair and maintenance are necessary for the
public good, welfare, and safety, and that the cost of providing such
services will exceed the amount of funds generated through other revenue
and income which are counted under the limit of the Town for such services
calculated in accordance with the provisions of Article XIIIB of the
California Constitution, as provided for in the adopted budget, and/or if
capital improvements are required, the cost of which exceeds the amount of
funds generated through other revenues and receipts, and/or if amounts
should be required to augment operational and capital needs of the Town,
then it may levy a special tax for such fiscal year on each parcel of property
within the Town in the manner provided herein. This special tax shall be
in addition to the annual tax rate allowed by law.

SECTION 3. DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT TO BE RAISED.
Each year following adoption of the Town’s annual budget, the City
Council will determine the total amount of expenditures necessary to
provide adequate levels of municipal services and capital improvements
and deduct therefrom the projected revenue to be gathered from sources
other than this special tax. The difference, if any, shall be the maximum
amount of funds to be derived from the tax authorized by this ordinance for
such year.

SECTION 4. MAXIMUM TAX RATE/METHOD OF ASSESSMENT.
After determining the amount of tax to be raised under Section 3, the City
Council shall apportion said amount among the parcels of real property
within the Town not exempted by law as follows:

MAXIMUM TAX IN GIVEN YEAR

2005-06 2006-07 2007-08	2008-09

1.	For each dwelling on a
parcel with an area of

less than 1/4 acre:	450	450	450	450

2.	For each unimproved
parcel with an area of

less than 1/4 acre:	225	225	225	225

3.	For each dwelling on a
parcel with an area of
1/4 acre or more, but

less than lh acre:	570	570	570	570

4. For each unimproved parcel with an area of 1/4 acre or more, but less than lh acre:	285	285	285	285
5. For each dwelling on a parcel with an area of 1/2 acre or more, but less than 2 acres:	750	750	750	750
6. For each unimproved parcel with an area of 1/2 acre or more, but less than 2 acres:	375	375	375	375
7. For each dwelling on a parcel with an area of 2 acres or more:	960	960	960	960
8. For each unimproved parcel with an area of 2 acres or more:	480	480	480	480
9. For each private club: 10,000		10,000	10,000	10,000
10. For each parcel available for tax owned by a utility which serves the Atherton community:	450	450	450	450
11. For each parcel available for tax owned by a utility which does not directly serve the Atherton community:	750	750	750	750

The records of the San Mateo County Assessor, as of each year, shall
determine whether or not any particular lot is unimproved for purposes of
this ordinance.

SECTION 5. HEARING. TAX LIEN AND INCLUSION IN CITY
TAXES. Prior to levying a special tax under this ordinance in any fiscal
year, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed tax.
Such hearing shall be conducted after the City Council has adopted an
annual budget for that year. Notice of such hearing shall be posted in at
least three public places within the Town of Atherton at least fifteen days
prior to the hearing. All of the information and material which the City
Council intends to consider at such hearing and the amount of tax to be
raised shall be made available to the public by being on file in the office of
the City Clerk for at least fifteen days prior to said hearing. Following said
hearing, the City Council may adopt a resolution fixing the amount of tax
to be raised which shall not exceed the amount contained in the material on
file in the Clerk’s office. Any tax levied under this ordinance shall become
a lien upon the properties against which it is assessed and collectible in the
manner provided by applicable law and by the levying resolution.

SECTION 6. COLLECTION. The City Council may elect to have any
special tax authorized under this Chapter either collected by the Town or,
in the alternative, by the Tax Collector of San Mateo County. If the services
of the Tax Collector of the County of San Mateo are elected, the special tax
may only be included on the annual tax bill sent out by such Tax Collector.
A certified copy of the resolution electing to use the service of the Tax
Collector of San Mateo County shall be filed with said Tax Collector prior
to September 1st of the fiscal year for which the tax is assessed and shall

Compiled by the Town of Atherton Interim City Clerk Kathi Hamilton

78

include a list of all parcels of real property to be taxed and the amount of
each parcel.

SECTION 7. INCREASE APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Pursuant to
California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriations limit for the Town
of Atherton will be increased by one and one-half times the aggregate sum
authorized to be levied as a special tax in each of the years covered by this
ordinance.

SECTION 8. FUNDING AND EXPENDING PROCEEDS. Proceeds
of any tax levied under this ordinance shall be deposited in a Special Fund
and expended only for the purposes stated in this ordinance.

SECTION 9. UNEXPENDED RESIDUE. In accordance with Section
2(b) of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, all revenues received
by the Town in a fiscal year and the fiscal year immediately following it in
excess of the amount which may be appropriated by the Town in
compliance with Article XIIIB during that fiscal year and the fiscal year
immediately following it shall be returned by a revision of tax rates or fee
schedules within the next two subsequent fiscal years.

SECTION 10. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or
the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid such
invalidity shall not affect any other provision or applications, and to this
end the provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.

SECTION 11. DURATION AMENDMENT OR REPEAL. The
authorization to levy a tax under this ordinance shall commence with the
Fiscal Year 2005-2006, beginning July 1, 2005 and shall continue through
and including June 30, 2009. This ordinance or any provision thereof may
only be amended or repealed by approval of two-thirds of the voters voting
on the proposition at any initiative or referendum election.

This ordinance shall be adopted if approved as an initiative measure by
two-thirds of the voters voting at a consolidation election to be held on
Tuesday, November 2, 2004, and go into effect ten (10) days after the City
Council has, by resolution, declared that such initiative measure was
approved by two-thirds of the voters voting thereon.”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE 0

INITIATIVE - AUTHORIZES SPECIAL TAX TO
FINANCE MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

This initiative Measure proposes to add a new ordinance to the
Ordinance Code of the Town of Atherton that would allow the City Council
to impose a Special Tax on Real Property to finance Municipal Services,
such as police protection, street repair and maintenance, drainage facility
repair and maintenance, and capital improvements where other sources of
revenue are not sufficient because of restraints imposed by Article XIIIA of
the California Constitution also known as Proposition 13. The ordinance
would correspondingly increase the appropriations limit under
Article XIIIB of the California Constitution.

The City Council must conduct a duly noticed public hearing on
proposed tax after adoption of the annual budget. The tax may not exceed
the total amount of expenditures necessary to provide adequate levels of
municipal services and capital improvements, as determined by the City
Council, after deducting the projected revenue to be gathered from sources
other than the Special Tax.

The tax on individual parcels may not, however, exceed in any year the
amounts set forth in Section 4 of the proposed ordinance.

The tax will be a lien on individual parcels and may be collected by the
Town or the County Tax Collector at the option of the City Council.

Any monies raised by this Special Tax may be used only for said
municipal services and capital improvements. In accordance with Article
XIIIB of the California Constitution, all revenues received in a fiscal year
and the fiscal year following it in excess of the Town’s appropriations limits
during that fiscal year and the fiscal year immediately following it shall be
returned by a revision of tax rates or fee schedules within the next two
subsequent fiscal years.

Authority to levy this tax will commence with the tax year 2005-2006
and will expire with the tax year 2008-2009, and may only be amended or
repealed by a two-thirds vote of the people.

/s/ Marc G. Hynes	August	13,	2004

City Attorney, Town of Atherton

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 0

Four years ago the Council committed itself to financial and administrative
oversight, openness, responsiveness and accountability. We pledged to
challenge and eliminate wasteful practices, institute extensive changes
recommended by our auditors and address long-neglected issues such as
roads, drainage, capital improvements to Town facilities and infrastructure,
adequate but not excessive police staffing and economically appropriate
salary adjustments.

We have fulfilled our promises. The Town has increased financial reserves
by $90,000, despite a reduction in revenues last year of $200,000. We have
eliminated non-essential overtime; reduced staff; improved cash
management; raised the level of cost recovery on fee-for-services activities;
renegotiated numerous contracts to improve service and reduce costs;
aggressively sought out federal and state grants.

In the past four years we have frugally utilized almost two-thirds of parcel
tax funds to complete numerous capital improvements, including road and
drainage systems. We have proven our commitment to restoring your trust.

Today our Town faces several new fiscal challenges, none of its own
making. More than $2,876,000 of additional Town property tax funds are
expected to be diverted to the state in the next four years while health, life
and disability insurance, along with pension costs, have soared. As a
consequence, the Town faces a projected $2,940,000 deficit during that
same period.

Atherton is a unique residential community without any typical
commercial business to generate sales tax revenue. Now more than ever we
must actively explore ways of reducing expenses while finding alternative
ways to generate additional revenue without further burdening our citizens.
We promise to meet this goal. But we still need your help. Parcel tax
money stays here and is tax-deductible. These funds are critical if we wish
to maintain quality police and administrative service, community safety
and Town resources.

Vote “yes.”

/s/ Kathy McKeithen

Mayor

/s/ William R. Conwell

Vice Mayor, Town of Atherton

/s/ James R. Janz

Council Member

/s/ Charles Marsala

Council Member

/s/ Alan B. Carlson

Council Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE 0 SUBMITTED