
<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE O

Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors Ordinance 2003-31,
authorizing an increase in the special tax for police protection services in
Zone A of Contra Costa County Service Area P-2 (Blackhawk), will
become effective if approved by two-thirds of those voting on this ballot
measure. The authorizing Ordinance requires that the proceeds of this
special tax be used solely for the purposes of obtaining, furnishing,
operating, and maintaining police protection equipment or apparatus, for
paying the salaries and benefits of police protection personnel, and for
other necessary police protection service expenses (including the
election costs for approval of this and similar ordinances).

The special tax proposed by this measure will not be based upon
the value of property. The tax, if approved by the voters, will be on a
parcel and use of property basis. For purposes of this measure, a parcel
is land, and improvements thereon, designated by a County Assessor’s
parcel map and parcel number and carried on the secured property tax
roll of Contra Costa County. However, under this measure, a parcel
does not include land or improvements outside Zone A of County Service
Area P-2 nor land or improvements owned by a governmental entity.

Under this measure, the annual special tax per residential parcel
in Zone A of County Service Area P-2 will not exceed $270.
Commercial/industrial/institutional property and commercial/theater
property will be taxed at higher rates. The tax proposed by this measure
will begin July 1, 2004.

At least two-thirds of those voting on this ballot measure must
approve the measure in order for it to pass.

A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the increase in the

special tax.

A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the increase in the
special tax. <impartialend>




<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE O

Blackhawk’s 7,000 residents are protected by four Contra Costa County
Deputy Sheriffs provided through a County ordinance establishing our P-
2 Zone A Police Services District. The cost of this service is determined
through collective bargaining between the County and the Deputy
Sheriffs Association. The last negotiation resulted in a significant
increase in retirement benefits for this dangerous profession. Blackhawk
Police Services is funded by a parcel tax that is currently $178 per year
for residential parcels. Measure O proposes a residential increase of
$92 per year (25 cents per day). The new total annual residential fee
proposed is $270. A proportionate increase for our commercial and office
parcels is proposed. This will allow a buildup of depleted reserves to fund
our four Deputies for at least the next seven years. Without passage of
Measure O by two thirds of us voting on March 2, 2004, the P-2 A Police
Services District Advisory Board will be forced to reduce our Blackhawk
Police Services by one Deputy, thereby reducing response times.

When on duty, Blackhawk Police Services provides 911 response,
neighborhood patrol and traffic control in Silver Maple. Silver Oaks,
Country Club, Oak Ridge, Saddleback, Tennis Villas, Hidden Oaks, the
Plaza and adjacent offices. Our Deputies know our streets and
organizational infrastructure, and are an integral part of our community.
They are credited in recent years with saving the lives of one child, one
teenager and one pregnant mother through their quick response and
CPR. Our two Blackhawk Police vehicles are now equipped with
automatic evaluation defibrillators.

Local development and undefinable requirements of Homeland Security
are increasing demand for police services. A “Yes” vote on Measure O
will assure, at least for the next seven years, no reductions in this
protection of our Blackhawk community. <favorend>






<favorsigs> Linda Appleton

Co-Chair, Blackhawk Committee for Ongoing Police Service
Dick Bruce

President, Blackhawk Country Club <favorsigsend>
