

Business Tax

PROPOSITION K

Shall the City create a temporary 0.1% (one-tenth-of-one-percent) gross receipts tax, and
clarify how the City's existing payroll expense tax applies to certain business entities?

Digest

by the Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: San Francisco collects a 1.5% (one-and-
one-half percent) "payroll expense" tax from companies and indi-
viduals doing business in the City. "Payroll expense" means
salaries and other payments made to employees, owners and
partners who work in the City. Currently the City does not have a
“gross receipts” tax.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition K is an ordinance that would create
a temporary four-year "gross receipts" tax on certain companies
and individuals doing business in the City. "Gross receipts" means
the total amount of money a business takes in for certain goods
and services. The gross receipts tax would only apply to money
received for goods and services sold in the City. Certain small
businesses would be exempt from this tax.

•	In 2005, the City would collect 0.1% (one-tenth-of-one per-
cent) of gross receipts from companies and individuals doing
business in the City.

•	The City would reduce this rate for 2006, 2007 and 2008 if
gross receipts tax funds collected in 2005 exceed $30 million.

•	The gross receipts tax will expire on December 31, 2008.

The gross receipts tax funds could be used by the City for any
public purpose.

The gross receipts tax would apply in addition to the payroll
expense tax.

Proposition K would also clarify how the payroll expense tax
applies to certain businesses, including partnerships, limited liabil-
ity partnerships, and limited liability companies.

A "YES" VOTE MEANS: If you vote "yes," you want to clarify how
the City's existing payroll expense tax applies to certain business-
es, and you want to create a temporary four-year 0.1% (one tenth
of one percent) gross receipts tax on companies and individuals
doing business in the City.

A "NO" VOTE MEANS: If you vote "no," you do not want to make
these changes.

Controller’s Statement on “K”

City Controller Edward Harrington has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition K:

Should the proposed ordinance be approved by the voters, in my
opinion, it would generate business tax revenues for the City of
approximately $17 million in the fiscal year which began on July 1,
2004, and total revenues of approximately $43 million annually
beginning in FY 2005-2006, the first full fiscal year that the new tax
rates would be effective.

The ordinance places a tax of up to 1/10th of one percent for a
four-year period on businesses earning $500,000 or more in gross
receipts annually and extends the current 1.5% payroll tax to
cover partnership compensation. The gross receipts tax rate may
be adjusted downward subject to a finding by the Controller that
the rate would have generated more than $30 million had it been
in effect for all of fiscal year 2004.

Revenue generated by the proposed tax could be spent by the
City for any public purpose.

How “K” Got on the Ballot

On July 27, 2004 the Board of Supervisors voted 8 to 3 to place
Proposition K on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

Yes: Supervisors Alioto-Pier, Ammiano, Dufty, Ma, Maxwell,
McGoldrick, Peskin, and Sandoval.

No: Supervisors Daly, Gonzalez, and Hall.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 50%+1 AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE 158.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE 53.

38-CP149-NE04

38-CP149-NE04

Business Tax

PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION K

The Board of Supervisors authorized the submission of the fol-
lowing argument. As of the date of the publication of this Voter
Information Pamphlet, the following Supervisors endorse the
measure: Supervisors Alioto-Pier, Ammiano, Daly, Dufty, Ma,
Maxwell, McGoldrick, Peskin, and Sandoval; oppose the meas-
ure: Supervisor Gonzalez; take no position on the measure:
Supervisor Elsbernd.

Three years ago San Francisco lost millions in business tax rev-
enues because of a lawsuit brought by an out-of-town attorney.

As we work to overcome the economic crisis in San Francisco,
including the largest deficit in San Francisco history, we should all
come together - businesses and individuals alike - to pay our fair
share.

Proposition K closes business tax loopholes and restores bal-
ance to our revenue system. Most importantly, Proposition K will
help us live up to our promise of being a compassionate city, by
preserving vital services for the poor, seniors, the disabled and
children.

Today we’re doing more with less at City Hall:

• We’ve cut the pay of top city officials, eliminated free park-
ing for city employees, reduced their use of cell phones, and
asked that all full time employees of the City and County of

San Francisco make contributions to their own retirement
funds.

•	We’ve reduced the size of government by eliminating over
1,000 positions in the past six months. We’re streamlining
government, consolidating departments, eliminating unneces-
sary bureaucracy, and improving the way that the City deliv-
ers services.

•	We’re aggressively tackling waste, fraud and abuse at every
level to make sure we have the money we need to fund vital
services.

These measures close the vast majority - about 85% - of the $1
billion budget shortfall the City faces during the coming three
years. But a gap remains. That is why, as part of a package of
reforms, cuts, increased efficiencies and shared sacrifices - and as
a last resort - we must find new revenues for our city and close
existing tax loopholes.

Please join me and our fellow San Franciscans as we come
together and Vote YES on Propositions J and K.

Mayor Gavin Newsom

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION K

NO REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION K WAS SUBMITTED

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP150-NE04

Business Tax

OPPONENTS ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION K

We need real reform, not another bandage on our City’s failed
financial situation.

This tax puts the burden of balancing our City Budget on the
backs of small neighborhood serving businesses. It creates a
Business Tax, similar to one eliminated through a lawsuit by
major corporations, and gives these major corporations a signifi-
cant tax break, while increasing the burden on small businesses.

This tax is in addition to all of the other taxes and fees small
businesses pay.

Small Businesses are willing to pay their share. We’ve proposed
a tax package that generates nearly $30 million a year. We
attempted to present this tax package to the Mayor, but were not
included in the meetings between the Mayor and the major corpo-
rations when the deal for this tax was cut.

The Mayor threatens a major catastrophe if this tax fails. Let’s
be real, San Francisco’s budget is $4.6 billion a year, $30 million
is a drop in the bucket and can easily be made up with
efficiencies.

Let’s not force small businesses to carry Downtown’s burden
again. Send the big corporations who created this back room deal
a message.

For more information please visit our website a
www.sfsmallbusinessadvocates.com

San Francisco Small Business Advocates

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION K

In this time of economic crisis, we have a city budget that unites
all San Franciscans. Instead of dividing us along special interest
lines, our community, business and political leaders have joined
together to preserve vital city services for the most vulnerable -
the poor, seniors, the disabled and children - and to close the
largest budget deficit in San Francisco’s history.

Proposition K closes business tax loopholes and restores tax
fairness by asking businesses to pay their fair share: a gross
receipts tax that they have not had to pay for three years because
of a lawsuit filed by an out of town attorney. It is part of a fair, rea-
sonable, and comprehensive budget package of reforms, cuts,
increased efficiencies and shared sacrifices.

This is a time when San Franciscans are coming together to do
their part, and our dedicated city workers are leading by example:
taking pay cuts, giving up free parking, reducing the use of cell
phones, and making contributions to their own retirement funds.

To suggest that some should not have to pay their fair share is
not in the best interests of all San Franciscans. No one likes taxes;
but this is a time of fiscal crisis and Proposition K will close busi-
ness tax loopholes to preserve vital city services.

Please join me and our fellow San Franciscans as we all come
together and Vote Yes on Proposition K.

Mayor Gavin Newsom

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP151-NE04

Business Tax

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION K

YES on K: Close a tax loophole. Protect vital services for chil-
dren and youth!

Coleman Advocates for Children and Youth

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the Coleman Advocates for Children and Youth.

Vote Yes on K - Close a Business Tax Loophole to Save Vital
City Services

Our record economic crisis threatens the hopes and aspirations
of the working people of San Francisco. As part of a great and
compassionate city, we urge you to vote Yes on Proposition K to
prevent deep cuts in vital city services - services that are a lifeline
for poor, disabled, elderly or young San Franciscans.

Proposition K closes a business tax loophole - and asks busi-
nesses to do their part by paying a gross receipts tax they haven’t
had to pay for three years as a result of a lawsuit filed by an out of
town attorney.

Everyone in San Francisco - businesses and individuals alike -
should come together to meet the challenges of this fiscal crisis.
City workers are doing their part by taking on more work for less
pay. You can help businesses do their part by supporting
Proposition K.

Please join with us and vote Yes on Proposition K. Help San
Francisco live up to its promise as a compassionate city.

San Francisco Labor Council, AFL-CIO

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Labor Council, AFL-CIO.

Vote Yes on Prop K - Close the Loophole and Protect Health
Services

We’re doing our part to meet the challenges of San Francisco’s
fiscal crisis. Proposition K asks the business community to begin
doing its part, too. By closing a business tax loophole, we can help
prevent deep cuts in city health care services for the most vulner-
able San Franciscans.

Please vote Yes on Proposition K.

SEIU Local 250 Health Care Workers

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the SEIU Local 250, Health Care Workers Union.

Vote Yes on Prop K - Close a Loophole to Save Vital Services

San Francisco is facing the worst fiscal crisis in its history.
We’re all pitching in to save vital city services. It’s only fair that
the business community do its part.

Three years ago San Francisco lost millions in business tax rev-
enue because of a lawsuit filed by an out of town attorney.
Proposition K restores these funds and closes a loophole in anoth-
er business tax, money that will help prevent deep service cuts for
the most vulnerable San Franciscans - the poor, the disabled,
seniors, and children.

Let’s all do our part to save vital city services. Vote Yes on
Proposition K.

SEIU Local 790 Members, Committed to Public Service and
Social Justice

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the SEIU, Local 790.

Vote Yes on K to Keep San Francisco Healthy.

As Commissioners of the Department of Public Health, we
know too well how thinly stretched our funds for trauma centers,
nursing care, and other vital public health services are.

This City has reduced the size of its workforce, cut the pay of
city workers, and rooted out waste and inefficiencies. But there is
still a gap. New revenues must be part of the solution to avoid
drastic reductions in critical city services.

Proposition K closes a business tax loophole to prevent deep
cuts in critical city services.

Please join with us and vote Yes on Proposition K.

San Francisco Health Commissioners:

Edward A. Chow, M.D. *

Roma Guy, M.S.W.*

James M. Illig
Lee Ann Monfredini

* For identification purposes only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the SEIU Local 790.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP152-NE04

Business Tax

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION K

Vote Yes on Prop. K - Close Tax Loopholes to Save Critical
Services

We must act now to prevent deep cuts in vital city service for
seniors, the disabled and other vulnerable San Franciscans.

We believe in the fundamental right of dignity for all persons.
We know that San Franciscans can overcome the most difficult
challenges if we all work together. That is why we urge every San
Franciscan to support Proposition K.

Proposition K closes a business tax loophole and restores tax
fairness by asking businesses to pay their fair share: a gross
receipts tax they haven’t had to pay for three years because of a
lawsuit by an out of town attorney. Voting Yes on Proposition K
will help save critical services for seniors.

We are all doing out part to pull our City through this econom-
ic crisis. It’s only fair that the business community join with us
and do its part as well.

Please support the dignity of all San Franciscans and Vote YES
on Proposition K.

Senior Action Network

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the Senior Action Network.

Help Protect Vital Fire Services. Yes on K.

Prop. K will help protect fire and other public safety services by
closing a loophole.

Over the last year the City has worked to cut waste and asked
employees to give back. But it is only fair to ask all San
Franciscans to do their part.

Please help protect fire services by voting Yes on K.

San Francisco Fire Fighters Local 798

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Fire Fighters Political Action Committee.

Yes on K. It’s Only Fair.

Closing a loophole is a small price to pay to keep San
Franciscans safe. We risk our lives to protect this community.
Please join the San Francisco Police Officers’ Association in
support of Prop. K.

San Francisco Police Officers' Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Police Officers Association.

Vote Yes on Proposition K - Close a Loophole to Protect Mental
Health Services

San Francisco’s economic crisis threatens deep cuts to vital city
services that are a lifeline for San Franciscans with serious men-
tally disabilities. Many of these San Franciscans at-risk receive no
regular medical health care, either because it is unavailable to
them or they find it too difficult to obtain in emergency rooms.

Proposition K closes a business tax loophole and restores tax
fairness by asking businesses to pay their fair share: a gross
receipts tax they haven’t had to pay for three years because of a
lawsuit by an out of town attorney. Voting Yes on Proposition K
will help prevent deep cuts in mental health services.

If San Francisco is to live up to its promise of being a compas-
sionate city, we simply cannot cut these San Franciscans loose.

Please join with us and vote Yes on Proposition K.

Progress Foundation

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the Progress Foundation.

Proposition K is a necessary part of the solution to our
budget problems.

San Francisco is dealing with record budget deficits. During
tough budget times, making government more efficient - not rais-
ing taxes - is always the first choice. In the past year, the City has
taken huge steps to cut costs. But it is not enough.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP153-NE04

Business Tax

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION K

This measure provides money needed to keep our police, parks,
hospitals and other crucial City services running, while continu-
ing to exempt small businesses from increased taxes. These serv-
ices are too important to lose.

VOTE YES ON K.

San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association (SPUR)

For more information, visit www.spur.org

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the SPUR Urban Issues Committee.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Oz Erickson 2. James Chappell 3. Evette Davis.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP154-NE04

Business Tax

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION K

Most women-owned businesses are small businesses. We are
proud to be part of the biggest economic and job engine in San
Francisco.

We oppose this proposition, which adds a gross receipts tax to
our payroll taxes. The City is proposing this tax in an attempt to
replace revenue lost by a successful lawsuit brought by big busi-
nesses against the City. It penalizes small business owners by dou-
bling our taxes

This tax is a job-killer. Recently, the same supervisors who sup-
port this proposal to double our taxes, voted to exempt the
Biotechnology industry from payroll taxes. There reasoning was
that payroll taxes would prevent the creation of new biotechnolo-
gy jobs. What about the jobs already created by small business? It
makes no sense to kill small business jobs, forcing us to subsidize
outsiders who may or may not hire locally.

Small businesses employ more people in the City than any other
business sector. Most of the City’s small businesses are women-or
minority-owned. We pay the community with our taxes, rents,
purchases, donations and volunteer work. Our own homes and
savings are often the only source of funds for paying taxes and
business overhead when we have a bad business year.

This proposal would result in San Francisco’s having the high-
est business taxes in the region. Doubling our taxes could force
many small business owners with low or negative profitability to
let go employees, and go out of business

We urge you to vote NO on Proposition K.

Sharon Gadberry President

National Association of Women Business Owners,

San Francisco (NAWBO-SF)

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the NAWBO - SF.

Proposition K unfairly burdens small businesses, which are the
backbone of San Francisco’s economy. Vote NO on K.

Christine Linnenbach, candidate for Supervisor, District 7*

* For identification purposes only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Christine Linnenbach.

We need to restructure our tax system in San Francisco.
Proposition K does not accomplish this, it is another tax on top of
current taxes. Since this tax sunsets in four years, we will be stuck
without any fundamental reform of our tax structure.

We are more than willing to work with the Mayor to find new
revenues so we can provide San Franciscans with the best possi-
ble services, but Proposition K is a half-way measure that will hurt
small businesses and San Francisco’s economy.

Join me in opposing Proposition K.

Matt Gonzalez

President, San Francisco Board of Supervisors*

*For identification purposes only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the Cal Insurance.

District Merchants Oppose Proposition K

Small business is willing to pay its fair share and even had an
alternative tax proposal. Big business cut a deal with the Mayor
and the Board of Supervisors for this tax measure.

Big Businesses sued to get rid of the previous business tax that
charged them three times the rate of this tax. Now they want to cut
the tax and have it end in five years. It is time for Big Business to
pay its fair share and not put the tax burden on small neighbor-
hood businesses like ours.

The San Francisco Council of District Merchants

Marina Merchants Association

Noe Valley Merchants & Professionals

Inner Sunset Merchants Association

Union Street Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the Cal Insurance + Assoc.

Vote No On Proposition K

Don’t Run Business Out Of San Francisco

If this tax passes San Francisco will have the highest business
tax rate in Northern California. According to the Legislative
Analyst a business in San Francisco will have to pay $5500 more
in taxes than in San Mateo County. Businesses will not locate in

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP155-NE04

Business Tax

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION K

San Francisco and those that can operate elsewhere will relocate.

San Francisco lost 66,000 jobs over the past three years. We
need a plan to create more jobs and jump start our economy. We
do not need another tax on Small Businesses that are the main
source of new jobs in an economic recovery.

The S.F. Small Business Network

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the SF Small Business Network.

Don’t balance the budget on the backs of our neighborhood
merchants.

The City is attempting to replace revenue lost by a successful
lawsuit brought by big businesses against the City’s prior dual tax
format. Small businesses and neighborhood merchants are now
being asked to cover the loss.

Small business is key to the economic revitalization of the City,
and local merchants stabilize our neighborhoods. Prop K would
drive them out of the City. Prop K would raise San Francisco’s
business taxes to the highest in the Bay Area!

Support local small business. Vote NO on Prop K.

Coalition for San Francisco Neighborhoods

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the CSFN Coalition for SF Neighborhoods.

NO on K

San Francisco has lost 50,000 jobs in the last four years. These
taxes will drive out more business and cost more jobs. They will
also send a loud message to businesses and investors all over
America: Stay away from San Francisco, it is not a friendly place
to do business.

The San Francisco Republican Party
Chairman

Michael A. DeNunzio

Ballot Advisory Committee
Joshua Kriesel, Ph.D., Vice Chairman
Howard Epstein, Assembly Candidate
Christopher L. Bowman, Secretary
Michael J. Antonini, DDS, Member

Member - Candidates

Jennifer DePalma, Candidate, 8th Congressional District
Mike Garza, Candidate, 12th Congressional District

Members
Albert Chang
Elsa Cheung

Thomas D’Amato, General Counsel
Harold M. Hoogasian
Barbara Kiley
Leo Lacayo, Vice Chairman
Sue Woods

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Republican Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1.Michael A. DeNunzio 2. Michael J. Antonini 3. Sue C.
Woods.

VOTE NO ON K!

To adopt this payroll tax on top of a gross receipts tax is unwise.

It would penalize and stunt desperately needed job creation and
send jobs cascading to surrounding communities.

To impose an increase payroll tax further weakens the compet-
itive position of the City and undermines our quality of life.

VOTE NO ON K!

MARA KOPP
FRED MARTIN

GOOD GOVERNMENT ALLIANCE

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the Kopp’s Good Government Committee.

Proposition K will impose a gross receipts tax on our small
neighborhood businesses, causing more of them to shut their
doors and move away. In turn, tax revenues will decline, and
unemployment will increase. Alternative tax options do exist.

These small businesses are essential to the vitality and preser-
vation of each San Francisco neighborhood, providing a lifeline of
goods and services to local residents. The serious decline of our

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP156-NE04

Business Tax

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION K

some of neighborhood commercial streets has already had a dev-
astating effect on the local quality of life.

Our D3 Supervisor, and others who share his lack of under-
standing of basic economics, believe small businesses should
unfairly pay the price, rather than addressing long term structural
problems with the cost of government.

Please join me in supporting small neighborhood businesses
and VOTE NO.

Brian O’Flynn
Candidate for D3 supervisor

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Brian O’Flynn.

Vote NO on K—The Double Tax

Proposition K will impose a new tax on local businesses that
will be in addition to the payroll tax they already pay. This double
taxation scheme was proposed by the same interests that sued the
city for millions of dollars over an earlier tax the city was forced
to repeal. The new tax is unfair and will disproportionately affect
small businesses. Let’s restore fairness to the business tax
structure!

Vote NO on K.

San Francisco Association of REALTORS®

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Association of REALTORS.

Vote No on Proposition K

San Francisco lost 66,000 jobs over the past two years. We need
a plan to create more jobs and jump start our economy. We do not
need another tax on Small Businesses that are the main source
of new jobs in an economic recovery. I have a plan to create jobs
and stimulate our economy. Please visit my website at
www.districtllsupervisor.org

Myrna Lim

Candidate for Supervisor
District 11

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Myrna Lim.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP157-NE04

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION K

Ordinance amending the Business and Tax
Regulations Code to: (1) enact a new Article
12-A-1 (Business Tax Ordinance), as speci-
fied, to impose a business tax for four years
on all persons engaging in business in San
Francisco measured by the gross receipts of
the business at the rate of one tenth of one
percent (0.1%) for the 2005 tax year and, if
Business Tax revenues collected in such year
exceed $30 million, a lower ratefor the 2006,
200^^n^^008_t^^ears^s_spedfied; (2)
amend Article 12-A (Payroll Expense Tax
Ordinance), as specified, to: (i) conform
Article 12-A with the enactment of the
Business Tax Ordinance, and (ii) clarify the
payroll expense of partnerships, Subchapter
S corporations, limited liability companies,
limited liability partnerships and other per-
sons or entities not subject to federal income
tax or which are allowed a deduction in com-
puting such tax for distributions to the own-
ers or beneficiaries of such persons or enti-
ties (“pass-through entities99)? and (iii) pro-
mote development of the biotechnology
industry by excluding from the payroll
expense of persons subject to the Payroll
Expense Tax compensation paid to employ
ees and owners or benefieinries of a pass
through entity for work performed and scrv
ices rendered in eonneetion with the per
son9s biotechnology business; and (3) amend
Article 6 (Common Administrative Pro-
visions), as specified, to add definitions and
conform common administrative provisions
with the enactment of the Business Tax
Ordinance and amendments to the Payroll
Expense Tax Ordinance.

Note: Additions are single-underline
italics Times New Roman:
deletions are strikethrough italics
Times New Roman.

Board amendment additions are
double underlined.

Board amendment deletions are
strikethrough normal.

Be it ordained by the People of the City and
County of San Francisco:

Section 1. Pursuant to Article XIIIC of
the Constitution of the State of California,
Sections 2, 3 and 1 3, 4 and 5 of this ordinance
shall be submitted to the qualified electors of
the City and County of San Francisco, at the
November 2, 2004 general municipal election.
Sections 2, 3 and 1 3, 4 and 5 of this ordinance
shall become operative only if approved by the
qualified electors at such election. Section 56
of this ordinance shall become operative on the
date Sections 2, 3 and A 3. 4 and 5 of this ordi-
nance become operative.

Sectio^^^^ectio^^lO_^^^e_^^
Francisco Elections Code and the 30 word limit
on ballot questions set forth therein shall not
apply to the ballot question for the Business

^^_Ordinance_se^^r^J^^ectio^J_^^^is
ordin^ceands^^ttedforvoter^provalat
the November 2, 2004 general municipal elec-
tion because the subject measure is unusually
complexjhe^^lotjgestio^^r^^^usiness
^^Ordin^c^j^suc^jlectio^jhal^^a^js
foUgw^i

Shall the City tax certain gross receipts
ofbusinessesj^	of

1% for a temporary period of four
years, and extend the payroll tax to the
compensation^	and

owners^^certajn^usinessesj^^i^

nesses?

Section 22. The San Francisco
Business and Tax Regulations Code is hereby
amended by adding Article 12-A-l (Business
Tax Ordinance), to read as follows:

ARTICLE 12-A-l
BUSINESS TAX

SEC. 951. SHORT TITLE. This Article
shall be known as the “Business Tax
Ordinance.” The tax imposed under this Article
shall be known as the “Business Tax.”

SEC. 952. OPERATION OF DEFINI-
TIONS. Except where the context otherwise
requires. terms not defined in this Article that
are defined in Article 6 shall have the same
meaning as given to them in Article 6.

SEC. 952.1. ADVANCE PAY-
MENTS. “Advance payments" means non-
refundable payments for the purchase of
tangible personal property or services to be
delivered or performed in the future.

SEC. 952.4-2, CASH DISCOUNT.
“Cash discount” means a deduction from the
invoice price of goods or charge for services
which is allowed if the bill is paid on or before
a specified date.

SEC. 952.23. GROSS RECEIPTS, (a)
u Gross receipts” means the total amount of the
sale price of all sales, the total amount charged
or received for the performance of am aefc
service or employment of whatever nature it
mav be. whether such service act—or employ
ment is done as part of or in connection with
the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or not,
for which a charge is made or credit allowed,
including all receipts, cash, credits and proper-
ty of anv kind or nature, any amount for which
credit is allowed by the seller to the purchaser
without any deduction therefrom on account of
the cost of the property sold, the cost of materi-
als used, labor or service costs, interest paid or
payable, losses or any other expense whatsoev-
er: provided, that cash discounts allowed or
taken on sales shall not be included. Gross
receipts, including advance payments, shall be
included in a taxpayer’s gross receipts at the

time such receipts are recognized as revenue
for federal income tax reporting purposes.

(b)	Gross receipts shall also include
the total amount of all lease or rental amounts
paid or rendered by. on behalf of. or for the
benefit of all of the tenants of a landlord, val-
ued in money, for the occupancy or use of all
premises located in the City, any services that
are part of the lease or rental of the premises.
whether received in money or otherwise, that
are paid to. on behalf of or for the benefit of
the landlord, and all receipts, cash, credits.
property of any kind or character and the fair
market value of services so paid or rendered
for such occupancy, use and services. Gross
receipts shall also include the amount of any
federal manufacturers or importers excise tax
included in the price of the property sold, even
though the manufacturer or importer is also the
retailer thereof and whether or not the amount
of such tax is stated as a separate charge.

(he) “Gross receipts” shall not include
the amount of any federal tax imposed on or
with respect to retail sales whether imposed
upon the retailer or upon the consumer and
regardless of whether or not the amount of fed-
eral tax is stated to customers as a separate
charge, or any state and local sales or use tax
required by law to be included in or added to
the purchase price and collected from the con-
sumer or purchaser, or such part of the sales
price of any property previously sold and
returned by the purchaser to the seller which is
refunded by the seller by way of cash or credit
allowances given or taken as part payment on
any property so accepted for resale.

(ed) "Gross receipts ” shall not include
any amount received from or charged to any
person that is a related entity to the taxpayer. A
person is a related entity to a taxpayer if£Q%-
50% or more of the ownership interests in both
value and voting power of such person and the
taxpayer are held, directly or indirectly, by the
same person or persons. Notwithstanding the
foregoing. any amount received from or
charged to any person which is a related entity
to a taxpayer shall be included in “gross
receipts” when said amount is compensation
for activities, including, but not limited to. sell-
ing. renting and service, performed by the tax-
payer for any person which is not a related
entity to the taxpayer. unless such amount has
been included in the “gross receipts” bv the
related entity and the tax thereon has been paid
to the City.

(e)	“Gross receipts” shall not include
any amount derived from the sale of the tax-
g^gr^_^ngr|higjn^^ynrc^^rgg|r^

(f)	"Gross receipts” shall not include
any amount received by persons acting as
agents or brokers, other than amounts received
as commissions or fees earned or charges of
any character made or compensation of any

(Continued on next page)

158

38-CP158-NE04

38-CP158-NE04

character received for the performance of any
service as agent or broker; provided, that any
agent or broker dealing in stocks or other simi-
lar written instruments evidencing a right to
participate in the assets of any business, or
dealing in bonds or other evidence of indebted-
ness, who also deals in such financial instru-
ment^j^^^rincigal^_sh^^otJnclud^j^^e
gross receipts resulting from such dealings as a
principal the cost to acquire the financial instru-
ments) sold or otherwise exchanged or con-
verted.

(g)	“Gross receipts” shall not include
any amount of third party taxes that a taxpayer
collects from or on behalf of the taxpayer’s cus-
tomers and remits to the appropriate govem-
menta^entit^j^osingjucht^

SEC. 952.24. LANDLORD AND LESSOR,

(a)	“Landlord” and “Lessor” mean a lessor of
real estate located within the Citv. except as
provided in Subsection (b). regardless of
whether the leased premises is designed,
intended. used or occupied for business pur-
poses or residential purposes. The failure of a
landlord or tenant, or both, to obtain a business
registration certificate under Article 12. or anv
other license or permit required for ensasins in
either person's business or occupation in the
Citv. shall not relieve such landlord or tenant
from the tax or other oblisations imposed
under this Article or Article 6.

(b)	Notwithstanding Subsection (a), a
person receivins rental or lease income in con-
nection with the operation of anv of the follow-
ing shall not, bv reason of that fact alone, be
deemed to be a landlord or lessor subject to the
tax imposed under this Article: (l)a coopera-
tive housing corporation, as defined in Section
216(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
as amended: (2) one residential structure con-
sisting of fewer than four units: or (3) one res-
idential condominium.

SEC. 952.45. PREMISES. “Premises”
means anv land and/or buildins. or anv portion
thereof that is located within the Citv.

SEC. 952.§6. RENT. “Rent” means the
total amount of all lease or rental amounts paid
or rendered bv. on behalf of. or for the benefit
of. a lessor's tenant, valued in money, for the
occupancy or use of real estate located within
the Citv. and for any services, privileges, fur-
nishinss and facilities provided in connection
with the use or occupancy thereof, including
storage, garage and parking facilities, whether
paid in money or otherwise, to. on behalf of. or
for the benefit of. the lessor. “Rent” includes all
receipts, cash, credits, property of any kind or
character and the fair market value of services
so paid or rendered for such occupancy, use,
services, privileges, furnishings and facilities.

SEC. 952.61. SALE AND SELL.
“Sale” and “sell” mean the making of anv
transfer of title, in anv manner or bv anv means

whatsoever, to tangible personal property for a
price, and to the serving, supplying or furnish-
ing. for a price, of anv tangible personal prop-
erty fabricated or made at the special order of
consumers who do or who do not furnish
directly or indirectly the specifications therefor.
A transaction whereby the possession of prop-
erty is trans ferred but the seller retains the title
as security for the payment of the price shall
likewise be deemed a sale.

SEC. 952.8. SALES PRICE. "Sales
price” means the actual amount charged or
received for the sale of an item of property.

SEC. 952.8. SALES FOR CONVE
NIENCE. (a) '‘Sales for convenience” moans
a sale of now goods, wares, or merchandise by
a person engaged in selling ouch articles to
another person engaged in selling like or simi
lar lands of articles:

f4-)—Whore the primary purpose
of the particular transaction or sale is to
accommodate the purchaser rathor than
to make a sale in the ordinary course of
business;

—Whore, in tho particular kind
of business involved, a similar manner
of dealing is frequent or customary in
tho circumstances under which tho par
ticular sale is made; and

—Whore goods, wares or mor
ohandiso of like or similar land and of
substantially equivalent value to that
which—was—seM—is—received—m
consideration.

—Tho following typos of transactions
are sales for convenience within tho moaning of
this Section when tho oiroumstancos stated in
paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) of Subsection (a) are
present:

—transactions in which tho
seller convoys an article which is in
short supply, or which, under tho cir
cumstnncos, cannot -he obtained by the
purchaser through normal sources of
supply in sufficient-time to permit tho
purchaser to fumish-an equivalent arti ■
ole to a prospective eustomor;

(3)--transactions in which, by

reason of tho sol lor'-s-more convenient
location relative to a-designated point of
delivery, tho purchaser agrees to reim-
burse tho seller for delivering goods?
wares or merchandise at that point to
tho purchaser's customer in accordance
with a contract of sale between tho pur-
chaser------------and-----------die

purchaser's customer

(T)—Transactions in which, as a
matter of business practice, tho form of
a sale is arranged and entered into by
tho seller and tho purchaser as a substi-
tute for or tho equivalent of tho trans-
portation of tho article or tho payment
of transportation charges on tho article
from tho point of tho delivery to some

other point;

(4}—Transactions different in
detail from those described in tho throe
immediately preceding paragraphs of
this Section,—hat—which—the—Tax
Collector has found and by rule deter
mined to bo of a kind whoso primary
purpose is to accommodate tho pur
chaser rathor than to make a sale in tho
ordinary course of business; of a kind
which, in tho particular land of business
involved, is frequent or customary in
tho circumstances under which a partic
ular sale is made; and of a land whoro
goods, wares or merchandise of lilco or
similar lcind, and of substantially oquiv
alont value to that which was sold is
received as consideration.

(e)—No sale shall bo considered a sale
for convenience within tho moaning of this
Subsection unloss it is of a lcind described in
paragraphs (1), (2), (3) or (1) of Subsection (b).

SEC. 952.29. TENANT AND TENAN-
CY. “Tenant” and “Tenancy” include tenants
and tenancies of all types, and persons occupy-
ing and the occupation of a building or struc-
ture. or space in a buildins or structure, or anv
other real estate in the Citv. under anv lease,
rental agreement, license or concession agree-
ment with a lessor. The right to use or possess
such space shall be deemed to be the same as
actual occupation.

SEC. 953. IMPOSITION OF BUSI-
NESS TAX:	STATEMENT	OF	VOTER

iNTENT-TAX COLLECTOR REGULATIONS,

(a)	Except as provided under Sections 954 and

954.1.	every person engaging in business with-
in the Citv shall vav an annual business tax
measured bv the person’s gross receipts from
all taxable business activities attributable to
the City. A person ys liability for the Business
Tax shall be calculated using the rate set forth
in Section 953.1.

(b)	The Business Tax is a privilege tax
imposed upon persons engaging in business
within the Citv for the privilege of engaging in
a business or occupation in the City. The
Business Tax is imposed for general govern-
mental purposes and in order to require com-
merce and the business community to carry a
fair share of the costs of local government in
return for the benefits, opportunities and pro-
tections afforded bv the Citv. Proceeds from the
tax shall be deposited in the City's general fund
and may be expended for anv purposes of the
City.

(a)---Tho voters intend by approving

this measure to impose tho Business Tax upon
all persons engaging in business within tho City
and upon all commerce and business activities

(Continued on next page)

38-CP159-NE04

159

38-CP159-NE04

occurring within, attributable to or having suf
ficiont nexus with the City to lawfully impose
the tax hereunder in the broadest possible man
nor consistent with the provisions and require
ments of California Constitution Article XIIIC,
the United States Constitution and any other
applicable provision of federal and state law.

fee) The Tax Collector may promul-
gate all reasonable regulations and issue all
reasonable rules. determinations and interpre-
tations necessary or appropriate to implement
and administer the Business Tax upon all com-
merce and business activities occurring within.
attributable to or bavins sufficient nexus with
the Cit\ to lawfully impose the tax hereunder
regardless of the form (corporate or otherwise)
of the person or other legal entity engaging in
business within the City.

fed) The Business Tax imposed under
this Article is in addition to the Payroll Expense
Tax imposed under Article 12-A. Persons not
otherwise exempt from the Business Tax or
Payroll Expense Tax shall pax both taxes.
Persons exempt from either the Business Tax or
Payroll Expense Tax. but not both. shall pax the
tax from which not exempt.

SEC. 953.1. BUSINESS TAX RATE, (a)
The rate of the Business Tax for the tax year
commencing on January 1, 2005 and ending on
Dece^er^l^005_(^e2005jax^e^) shall be
one tenth of one percent (0.1%) of the person's
gross receipts attributable to the person’s busi-
ness activities in the City. The_^^_of_Ae
Business Tax for the tax years commencing on
or after January 1, 2006 and ending on or
before December 31, 2008 (the 2006, 2007 and
2008 tax years) shall be the same rate as for the
2005 tax year unless the revenues from the
Business Tax in the 2005 tax year exceed $30
million, in which case the rate for the 2006,

2007	and 2008 tax years shall be adjusted as set
fo^in^ubsection^b}^fAis_Section.

(b)	If the Controller determines that
the revenues from the Business Tax in the 2005
tax year were more than $30 million, then the
rate of the Business Tax for the 2006, 2007 and

2008	tax years shall be established by operation
of this Section by decreasing, in increments of
one basis point (0.01%), the rate that was appli-
cable to the 2005 tax year to a rate where the
revenue from the Business Tax for the 2005 tax
year would have been or first dropped below
S^ilmlllion h;u1 thedecreasedrateforthe2006.
2007 and 2008 tax years applied to the 2005 tax
year.

(c)	The Controller shall make the
determination required bv Subsection tb) of
this Section no later than September 30. 2006.
The Tax Collector shall, within 15 days of the
Controller’s determination, publish a notice
announcing the rate of the Business Tax for the
2006, 2007 and 2008 tax years.

SEC. 954. EXEMPTIONS, (a) Except
as provided in Subsection (b) of this Section, an
organization that is exempt from income taxa-

tion bx Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
23701) of Part 11 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code or Subchapter F (commenc-
ing with Section 501) of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. as
amended, as qualified bx Sections 502. 503.
504 and 508 o f the Internal Revenue Code of
1986. as amended, shall be exempt from taxa-
tion under this Article.

(b)	An organization otherwise exempt
from income taxation under Subsection (a ) that
is directly engaged within the City in an unre-
lated trade or business within the meaning of
Section 513(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986. as amended, and has, from its own oper-
ations. unrelated business taxable income with-
in the meaning of Section 512(a)(1) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986. as amended,
shall pay the Business Tax on its gross receipts
from its unrelated trade or business activities
that are attributable to the City. If it is imprac-
ticable. unreasonable or improper to allocate
such organization’s gross receipts as aforesaid
either because of the particular nature of the
organization’s unrelated trade or business or
for any other reason, then the amount of gross
receipts reasonably attributable to the organi-
zation’s unrelated trade or business in the City
shall be determined on the basis of all relevant
facts and circumstances of the particular case,
in accordance with any rulings or regulations
issued or promulgated by the Tax Collector for
the purpose.

(c)	“Gross receipts” as defined in
Section 952.23 shall not include receipts from
business activities if. and only so long as and to
the extent that, the City is prohibited from tax-
ing such receipts under the Constitution or
laws of the United States or under the
Constitution or laws of the State of California.

(d)	Blind persons licensed under the
provisions of Chapter 6A of Title 12 of the
United States Code (“Vending Stands for Blind
in Federal Buildings”) or Article 5 of Chapter
6 of Part 2 of Division 10 of the California
Welfare and Institutions Code (“Business
Enterprises for the Blind”) need not include in
the computation of gross receipts the first
$15.000 of gross receipts in any one year which
is attributable to their licensed operations with-
in the City.

(e)	Skilled Nursing Facilities licensed
under the provisions of Title 22. California
Administrative Code. Division 5 (“Licensing
and Certification of Health Facilities and
Referral Agencies”). Chapter 3 (“Skilled
Nursing Facilities”), shall be exempt from tax-
ation under this Article.

(f)	Receipts derived from contracts for
services or sales initiated or consummated at
closed conventions shall be excluded from tax-
able “gross receipts” as defined in Section
952.23. For purposes o f this Section, a “closed
convention” means an assemblage of delegates
to or members of a formally established organ-
ization devoted to trade, industrial or commer-
cial purposes, and to which only such delegates

or members are admitted, to the exclusion of
the general public.

fg)—Receipts derived from the sale of
real property located in the City shall bo
excluded from taxable "gross receipts” as
defined in Section 952.2.

(g)	Sales for resale shall be exempt

from the tax imposed under this Article; pro-
videdjhepurcha^	and the

seller retains, a resale certificate in accordance
wi^^glic^le^rovisions_^fAeRevenu£^^
Taxation Code and regulations promulgated by
the Board of Equalization.

(h)	For only so long as and to the
extent that the City is prohibited from imposing
the tax under this Article, the following persons
shall be exempt from the Business Tax:

(1)	Banks and financial corpo-
rations exempt from local taxation
under Article XIII. Section 27 of the
California Constitution and Revenue
and Taxation Code Section 23182:

(2)	Insurance companies exempt
from local taxation under Article XIII.
Section 28 of the California
Constitution:

(3)	Persons engaging in busi-
ness as afor-hire motor carrier of prop-
erty under Revenue and Taxation Code
Section 7233:

(4)	Persons engaging in inter-
city transportation as a household
goods carrier under Public Utilities
Code Section 5327:

(5)	Charter-party carriers oper-
ating limousines that are neither domi-
ciled nor maintain a business office
within the City under Public Utilities
Code Section 5371.4.

(6)	Any person upon whom the
City is prohibited under the
Constitution or statute of the State of
California from imposing the Business
Tax.

(i)	To the extent that any taxpayer has
paid a substantially similar tax to any other
taxing jurisdiction on any gross receipts taxed
under this Article, the tax paid to such taxing
jurisdiction shall be credited against the tax
due under this Article.

(i)	Nothing in this Article shall be con-
strued as requiring the payment of any tax for
engaging in a business or the doing of an act
when such payment would be in violation of the
Constitution or a statute of the United States or
of the Constitution or a statute of the State of
California.

SEC. 954.1. SMALL BUSINESS
EXEMPTION, (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Article. usmall business enter-
prises.” as hereinafter defined, shall be exempt
from payment of the Business Tax: provided.

(Continued on next page)

38-CP160-NE04

38-CP160-NE04

that small business enterprises shall pay the
annual registration fee pursuant to Section 855
of Article 12 and shall provide all information
and records and file all returns with the Tax
Collector as required by this Article and
Article 6.

(b)	The term	“small business enter-

prise ” shall mean and include any taxpayer:

(1)	Whose tax liability under
this Article, but for the small business
exemption in this Section. would not
exceed $500: and

(2)	Who has filed a tax return
by the last day of February for the pre-
ceding tax year.

SEC. 955. ALLOCATION AND
APPORTIONMENT: BUSINESS WITHIN
AND WITHOUT CITY: BUSINESSES SUB
JECT TO BUSINESS TAX AND PAYROLL
EXPENSE TAX, (a) Any person deriving
gross receipts from business activities encased
in both within and without the City shall allo-
cate such gross receipts to determine the
amount thereof derived from or attributable to
such activities within the City for purposes of
calculating the person’s tax liability under this
Article. The person shall make such allocation,
which shall be set forth on appropriate returns.
using the ordinary methods of allocation and
apportionment, as follows:

(1)	Taxpayers shall include
100% o f gross receipts derived from or
attributable to sales of tangible person-
al property if: (i) a purchaser takes
physical or constructive possession of
the property within the City regardless
ofthef.o.b. point or other conditions of
the sale: or (ii) the property is delivered
or shipped to a purchaser within the
City regardless of the f.o.b. point or
other conditions of the sale: or (iii) the
property is shipped from an office,
store, warehouse, factory, or other
place of storage within the City to a
location outside the City provided the
taxpayer is not subject to a tax on the
gross receipts derived from such sale in
the city, county or analogous local
jurisdiction (excluding states and coun-
tries) to which the property is shipped.

(2)	Taxpayers shall include
100% of apportion gross receipts
derived from or attributable to the per-
formance of any aet? service or employ
meat of whatever nature, and sales
other than of tangible personal proper-
ty.i if: (i) the activity producing the gross
receipts is performed in the City; or (ii)
the activity producing the gross receipts
is performed both in and outside the
City and a greater proportion of -such
activity is performed in the City than in
any other city, county or analogous
local jurisdiction (excluding statos-and
countries) that may lawfully impose a
tax on the gross receipts derived from

the person’s performance of such activ
ity., based on the costs of performance.
by multiplying 100% of such gross
receipts by the percentage of the tax-
payer’s payroll expense attributable to
the City under Section 904 of Article
TTK.

(3)	Taxpayers who are land-
lords (as defined in Section 952.4) shall
include 100% of gross receipts derived
from or attributable to the leasing or
renting of all of the landlord’s premises
located within the City: taxpayers shall
not include gross receipts that are
derived from or attributable to the leas-
ing or renting of real estate located out-
side of the City.

(b)	Nothing in this Section may be
construed to deny any person (i) exempt from
the tax imposed under this Article, (ii) entitled
to a credit against the person’s liability for the
tax, or (iii) whose receipts from business activ-
ities or any amount thereof are excluded from
“gross receipts” as defined in Section 952.3 of
this Article or from liability for the tax, under
any applicable provision of law, from the bene-
fit of such exemption, credit or exclusion.

(c)	The Tax Collector may promulgate
regulations and issue rules, determinations and
interpretations regarding the ordinary methods
of allocation and apportionment set forth in this
Section so as to fairly allocate the gross
receipts of all persons subject to this Article in
order to impose the tax generally and in indi-
vidual cases only upon gross receipts from the
business activities that are derived from or
attributable to such activities engaged in with-
in the City. The Tax Collector may, in the appli-
cation to individual cases of such regulations,
rules, determinations and interpretations and
regulations to individual cases, depart from or
make such modifications thereto as may be nec-
essary to fairly allocate the taxpayer's gross
receipts and impose the tax under this Article in
a lawful manner.

(d)	If the Tax Collector reallocates
gross receipts upon examination of any return,
the Tax Collector shall notify the person in
writing of the basis upon which the Tax
Collector made the reallocation. The Tax
Collector shall provide such notice as soon as
practicable following such reallocation, and
within 10 days of receipt of a written request
therefor from the taxpayer. The time for the
doing of any act required by this Article or
Article 6. and the commencement of any liabil-
ity for penalties and interest under such
Articles, shall not begin to run until the Tax
Collector provides such notice.

SEC. 956. PAYMENTS. RETURNS.
PREPAYMENTS. EXTENSIONS AND
REFUNDS. Payments, returns, prepayments,
extensions and refunds for person’s subject to
this Article shall be as prescribed in the com-
mon administrative provisions set forth in
Article 6.

SEC. 957. AUTHORITY TO PROMUL-
GATE REGULATIONS. The Tax Collector may
promulgate regulations and issue rules, deter-
minations and interpretations consistent with
the purposes of this Article and Article 6 as
may be necessary and appropriate to apply
such Articles in a lawful manner, including the
provisions of such Articles for penalties due to
fraud, underpayment of fees and taxes, or any
evasion of such Articles or the rules and regu-
lations promulgated thereunder. All regula-
tions. rules, determinations and interpretations
promulgated or issued by the Tax Collector that
are not inconsistent with such Articles, and that
were promulgated or issued prior to the effec-
tive date of this Article, shall remain in full
force and effect.

Section 34. Operative Date of Article
12-A-l (Business Tax Ordinance): Sunset Date
of Business Tax. Article 12-A-l of the Business
and Tax Regulations Code (Business Tax
Ordinance), as enacted by this ordinance, shall
be operative commencing January 1, 2005.
The authority to levy the Business Tax imposed
under Article 12-A-l shall expire on January 1,
30402009.

Section 4g. The San Francisco Business and
Tax Regulations Code is hereby amended by
amending Sections 902.1, 903 and 903.1, and
by adding Sections 902.2 and 906.1, of Article
12-A (Payroll Expense Tax Ordinance), as-set
forth below. The amendments to Sections

902.1,	903 and 903.1 and the addition of
Sections 902.2 and 906.1, as enacted by this
ordinance, are temporary and shall bo operative
commencing January 1, 2005 and shall expire
on January 1, 20102009. Sections 902.1, 903
and 903.1 shall revert to and bo as such sections
road immediately prior to tho amendments
enacted by this ordinance on and after January
1, 20102009; provided, that Sections 902.1,

902.2,	903, 903.1 and 906.1, as amended and
added by this ordinance, shall continue to apply
and bo operative on and after January 1,
20102009 for tho limited purpose of Payroll
Expense Taxes imposed under Article 12 A for
tax years commencing on or after January 1,
2005 and ending on or before December 31,
20102009, and any interest and penalties attrib ■
utablo thereto. Sections 902.1, 902.2, 903?
903.1 and 906.1, as amended and added by this
ordinance, shall road as follows:

SEC. 902.1. PAYROLL EXPENSE, (a)
The term “Payroll Expense” means the com-
pensation paid to, on behalf of, or for the bene-
fit of an individual or pass-through entity.
including salaries, wages, bonuses, commis-
sions, property issued or transferred in
exchange for the performance of services

(Continued on next page)

38-CP161-NE04

161

38-CP161-NE04

(including but not limited to stock options^
compensation for services to owners of pass-
through entities and any other form of compen-
sation, who or that. during any tax year, per-
forms work or renders services, in whole or in
part in the City; and if more than one individual
or pass-through entity during any tax year per-
forms work or renders services in whole or in
part in the City, the term “Payroll Expense”
means the total compensation paid including
salaries, wages, bonuses, commissions, proper-
ty issued or transferred in exchange for the per-
formance of services (including but not limited
to stock options), compensation for services to
owners o f pass-through entities and any other
form of compensation for services. to all such
individuals and pass-through entities.

(b)	Any person that grants a service
provider a right to acquire an ownership inter-
est in such person in exchange for the perform-
ance of services shall include in its payroll
expense for the tax year in which such right is
exercised an amount equal to the excess of (i)
the fair market value of such ownership interest
on the date such right is exercised over (ii) the
price paid for such interest.

(c)	Any individual compensated in
his or her capacity as a real estate salesperson
or mortgage processor shall be deemed an
employee of the real estate broker or mortgage
broker for or under whom such individual per-
forms services, and any compensation received
by such individual, including compensation by
way of commissions, shall be included in the
payroll expense of such broker. For purposes of
this Section, “real estate broker” and “mortgage
broker” refer to any individual licensed as such
under the laws of the State of California who
engages the services of salespersons or a sales-
person, or of mortgage processors or a mort-
gage processor, to perform services in the busi-
ness which such broker conducts under the
authority of his or her license; a “salesperson”
is an individual who is engaged by a real estate
broker to perform services, which may be con-
tinuous in nature, as a real estate salesperson
under an agreement with a real estate broker,
regardless of whether the individual is licensed
as a real estate broker under the laws of the
State of California; a “mortgage processor” is
an individual who is engaged by a real estate
broker or mortgage broker to perform services,
which may be continuous in nature, as a mort-
gage processor under an agreement with such
real estate broker or mortgage broker, regard-
less of whether the mortgage processor is also
licensed as a mortgage broker under the laws of
the State of California.

(d)	All compensation. including all
pass-though compensation for services paid to.
on behalf of or for the benefit of owners of a
pass-through entity: shall be included in the
calculation of such entity's payroll expense for
purposes of determining such entity’s tax lia-
bility under this Article. For purposes of this
section. the “pass-through compensation for
services” of a pass-through entity shall be the

aggregate compensation for personal services
rendered by all such owners. and shall not
include any return on capital investment. Pass-
through entities. at their option. may calculate
the amount of “pass-through compensation for
services ” for any given tax year using one of
the following methods:

(1)	The amount of such entity’s
net earnings from self-employment for
federal income tax purposes: or

(2)	Ninety percent (90%) of all
amounts paid to. on behalf of. or for the
benefit of all the owners of such entity:
or

(3)	For each such owner, an
amount that is one hundred and fifty
percent (150%) of the average annual
compensation paid to. on behalf of or
for the benefit of all employees of the
pass-through entity whose compensa-
tion is in the top quartile (i.e.. 25%) of
the entity's highest paid employees who
are based in the City: provided, the
total number of employees of the entity
based in the City is not less than
twenty.

(e)	If a pass-through entity establish-

es to the satisfaction of the Tax Collector that
all of the methods set forth in Subsection (d)
are inapplicable and/or overstate the amount of
compensation reasonably attributable to work
performed or services rendered by such owners
because of the particular nature of the services
rendered or work performed. or on account of
the unusual basis of such compensation. or for
any other reason, then the amount of pass-
through compensation shall be determined on
the basis of all relevant facts and circumstances
of the particular case, in accordance with any
rulings or regulations issued or promulgated by
the Tax Collector for such purpose or with the
written approval of the Tax Collector.

SEC. 902.2. PASS-THROUGH ENTI-
TY. The term “pass-through entity ” includes a
trust. partnership, corporation described in
Subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code of
.1986, as amended,, limited liability company;
limited liability partnership, professional cor-
poration. and any other person or entity which
is not subject to the income tax imposed by
Subtitle A. Chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue
Code of1986. as amended, or which is allowed
a deduction in computing such tax for distribu-
tions to the owners or beneficiaries of such per-
son or entity. Any person exempt from payment
of the Payroll Expense Tax under Section 954
of this Article shall not be disqualified from or
denied such exemption as a result of being a
^pass-throu^

SEC. 903. IMPOSITION OF PAY-
ROLL EXPENSE TAX. (a) A tax for general
governmental purposes is hereby imposed upon
every person engaging in business within the
City as defined in Section 6.2-12 of Article 6;
provided, that such tax shall be levied only

upon that portion of the person’s payroll
expense that is attributable to the City as set
forth in Section 904.

(b)	The Payroll Expense Tax is
imposed for general governmental purposes
and in order to require commerce and the busi-
ness community to carry a fair share of the
costs of local government in return for the ben-
efits, opportunities and protections afforded by
the City. Proceeds from the tax shall be
deposited in the City’s general fund and may be
expended for any purposes of the City.

(c)	The voters intend by approving
this measure to authorize application of the
Payroll Expense Tax in the broadest possible
manner consistent with the provisions of this
Article and the requirements of California
Constitution Article XIIIC. the United States
Constitution and any other applicable provi-
sion of federal and state law.

(d)	The Tax Collector may promul-
gate all reasonable regulations and issue all
reasonable rules, determinations and interpre-
tations necessary or appropriate to implement
and administer the Payroll Expense Tax upon
all commerce and business activities occurring
within, attributable to or having sufficient
nexus with the City to lawfully impose the tax,
regardless of the form (corporate or otherwise)
of the person or other legal entity engaging in
business in the City.

(e)	The Payroll Expense Tax imposed
hereunder is in addition to the Business Tax
imposed under Article 12-A-l. Persons not oth-
erwise exempt from the Payroll Expense Tax or
Business Tax shall pay both taxes. Persons
exempt from either the Business Tax or Payroll
Expense Tax, but not both. shall pay the tax
from which not exempt.

SEC. 903.1. RATE OF PAYROLL
EXPENSE TAX. The rate of the payroll
expense tax shall be 1-1/2 percent. The amount
of a person’s liability for the payroll expense
tax shall be the product of such person’s tax-
able payroll expense multiplied by 0.015. ¥he
amount of such tax for Associations shall be 1
1/2 pcwcnt of the payroll expense of such
Association, plus 1 1/2 percent of the total dis
tributions made by such Association by way of
salaiy to those having an ownership interest in
such Association. Amounts paid or credited to
those having an ownership interest in such
Association prior and in addition to the distri
bution of ownership pwfit or loss shall be pre
sumed to be distributions “by way of salaiy”
and for personal services rendered, unless the
taxpayer proves otherwise by clear and eon
vincing evidence.

SEC. 906.1.----BIOTECHNOLOGY

EXCLUSION.—(a)—Any person engaging in
business within the City may exclude from the

(Continued on next page)

38-CP162-NE04

38-CP162-NE04

person's payroll oxponso all compensation paid
to, on behalf of, or for the benefit of all indi
victuals and pass through entities who or that
perform substantially all work or render sub
stantially all services in direct support of such
person's biotechnology business, subject to the
conditions and limitations sot forth in this
Section. For purposes of this Section, "biotech
nology business” moans conducting biotech
nology research and oxporimontal develop
mont, and operating laboratories for biotech
nology research and oxporimontal develop
mont, using recombinant DNA, coll fusion, and
bioprocossing techniques, as well as the appli
cation thereof to the development of diagnostic
products and/or devices to improve human
health, animal health, and agriculture.

fb)---Unless exempted under Sections

906 of this Article, every person engaging in
the biotechnology business in the City shall pay
the tax imposed under this Article on tho full
amount of the person's payroll oxponso attrib
utablo to tho City from and after tho expiration
of this Section.

(e)---If a person's calculated liability

for tho Payroll Expense Tax does not exceed
$2,500 for tho tax year after applying tho
biotechnology exclusion under this Section, tho
person shall bo exempt from payment of tho
Payroll Expense Tax for that tax year as pro
vidod in Section 905 A.

Section $&. The San Francisco
Business and Tax Regulations Code is hereby
amended by amending Sections 6.1-1, 6.2-12,

6.2-	17, 6.6-1, 6.8-1, 6.9-1, 6.9-3, 6.9-5, and
6.21-1, of Article 6 (Common Administrative
Provisions), and by adding Sections 6.2-9.4,

6.2-	9.5, 6.2-10.5, and 6.5-1.5, as follows:

SEC. 6.1-1. COMMON ADMINIS-
TRATIVE PROVISIONS, (a) Except where
the specific language of the Business and Tax
Regulations Code or context otherwise
requires, these common administrative provi-
sions shall apply to Articles 6,7, 9,10,10A, 11,
12, 12-A. 12-A-1 and 12-B of such Code.

(b)	Unless expressly provided other-
wise, all statutory references in this Article and
the Articles set forth in Subsection (a) shall
refer to such statutes as amended from time to
time and shall include successor provisions.
For purposes of collecting the Emergency
Response Fee under Article 10A, any reference
to a “tax” in this Article shall include the
Emergency Response Fee where appropriate;
provided, however that nothing in the operation
of this provision shall affect the underlying
legal character of the Emergency Response Fee
or suggest that the fee is a tax.

(c)	For purposes of this Article, a
domestic partnership established pursuant to
Chapter 62 of the San Francisco Administrative
Code shall be treated the same as a married
couple.

SEC. 62-9.4. BUSINESS TAX ORDI-
NANCE: BUSINESS TAX. “Business Tax
Ordinance” means Article 12-A-1 of the
Business and Tax Regulations Code: “Business
Tax” means the tax imposed thereunder.

SEC. 6.2-9.5. INDEPENDENT CON-
TRACTOR. “Independent Contractor” means
any entity. other than an individual, that per-
forms services for a principal: and any individ-
ual who performs services for a principal for a
specified recompense for a specified result,
under control of the principal as to the result of
the work only and not as to the means by which
such result is accomplished. An independent
contractor receives income that should be
reported to the Internal Revenue Service by the
principal on IRS Form 1099. should report the
income to the Internal Revenue Service on IRS
Form 1040. Schedule C and may deduct the
cost of the use of a home for business purposes
on Schedule C. Factors which indicate status as
an independent contractor are if an individual:

(1)	Is not required to follow instruc-
tions on how to perform services:

(2)	Possesses the skills necessary to
perform the task and does not need additional
training:

(3)	Performs services that are not
essential to the principal’s business or are not
incorporated into the product or services sold
by the principal:

(4)	Should be able to subcontract all
or a portion of the project:

(5)	Can hire and supervise his or her
own employees, but should not supervise, or be
supervised by. the principal’s employees:

(6)	Generally works on one project
and moves on. acquiring additional projects
when and if he or she is available:

(7)	Establishes his or her hours of
work, working as necessary to accomplish the
end result:

(8)	Usually has the risht to work
simultaneously for the principal and others, as
long as the end result is achieved:

(9)	Should be able to choose where
to perform some, if not all, of the services:

(10)	Can control the manner and
method of performing the services:

(11)	Is responsible only for the end
result. and is not required to submit interim
reports:

(12)	Generally is paid aflat rate for
the completion of the project:

(13)	Is expected to assume the burden
o f business expenses:

(14)	Should have the tools and equip-
ment necessary to perform the services inde-
pendently:

(15)	Makes as an investment in tools.
business equipment, publications and supplies
appropriate for his or her business:

(16)	Accepts both the benefits and
risks of a business transaction, in that he or she
has the opportunity to profit from the project
price and risks a loss if the end result is unac-

ceptable or costs exceed the project price:

(17)	Can and does work for multiple
firms simultaneously:

(18)	Offers his or her services to the
general public:

(19)	Can he terminated only accord-
ing to the terms of an agreement, and could
recover damages for breach of contract if ter-
mination is outside the scope of the agreement:
and

(20)	Has as an oblimtion to complete
the work under contract.

SEC. 6.2-10.5. INDUSTRY CODE.
“Industry Code” means the industrial classifi-
cation number assigned to an industry in the
North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS) by the Executive Office of the
President. O ffice of Management and Budget.

SEC. 6.2-12. NEXUS: “ENGAGING
IN BUSINESS WITHIN THE CITY.” The
taxes imposed by Article 12-A (Payroll
Expense Tax Ordinance! and Article 12-A-l
(Business Tax Ordinance), and the registration
fee imposed by Article 12 (Business
Registration Ordinance), shall apply to any per-
son engaging in business within the City unless
exempted therefrom under such Articles. A per-
son is “engaging in business within the City,”
within the meaning of this Article, if that per-
son meets one or more of the following
conditions:

(1)	The person maintains a fixed
place of business within the City; or

(2)	An employee, representative or
agent of the person maintains a fixed place of
business within the City for the benefit or par-
tial benefit of the person; or

(3)	The person or one or more of the
person's employees, representatives or agents
owns, rents, leases, or hires real or personal
property within the City for business purposes
for the benefit or partial benefit of the person; or

(4)	The person or one or more of the
person's employees, representatives or agents
regularly maintains a stock of tangible person-
al property within the City, for sale in the ordi-
nary course of the person's business; or

(5)	The person or one or more of the
person’s employees, representatives or agents
employs or loans capital on property within the
City for the benefit or partial benefit of the
person; or

(6)	The person or one or more of the
person's employees, representatives or agents
solicits business within the City for all or part
of any seven days during a tax year; or

(7)	The person or one or more of the
person's employees, representatives or agents
performs work or renders services within the
City for all or part of any seven days during a
tax year; or

(Continued on next page)

38-CP163-NE04

163

38-CP163-NE04

(8)	The person or one or more of the
person's employees, representatives or agents
utilizes the streets within the City in connection
with the operation of motor vehicles for busi-
ness purposes for all or part of any seven days
during a tax year; or

(9)	The person or one or more of the
person's employees, representatives or agents
exercises corporate or franchise powers within
the City for the benefit or partial benefit of the
person; or

(10)	The person or one or more of the
person's employees, representatives or agents
liquidates a business when the liquidators
thereof hold themselves out to the public as
conducting such business.

SEC. 6.2-17. RETURN. The term
“return” means any written statement required
to be filed pursuant to Articles 6, 7, 9, 10, 10A,
11, 12. 12-A or 12-AY.

SEC. 6.5-7.5. AUTHORITY OF CON-
TROLLER TO REQUIRE INFORMATION
FROM TAXPAYERS: CONFIDENTIALITY
THEREOF, (a) In addition to any information
or records the Tax Collector may require from
any person on any return or statement, or pur-
suant to a request under Section 6.5-1 or oth-
erwise. the Controller may require any person
engaging in business in the City to furnish
information and records regarding the particu-
lars of the person's business or businesses.
Such particulars may include but are not limit-
ed to the person’s gross receipts, income, pay-
roll expenses, payments to independent con-
tractors. costs for materials and other business
expenses, industry codes, business and indus-
trial classification(s). ownership and manage-
ment structure of the business, ownership inter-
ests in other legal entities, businesses and joint
ventures, federal and state tax filing status, and
other information the Controller deems neces-
sary or appropriate for purposes of evaluating
business activities in the City, tax and econom-
ic policies and practices, revenue projections
and trends, and other matters.

(b)	The Controller may require infor-
mation and records under Subsection (a) as
part of annual, quarterly, monthly or per event
tax returns or statements filed with Tax
Collector pursuant to Article 6. or otherwise.
The Tax Collector shall provide all necessary
cooperation and assistance to effectuate the
collection of information and records as direct-
ed by the Controller pursuant to this Section.

(c)	The Controller and all City offi-
cials and employees shall maintain the confi-
dentiality of trade secrets and other confiden-
tial taxpayer information and records obtained
pursuant to this Section, and may disclose such
trade secrets and confidential taxpayer infor-
mation and records only as permitted or
required by Section 6.22-1 of Article 6 or other
applicable law.

SEC. 6.6-1. CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHORITY FOR THIRD-PARTY TAXES,
(a) These additional provisions shall apply to
operators under the transient hotel occupancy
tax (Article 7), the parking space occupancy tax
(Article 9), the utility users tax (Article 10) and
the emergency response fee (Article 10A).

(b)	Every operator engaging in or
about to engage in business within the City who
is required to collect or remit any third-party
tax shall immediately apply to the Tax
Collector for a certificate of authority on a form
provided by the Tax Collector.

(c)	The application for a certificate
of authority shall set forth the name under
which the person transacts or intends to trans-
act business, the location of each of the per-
son’s places of business in the City, and such
other information as the Tax Collector may
require. The application shall be signed by the
owner if a sole proprietor, by a member or part-
ner, in the case of an association, or by an exec-
utive officer or some person specifically
authorized by the corporation to sign the appli-
cation, in the case of a corporation.

(d)	Except as provided in
Subsections (f), (g) and (h) below, the Tax
Collector, within 30 days after the application
is complete, shall issue without charge a sepa-
rate certificate of authority to the operator to
collect third party taxes from customers for
each location at which the operator is required
to collect such taxes. Each certificate shall state
the location of the place of business to which it
applies and shall be prominently displayed at
such location in plain view of all customers.
Certificates of authority may not be assigned or
transferred. The operator shall immediately
surrender to the Tax Collector the certificate for
that location upon the operator’s cessation of
business at that location or upon the sale or
transfer of the business.

(e)	The holder of a certificate of
authority to collect parking taxes under Article
9 shall remain presumptively liable for the col-
lection of parking taxes at the location named
in the certificate, and for the reporting and
remittance of such taxes to the Tax Collector,
unless and until the holder of the certificate
both (i) notifies the Tax Collector in writing
that the holder has ceased to conduct a parking
business at such location, and (ii) surrenders
the certificate for that location to the Tax
Collector.

(f)	The Tax Collector may refuse to
issue the certificate where, within the 30-day
period referred to in Subsection (d) above, the
Tax Collector determines that the operator, or
any signatory to the application, or any person
holding a 10 percent or greater legal or benefi-
cial interest in said operator (“10% owner”) is
not in compliance with any provision of
Articles 6, 7, 9, 10, 10A, 12. 12-A or 12-AY.
Solely for purposes of determining under this
Section whether any such operator, signatory or
10% owner is not in compliance with such
Articles, the Tax Collector may disregard any

corporation or association owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by any such operator, sig-
natory or 10% owner and consider such corpo-
ration or association’s operations and liabilities
as conducted by or as owned by any one or
more of such corporation or association’s offi-
cers, directors, partners, members or owners.
For purposes of this Section, (i) the term
“owned” means ownership of 50 percent or
more of the outstanding ownership interests in
such corporation or association, and (ii) the
term “controlled” includes any kind of control,
whether direct or indirect, whether legally
enforceable, and however exercisable or exer-
cised over such corporation or association. A
presumption of control arises if the operator,
signatory or 10% owner is (or was) an officer,
director, partner or member of such corporation
or association.

(g)	Further, if any person subject to
this Section violates any provision of Articles
6, 7, 9, 10, 10A, 12. 12-A or 12-AY, or a rule
or regulation promulgated by the Tax Collector,
including but not limited to failing to maintain
accurate registration information, failure to
sign any return or pay any tax when due, failure
to timely respond to any request for informa-
tion, order for records or subpoena, or for any
person subject to Article 9 for failure to comply
with the requirements of Article 49 of the
Police Code, the Tax Collector may, after serv-
ing the person with written notice of his or her
determination in the manner provided in
Section 6.11-2 and an opportunity to be heard
pursuant to the notice and review pro-visions of
Sections 6.13-1 et seq., revoke or suspend that
person's certificate of authority. The Tax
Collector may refuse to issue that person a new
certificate of authority or to withdraw the sus-
pension of an existing certificate until the per-
son, signatory to the application for the certifi-
cate revoked or suspended, signatory to the
application for a new certificate or withdrawal
of the suspension, and all 10% owners have
complied with the provisions of Articles 6,7, 9,
10, 10A, 12. 12-A or 12-AY and corrected the
original violation to the satisfaction of the Tax
Collector.

(h)	Before any certificate of authority
shall be issued to any applicant to engage in the
business of renting parking space in a parking
station in this City, such applicant shall file
with the Tax Collector a bond naming the City
as exclusive beneficiary, at all times the appli-
cant engages in such business. For any parking
station with annual gross receipts less than
$100,000, such bond shall be in the amount of
$5,000. For any parking station with annual
gross receipts of $100,000 or more, such bond
shall be in the amount of $25,000. Such bond
shall be executed by the applicant as principal,
and by a corporation or association which is
licensed by the Insurance Commissioner of this

(Continued on next page)

164

38-CP164-NE04

38-CP164-NE04

State to transact the business of fidelity and
surety insurance, as surety. The applicant shall
keep the bond in full force and effect for the
duration of the certificate of authority and all
renewals thereof issued to such applicant. If the
bond provides that the term thereof shall be
continuous until cancelled, the applicant shall
provide the Tax Collector with certification
from the surety of the renewal or continuation
of the bond: (i) when applying for renewal of
an existing certificate of authority, (ii) when
requesting the withdrawal of a suspension of an
existing certificate of authority, or (iii) upon
written request of the Tax Collector.

The bond shall contain conditions that
require the applicant to comply fully with all
the provisions of Business and Tax Regulations
Code concerning the collection of third-party
taxes from occupants of parking stations and
the remittance of such taxes to the Tax
Collector. The bond shall be payable to this
City in the amount of all unpaid parking taxes
on amounts of taxable rents collected by the
applicant, together with all administrative col-
lection costs, interest, penalties, and other costs
and charges applicable thereto; provided, how-
ever, that the aggregate liability of the surety
for any and all claims which may arise under
such bond shall in no event exceed the face
amount of such bond regardless of the amount
due and owing to the City. The City may bring
an action upon the bond for the recovery of any
unpaid parking taxes, administrative collection
costs, interest, penalties and other costs and
charges at any time prior to the expiration of
the period of limitations applicable to the col-
lection of such unpaid taxes by the Tax
Collector.

SEC. 6.8-1. CITY, PUBLIC ENTITY
AND CONSTITUTIONAL EXEMPTIONS.
Nothing in Articles 6, 7, 10, 10A, 11, 12. 12-A
or 12-A-_1_ shall be construed as imposing a tax
upon:

(1)	The City;

(2)	The State of California, or any
county, municipal corporation, district or other
political sub-division of the State, except where
any constitutional or statutory immunity from
taxation is waived or is not applicable;

(3)	The United States of America, or
any of its agencies or subdivisions, except
where any constitutional or statutory immunity
from taxation is waived or is not applicable; or

(4)	Any person exempted from the
particular tax by the Constitution or statutes of
the United States or the Constitution or statutes
of the State of California.

SEC. 6.9-1. DETERMINATIONS,
RETURNS AND PAYMENTS; DUE DATE
OF TAXES. Except for jeopardy determina-
tions under Section 6.12-2, and subject to pre-
payments required under Section 6.9-2, all
amounts of taxes and fees imposed by Articles
6, 7, 9, 10, 10A, 11. 12-A and 12-A-J_ are due
and payable, and shall be delinquent if not paid

to the Tax Collector on or before the following
dates:

(a)	For the transient hotel occupancy
tax (Article 7) and the parking space occupan-
cy tax (Article 9), for each calendar quarter, on
or before the last day of the month following
each respective quarterly period;

(b)	For the payroll expense tax
(Article 12-A) and Business Tax (Article 12-A-
ij, on or before the last day of February of each
year;

(c)	For the utility users taxes (Article
10) and the emergency response fee (Article
10A), for each monthly period, on or before the
last day of the following month; and

(d)	For the stadium operator admis-
sion tax (Article 11), within five days after the
event, subject to the provisions of Article 11,
Section 804.

SEC. 6.9-3. DETERMINATIONS,
RETURNS AND PAYMENTS; PREPAY-
MENTS.

(a) Prepayments. Notwithstanding the
due dates otherwise provided in Section 6.9-1,
taxpayers shall make prepayments of taxes and
third party taxes (“tax prepayments”) to the Tax
Collector as follows:

(1)	Hotel and Parking Taxes. The
Hotel Tax (Article 7) and the Parking Tax
(Article 9) shall be paid in monthly install-
ments. Such monthly installments shall be due
and payable to the Tax Collector on or before
the last day of the month immediately follow-
ing the month for which the prepayment is due.
Taxes paid in the first two monthly installments
of any quarterly period shall be a credit against
the total liability such third party taxes for the
quarterly period. Estimated tax prepayments
shall be computed based on the estimated tax
accrued during the month in question, but in no
instance shall a prepayment be equal to a sum
less than 30 percent of the tax collected in the
immediately preceding quarterly period. If the
taxpayer can establish by clear and convincing
evidence that the amount of any prepayment
will exceed the total tax liability for the quar-
terly period for which the tax prepayment
becomes due, the Tax Collector may, in writing,
adjust the amount of the tax prepayment. The
third monthly installment of any quarterly peri-
od shall be in an amount equal to the total tax
liability for the quarterly period, less the
amount of any tax prepayments actually paid.

(2)	Payroll Expense Tax and
Business Tax. The Payroll Expense Tax (Article
12-A) and Business Tax (Article 12-A-l) shall
be paid in biannual or quarterly installments as
follows:

(A) Small Firm Prepayments. Every
person liable for payment of a total Payroll
Expense Tax in excess of $2,500 or a total
Business Tax in excess of $500. but less than a
combined total of $50.000 for both such taxes.
for any tax year shall pay such taxes for the fol-
lowing tax year in two installments. The first
installment shall be due and payable, and shall

be delinquent if not paid on or before, August
1st. The first installment shall be a credit
against the person’s total liability under the
Payroll Expense Tax and Business Tax for the
tax year in which the first installment is due.
The first installment shall be in an amount
equal to one-half (1/2) of the person’s estimat-
ed total liability under the Payroll Expense Tax
and Business Tax for such tax year. The esti-
mated liability for a tax year shall be computed
by using $2102% of the person’s total taxable
payroll expense (as defined in Section 902.2
902.1 of Article 12-A) and taxable gross
receipts (as defined in Section 952.23 of Article
12-A-l) for the preceding tax year, and the cor-
responding rates of tax applicable to the tax
year in which the first installment is due. The
second installment shall be reported and paid
on or before the last day of February of the fol-
lowing year. The second installment shall be in
an amount equal to the person’s combined total
liability under the Payroll Expense Tax and
Business Tax for the subject tax year, less the
amount of the first installment and other tax
prepayments for such tax year, if any, actually
paid. The estimated liability for the 2005 tax
year shall be computed by using 102% of the
person ys taxable payroll expense for the 2004
tax year, plus the person’s estimated taxable
gross receipts for the 2005 tax year.

(B) Large Firm Prepayments. Every
person liable for payment of a combined total
Payroll Expense Tax and Business Tax in
excess of $50,000 for any tax year shall pay
such tax for the following tax year in four quar-
terly installments. The first, second and third
quarterly installments shall be due and payable,
and shall be delinquent if not paid on or before.
May 1st, August 1st and November 1st, respec-
tively. The first, second and third quarterly
installments shall be a credit against the per-
son’s total liability under the Payroll Expense
Tax and Business Tax for the tax year in which
such first, second and third quarterly install-
ments are due. Such quarterly installments each
shall be in an amount equal to one-quarter (1/4)
of the person’s estimated total liability under
the Payroll Expense Tax and Business Tax Uet-
bility for such tax year. The estimated liability
for such tax year shall be computed by using
101% 102% of the person’s total taxable pay-
roll expense (as defined in Section 902.1 of
Article 12-A) and taxable gross receipts (as
defined in Section 952.23 of Article 12-A-l) for
the preceding tax year, and the rates of tax
applicable to the tax year in which the first, sec-
ond and third quarterly installments are due.
The fourth installment shall be reported and
paid on or before the last day of February of the
following year. The fourth quarterly installment
shall be in an amount equal to the person’s total
combined liability under the Payroll Expense
Tax and Business Tax liability for the subject

(Continued on next page)

165

38-CP165-NE04

tax year, less the amount of the first, second and
third quarterly installments and other tax pre-
payments, if any, actually paid. The estimated
liability for the 2005 tax year shall be comput-
ed by using 102% of the person’s taxable pay-
roll expense for the 2004 tax year, plus the per-
son’s estimated taxable gross receipts for the
2005 tax year.

(b)	Tax Prepayment Penalties. Every
person who fails to pay any tax prepayment
required under this Section before the relevant
delinquency date shall pay a penalty in the
amount of five percent (5%) of the amount of
the delinquent tax prepayment per month, or
fraction thereof, up to twenty percent (20%) in
the aggregate, and shall also pay interest on the
amount of the delinquent tax prepayment from
the date of delinquency at the rate of one percent
(1%) per month, or fraction thereof, for each
month the prepayment is delinquent, until paid.

(c)	Hotel and Parking Taxes. Upon
commencing business, an operator subject to
the Hotel Tax (Article 7) or the Parking Tax
(Article 9) shall have the option of making pre-
payments in the amount of the actual tax owed
or making an estimate of the prepayment for
the month based on the estimated tax accrued
during the month in question. Once the opera-
tor has selected an option, the operator must
continue to follow that procedure unless prior
written permission to use the alternative proce-
dure has been obtained from the Tax Collector.

In no instance shall an estimated pre-
payment of hotel or parking taxes be less than
30 percent of such tax collected in the immedi-
ately preceding quarterly period. If such esti-
mated prepayment is less than 30 percent of the
tax collected in such preceding quarterly peri-
od, the operator shall be subject to penalties
and interest for the deficiency pursuant to
Section 6.17-1. If a prepayment based on actu-
al tax owed is less than 90 percent of the actu-
al liability for the month, the operator shall be
subject to penalties and interest for the defi-
ciency pursuant to Section 6.17-1.

(d)	Forms and Adjustments. Tax pre-
payments required under this Section shall be
accompanied by a tax prepayment form pre-
pared by the Tax Collector, but failure of the
Tax Collector to furnish the taxpayer with a tax
prepayment form shall not relieve the taxpayer
from any tax prepayment obligation. The Tax
Collector may, in writing, adjust the amount of
a tax prepayment if the taxpayer can establish
by clear and convincing evidence that the first
installment of biannual tax prepayments, or
first, second or third monthly installment of a
quarterly tax prepayment, will amount to more
than one half or one quarter, respectively, of the
person’s total tax liability for the tax year in
which the installment is due.

SEC. 6.9-5. DETERMINATIONS,
RETURNS AND PAYMENTS; CREDITS
AND EXEMPTIONS. The credits and exemp-
tions set forth in Articles 7, 9, 10, 10A, 11, 12,.
12-A and 12-AzJ_ are provided on the assump-

tion that the City has the power to offer such
credits and exemptions. If a credit or exemption
is invalidated by a court of competent jurisdic-
tion, the taxpayer must pay any additional
amount that the taxpayer would have owed but
for such invalid credit or exemption. Amounts
owed as a result of the invalidation of a credit
or exemption that are paid within three years
after the decision of the court becomes final
shall not be subject to interest or penalties.

SEC. 6.21-1. TRANSFEREE AND
SUCCESSOR LIABILITY, (a) The liability at
law or in equity of a successor, transferee or
alter ego of any taxpayer or other person deter-
mined to be liable for any tax, interest, cost or
penalty subject to this Article, imposed upon a
taxpayer shall be determined, collected and
paid in the same manner and subject to the
same provisions and limitations as in the case
of a deficiency determination pursuant to
Sections 6.12-1 et seq. and 6.13-1 et seq.
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to
limit the rights or procedures available to the
Tax Collector to collect from any successor,
transferee or alter ego, at law or in equity, as
may be provided by statutory or decisional law.

(b)	No person shall purchase or
acquire an interest in a business subject to any
tax imposed under Articles 7, 9. 12-A or 12-A-
7 without first obtaining either a receipt from
the Tax Collector showing that all of the seller’s
taxes on the business have been paid, or a cer-
tificate stating that no amount is due. For pur-
poses of this Section, “purchase” shall include
any other voluntary transfer for consideration
of a business, except for purchase of stock of a
publicly-traded company.

(c)	The Tax Collector shall issue
such a receipt or certificate, or a notice of the
amount that must be paid as a condition of issu-
ing the certificate, to the buyer within 30 days
after receiving a written request. However, fail-
ure of the Tax Collector to timely mail the
notice will not release the buyer from his or her
obligations under this Section, except to the
extent of penalties and interest in the event that
the Tax Collector enforces the buyer’s obliga-
tion in a civil action authorized pursuant to the
Business and Tax Regulations Code.

(d)	If the buyer purchases or acquires
an interest in a business owing any taxes, inter-
est or penalties imposed under Articles 7, 9. 12-
A or 12-AzJ_, the buyer shall withhold from the
purchase price and pay to the Tax Collector a
sufficient amount to satisfy said taxes, interest
and penalties.

(e)	If the buyer purchases or acquires
an interest in a business in violation of this
Section, the buyer shall become personally
liable for the amount of taxes, interest and
penalties owed on the business.

(f)	The buyer’s obligations shall
accrue at the time the business is purchased or
the interest acquired, or at the time the Tax
Collector determines the seller’s final liability,
whichever is later.

166

38-CP166-NE04

38-CP166-NE04