CITY OF EL CAJON
Proposition O

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

nn/Nn A To improve public safety and emergency response
HHUH U throu9hout El Cajon by replacing aging, overcrowded
I I IWI w p0|ice an(j fire facilities with combined earthquake-safe
facilities including the latest public safety technology and an Emergency
Operations Center to coordinate disaster response, relocating or upgrading
aging fire stations, and replacing deteriorated animal control facilities; shall
The City of El Cajon implement a half-cent sales tax for 10 years only with
annual audits, independent Citizens’ Oversight, and all funds benefiting our
local community?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds of the voters.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Proposition “O” proposes to raise revenue for the purpose of funding police and fire facilities, and
equipment, by authorizing a sales tax of one-half of a cent within the City of El Cajon. The tax would
be paid in addition to the current state and local sales taxes and would be collected at the same
time and in the same manner as existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.91 authorizes the City Council to levy a
transaction and use tax (i.e., a “sales”) tax at a rate not to exceed 0.50 percent (or any multiple
thereof) if the tax is approved by two-thirds of the qualified voters of the city voting in an election on
that issue. If approved by the voters, the sales tax will be adopted by ord inance to become effective
no sooner than April 1, 2005. By its terms, the sales tax would be eliminated ten (10) years
following the effective date of the tax.

The revenues raised from the sales tax will be used to fund the replacement of police and fire
facilities with combined earthquake-safe facilities including the latest public safety technology and
an Emergency Operations Center to coordinate disaster response, relocating or upgrading fire
stations, and replacing animal control facilities.

The sales tax increases will be subject to certain conditions included in a plan adopted by the City
Council. Such conditions provide that the expenditures of money pursuant to the plan be
independently audited on an annual basis and that a citizen’s advisory committee review the
auditor's report and report to the community their findings.

Under the terms of the proposed ordinance and California law sales of property to be used outside
of the City of El Cajon, and which are delivered to the purchaser outside of the City, are exempt
from the tax. Motor vehicles, aircraft and marine vessels sold in the City of El Cajon, but to non-City
residents, are considered “delivered” outside the City of El Cajon so long as the property is
registered to an out-of-City address and certain other requirements are met.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of the Ordinance for Proposition “O”. If you desire
a copy of the ordinance, please call the El Cajon City Clerk’s Office at 619-441 -1763 and a copy
will be mailed at no cost to you.

N SD 375-062

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION O

El Cajon police officers, firefighters, emergency medical technicians, civic and business leaders,
and citizens throughout our Community urge you to vote YES on Proposition “O”.

Our local police, fire and animal shelter facilities, are in serious need of rehabilitation. After decades
of constant use they have grown old, outdated and severely overcrowded.

El Cajon's main police station, built in 1967 for a police force of 61 serving a population of 45,000,
now houses 133 employees serving 97,000. An additional 180 personnel are located in 2 offsite
facilities because there is simply no room for them at the main police station. Roofs leak. Electrical,
plumbing, and ventilation systems are worn out and frequently fall. Fire Department and 50-year
old animal shelter facilities are also inadequate and overcrowded. The Emergency Operations
Center is severely undersized and ill equipped to properly coordinate services in a major
emergency or natural disaster like last year’s Cedar fire.

Proposition “O" will authorize funding to:

•	Replace El Cajon’s 1967 police station with new com bined public safety facility

•	Install the latest technology to meet local public safety needs

•	Add an Emergency Operations Center to properly coqrdinate disaster response

•	Relocate and expand Fire Station #8 built in 1958

•	Repair and renovate Fire Station #7 built in 1960

•	Create space for essential community-oriented public safety services

•	Provide secure, earthquake-safe facilities with adequate work space, community access,
electrical capacity, plumbing, and ventilation for improved public safety operations

Proposition ‘O’’ mandates strict fiscal control and accountability. An independent Citizens
Oversight Committee will monitor expenditures and ensure funds are spent properly to benefit our
community. Proposition “O" will last 10 years only. Please join citizens throughout our community
in supporting upgraded facilities to improve safety and security in El Cajon.

VOTE YES on Proposition “O”.

CHRIS STIRLING
Property Supervisor
El Cajon Resident and Registered Voter

I

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION O

No argument against the proposition was filed
in the office of the City Clerk.

JAMES L. REDMAN

El Cajon Police Sergeant

El Cajon Resident and Registered Voter

ANDREAS. LONG

Small Business Owner

El Cajon Resident and Registered Voter

VIRDON A. STREY, JR.

Fire Division Chief

El Cajon Resident and Registered Voter

MARCILE G. FINDLEY

El Cajon Commission on Aging

El Cajon Resident and Registered Voter








ORDINANCE NO. 4784

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF EL CAJON
ORDERING THE SUBMISSION OF A PROPOSITION TO IMPOSE A
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX IN THE AMOUNT OF ONE-HALF OF ONE
PERCENT (0.50%) TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS OF THE CITY.

WHEREAS, section 7285.91 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code authorizes cities
to levy a transactions and use tax (“sales tax” or “sales and use tax”) at a rate of 0.25% (or any
multiple thereof) to be expended for specific purposes, which sales tax is subject to the approval by
a two-thirds majority vote of all of the members of the El Cajon City Council and by a two-thirds vote
of the qualified voters of the City voting in an election on the issue; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit a ballot measure on the sales tax proposition
to the qualified voters of the City of El Cajon at a General Municipal Election to be consolidated with
the Statewide General Election to be held on November 2, 2004 (the ‘Consolidated Election”).

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, BY THE CITY COUNCIL FOR THE CITY OF EL
CAJON:

Section 1.	At the Consolidated Election on November2,2004, there shall be submitted

to the qualified voters a proposition to approve an ordinance levying a transactions and use tax for
the specific purpose to fund the replacement of police and fire facilities with combined earthquake-
safe facilities including the latest public safety technology and an Emergency Operations Center to
coordinate disaster response, relocating or upgrading fire stations, and replacing animal control
facilities, with annual audits and an independent citizens’ oversight committee.

Section 2. The proposition shall be submitted to the voters of El Cajon as required by
State Statute approved by the voters of California in 1986 as Proposition 62, and in 1996 as
Proposition 218, and as required by Section 7285.91 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 3. The object and purpose of the increase is to provide additional revenue for
the purpose of improving public safety, fire, and law enforcement services in El Cajon as described
in Section 1, above.

Section 4.	The proposed transactions and use tax shall be imposed at the rate of 0.50%,

for a period of not to exceed ten (10) years following imposition if more than two-thirds of the
qualified voters of the City of El Cajon voting on the proposition vote in favor thereof.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of El Cajon, California at an
Adjourned Regular Joint City Council/Redevelopment Agency Meeting held this 3rd day of August

2004, by the following vote to wit:

AYES	:	Lewis, Kendrick, Santos, Ramos

NOES	:	McClellan

ABSENT	:	None

DISQUALIFY :	None

Mark Lewis, Mayor of the City of El Cajon

ATTEST: