For all schools, to provide additional support in reading/math, restore library and computer staff,
upgrade technology, and maintain music and drama programs, and offer the opportunity to keep all
schools open, shall the Auburn Union School District be authorized to collect an annual qualified
special tax of $44 per taxable parcel beginning July 1, 2005 for a period of five years, offering a senior

exemption and with all expenditures monitored by

YES _____

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY

The Auburn Union School District proposes to impose a
special tax to provide sufficient revenues for providing
additional support in reading/math, restore library and
computer staff, upgrade technology, and maintain music
and drama programs in the District.

The district is proposing to tax each assessor’s parcel
$44.00 for a period of 5 years commencing July 1, 2005.
An exemption would be available for those property
owners 65 years of age upon filing a timely application.

This increased special tax would be an annual tax
upon parcels of property commencing with the 2005-2006
tax year and continue through the 2009-2010 tax year.
The special tax would be collected in the same manner as
the County collects property ad valorem taxes.

an independent oversight committee?

NO_______

PLACER COUNTY COUNSEL

A "YES" vote is a vote in favor of the Auburn Union
School District special tax for a period of 5 years.

A "NO" vote is a vote against imposing the Auburn
Union School District special tax.	^

Measure V must receive approval by two-thirds (2/3) of the
votes cast by the voters voting upon the measure to be
considered approved by the voters.

Anthony J. La Bouff
County Counsel

By:	Sabrina	M.	Thompson

Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V

California's financial crisis has hit Auburn's public schools
hard, resulting in more than $1.5 million in budget cuts.
School district officials have been forced to eliminate
classroom aides, librarians, computer aides, and other
programs and services - including administrators.

Unfortunately, California's budget woes are likely to
continue for at least the next five years.

Measure V ensures that Auburn's elementary and middle
school children receive the best education possible -
despite anything Sacramento might do to our budget.

The facts about Measure V are clear. Measure V funds
stay in our community to:

Enhance math and reading programs;

•	Prevent cuts to vital learning and enrichment
programs, such as music and drama; and

•	Restore funding for libraries and technology.

It also gives the district the opportunity to keep all of
Auburn's elementary schools open. Enrollment currently
does not warrant school closure. Yet, funding shortfalls
could force the closure of one of Auburn's elementary
schools.

No Measure V funds will be spent on administrative
salaries.

Measure V's five-year term is designed to help our schools
succeed during the state's budget crisis. It is not
automatically renewed and only can be reinstated by the
voters.

A citizens oversight committee will audit and report
annually to the district and community to ensure Measure
V funds are wisely spent according to the wili of the voters.

The cost is reasonable: $44 per parcel annually or less
than $3.67 per month. A complete exemption is available
to anyone age 65 or older who owns and occupies a home
in the district.

Strong schools enhance work force quality, real estate
values, and Auburn's future. Please join us in voting yes
on Measure V.

A robust education is each generation's gift - and
responsibility - to the next generation of students.

Sandra Amara, Trustee, Auburn Union Elementary School
District, Attorney

Edward F. Gilligan, Retired Auburn Union Elementary
School District Superintendent

Audrey W. Mueller, Retired Auburn Union Elementary
School District Assistant Superintendent, Auburn
Symphony Kinder Konzert & Symphony Goes to School
Chair (Past)

Alfred D. Nobili, Placer County Superintendent of Schools
Ty Rowe, Chef/Owner, Bootleggers

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE V
WAS SUBMITTED

93

RESOLUTION NO. 03-04-24

RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX
ELECTION, ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE
ELECTION ORDER, AND REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION
WITH OTHER ELECTIONS

RESOLVED, by the Board of Trustees (the “Board”) of the
Auburn Union School District (the “District"), as follows:

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide
adequate funding to the District and as a result of this lack of
financial support for the schools, the District has been and will be
forced to eliminate many programs necessary to the children of
the District;

WHEREAS, without authorization by the voters for a parcel
assessment, immediate and substantial reduction and elimination
of educational programs and services will be necessary and will
have a severe impact on the children of the District;

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to
generate funds for the educational program, including lobbying in
the State Legislature and many local fundraising efforts, and has
undertaken cost-cutting measures, including employee layoffs,
reduction in administration, and reduction of programs and
services beneficial and necessary to the students of the District;

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program
delivers many long-lasting benefits and advantages to al! the
residents of our community; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and Sections 50075, 50075.1, 50075.3, 50075.5,
50076, 50077, 50079, and 53720 ef seq. of the California
jovernment Code authorize school districts to levy a special tax
to raise funds for the purpose of conducting its business upon the
approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon
such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, it has been determined that the Board conduct a
special election on November 2, 2004, at which will be submitted
to the qualified voters of the District a measure to authorize a
special tax for the purpose of continuing vital educational
programs critical to the educational process in the schools of the
District;

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Trustees of the Auburn Union
School District does hereby resolve, determine, and order as
follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the
boundaries of the District, at which election shall be submitted to
the qualified voters within the District the following measure, to
wit:

“MEASURE”

For all schools, to provide additional support in
reading/math, restore library and computer staff, upgrade
technology, and maintain music and drama programs, and
offer the opportunity to keep all schools open, shall the
Auburn Union School District be authorized to collect an
annual qualified special tax of $44 per taxable parcel
beginning July 1, 2005 for a period of five years, offering a
senior exemption and with all expenditures monitored by an
independent oversight committee?

^he special tax will be imposed in the amount of $44.00 per
vear for each assessor’s parcel. An exemption for the
assessment will be made available on an annual basis to
each individual in the District who will attain the age of 65

years prior to June 1 of the assessment year, who owns a
beneficial interest in the parcel, who uses that parcel as his
or her principal place of residence and who applies to the
District on or before June 1, 2005, or June 1 of any
succeeding assessment year. Any one application from a
qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel
for the term of the current assessment so long as such
applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her principal
residence.

Section 2. Commencing on July 1, 2005, the special tax
collected annually on all assessor’s parcels at the rate specified
above, shall be collected and administered in the same manner
as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and collected under
provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

Section 3. The Placer County Superintendent of Schools is
hereby requested to call a special election of the said special tax
to be held on November 2, 2004. The Placer County Clerk is
hereby requested and authorized to: 1) set forth said measure on
all sample ballots relating to said election to be mailed to the
qualified electors of the District; and 2) to provide absent voter
ballots for said special tax election for use by qualified electors of
the District who are entitled thereto in the manner provided by
law.

The Board requests that the District’s election be consolidated
with any and all elections to be held on the same date as
specified above.

Section 4. If any section, sub-section, phrase, or clause of this
resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this resolution.
This Board of Trustees declares that it would have adopted this
resolution and each section, sub-section, phrase, or clause
thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
sub-sections, sentences, phrases, or clauses shall be declared
invalid.

Section 5. The Board shall provide in each year (pursuant to
section 7902.1 of the California Government Code or any
successor provision of law) for any increase in the District's
appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that
proceeds of the parcel tax may be spent for the authorized
purposes.

Section 6. The President of the Board and/or his designees are
hereby authorized to prepare and file with the Registrar of Voters
a ballot argument in favor of the proposition, or act as an author
of any ballot argument prepared in connection with the election,
including a rebuttal argument, each within the time established by
the Registrar of Voters, which shall be considered the official
ballot arguments of the Board as sponsor of the proposition.

Section 7. The Clerk of the Board is hereby authorized and
directed to certify to the due adoption of this resolution and to
transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Placer County
Superintendent of Schools and to file a copy hereof so certified
with the Placer County Clerk.

The foregoing resolution was moved by Board Member Cathy
Allen, seconded by Dave Bischel, and adopted on roll call on
June 28, 2004, by the following vote:

AYES:	Allen, Amara, Bischel, Holmes

NAYS:	n/a

ABSENT:	Hargrove

Shall Foresthill Fire Protection District be allowed to collect a Special Tax to support the
merger of the Safety Club Ambulance Service into the Fire District in order to continue
emergency services on the Divide?

YES______ NO_________

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLACER COUNTY COUNSEL

The Foresthill Fire Protection District proposes to
impose a special tax to support the merger and
maintenance of ambulance service as well as the transition
from a volunteer fire department to a compensated
department at a level of service deemed appropriate for the
area (Resolution 2004-001).

The District is proposing to tax various classifications of
parcels as detailed in the resolution referenced above. The
tax proposed to be levied for each parcel during any fiscal
year would be $96.00 for a single family residence or mobile
home, $192.00 for 2 homes per parcel, $96.00 per unit for
duplexes, triplexes, and apartment dwellings, and $384.00
per commercial/industrial parcel.

The District proposes that these tax rates would remain
unchanged until June 30, 2007, and thereafter may be
adjusted annually, at the discretion of the Board of Directors
of the District for the ensuing fiscal year, using a designated
Consumer Price Index published by the federal government.

This increased special tax would be an annual tax upon
parcels of property commencing with the 2005-2006 tax
year. The special tax would be collected in the same
manner as the County collects ad valorem taxes.

A "YES" vote is a vote in favor of the
Foresthill Fire Protection District special
tax.

A "NO" vote is a vote against imposing
the Foresthill Fire Protection District special
tax.

Measure M must receive approval by two-thirds
(2/3) of the votes cast by the voters voting upon the
measure to be considered approved by the voters.

Anthony J. La Bouff
County Counsel

By:	Sabrina M. Thompson

Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

The Foresthill Safety Club has provided ambulance
service to the Divide since 1955. However, last year they
would have closed their doors without several
extraordinary donations. Then emergency paramedic
service would have to come from Auburn or even further.
The Safety Club Board has requested that the ambulance
service merge with the Foresthill Fire Protection District.

The Fire Protection District has long been a volunteer fire
department serving the Foresthill Divide. In the days of
lumber mill employment, volunteer firefighters worked in
Foresthill and were available to fight fires and provide
medical aid. Over the years, employment opportunities
have changed. Currently, most of the District's volunteers
work "off the hil!’\ To cover the workweek, the District has
hired some part-time firefighters. As they transition to a
combination volunteer and paid force, more revenue will
be needed. Unfortunately, existing property tax revenues
are fully budgeted.

i‘he Fire District is unable to add ambulance service within
its current operating revenues, and therefore this special
tax is required to keep emergency services at an
acceptable level on the Foresthili Divide. That is why the

Fire District is asking you to approve a special tax of
$96.00 per year per home, or $8.00 per month. This
measure will raise about $250,000 per year. These funds
will be used to keep the ambulance service in Foresthill
and to add paramedics and firefighters ensuring these
services are available at all times.

Please join your neighbors to SAVE OUR SAFETY
SERVICES (SOS). By approving Measure M, you ensure
that highly qualified medical and fire personnel will be
there to assist you when you need them most.

VOTE YES ON M.

Rex Bloomfield, District 5 Supervisor
Edward N. Bonner, Placer County Sheriff
Bruce Kranz, District 5 Supervisor-Elect
Larry Mobley, Director/Secretary, Foresthill Divide
Chamber of Commerce

Marjorie D. Jones, Foresthill Community Activist

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M
WAS SUBMITTED

70

RESOLUTION NO. 2004 - 001

RESOLUTION TO ORDER AN ELECTION IN THE FORESTHILL FIRE
PROTECTION DISTRICT TO ESTABLISH A SPECIAL TAX TO MERGE
FHE SAFETY CLUB AMBULANCE SERVICE UNDER THE
FORESTHILL FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT, PROVIDE PERMANENT
FIREFIGHTER PARAMEDICS, AND ENIT’S.

Be it resolved by the Board of Directors of the Foresthill Fire
Protection District (herein after referred to as the "District”) as
follows:

1.	The Board of Directors of said District finds and declares that
the District is empowered to place property taxes and other
fees and assessments on the ballot for the approval by the
voters of the District as necessary in order to provide
sufficient revenues to provide appropriate fire and life safety
services.

2.	The Board of Directors of this District and the Foresthill
Safety Club have entered into a Memorandum of
Understanding dated April 6, 2004, whereby the conditions
are set forth for the ambulance service to merge under the
authority of the Fire District.

3.	The Board of Directors of this District finds that existing
revenue sources cannot support the ambulance service nor
support the transition from a volunteer fire department to a
paid department at a level of service deemed appropriate for
this area.

4.	The Board of Directors of this District therefore determines
that a Special Tax needs to be levied in accordance with
Article 16 of the Government Code to provide the necessary
revenues for adequate fire and life safety services that will
fund permanent firefighter/paramedics and EMTs.

j. An election is hereby called and ordered for the purpose of
submitting to the qualified voters within the District the
following proposition:

“Shall Foresthill Fire Protection District be allowed to
collect a Special Tax to support the merger of the Safety
Club Ambulance Service into the Fire District in order to
continue emergency services on the Divide?"

6.	A special tax to raise revenue to fund fire and life safety
services is hereby levied upon real property within the
District.

7.	After careful review the rate of charge authorized herein shall
be as follows for the 2005-2006 Fiscal Year. Special Tax
rate and method for the special tax authorized hereby shall
be as follows.

a.	No charge for unimproved parcels. The
Charge will be levied on all improved parcels
with an assessed valuation of $10,000.00 or
more

b.	Single Family or Mobile Home per parcel:	$ 96.00

c.	2 Homes per parcel:	$192.00

d.	Duplexes, Triplexes	and Apartments	per	$ 96.00

dwelling unit:

e.	Mobile Home or	Trailer ’ park	per	$ 96.00

space/parcel:

f.	Commercial/lndustrial	per parcel:	$384.00

g.	Auxiliary structures to residential parcels
shall be exempt.

h.	Mobile Home or Trailer park will be
assessed on occupied spaces as of March
1sl of each year.

8.	The amount of Special Tax specified in section 7 above shall
remain unchanged until June 30,2007 and thereafter may be
adjusted annually, at the discretion of the Board of Directors
of said District, for the ensuing fiscal year to reflect the
Consumer Price Index prepared by the United States
Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, using the
weighted average of Consumer Price Indexes (All Urban
Consumers) for the State of California (San Francisco,
Oakland, San Jose), with the base year being June 1 2006.
In the event that the Bureau shall cease to publish said index
figure, then any similar index by another branch or
department of the United States Government may be used in
its place at the direction of the District. The District shall be
responsible for making the necessary computations each
year prior to submitting the required information to Placer
County for collection.

9.	The Special Tax shall take effect July 1,2005 upon approval
of two - thirds of the eligible voters, voting upon the adoption
of such special tax at the election scheduled for November 2,
2004. The Special Tax shall remain in effect ad infinitum, or
until the law no longer allows, or until such time as the Board
of Directors of said District rescinds this Special Tax.

10.	Upon approval of the Placer County Board of Supervisors,
the County shall collect the charges, if approved by popular
vote, in accordance and subject to the same penalty as other
charges and taxes fixed and collected by or on behalf of the
District.

11.	In all particulars not recited in this resolution, said election
shall be held and conducted in accordance with the
provisions of the Elections Code of the State of California so
far as the same shall be acceptable except as otherwise
provided in the Fire Protection Law of 1961, as amended.

12.	The District shall further notice this election by posting a copy
of this resolution on or near the door of the District Office at
least two weeks before the time scheduled for the election.

13.	This Special Tax shall take effect as provided herein. If any
section, subsection, sentence, phrase or clause of this
resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this
resolution. The people of Foresthill Fire Protection District
hereby declare that they would have adopted the resolution
and each section, subsection, sentence, phrase or clause be
declared invalid.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Directors of the
Foresthill Fire Protection District at a Special Meeting on June 8,
2004 by the following roll call vote:

AYES;	Sue Grant, Mike Odell, John Worton

NOES:

ABSENT:	Ken Drone

ATTEST:	Forrest Eklund, Chairman

ATTEST:	Luana R. Dowling, Secretary to the Board

Shall Measure R which authorizes the Newcastle Fire Protection District to amend the special
tax as it applies to commercial business only be approved?

YES______ NO________

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLACER COUNTY COUNSEL

The Newcastle Fire Protection District proposes to
amend their existing special tax to increase the amount
that businesses within the district are taxed to more
adequately reflect the impact that servicing those
businesses within the district has upon the resources of
the district (Resolution 0625-04B).

The district is proposing to increase the tax for various
classifications of businesses as detailed in the resolution,
which is also included in this ballot pamphlet, Generally,
the tax proposed to be levied for each of the described
businesses during any fiscal year would be the "standard
improved parcel rate", plus differing amounts per square
foot with a maximum of $600.00 for restaurants, eating
establishments, businesses that use or store hazardous
materials and all other non-specified businesses. For
vehicle fueling or service stations and motels, hotels and
inns, the increased tax would be the "standard improved
parcel rate", plus varying amounts per square foot with no
paximum rate.

This increased special tax would be an annual tax
upon business parcels commencing with the 2005-2006
tax year. The special tax would be collected in the same
manner as the County collects ad valorem taxes.

A "YES" vote is a vote in favor of the Newcastle
Fire Protection District increase of special tax rates
for businesses.

A "NO" vote is a vote against increasing the
Newcastle Fire Protection District special tax for
businesses.

Measure R must receive approval by two-thirds (2/3)
of the votes cast by the voters voting upon the measure to
be considered approved by the voters.

Anthony J. La Bouff
County Counsel

By:	Sabrina	M.	Thompson

Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R

MEASURE ‘R’ AMENDS THE SPECIAL TAX AS IT
APPLIES TO A BUSINESS, NOT TO RESIDENTIAL
PARCELS. A BUSINESS DOES NOT INCLUDE A
FARM OR AGRCULTURAL BUSINESS OR A
BUSINESS CONDUCED AT AN INDIVIDUAL’S
RESIDENCE.

On June 3rd 1997 the voters approved a Special Tax in
the Newcastle Fire Protection District. The revenues of
this Special Tax were earmarked and continue to pay for
24 hour full time paid firefighters. The Tax was
calculated in part upon the amount of potential
emergency services a particular piece of property or
business presents to the District, and the amount of staff
time and equipment that would be necessary to prepare
for and provide emergency services to that property or
business. The District under estimated the costs
involved in providing services to the existing and
particularly the potential businesses within the District.
For example, there are no provisions in the Special Tax
to distinguished between the fees paid by a motel versus
any other small business. All currently pay the same
fees. There are no motels currently within the District,
but there have been discussions of at least two potential
iotei sites. There are also currently plans approved for
the construction of another Service Station within the
District. The Fire Department makes annual inspections

of the businesses and prepares pre-plans for use in training
for potential emergency situations at those business
locations. Measure ‘R’ is a modification of the Special Tax
ONLY as it applies to the fees to be applied to businesses
within the District. It establishes a more realistic fee for
businesses based upon their true potential need for
emergency services.

A YES vote will not change the fees paid by residential
parcels but will amend the Special Tax only as it applies to
defined businesses.

Neil G. Anderson, Chairman, Newcastle Fire Protection Bd
of Directors

William Fawx, Vice-Chairman, Newcastle Fire Protection
District Bd. of Directors

Rick Stenzel, Board Member, Newcastle Fire Protection
Dist

Bill Calkins, Board Member, Newcastle Fire Protection Dist.
Clifford Drake, Board Member, Newcastle Fire Protection
Dist

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE R
WAS SUBMITTED

Q4

RESOLUTION No. 0625-04B (NEWCASTLE B)

MEASURE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
NEWCASTLE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT TO
AUTHORIZE THE DISTRICT TO AMEND SECTION X
OF THE SPECIAL TAX CONCERNING THE TAX
RATES TO BE APPLIED TO COMMERCIAL
BUSINESSES.

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE NEWCASTLE FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
AS FOLLOWS:

Section I. The Board of Directors of the Newcastle Fire
Protection District {hereafter "District") finds and
declares that the District is empowered to place property
taxes and other fees and assessments on the ballot for
approval by the voters of the District as necessary in
order to provide sufficient revenues to provide for
adequate fire protection and prevention and emergency
aid services within the District.

Section II. That in such capacity the District did place on
the June 1997 ballot Measure F to enact a SPECIAL
TAX designed to establish a stable source of revenue in
order to maintain the level of emergency service and
response which the District believes necessary to
irovide for the safety and well being of the permanent
and transient inhabitants of the District.

Section III. That the voters approved the SPECIAL TAX
Measure F as presented by the District on June 3, 1997
by over a two-thirds majority.

Section IV. That such SPECIAL TAX was designed to
apply the financial impact of such tax to each parcel of
property within the district based upon the level of
benefits to be derived by that parcel and the potential
that parcel has for the need of the services provided by
the tax.

Section V. The District further finds that the SPECIAL
TAX as originally presented did not adequately consider
the full financial impact existing and new commercial
businesses within the District will and would have upon
the District.

Section VI. The District finds that businesses within the
district require significantly more staff and equipment to
properly service them than was first estimated, and that
different categories of businesses require varying levels
of service depending on the nature of that business.
Specifically that each business requires special checks
every year and requires the preparation of fire pre-pians
) properly prepare for an emergency and to identify
-nazardous materials and their proper handling in the
event of such an emergency.

Section VII. The District further finds that businesses
which house or utilize combustible or hazardous
materials or serve varying levels of customers such as
restaurants or motels pose additional problems over the
normal commercial endeavor and require significantly
increased levels of fire and emergency services, both
before, during and after a need for service at their
location.

Section VIII. The District also finds that since the
enactment of the SPECIAL TAX the law now requires
what is called the two in and two out rule. This requires
that before anyone can enter a burning buiiding, there
must be a total of four firefighters suited up and ready to
enter. Two may enter, and the other two remain outside
in case the two inside require assistance. In order to
provide for this it requires the availability of additional fire
fighters and has resulted in an increase in personnel
costs to the District.

Section IX, The District finds that in order to maintain
the level of emergency service and response which it
believes is necessary to provide for the safety and well
being of the inhabitants of the District, that the SPECIAL
TAX must be amended to properly include the impact
businesses such as Vehicle Fueling or Gasoline Filling
Stations, Motels, Restaurants and other types of
commercial businesses will have upon the Vehicle
Fueling or Gasoline Filling Stations, Motels, Restaurants
and other types of commercial businesses will have
upon the staff and equipment of the District.

Section X. Therefore, after careful and full review the
District finds that the portion of Section X of the Special
Tax concerning businesses titled "THE TAX RATE FOR
BUSINESSES SHALL BE:" should be amended to read
as follows:

"THE TAX RATE FOR BUSINESSES SHALL BE:

A - Restaurants or eating establishments:

The improved parcel base rate for each business
unit on that parcel plus $0.05 per square foot to a
maximum of $600 per business.

B - Vehicle fueling or Service Stations:

The improved parcel base rate for each business
unit on that parcel plus $0.05 per square foot for all
covered office, storeroom or store space plus $0.10
per square foot of island space with no maximum.
ISLAND SPACE is defined as the area 12 feet out
(perpendicular) from each operational side for
fueling of a fuel pump multiplied by the length of the
island upon which the fuel pump is mounted.

MEASURE R RESOLUTION
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

82

MEASURE R RESOLUTION
CONTINUED

C - Businesses, except those businesses falling
within item B above, which use or store
hazardous materials as defined in the Uniform Fire
Code, and which in the opinion of the Fire
Prevention Officer represent a substantial hazard in
the event of an emergency situation and/or in the
manner of their storage, use, creation or disposal.
The improved parcel base rate for each business
unit on that parcel plus $0.10 per square foot to a
maximum of $600 per business.

D - Motels, Hotels or Inns:

The improved parcel base rate for each business
unit on that parcel plus $0.05 per square foot of the
business which is not a portion of a rentable unit
plus $20 for each rentable unit on that parcel with no
maximum.

E - All other businesses:

The improved parcel base rate for each business
unit on that parcel plus $0.05 per square foot to a
maximum of $600 per business.

DEFINITION OF BUSINESS: For the purposes of this
section a commercial business shall NOT Include a farm
or agricultural business or a business conducted in an
individual’s residence, unless, it falls within item C
above."

Section XI. Pursuant to the requirements of the laws of
the State of California relating to district elections, there
shall be, and there is hereby called and ordered held in
the Newcastle Fire Protection District, County of Placer,
State of California, on Tuesday, November 2, 2004, a
vote by the qualified voters of the District at an election
for the purpose of approving this Ordinance to authorize
the District to implement the provisions of this Special
Tax as set forth above.

Section XII. At the election there shall be submitted to
the qualified voters residing within the boundaries of the
district the following proposition:

Shall Measure "R" which authorizes
the Newcastle Fire Protection District
to amend the special tax as it applies
to commercial business only be
approved.

Section XIII. In all particulars not recited in this
Ordinance, said election shall be held and conducted as
provided for by law for the holding of district elections
within the District.

Section XV. This Measure shall be effective upon
publication pursuant to Section XV and approval by the
voters of the District and shall take effect for the
SPECIAL TAX rate which is submitted by the District to
Placer County in the year 2005.

Section XVI. If any section, subsection, sentence,
phrase or clause of this Measure is for any reason held
io be invalid, such decision shaii not effect the validity of
the remaining portions of this Measure. The people of
the Newcastle Fire Protection District hereby declare
that they would have adopted this Measure and each
section, subsection, sentence, phrase or clause thereof
regardless of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, sentences, phrases or clauses be declared
invalid.

Passed and adopted this 25th day of June, 2004 by the
following roll call vote

Anderson	ABSENT

Fawx	AYE

Stenzel	AYE

Drake	AYE

Calkins	ABSENT

William Fawx, Vice Chairman

ATTEST: Sharon Vega, Secretary

Shall Measure P which imposes a fire protection special tax to continue current fire and
emergency medical operations, maintain response times, and retain experienced fire and
emergency medical personnel within the Penryn Fire District be approved?

YES_____ NO_________

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLACER COUNTY COUNSEL

The Penryn Fire Protection District Board of Directors
proposes to impose an additional special tax in order to
continue 24-hour operations and fire safety within the
district (Resolution 2004-02). This tax would be in addition
to the special tax currently imposed in the District for fire
protection of $75.00, previously approved by the voters.

The District is proposing to tax various classifications
of parcels as follows. The proposed tax would be $50.00
for improved, residential, and irrigated farm parcels,
$40.00 for each mobile home park trailer, and $.04 per sq.
ft. for commercial parcel. The proposed tax is more fully
described in the above-referenced resolution.

If approved by the voters, the above-described tax
rates may be adjusted annually, at the discretion of the
toard of Directors of the District for the ensuing fiscal year,
using a designated Consumer Price Index published by
the federal government.

This additional special tax, which would be imposed
upon the passage of Measure P, would be an annual tax
upon parcels of property commencing with the 2005-2006
tax year. The special tax would be collected in the same
manner as the County collects ad valorem property taxes.

A "YES" vote is a vote in favor of the
Penryn Fire Protection District imposing
an additional special tax.

A "NO" vote is a vote against the
Penryn Fire Protection District imposing
an additional special tax.

Measure P must receive approval by two-thirds (2/3) of the
votes cast by the voters voting upon the measure to be
considered approved by the voters.

Anthony J. La Bouff
County Counsel

By:	Sabrina	M.	Thompson

Deputy County Counsel

74

ARGUMENTS AND REBUTTALS
TO MEASURE P
BEGIN ON NEXT PAGE

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Penryn Fire struggles to pay its firefighters minimum
wage! ($6.75hr).

Since 1996 we have improved from all volunteer staffing
to two full time paid firefighters (24/7) in order to provide
a reliable and skilled level of first response to Penryn.
Looking ahead it is becoming increasingly difficult to
maintain this level of response because of increasing
costs in workers compensation, fuel, and maintenance.

Most people in our community gasp when they learn
how little our firefighters are paid. We experience rapid
turnover because after we provide firefighters with
necessary skills and training they frequently move on to
higher paying jobs elsewhere. Although compensation
is low, pride and morale are high. Everyone here at
Penryn Fire loves what they do, and wants to serve our
fellow citizens the best that they can.

In order to retain experienced, well trained and qualified
personnel, the district is proposing this annual Special
Tax of $50.00 per home, and $.04 cents per square foot
for businesses. This special tax will take effect July 1,
2005.

Without this new Special Tax, we will gradually see the
regression of the services provided by the district,
eventually leading back to all volunteer staffing.

Vote YES on Measure P!

Christopher Dobb, Board Chairman
Michael Posehn, Director
Thomas Bowling, Director
Shirley Gordon, Director
Aaron Willson, Director

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

The argument for Measure P states "Penryn Fire
struggles to pay its firefighters minimum wage.”

The financial condition of the Penryn Fire District can be
letermined by examining the audited financial
statements for the last 5 years.

Financial Examination Results

During the past 5 years the Penryn Fire District was
able to save large amounts of money since revenue
exceeded expenses by a wide margin.

How much money was saved?

•	Penryn Fire saved $305,000 from the
$1,497,000 of total revenue it received during
the past 5 years.

•	This dollar amount indicates that Penryn saved
20.4% of its total revenue.

What were the growth rates for revenue and expenses?

•	Revenue grew about 150% over 5 years or 10%
annually.

•	Expenses grew about 118% over 5 years or
3.7% annually.

•	Revenue exceeding expenses by a 6.3% margin
led to a high rate of savings.

What is the Fire District debt?

•	Penryn has no long term debt.

Conclusions

•	The numbers indicate Penryn Fire District has
plenty of money.

•	it is not a "struggle” to pay Penryn firefighters a
higher wage.

•	Most Penryn voters did not save 20% of their
paychecks like the Fire District did during the
last 5 years.

•	The Fire District does not have any debt
payments but most Penryn voters have to make
car and mortgage payments each month.

•	Penryn voters need their money more than the
Fire District needs a new tax. ■

Vote NO on Measure P.

Nicholas Smurro, Certified Public Accountant

75

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

The Penryn Fire District is asking for more taxes for

the second time in two years.

How much are they getting now?

•	Penryn residents already pay a special $75 per
parcel special fire assessment.

•	Placer County gives 7.6 percent of the Penryn
property taxes to the Fire District.

is this enough?

•	Penryn Fire District claims to need a new $50
per parcel third tax source to solve its financial
problems since “present and anticipated
revenues are insufficient to fund ...fire safety in
the district."

Are revenues rising too slowly?

•	No. The majority of Penryn Fire District revenue
is derived from property tax revenue, which is
based on the gross assessed value of property
in the district.

•	Over the past 5 years property values have
accelerated from 7% to over 9% annual growth.

•	Fire District revenue grows at approximately
the same rate as property values.

Does the Fire District need more revenue to provide
additional services to Penryn residents?

•	No. Measure P would increase taxes
without providing any additional services to
Penryn residents.

Is a new tax necessary because expenses are rising
faster than revenues?

•	No. Expenses would have to rise at a
double-digit rate in order to exceed the
current high growth rate of revenues, if this
were the case, the solution would be to
control expenditures.

•	Adding new taxes would not solve this
problem but lead to a never-ending cycle of
more spending and taxes.

if revenues are not too low and expenses not too
high, for what reason do we need a new tax?

•	At this time there appears to be no obvious
reason.

Vote No for taxation without a reason.

Vofe No on Measure P.

Nicholas Smurro, Certified Public Accountant

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

The single opponent to Measure “P" would have you
believe that all is well in the world of fire district funding.

Clearly this is not the case as Penryn Fire is one of five
different fire districts within Placer County that is seeking
additional funds from voters at this election.

It is true that roughly seven cents of every Penryn tax
dollar goes to the district. Other fire districts receive as
much as twenty-five cents of every tax dollar. Penryn
Fire's share is small.

Property taxes do increase slightly for the district
annually, this rate of growth has failed to keep pace with
the district's operating costs.

Penryn is a slow growth community surrounded by areas
of rapid growth and development. Our residents enjoy
the benefits of limited growth at the cost of a slower
growing tax base for basic services.

Since the voter approved Special Tax in 1996, operating
costs have increased by 117%. This increase, attributed
to upgrading staffing levels, the state’s ERAF shift, which
took away part of the fire district funds. These coupled
with an increased demand for services as well as
increased costs in energy, fuel and worker's
compensation insurance, have led to increased
operating costs.

Our paid staff earn minimum wage! Only $6.75 hr.

Employees have no vacation, sick leave or retirement.

This new tax is limited to improving hourly rates for full
time employees to the $8.00 and $10.00 per hour range.

SUPPORT YOUR FIREFIGHTERS
VOTE YES ON MEASURE “P”

Michael Davis, Fire Chief

RESOLUTION No. 2004-02

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE PENRYN
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT CALLING AND PROVIDING FOR
NOTICE OF AN ELECTION TO BE HELD IN THE SAID DISTRICT ON
NOVEMBER 2, 2004. FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO THE
QUALIFIED VOTERS OF THE DISTRICT A SPECIAL TAX TO
MAINTAIN AND CONTINUE CURRENT FIRE DISTRICT OPERATIONS.

BE IT RESOLVED by the board of directors of the Penryn Fire
Protection District (hereinafter referred to as the "district") as
follows:

1.	The Board of Directors of the Penryn Fire Protection District
finds and declares that it is empowered to place property
taxes, fees and assessments on the ballot for approval by the
voters of the district as necessary in order to provide
continued fire district operations and fire safety within the
district.

2.	The Board of Directors finds that present and anticipated
revenues are insufficient to fund continued 24-hour
operations and fire safety within the district.

3.	A Special Tax shall be in addition to the existing special tax
currently in place. This new special tax shall’ be levied in
accordance with Article 16 of the Government Code to
provide the necessary additional revenues for continued
twenty-four hour fire operations in the District.

4.	The following definitions shall govern the Special Tax:

A.	Improved parcel shall define a parcel of real property,
which has an improvement(s) with an assessed value of
$1,000.00 or more.

B.	Residential parcel shall describe a parcel of land with a
dwelling, inhabited or not, A residential parcel includes
the land on which the dwelling is affixed.

C.	Commercial parcel shall describe a building, or part
thereof, power plant, tent, or mobile facility affixed to
land used in business or trade. A commercial parcel
includes the land immediately under a commercial
building, power plant, tent or mobile facility.

D.	Irrigated farm shall describe irrigated land used in the
business of farming and any buildings thereon including
a dwelling.

E.	Mobile Home Park shall describe land rented as sites for
mobile homes. The special tax rate shall be calculated
per trailer.

5. After careful review, the district finds that the following annual
special tax should be approved:

$50.00
$50.00

$.04 (Per square foot*)
$50.00

$40.00 (Per Unit)

*: Commercial parcels will be subject to a $50.00 per
year minimum rate and a maximum rate of $600.00 per
year.

A.	Improved Parcel:

B.	Residential Parcel:

C.	Commercial Parcel:

D.	Irrigated Farm Parcel:

E.	Mobile Home Park:

6.	The amount of the special tax specified in Section 5 above
may be adjusted annually, at the discretion of the Penryn Fire
Protection District Board of Directors, for the ensuing fiscal
year to reflect the Consumer Price Index prepared by the
United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor
Statistics, using the weighted average of Consumer Price
Indexes (Ail Urban Consumers) for the State of California.
The district shall be responsible for making the necessary
computations each year prior to submitting the required

information to the county for collection. In the event that the
Bureau shall cease to publish said index figure, then any
similar index by another branch or department of the United
States Government may be used in its place at the direction
of the district.

7.	The special tax shall take effect July 1, 2005, upon approval
of two-thirds of the eligible votes, voting upon the adoption of
such special tax and shall be collected for the district by the
county.

8.	The special tax shall be effective July 1, 2005, and continue
until the law no longer allows, or until such time as the
Penryn Fire Protection District Board of Directors rescinds
this Special Tax.

9.	An election is hereby called for the purpose of submitting to
the qualified electors within the district in accordance with
Article 16 (commencing with Section 53970) of Chapter 4 of
Part 1 of Decision 2 of Title 5 of the Government Code, the
question of the adoption of the special tax for fire protection
services.

10.	At the election there shall be submitted to the qualified
electors residing within the boundaries of the district the
following proposition:

"Shall Measure P which imposes a fire protection special tax
to continue current fire and emergency medical operations,
maintain response times, and retain experienced fire and
emergency medical personnel within the Penryn Fire District
be approved?"

11.	In all particulars not recited in this resolution, said election
shall be held and conducted in accordance with the
provisions of the Elections Code of the State of California so
far as the same shall be acceptable except as otherwise
provided in the Fire Protection District Law of 1961, as
amended.

12.	The district will cause further notice of this election by posting
a copy of this resolution on or near the doors of the district
office at least two weeks before the time fixed for the
election.

13.	This special tax shall take effect as provided herein. It shall be
in addition to the existing voter approved special tax already
in place. If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase or
clause of this resolution is for any reason held to be invalid,
such decision shall not effect the validity of the remaining
portion of this resolution. The people of the Penryn Fire
Protection District hereby declare that they would have
adopted the resolution and each section, subsection,
sentence, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, sentence,
phrases or clause be declared invalid.

14.	Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the
Penryn Fire Protection District, Penryn, California, this
24h day of June 2004 By the follow roll call vote:

Director:	AYE	NAY	Abstain	Absent

Bowling, Tom
Dobb, Chris
Gordon, Shirley	X

Posehn, Mike	X

Willson, Aaron	X

X

X

Attest: Michael Davis, Fire Chief / Clerk

Shall Placer Consolidated Fire Protection District be allowed to impose a Special Tax to
ensure qualified personnel respond to fire and life safety emergencies and provide advanced
life support services through paramedics on its staffed engine companies?

YES	NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLACER COUNTY COUNSEL

The Placer Consolidated Fire Protection District
proposes to impose a special tax to provide sufficient
revenues to employ firefighter paramedics, increase
firefighter wages and furnish, operate and maintain
advanced life support services for the residents in the
district (Resolution No. 362).

The district is proposing to tax various classifications
of parcels as detailed in the resolution referenced above.
The tax proposed to be levied for each parcel during any
fiscal year would be $55.00 for a single residence or
mobile home, $84.00 for duplexes, $128.00 for triplexes,
$170.00 for fourplexes and $48.00 per unit for an
apartment complex with five or more units. Additional rates
are proposed for institutional, commercial and industrial
properties, detailed in the above-referenced resolution.

The district proposes that the maximum amounts of
this tax would remain unchanged until June 1, 2007, and
thereafter may be adjusted annually, at the discretion of
the Board of Directors of the District for the ensuing fiscal

year, using a designated Consumer Price Index published by
the federal government.

This increased special tax would be an annual tax upon
parcels of property commencing with the 2005-2006 tax year.
The special tax would be collected in the same manner as the
County collects ad valorem taxes.

A "YES" vote is a vote in favor of the Placer
Consolidated Fire Protection District special tax.

A "NO" vote is a vote against imposing the Placer
Consolidated Fire Protection District special tax.

Measure K must receive approval by two-thirds (2/3) of the
votes cast by the voters voting upon the measure to be
considered approved by the voters.

Anthony J. La Bouff
County Counsel

By: Sabrina M. Thompson
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

Providing essential emergency and non-emergency
services has been the mission of the Placer
Consolidated Fire Protection District since its creation in
1984 by the consolidation of Ophir and Rock Creek fire
districts.

Last year the District responded to 2532 calls for its
21,000 citizens. Of those, 73% were responses to
medical emergencies. There is one ambulance within
the District that provides paramedic coverage. When
multiple calls occur, the next ambulance must come from
Auburn, Colfax, or as far away as Rocklin.

In 1989 the voters approved a $48 per year fire service
fee. This fee has not, and cannot be changed since the
voters approved it. Once again the District needs your
help to continue, and to improve, the service provided to
you the citizens we serve.

As you may be aware, increases in worker's
compensation and health care have been enormous.
^Iso, do to circumstances beyond our control this year
Me District will lose more that $200,000 of your tax
dollars to the State and County. The District is faced with
providing a reduced level of service and can't afford to
hire and retain the qualified people the citizens need and
deserve.

The District is seeking your approval of an additional special
tax of $55 per home, $48 per apartment, $36 per mobile
home space, and $.05 per square foot for commercial
space.

By approving this measure you will provide a funding source
to provide advanced life support services through firefighter
paramedics, and ensure adequately trained and qualified
personnel.

Passage of th’is measure will allow us to provide
paramedics on all three engines on a 24 hour basis and
provide reasonable salaries for our firefighters. Please join
your neighbors, friends, firefighters and the Board of
Directors in casting a resounding "YES” vote.

James W. Holmes, President Placer Consolidated
Harriet F. White, Placer County Supervisor, District 3
Edward N. Bonner, Placer County Sheriff
Bruce Kranz, Placer County Supervisor-Elect, District 5
Monroe C. DeJarnette, President, Auburn Chamber of
Commerce

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K
WAS SUMBITTED

65

RESOLUTION NO. 362

A RESOLUTION ESTABLISHING A SPECIAL TAX TO
FINANCE FIREFIGHTER PARAMEDIC RESPONSE IN
THE PLACER CONSOLIDATED FIRE PROTECTION
DISTRICT

Be it resolved by the Board of directors of the Placer
Consolidated Fire Protection District (hereinafter referred to
as the "District") as follows:

Section 1: AUTHORIZATION: This Resolution and the
special tax authorized herein is adopted pursuant to
Article 16 of the Government Code.

Section 2: CURRENT FUNDING: Fire and life safety
services in the Placer Consolidated Fire Protection
District are being funded by an allocation of property tax,
fire suppression assessment revenues, and non-property
tax revenues.

Section 3: DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY: The level
of fire and life safety services which can be provided by
existing revenue sources is no longer at a level deemed
appropriate by the District nor at a level the District
would like to provide to its residents. District personnel
and equipment responded to 2532 emergency calls in
2003 with 73% of those being medical emergency
requests. The District is currently unable to compete with
!arger cities and districts for recruitment and retention of
qualified personnel but somehow must in order to provide
quality services.

Section 4: PURPOSE OF SPECIAL TAX: The express
purpose for which this special tax is levied is to establish
a source of funds to hire, furnish, operate, and maintain
firefighter paramedics and advanced life support
services and to increase firefighter wages to improve
recruitment and retention of qualified personnel.

Section 5: LIMITATION UPON EXPENDING SPECIAL
TAX PROCEEDS: Any funds collected from the special
tax authorized by this Resolution shall be expended only
for such fire and life safety services within the Placer
Consolidated Fire Protection District.

Section 6: DEFINITIONS: As used in this Resolution the
following words or phrases shall be construed as follows:

(a)	"Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of Placer
Consolidated Fire Protection District;

(b)	"Special Tax" shall mean the special tax authorized
by and imposed pursuant to this Resolution;

(c)	"District" shall mean the Placer Consolidated Fire
Protection District;

(d)	"Parcel of Real Property" means a separate parcel of
real property having a separate assessor's parcel
number as shown on the local secured tax rolls of the
County of Placer, or an assessment of a classified
structural property on the unsecured tax rolls of the
County of Placer, or an assessment made by the
State Board of Equalization;

(e)	"Residential " shall mean a parcel of real property
which, according to the records of the County
Assessor, is classified for residences;

(f)	"Commercial " shall mean a parcel of real property
which, according to the records of the Placer County
Assessor, is classified for a business providing sales
and/or services including any resale and/or
wholesale operations;

(g)	"Industrial" shall mean a parcel of real property which,
according to the records of the Placer County
Assessor, is classified for the manufacturing of goods,
the processing of raw materials, and the warehousing
by the manufacturer of finished goods and raw
materials;

(h)	"Agricultural" shall mean a parcel of property which,
according to the records of the Placer County
Assessor, is classified for the production of crops
and/or the raising of livestock;

(i)	"Institutional " shall mean a parcel of real property
which, according to the records of the Placer County
Assessor, is classified for charitable, educational, or
religious uses by organizations such as churches,
hospitals, private schools, non-profit and fraternal
organizations;

Section 7: LEVY: A special tax to raise revenue to fund
fire and life safety services is hereby levied upon real
property within the District.

Section 8: SPECIAL TAX RATE: The rate and
method for the special tax authorized hereby shall be
as follows:

Description

Residential:

General

Duplex

Condominium

Single Mobile Homesite Estate
Home

Mountain Home

Triplex

Fourplex

Apartment Complex with five
or more units

Rate Per Parcel /Unit

$ 55.00 per unit
$ 84.00
$ 55.00 per unit

$ 55.00 per unit
$ 55.00 per unit
$128.00
$170.00

$ 48.00 per unit

Description

Agricultural:

Parcel-5 acres or less
Parcel-6 to 100 acres
Parcel-in excess of 100 acres

Rate Per Parcel

Institutional:	$150.00

MEASURE K RESOLUTION
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

66

MEASURE K RESOLUTION
CONTINUED

	Minimum Fee	Rate Per Square
Commerical:		Foot (Building)
General	$ 55.00	$.05
Retail Store	55.00	.05
Restaurant	55.00	.05
Shopping Center	55.00	.05
Supermarket	55.00	.05
Hotel/Motel	55.00	$ 36.00 per
Service station	55.00	guest room .05
Mobile Home		$ 36.00 per
Park	55.00	space
	Minimum Fee	Rate Per Square
Industrial:		Foot (Building)
Genera!	$ 55.00	$.05
Light  Manufacturing	55.00	.05
Cotton Gin	55.00	.05
Cannery	55.00	.05
Winery	55.00	.05
Heavy  Manufacturing	55.00	.05
Packing House	55.00	.05
Cold Storage	55.00	.05
Dehydration Plant	55.00	.05
Saw Mill	55.00	.05

Section 9: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX ADJUSTMENT:

The amount of charge specified in section 8 above shall
remain unchanged until June 1st, 2007. After June 1st,
2007 the amount of charge specified in section 8 above
may be adjusted annually for the ensuing fiscal year to
reflect the Consumer Price Index prepared by the United
States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics,
using the weighted average of Consumer Price Indexes
(All Urban Consumers) for the State of California (San
■ Francisco, Oakland, San Jose), with the base year being
June 1, 2006. The Board shall be responsible for making
the necessary computations each year prior to June 15th
and advising the Placer County Auditor-Controller what
the amount of charge is to be for the next year as a result
of the foregoing computations.

In the event that said Bureau shall cease to publish said
index figure, then any similar index by any other branch
or department of the United States Government shall be
used in its place

Section 10. SPECIAL TAX LIMITATIONS: The special
tax established by this Resolution shall not be imposed
upon a federal, state or local agency. All unimproved
agricultural parcels within an area classified as a state
responsibility area by the State Board of Forestry for the
orevention and suppression of fires pursuant to Public
iesources Code Section 4126, et seq., and all agricultural
^parcels with only barns, stalls, or other agricultural out-
buildings, shall be exempt from the special tax established
by this Resolution.

Section 11. COLLECTION/COMPUTATIONS: The county
shall collect the special tax adopted herein, if approved by
popular vote, beginning the 2005/2006 fiscal year in the
same manner and subject to the same penalty, as other
charges and taxes fixed and collected by the county. The
special tax shall remain in effect ad infinitum, or until the
law no longer allows, or until such time as the Board of
Directors of said District rescinds this special tax.

The records of the Placer County Assessor as of June 15th
of each year shall determine for the next fiscal year whether
a residential, commercial, industrial, recreational,
institutional or other structure exists (and the size thereof)
for the purpose of the charge pursuant to this Resolution.

Square footage for the purpose of calculating amounts to
be charged for commercial and industrial parcels shall be
determined by the records of the Placer County Assessor.
In the event Placer County Assessor has no square
footage information on a commercial or industrial parcel
that has improvements, the District reserves the right to
measure the improvements to determine square footage
used for the purpose of calculations. In the event of a
discrepancy, the Board of Directors of this District shall
make the final determination.

Section 12. CORRECTIONS, CANCELLATIONS AND
REFUNDS: The Board of Directors may order the special
tax levied herein on any particular parcel of real property to
be corrected, canceled or refunded in order to effect the
provisions of this Resolution.

Section 13. ELECTION: An election is hereby called and
ordered for the purpose of submitting to the qualified
voters within the District the following proposition:

"Shall Placer Consolidated Fire Protection District be
allowed to impose a Special Tax to ensure qualified
personnel respond to fire and life safety emergencies and
provide advanced life support services through
paramedics on its staffed engine companies?"

Section 14. SEVERABILITY: In the event that any
provision of this Resolution shall at any time be declared
invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, or by
governmental regulations or decree, such decision shall
not invalidate the entire Resolution, it being the
expressed intention of the Board of Directors that ail other
provisions not declared invalid shall remain in full force
and effect.

Section 15. ADOPTION: This Resolution shall take effect
on the 14th day of June, 2004.

THE FOREGOING RESOLUTION WAS PASSED AND
ADOPTED by the Board of Directors of the Placer
Consolidated Fire Protection District of Placer County, State
of California, on this 14th day of June, 2004 at a meeting
of said Board duly called and held on said day by the
following vote:

ATTEST:

AYES:	4
NOES:	0
ABSENT:	1

67

Shall Tahoe City Cemetery District be allowed to impose a Special Tax on all taxable real
property within the District to provide a source of funds for the completion and construction
of capital improvement projects and related facilities of the District cemetery, Trails End
Cemetery, Tahoe City, California?

YES______ NO________

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLACER COUNTY COUNSEL

The Tahoe City Cemetery District proposes to
impose a special tax to provide sufficient revenues for
installation and construction of capital improvements in
the "Trails End Cemetery" in Tahoe City. (Resolution No.
04-01)

The District is proposing to tax all taxable real property
in the district $.0125 per $100.00 of assessed value.

The District proposes that this tax would remain
unchanged until June 1, 2007, and thereafter may be
adjusted annually, at the discretion of the Board of
Trustees of the District for the ensuing fiscal year, using a
designated Consumer Price Index published by the federal
qovernment.

This increased special tax would be an annual tax
upon parcels of property commencing with the 2005-2006

tax year. The special tax would be collected in the same
manner as the County collects property ad valorem taxes.

A "YES” vote is a vote in favor of the
Tahoe City Cemetery District special tax.

A "NO” vote is a vote against
imposing the Tahoe City Cemetery
District special tax.

Measure T must receive approval by two-thirds (2/3) of the
votes cast by the voters voting upon the measure to be
considered approved by the voters.

Anthony J. La Bouff
County Counsel

By: Sabrina M. Thompson
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

The Trail's End Cemetery (administered by the Tahoe
City Cemetery District), buiit in the early 1900's and
located behind the Tahoe City Golf Course, is truly one
of the area's historical treasures that will soon
deteriorate if improvements, some mandated by local
government authority, are not implemented.

We strongly recommend that the District impose a
special tax that would provide additional funding of 1.2
cents per $100 of assessed property value. Voters in the
Tahoe City Cemetery District currently pay .00825 cents
per $100 of assessed property value, with the monies
distributed through the Placer County General Fund to
the District. These funds are subject to change each
year.

This special 1.2 cent tax (per $100 of assessed value)
will be directly funded to the Tahoe City Cemetery
district to finance the installation and modification of
drainage and erosion controls (per TRPA), as well as

remodel the existing chapel structure as outlined in the
District's Master Plan. The estimated cost for all
necessary improvements is approximately $320,000.
The District hopes to reduce the special tax after 10
years to an appropriate amount to maintain additional
maintenance/landscaping requirements.

The Tahoe City Cemetery District includes Tahoe City,
Tahoma (to the Placer County line), Alpine Meadows,
Squaw Valley, and Camelian Bay to Flick Point. All
residents living in the District are entitled to purchase a
burial plot at Trail's End Cemetery for a reasonable
charge.

Randal G. Pomin
Roger Kahn
Walt Kass
Cindy Gustafson
Gail Scoville

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T
WAS SUBMITTED

86

RESOLUTION NO. 04-01

ESTABLISHING A SPECIAL TAX TO FINANCE
CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION OF CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENT PROJECTS AND FACILITIES TO
THE DISTRICT CEMETERY

BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Trustees of the
Tahoe City Cemetery District (hereinafter referred to as
the "District”) as follows:

Section 1. AUTHORIZATION: This Resolution and
the special tax authorized herein is adopted pursuant to
the provisions set forth in California Health and Safety
Code Section 9081 which, among other things,
authorizes the use of Voter-Approved Special Taxes
pursuant to Government Code Section 50075. This
District is a “local agency" and “special district” as
defined in Government Code Section 50075.5.

Section 2. DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY FOR
FINANCING:	The current revenue available to the

District is inadequate to provide a source of financing for
the installation and construction of needed capital
improvement construction projects and related facilities
at the District cemetery, "Trails End Cemetery", Tahoe
City, California, including without limitation installation,
construction and modifications to existing chapel
/acuities; installation of extension to chapel facilities to
accommodate storage of cremains; installation and
modification of facilities for drainage and erosion control
measures as mandated by governmental authority.
Finances of the District are inadequate to meet the cost
of such installations and constructions and pursuant to
Health and Safety Code Section 9080 "Alternative
Revenues" the cemetery District is authorized to raise
funds for projects and facilities and including
authorization to raise revenues therefore by special
taxes pursuant to Health and Safety Code Section 9081.
Installation and construction of the capital project
facilities referred to are necessary and beneficial to the
District and the constituency and taxpayers thereof.

Section 3. PURPOSE OF SPECIAL TAX: The
purpose for which this special tax is levied is to establish
a source of funds and financing to proceed with the
installation and construction of the capital improvements,
projects and facilities outlined above the same being
deemed beneficial on a District-wide basis.

Section 4. LIMITATION ON EXPENDING SPECIAL
TAX PROCEEDS:	Funds collected by way of this

special tax subject to voter approval shall be expended
only for the purposes of financing the installation and
'onstruction of the capital works, projects and
.mprovements referred to above.

The provisions set forth and referred to as
“Accountability Measures" the subject of California
Government Code Section 50075.1 shall be applicable
to the special tax measure and the proceeds thereof as
to voter approval and shall include, among other things,
that the proceeds shall be applied only to the specific
purposes identified above; creation of an account into
which proceeds shall be deposited and without limitation
an annual report required pursuant to Government Code
Section 50075.3.

Section 5. DEFINITIONS:	As	used in this

Resolution the following words or phrases shall be
construed as follows:

(1)	“Board” shall mean the Board of
Trustees of Tahoe City Cemetery
District;

(2)	"Special Tax" shall mean the special tax
authorized and imposed pursuant to this
Resolution;

(3)	“District” shall mean the Tahoe City
Cemetery District;

(4)	“Parcel of Real Property” shall mean a
separate parcel of real property,
improved or unimproved, and having a
separate assessor’s parcel number as
shown by the local secured tax rolls of
the County of Placer, or an assessment
of a classified structural property on the
unsecured tax rolls of the County of
Placer, or an assessment made by the
State Board of Equalization;

Section 6. LEVY: The special tax imposed as an
advalorem property tax on all taxable real property in the
District is for the purpose of providing finances to fund
the construction and installation of various capital
improvement projects and facilities to the District’s
cemetery premises, “Trails End Cemetery”, Tahoe City,
California.

Section 7. SPECIAL TAX RATE: The rate and
method for imposition and collection of special tax
authorized pursuant to this Resolution shall be as
follows:

MEASURE T RESOLUTION
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

87

time as the Board of Trustees of the District rescind this
special tax.

MEASURE T RESOLUTION
CONTINUED

Description	Tax	rate	per $100 of

Assessed Value

Placer County, California:

All Placer County tax code

areas now existing within

the exterior boundaries of

Tahoe City Cemetery

District	$.0125

Section 8. PURPOSE: The purpose of the tax levy
set forth above shall be to provide funds for financing of
installation and construction of the capital improvement
projects and related facilities referred to above including
without limitation principal and interest payments on
loans, payments which may be due under lease
purchase agreements or other financing programs in
reference to the capital improvement projects referred to
above.

Section 9. CONSUMER PRICE INDEX
ADJUSTMENT: The tax rate specified in the preceding
Section shail remain unchanged until June 1, 2007.
After June 1, 2007, commencing with the fiscal year July
1, 2007, the tax rate referred to above may be adjusted
annually for the then-ensuing fiscal year to reflect the
Consumer Price Index prepared by the United States
department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, using
the weighted average of Consumer Price Indexes (alf
Urban Consumers) for the State of California (San
Francisco, Oakland, San Jose), with the base year being
June 1, 2006.

The Board of Trustees shall be responsible for
making the necessary computations each year prior to
June 15th and advising the Placer County Auditor-
Controller accordingly what the amount of the change
would be for the tax rate referred to if any, as a result of
the foregoing computation. In the event the Bureau of
Labor Statistics should cease to publish the index figure,
then any similar index by any other branch or
department of the United States Government shall be
used in its place.

Section 10. SPECIAL TAX LIMITATION:	The

special tax established by this Resolution shall not be
imposed upon federal, state or local agency owned real
property.

Section 11. COLLECTION/COMPUTATIONS: The
county shall collect the special tax adopted herein, if
approved by popular vote, beginning with the 2005/2006
fiscal year in the same manner and subject to the same
enalty as other charges and taxes fixed and collected
y the county. The special tax shall remain in effect ad
infinitum, or until the law no longer allows, or until such

Records of the Assessor of Placer County as of
June 151h of each year shail be used to determine for the
next fiscal year the assessed valuation of all taxable real
property within the District for the purpose of imposition
and determination of tax rate and amounts pursuant to
this Resolution.

Section 12. CORRECTIONS. CANCELLATIONS
AND REFUNDS: The Board of Trustees may order the
special tax levied herein on any particular parcel of real
property to be corrected, canceled or refunded in order
to effect the provisions of this Resolution.

Section 13. ELECTION:	An	election	is	hereby

called and ordered for the purpose of submitting to the
qualified voters within the District the following measure:

"Shall Tahoe City Cemetery District be
allowed to impose a Special Tax on ail
taxable real property within the District
to provide a source of funds for the
completion and construction of capital
improvement projects and related
facilities of the District cemetery, Trails
End Cemetery, Tahoe City, California?”

Section 14. SEVERABILITY: In the event that any
provision of this Resolution shall at any time be declared
invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, or by
governmental regulation or decree, such decision shall
not invalidate the entire Resolution, it being the
expressed intention of the Board of Trustees that all of
the provisions not declared invalid shall remain in full
force and effect.

Section 15. ADOPTION: This Resolution shall take
effect as of the date of its adoption on June 28,2004. .

THE FOREGOING RESOLUTION WAS PASSED AND
ADOPTED by the Board of Trustees of Tahoe City
Cemetery District of Tahoe City, Placer County,
California, on this 28th day of June, 2004, at a meeting of
said Board of Trustees duly called and held in the district
on said day and by the following vote:

AYES:	Tippin, O Brien, Scoville

NOES:	none

ABSENT: Glazer, Rosa

TAHOE CITY CEMETERY DISTRICT
By: Robert B. Scoville

President of the Board of Trustees

ATTEST: Janice Tippin
Secretary