Shall East Palo Alto's business license tax regulations be amended to create a new category for hazardous waste disposal facilities, and to impose
thereon a 10% gross receipts tax, which shall be used for general governmental purposes such as public safety, parks and recreation, street
maintenance, senior citizen programs, and central administration; and shall expenditure limitations be modified to permit East Palo Alto to spend
such revenues?

FULLTEXT

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY

OF EAST PALO ALTO AMENDING THE BUSINESS

LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE TO CREATE A 10% GROSS

RECEIPTS TAX ON HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL

FACILITIES; AND PROVIDING FOR AN ELECTION

THEREON

Subject to the approval of the electorate, the City Council of the City of
East Palo Alto does hereby resolve as follows:

1.	The City's business fee schedule, as authorized by Title 5 of the
East Palo Alto Municipal Code, is hereby modified to create a new
business type, ‘N. Hazardous Waste Disposal Facilities,’ on which
there is hereby imposed a tax of 10% on all gross receipts generated
by each such facility. Licensees paying over $1,000 per calendar
year in utility users taxes are entitled to a credit of utility users taxes
over $1,000 but not more than $10,000 towards the business license
fee/tax in Category N.

2.	‘Category N’ includes, and shall apply to, every person, business,
company or corporation operating an offsite, multi-user hazardous
waste treatment facility located within the City of East Palo Alto.
Each such facility shall pay said 10% tax on annual gross receipts
for the treatment, storage, recycling or disposal of hazardous waste
at the facility. The tax set forth in this Resolution shall be collected
by the methods set forth in the East Palo Alto Municipal Code.

3.	There is hereby submitted to the voters of the City of East Palo Alto
the following question:

‘Shall East Palo Alto's business license tax YES

regulations be amended to create a new category _

for hazardous waste disposal facilities, and to
impose thereon a 10% gross receipts tax, which
shall be used for general governmental purposes
such as public safety, parks and recreation, street
maintenance, senior citizen programs, and central
administration; and shall expenditure limitations be
modified to permit East Palo Alto to spend such
revenues?

4.	Expenditure limitations, imposed by California Constitution Article
XIIIB (“Gann Initiative”), are hereby modified to allow the City of
East Palo Alto to appropriate and expend such revenues associated
with such hazardous waste facility business license taxes.

5.	This Resolution, being for the enactment and imposition of a
general tax, shall be submitted to a vote of the people at the general
municipal election scheduled for November 2, 2004. This
Resolution shall become valid and binding if a majority of the
voters voting thereon vote in its favor at said election and the results
thereof are certified by the City Council.

6.	City Council hereby finds and determines this proposed Resolution,
being for the enactment and imposition of a general tax, is not a
“project” under the California Environmental Quality Act,
(CEQA), Section 15378(b)(4) of the CEQA Guidelines, in that a

“project” does not include the creation of government funding
mechanisms or other government fiscal activities which do not
involve any commitment to any specific project which may result
in a potentially significant physical impact on the environment, and
therefore it is not subject to environmental review under CEQA. In
the alternative, the City Council finds and determines that even if
this proposed Resolution were a “project” it would be categorically
exempt pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act,
(CEQA), Section 15273 of the CEQA Guidelines, in that CEQA
does not apply to the establishment, modification, structuring,
re-structuring, for approval of rates, tolls, fares, and other charges
by public agencies which the public agency finds are for the
purpose of:	(1)	meeting	operating	expenses;	(2)	purchasing

supplies; (3) meeting financial reserve needs; and (4) obtaining
funds for capital projects.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE R

This measure, if adopted by a simple majority of voters voting on the
measure, would accomplish the following:

•	This measure would create a new classification for ‘Hazardous
Waste Disposal Facilities’ and require such facilities to pay a
business license tax of 10% of gross receipts; and

•	This measure would apply to a business which treats, stores,
recycles or disposes of hazardous waste at a facility in
East Palo Alto.

Hazardous waste disposal facilities are currently classified as
manufacturing or processing enterprises, under the City’s business license
tax regulations, paying $1.00 for every $1,000 of gross receipts up to
$10 million and $.50 for every $1,000 over $10 million. Approximately
11 businesses in East Palo Alto are classified as manufacturers or
processors.

At the present time only one business would be affected by this
measure, but it would apply to any similar business or facility permitted to
dispose of hazardous waste.

The revenue from this measure would go into the City’s General Fund,
which means such revenue could be used for any municipal purpose, as
determined by the city council, such as public safety or law enforcement,
parks, recreation, streets, administration and the like.

An administrative appeal procedure is available to challenge the tax
determined in any particular case.

If adopted, this measure would go into effect immediately.

/s/ Michael S. Lawson	August 10, 2004

City Attorney, City of East Palo Alto

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R

VOTE YES ON MEASURE R
A TAX ON ROMIC IS ONLY FAIR:

Located in East Palo Alto, Romic processes hazardous materials. In this
process, toxic and cancer causing chemicals are released into East Palo
Alto’s air and they contaminate East Palo Alto’s water and ground. Romic
makes a profit from handling these materials but the residents of East Palo
Alto only get an increase in health risks.

The new Hazardous Business License Fee, Measure R will add a
considerable sum of money (estimated as between $1-2 Million) to the
City’s coffers. This tax will help offset the potential damage to the quality
of life to our families by allowing the City to increase other services to our
residents, such as after school and youth development programs, programs
for seniors, crime prevention and eradication programs, affordable housing
programs.

The tax would apply to businesses such as Romic that process hazardous
materials. The City of East Palo Alto is the only City within the County of
San Mateo that houses a plant that processes and stores waste solvents,
antifreeze, contaminated wastewater, paints and used oil filters.
Approximately forty-five percent of its business is industrial solvents,
which can be volatile, flammable or dangerous in a variety of ways.

A VOTE FOR THE HAZARDOUS BUSINESS LICENSE FEE IS ONLY
FAIR: if Romic and other hazardous waste businesses make a profit that
results in an increase in risk to the health of our families, then they should
compensate our residents for that risk in the form of a tax. Measure R will
acknowledge the risks that residents face having businesses handling
chemicals that are hazardous to peoples’ health located in close proximity
to their neighborhoods.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE R

Isl Donna Rutherford

Mayor

Isl David E. Woods

Vice-Mayor

Isl Patricia Foster

Council Member

Isl Duane Bay

Council Member

Isl Ruben Abrica

Former Council Member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R

The question to ask the council members is “WHY they didn’t act
responsibly in the first place, rather than relying on smoke and mirrors to
balance the budget?”

East Palo Alto voters have a right to know. After all, whether Measure R
passes or not, East Palo Alto’s residents will still be stuck with a two
million dollar deficit.

Why? Measure R is poorly written, won’t stand up to the simplest
compliance test, and is unenforceable.

Look it up. Hazardous waste disposal facilities are landfills, pure and
simple. But Romic, the intended target of the Council, isn’t a landfill, it’s a
recycling facility. And to encourage recycling, the state exempted recycling
facilities from taxation.

Even if the voters pass this measure, all that will happen is to introduce the
term landfill as a new use category for purposes of taxation. The only
problem, there are NO landfills in East Palo Alto. No waste is ever stored
permanently at Romic and the materials involved are recycled there and
then sent away from town.

Council members know that the language in the ballot measure is what the
law will recognize and it defines the tax as applying to “hazardous waste
disposal” facilities, not recycling operations. So, why play games with us?

Do the incumbents have any idea what they actually signed? Do they care?
If it passes, it’s your tax dollars that will be used to defend this flawed
measure, not yours. Vote “no” on Measure R and save yourself the cost of
defending it.

/s/ William Morton	August	23,	2004

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE R

The current City Council members are playing games with East Palo Alto
voters.

Rather than making the difficult choices required to balance the City’s
budget, the incumbent City Council, the City Manager and the Finance
Director are trying to hide a $2 million election year deficit so voters don’t
realize the council members seeking reelection have messed up the City
budget.

Passing this 12,000 percent tax increase will not balance the City’s budget.
In fact, passing this tax increase only will result in the City spending more
money in court trying to defend yet another poorly worded tax that violates
state law.

Though the specific state law was presented during City Council meetings,
the council repeatedly ignored that State Law exempts taxing recycled
hazardous waste, under State Health and Safety Code section
25173.5(b)(2).

State law says “A city or county shall not impose a tax or a user fee adopted
pursuant to subdivision (a) upon any of the following:

(1)	An existing hazardous waste facility for which a tax is authorized
pursuant to Section 25149.5.

(2)	That portion of the gross receipts of the hazardous waste facility
that derives from the recycling of hazardous wastes.”

You can review this state law text on the California Government website by
typing www.leginfo.ca.gov into your computer internet browser, and
reviewing the Health and Safety Code.

The City lost the Cole case. The City lost the Utility Tax case. And, the
City has no grounds to believe passing this tax will balance the budget. It’s
a loser. Vote no and save our city budget from thousands of throwaway
dollars spent on legal fees to defend another bad decision that will be
overturned in court.

And, call the City Council members to ask them where they plan to get
$2 million to balance the budget.

/s/ William Morton Sr.	August	13,	2004

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE R

East Palo Alto’s health is worth the fight!

Romic handles and processes dangerous chemicals and substances. Many
chemicals and substances have not been fully tested to measure their
impact on humans and the environment. Romic has released dangerous and
cancer-causing chemicals into the air we breathe including
DICHLOROMETHANE. Romic has also released ferri-cyanide and
nitrosodimethalyne numerous times into our sewage system. Romic has
had two small fires and willfully endangered one of its workers who is now
permanently brain damaged as a result. East Palo Alto residents suffer the
consequences for their mess-ups.

One recent survey has shown that residents of East Palo Alto have
significantly higher cancer rates than residents of San Mateo County; also,
16.6% of the people in East Palo Alto have asthma compared to 6.7% of
people in San Mateo County. Because Romic does not have an
Environmental Impact Report, we have no idea exactly how they affect our
community. But we do know that the substances they work with are
dangerous to our health. And we do know there are a large number of
residents with cancer, children with asthma, and people in East Palo Alto
who are sick. Romic’s operations could very well be part of the cause for
these conditions.

Romic impacts our community’s health more significantly than any other
business in East Palo Alto. Measure R would not fix the health issues in
East Palo Alto, but it’s a step to make sure our community is compensated.

Vote YES on Measure R!

/s/	Isabel A. Loya	August 20, 2004
/s/	Re'Anita Bums	August 20, 2004
/s/	Lourdes Best	August 20, 2004
/s/	Cindy Martinez	August 22, 2004
/s/	Melvin Gaines	August 22, 2004