
<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE M

This measure proposes a 1/4 percent increase in the current sales tax rate (an in-
crease of 1/4 cent on each dollar spent on taxable items) to fund a list of local traffic
relief and transportation improvement projects.

The revenue raised from the tax would be committed to funding the following im-
provements and goals:

1)	Maintain and expand the existing transportation system, by widening High-
way 101, improving interchanges, fixing potholes and maintaining local
streets and roads, relieving traffic congestion on key corridors, completing
initial steps necessary to establish a passenger rail system, expanding the
local bus system, and building safe bike and pedestrian routes.

2)	Make the transportation system easy to use with efficient connections be-
tween buses, the future rail service, the freeway, and local roads and bike
routes.

3)	Use local revenue to become a "self-help” county and leverage state and
federal funding for transportation needs.

4)	Enhance safety in all aspects of the transportation system.

5)	Improve the mobility of all residents, especially seniors and people with dis-
abilities.

6)	Help meet the unique local transportation needs of each community in
Sonoma County.

Specific projects are listed in the Expenditure Plan adopted by the Sonoma County
Transportation Authority, which is set out in full in the voter information pamphlet.
Before any specific project could be initiated, any necessary environmental review
of the project would be completed. Estimated costs in the Expenditure Plan include
the cost of such environmental review.

The California Constitution requires any agency that spends tax revenue to estab-
lish a “spending limit,” which restricts the amount of revenue an agency can spend
over time. The ordinance establishes an initial annual spending limit of $30 million
for the Authority. The ordinance also specifies that the Authority may issue bonds,
to be repaid by future tax revenue, to expedite completion of projects listed in the
Expenditure Plan.

The tax would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as current
sales tax. Collection would begin on April 1,2005, and would continue for a period
of twenty (20) years. The tax will only be imposed if it is approved by 2/3 of the voters
voting on the measure. <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> STEVEN WOODSiDE
County Counsel

By: s/ Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<fiscal> COUNTY AUDITOR’S FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT - MEASURE M

Revenues:

This measure increases the sales tax collected in Sonoma County by 1/4 of one
percent (.25%) for twenty (20) years to fund highway improvements discussed in
the "Expenditures” section below. Currently, the sales tax in Sonoma County is
7.5%. This measure would increase the current sales tax to 7.75%. This increase
would remain in effect for no longer than twenty (20) years.

Based on current sales tax collections, historical annual growth in sales tax, and
the assumption that the tax will remain in effect for twenty (20) years, the Auditor-
Controller estimates the sales tax collected, annually, under this measure will be
approximately $17 million to $30 million.

Proceeds from this sales tax shall be deposited in a special account under the
control of the Sonoma County Transportation Authority, and shall be spent only
to implement the projects in the Expenditure Plan below. The Chief Fiscal Officer of
the Sonoma County Transportation Authority shall annually report the amount of
proceeds collected and expended.

Expenditures:

The revenues generated by this measure are available solely for traffic relief goals
and improvements set out in detail in the Expenditure Plan, and summarized below:

1)	Maintain and expand the existing transportation system by widening High-
way 101, improving interchanges, fixing potholes and maintaining local
streets and roads, relieving traffic congestion on key corridors, establishing
a passenger rail system, expanding the local bus system, and building safe
bike and pedestrian routes.

2)	Make the transportation system easy to use with' efficient connection be-
tween buses, the future rail service, the freeway, and local roads and bike
routes.

3)	Use local revenue to become a “self help" county and leverage state and
federal funding for transportation needs.

4)	Enhance safety in all aspects of the transportation system.

5)	Improve the mobility of all residents, especially seniors and people with
disabilities.

6)	Help meet the unique local transportation needs of each community in
Sonoma County.

The total transportation improvement expenditures would equal the estimated
revenue above. However, the transportation improvement expenditures could
be in excess of the estimated revenues because the Sonoma County Transporta-
tion Authority’s able to use this local revenue to obtain additional state and federal
funding.

Bonds:

This measure would authorize the Sonoma County Transportation Authority to issue
bonds to finance projects included in the Expenditure Plan summarized above. The
maximum bonded indebtedness, including issuance cost, interest, and bonding
structure costs shall not exceed the total amount of proceeds from this sales tax.

In accordance with the Elections Code, the scope of this fiscal impact analysis has
been limited to the measure’s effect on revenues and expenditures. It does not ad-
dress larger countywide fiscal issues such as the measure’s effect on the overall
County economy. <fiscalend>






<fiscalsigs> s/ Rodney A. Dole
Sonoma County Auditor-Controller <fiscalsigsend>





	
<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M  Measure M means getting Sonoma County moving!  M = local street repairs: Potholes repaired. Local streets maintained. And neigh- borhood congestion reduced.  M = widening 101: Measure M will accelerate the widening of Highway 101. More lanes means more time with our families and less time stuck on the road.  M = much, much more: New passenger rail development. Safe new bicycle and pe- destrian routes. New freeway interchanges. Improved local bus services.  M = more accountability: Every 1/4 cent raised by Measure M must be spent on these specific projects. No pet projects for politicians or developers.  M = 1/4 cent: Measure M is half the cost of what other counties have raised and spent. And it’s twice as efficient.  M = matching funds: Measure M will double our money with matching funds from the state and federal governments. That’s our money! And Measure M gets us our share!  A better local economy needs a better transportation system. And Measure M gives it to us.  Let's get Sonoma County moving. Yes on Measure M!  <favorend>





<favorsigs> SC TRANSPORTATION LAND USE COALITION S/ Raymond M. Mulas s/ George Ellman, Chair Emeritus Dairyman/Local Firefighter  si Mike Reilly s/ Bill Cogbill 5th District Supervisor Sheriff-Coroner  s/ Mari Featherstone Small Business Owner  <favorsigsend>





<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M  Proponents of this tax say, “Measure M will double our money with matching funds.” We consider this to be a lie intended to deceive the voting public. If measure M would generate $470 million over twenty years, we know of no law that would require either the state or federal government to provide Sonoma County with an extra $470 million to match it. Proponents themselves tell us that any proposition M money that would be used for local road maintenance would not be matched by the state since the state does not match local road maintenance expenditures. We have no reason to believe the $47 million that would go to subsidize the bus system would get the county an extra $47 million from the state either.  Ms. Featherstone, who signed the argument in favor of this tax, has on previous occasions spoken in favor of higher taxes and against developer fees. She likes the idea of developer fees being low and taxes being high. We suspect she is more an advocate for developer interests rather than an advocate for small business interests.  In the case of the Sheriff, Mr. Cogbill, all we have is another over-paid public official endorsing a tax increase. What does he know about the cost effectiveness of rail transportation or the soundness of increasing the bus subsidy? If the passenger rail system were completed what would the resulting cost per passenger mile be, Mr. Cogbill? What is that critical number?  <rebutfavorend>





<rebutfavorsigs> REDWOOD EMPIRE TAX COMMITTEE s/ William W. Pisenti, President	<rebutfavorsigsend>








<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M  If this quarter cent sales tax increase were approved County Supervisors say it will provide $23 million to keep the passenger rail plan alive until 2006 when they will put an additional tax measure on the ballot. This is another example of the poor judgment of our elected officials. Their rail project would be a giant money sink. It has been described as “the train to nowhere” and would provide convenient transportation to and from work for practically no-one. People who would not use a train should not be stuck paying a tax to subsidize one.  There are other reasons we ask that you vote against this tax including the fact that $47 million would go to the bus system. Buses are already heavily subsidized by tax dollars and there is no reason to ask us to pay more to increase the subsidy. If buses are so great let them pay their own way.  We expect this tax to be endorsed by the so-called “development community.” This is also suspicious. What would their motive be? Do they see this tax as a way to speed development? Are the taxpayers being asked to, in effect, subsidize growth by paying for infrastructure expansions necessary to accelerate growth?  We already pay adequate taxes for roads with gas taxes exceeding 40 cents per gallon. If the state and federal governments did not cheat us out of our fair share of this money we would have the roads and highways we deserve. Raising taxes at the local level is not an appropriate response. Our representatives in Sacramento and Washington should work more effectively to return a fair share of the gas taxes we pay to this county.  <againstend>






<againstsigs> REDWOOD EMPIRE TAX COMMITTEE s/ William W. Pisenti, President  <againstsigsend>








<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M  Measure M is a responsible, no frills plan that tackles Sonoma County’s most criti- cal transportation problems.  Unlike the transportation measures that failed in the past, Measure M commits to prudent investments in specific projects throughout the county that will ease con- gestion, improve safety and provide alternatives to those who cannot or choose not to drive cars.  Measure M means local control. Forty percent of the funds will be distributed through- out the county for street maintenance and projects to reduce accidents and im- prove traffic flow.  Another 40 percent will provide matching funds to unclog decades-old bottlenecks on Highway 101.  Measure M will also provide express bus service for commuters, additional bus service at night and transit for seniors and the disabled. These are critical services for citizens who have no alternatives.  Measure M means more choices—safe bicycle routes throughout the county and a reasonable investment in passenger rail. Taxpayers can decide later how they want to fund the regional SMART rail system.  Measure M means more return on our tax dollars. New federal and state funds will flow to Sonoma County because we will have local matching funds. Now they go to other counties that have already passed similar self-help measures.  Because it is a better plan, environmental groups, transit and bicycle advocates and others who opposed previous measures support Measure M.  The community deserves better transportation. Measure M is a responsible, no frills plan that will deliver the transportation projects we need. Join us in supporting Measure M.  <rebutagainstend>






<rebutagainstsigs> s/Steven Hood, Chief s/ Ken Wells Petaluma Police Department Bicycle Advocate  s/ Leonard Swenson s/ Jack H. Frost, Captain Retired Teacher Timber Cove Fire Department  NORTHBAY LABOR COUNCIL s/ Michael Allen, President <rebutagainstsigsend>








<full> COUNTY OF SONOMA
MEASURE M

TRAFFIC RELIEF ACT FOR SONOMA COUNTY: To

M maintain local streets, fix potholes, accelerate widening
Highway 101, improve interchanges, restore and enhance
transit, support development of passenger rail, and build
safe bike/pedestrian routes, shall the Sonoma County Transpor-
tation Authority be authorized to levy a 1/4 cent retail transactions
and use tax for a period not to exceed 20 years, spend money
raised by the tax on the projects proposed, and issue bonds to
finance the projects?

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE M
ORDINANCE NO. 2

AN ORDINANCE OF THE SONOMA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
IMPOSING A RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USETAX TO BE ADMINISTERED
BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION; ADOPTING AN EXPENDITURE
PLAN APPROVED BY THE CITIES OF SONOMA COUNTY AND THE COUNTY
OF SONOMA; ESTABLISHING AN APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT FOR THE
SONOMA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; AND AUTHORIZING
THE ISSUANCE OF BONDS TO FINANCE PROJECTS LISTED IN THE
EXPENDITURE PLAN

BACKGROUND FINDINGS.

1.	In 2000, the Sonoma County Transportation Authority initiated a public out-
reach process seeking input from the public about transportation needs throughout
Sonoma County and the nine cities. As a result of that process, the 2001
Countywide Transportation Plan was adopted. That document was updated as the
2004 Comprehensive Transportation Plan in June 2004.

2.	The 2004 Comprehensive Transportation Plan includes goals and objec-
tives for relieving traffic congestion, and a ranked list of projects needed through-
out the County. State and federal funds are inadequate to complete these projects
in a timely manner and have been an unreliable source of revenue.

3.	The Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County was developed using the 2004
Comprehensive Transportation Plan as the basis. With an established local reve-
nue source, Sonoma County will become a “self-help" county and will be able to le-
verage state and federal funding to accomplish the transportation goals set out in
the Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County and approved herewith. The Traffic Relief
Act will provide a reliable source of funding to help meet transportation needs.

In light of the above findings, in order to initiate a comprehensive, realistic
transportation plan for Sonoma County and its nine cities in the 21st Century, the
Sonoma County Transportation Authority ordains as follows:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the 2004 Sonoma
County Traffic Relief Act. The Sonoma County Transportation Authority hereinafter
shall be called “Authority.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated
and unincorporated territory of the County of Sonoma, which shall be referred to
herein as “County."

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date" means April 1,2005, which
is the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after
the election approving the adoption of this ordinance.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in or-
der to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To establish a local funding source for traffic relief goals and improvements
set out in detail in the Expenditure Plan, and summarized herein:

1)	Maintain and expand the existing transportation system, by widening High-
way 101, improving interchanges, fixing potholes and maintaining local
streets and roads, relieving traffic congestion on key corridors, establishing

a passenger rail system, expanding the local bus system, and building safe
bike and pedestrian routes.

2)	Make the transportation system easy to use with efficient connections be-
tween buses, the future rail service, the freeway, and local roads and bike
routes.

3)	Use local revenue to become a “self-help" county and leverage state and
federal funding for transportation needs.

4)	Enhance safety in all aspects of the transportation system.

5)	Improve the mobility of all residents, especially seniors and people with dis-
abilities.

6)	Help meet the unique local transportation needs of each community in
Sonoma County.

B.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provi-
sions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 180050 et seq. of the Public Utilities Code which au-
thorizes the Authority to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a
two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the impo-
sition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provi-
sions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California in-
sofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and col-
lecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be adminis-
tered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize
the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, mini-
mize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance.

F.	To adopt an expenditure plan setting forth goals and objectives related to
the movement of people and goods within and through Sonoma County, by the im-
provement and maintenance of all modes of transportation.

G.	To establish an appropriations limit for the Sonoma County Transportation
Authority.

H.	To authorize issuance of bonds to finance projects included in the expendi-
ture plan adopted as part of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the Au-
thority shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions in-
cident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the Authority shall not have contracted with the State
Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract
and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quar-
ter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorpo-
rated and unincorporated territory of the County at the rate of 'A of 1 percent
(0.25%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordi-
nance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail
sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges
are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery
is made, in the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be pre-
scribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,
use or other consumption in the District of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use
or other consumption in said territory at the rate of Va of 1 percent (0.25%) of the
sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as
otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all
of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordi-
nance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLEC-
TION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this Authority shall be substituted therefor. However, the sub-
stitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Trea-
sury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this Authority or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	in those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections re-
ferring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other con-
sumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Divi-
sion 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax
by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “County" shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of
that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to
a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS. EXCLUSIONS. AND CREDITS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or
by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or
use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such air-
craft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is shipped to a
point outside the County, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point
by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point out-
side the County shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) sub-
ject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Divi-
sion 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-County and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to fur-
nish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the op-
erative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordi-
nance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pur-
suant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the stor-
age, use or other consumption in this County of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of air-
craft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws
of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in ad-
dition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, stor-
age, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease
has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in busi-
ness in the County shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
County or participates within the County in making the sale of the property, includ-
ing, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at
a place of business of the retailer in the County or through any representative,
agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the County under the authority
of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the County’’ shall also include any
retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft li-
censed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocu-
mented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of
the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any pur-
chaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the
County.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a County im-
posing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the prop-
erty the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective
date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code re-
lating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part
1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part
1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automati-
cally become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ
of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or pro-
ceeding in any court against the State or the Authority, or against any officer of the
State or the Authority, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount
of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. ESTABLISHMENT OF APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Taking into
account the proceeds of taxes available to the Authority, including tax revenue that
would become available upon approval of this ordinance, the appropriations limit of
the Sonoma County Transportation Authority for fiscal year 2004-2005 is estab-
lished as $30 million, unless that amount should be amended pursuant to applica-
ble law.

Section 15. ADOPTION OF EXPENDITURE PLAN AND ACCOUNTABILITY
FOR EXPENDITURE OF PROCEEDS OF THE TAX. The Board hereby adopts
the Expenditure Plan attached hereto and incorporated into this ordinance by refer-
ence. Proceeds of the tax imposed by this ordinance shall be placed in a special
account, and shall be spent only to implement the projects set forth in the Expendi-
ture Plan, including planning, engineering, environmental review, and construction
of such projects.

Section 16. ESTABLISHMENT OF BONDING AUTHORITY. The Authority
is authorized to issue bonds for the purposes of advancing the commencement
of or expediting the delivery of transportation programs or projects set forth in the
Expenditure Plan. The Authority may issue limited tax bonds, from time to time,

to finance any program or project in the Plan. The maximum bonded indebted-
ness, including issuance costs, interest, reserve requirements, and insurance,
shall not exceed the total amount of the proceeds anticipated to be collected by im-
position of this transactions and use tax. All costs associated with the issuance of
such bonds shall be accounted for within the program category in which the bond
proceeds are used. The bonds shall be payable solely from the proceeds of the re-
tail transactions and use tax, and may be issued any time before expiration of the
tax.

Section 17. ANNUAL REPORT. The Chief Fiscal Officer of the Sonoma
County Transportation Authority shall annually cause to be prepared a report set-
ting forth (a) the amount of funds collected and expended; and (b) the status of any
projects authorized to be funded in the Expenditure Plan adopted by the Authority
in Section 15 herein.

Section 18. COMPLIANCE WITH CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
ACT fCEQAV Pursuant to the State CEQA Guidelines Section 15378(b)(4),
adoption of this retail transactions and use tax ordinance and Expenditure Plan is
not a "project" subject to the requirements of CEQA. Prior to commencement of
any project included in the Expenditure Plan, any necessary environmental review
required by CEQA shall be completed. Estimated costs in the Expenditure Plan in-
clude the cost of such environmental review.

Section 19. REQUEST TO CALL ELECTION. The Authority requests the
Board of Supervisors to call an election for the approval of this ordinance, consoli-
dated with the general election of November 2, 2004. The question to appear on
the ballot shall read:

TRAFFIC RELIEF ACT FOR SONOMA COUNTY: To maintain local streets,
fix potholes, accelerate widening Highway 101, improve interchanges, restore
and enhance transit, support development of passenger rail, and build safe
bike/pedestrian routes, shall the Sonoma County Transportation Authority be
authorized to levy a 1/4 cent transactions and use tax for a period not to ex-
ceed 20 years, spend money raised by the tax on the projects proposed, and
issue bonds to finance the projects?

Section20. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance orthe applica-
tion thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordi-
nance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.

Section 21. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the County transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immedi-
ately upon the close of the polls on November 2,2004, if the measure is approved
by two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure at the election held that day.

Section 22. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by
this ordinance shall expire twenty (20) years from the operative date of this ordi-
nance.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Sonoma County Transportation Authority, in
the County of Sonoma, in the State of California, on July 19,2004, by the following
vote:

AYES:	Chair	Paul	Kelley,	Vice Chair Bob Jehn, Directors; Steve Allen,

Bob Blanchard, Patricia Gilardi, Mike Kerns, Lisa Schaffner, Tim Smith, and
Vicki Vidak-Martinez

NOES:	Director	Joe Costello, and Alternate Craig Litwin

ABSENT:	Director Mike Healy

s/ Paul Kelley
SCTA Chairperson

Attest:

s/ Suzanne Wilford
Clerk of the Board <fullend>








<summary> Traffic Relief Act For
Sonoma County

Expenditure Plan

Sonoma County Transportation Authority
Approved June 28,2004

TRAFFIC RELIEF ACT
FOR SONOMA COUNTY

EXPENDITURE PLAN

Executive Summary

Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County Expenditure Plan
A 1/4 cent sales tax for 20 years, dedicated to transportation.

A.	Fix Potholes, Maintain Streets and Keep Traffic Moving - 40%

20% will fund pothole repair and street maintenance.

Jurisdiction	Population/ Road Mile Percentage	Sales Tax Funding
Cloverdale	1.2%	$ 1,090,662
Cotati	1.2%	$ 1,089,163
Healdsburg	2.2%	$ 2,033,038
Petaluma	8.9%	$ 8,329,202
Rohnert Park	6.3%	$ 5,902,766
Santa Rosa	26.8%	$ 25,180,759
Sebastopol	1.3%	$ 1,252,038
Sonoma	1.6%	$ 1,528,926
Windsor	3.8%	$ 3,527,091
Sonoma County	46.9%	$ 44,066,353
Estimated Total	100.0%	$ 94,000,000

20% will fund safety projects, relieve traffic and fix bottlenecks.

Project	Sales Tax Money To Be Used for Match		Developer Fees & Gas Tax Money	
Penngrove Improvements, including Rail Road Interchange	$	19,000,000	$	19,000,000
Fulton Road Improvements and Interchange at Route 12	$	19,000,000	$	19,000,000
Airport Blvd Improvements and Interchange at Hwy 101	$	15,000,000	$	15,000,000
Old Redwood Hwy Interchange	$	10,000,000	$	10,000,000
Farmers Lane Extension	$	10,000,000	$	10,000,000
Hearn Avenue Interchange	$	9,000,000	$	9,000,000
Route 121/116 & Arnold Drive	$	7,000,000	$	7,000,000
Forestville Bypass	$	2,000,000	$	2,000,000
Bodega Highway	$	1,000,000	$	1,000,000
River Road	$	1,000,000	$	1,000,000
Mark West Springs Road	$	1,000,000	$	1,000,000
Estimated Total	$	94,000,000	$	94,000,000

B.	Highway 101 Improvements - 40%

Provide matching funds to complete widening from the county line to Windsor.

Project	Sales Tax Money To Be Used for Match		State & Federal Gas Tax Money	
Rohnert Park Area	$	40,000,000	-	
Santa Rosa to Windsor	$	50,000,000	$	55,000,000
Petaluma to Rohnert Park	$	50,000,000	$	55,000,000
Petaluma Area	$	25,000,000	$	50,000,000
South of Petaluma	$	10,000,000	$	115,000,000
Design, Plans & Financing	$	13,000,000	$	12,000,000
Estimated Total	$	188,000,000	$	287,000,000

C.	Bus, Rail and Bicycle & Pedestrian -19%

Bus Service - $47,000,000: more service throughout county including ex-
press bus, evening service and transit for seniors and disabled.

Passenger Rail - $23,000,000: Develop station sites, improve rail crossings
on local roads, final engineering.

Provide safe bike routes throughout the cities and County - $19,000,000.

One percent of the revenue is allocated for administration, project management
and audits.

I.	TRANSPORTATION VISION

Through a public process involving the cities, Sonoma County, Caltrans and mem-
bers of the public, the Sonoma County Transportation Authority has developed a
transportation strategy for our county. The key components include:

•	Maintain and expand our existing transportation system:

0 Widen Highway 101,

0 Improve interchanges,

° Fix potholes and maintain local streets and roads,

° Relieve traffic congestion on key corridors,

° Establish a passenger rail system,

° Expand the local bus system, and
° Build safe bike and pedestrian routes

•	Make the transportation system easy to use with efficient connections
between buses, the future passenger rail service, the freeway, and local
roads and bike routes.

•	Use local money to become a "self-help” county and leverage state and
federal funding for transportation needs.

•	Enhance safety in all aspects of the transportation system.

•	Improve the mobility of all residents, especially seniors and people with
disabilities.

•	Help meet the unique local transportation needs of each community in
Sonoma County.

These broad themes have been translated into specific programs and projects to
create the Traffic Congestion Relief Act for Sonoma County.

II.	EXPENDITURE PLAN SUMMARY
Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County

The Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County provides for investment in three pro-
gram categories. Each program category will receive a percentage share of
sales tax revenues, currently estimated at $470 million (in 2004 dollars) over a
20-year period.

Program Category	Percent	Share 20-Year Estimated Revenue

1.	Local Streets & Roads	40%	$188 Million
2.	Highway 101	40%	$188 Million
3.	Transit, Passenger Rail, Bikes	19%	$ 89 Million

One percent of the revenue is allocated for administration, project management
and audits.

Detail on the specific projects within each program category is provided in the Pro-
ject Description section of this document. A summary chart with projects and pro-
grams is attached to this plan as Appendix A.

Oversight and Administration

The implementation of the Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County will be the respon-
sibility of the Sonoma County Transportation Authority. The SCTA is composed of
twelve elected officials: a representative from each of the nine cities in Sonoma
County and three members of the Sonoma County Board of Supervisors.

The SCTA will be responsible for developing and updating a strategic plan to guide
allocation decisions and project delivery. The SCTA will develop the initial strategic
plan by July 1,2005, and prepare and update it at least every five years during the
term of the plan.

The Citizens Advisory Committee established under the original ordinance that
created the SCTA will serve as an independent oversight body that will advise the
SCTA on the administration of the Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County and report
to the public via annual audits of the Act.

The SCTA will work closely and cooperatively with the California Department of
Transportation (Caltrans) and the Metropolitan Transportation Commission (MTC)
on programming state and federal grants to match funding from the Traffic Relief
Act for Sonoma County for programs and projects. These partnerships will help to
maximize the state and federal funds that can be leveraged with a local source of
funds and to deliver projects in a timely manner.

III.	GOALS AND OBJECTIVES

The programs and projects contained in the Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County
are based upon the 2004 Comprehensive Transportation Plan developed by the
Sonoma County Transportation Authority. The 2004 Comprehensive Transporta-
tion Plan identifies goals related to the movement of people and goods through the
improvement and maintenance of all modes of transportation. These goals are fur-
ther supported by specific objectives for different geographic areas of the County.
These goals and objectives are reflective of public feedback heard in workshops
and at outreach events throughout the County. Taken together, these goals and
objectives create the strategy through which Sonoma County can shape its trans-
portation future. A complete list of the goals and objectives is attached to this plan
as Appendix B.

IV.	PROJECT DESCRIPTIONS

The Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County has three program categories that have
been divided into specific projects. The expenditure plan calls for a specific percen-
tage of revenue to be allocated to each of the categories and the funding then dis-
tributed to the proposed list of projects. The lists below do not reflect priority order.

A.	Local Streets & Roads - Pothole Repair & Congestion Relief

Fixing potholes and maintaining local streets and roads is a central focus
of the Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County. Approximately $94 million (or
20% of the sales tax revenue) will be used by cities and the County to fix
existing roads and keep them maintained. All projects will take into con-
sideration bicycle and pedestrian needs, traffic calming, intelligent trans-
portation system technology and system implementation, and appropriate
safety measures. These components of a road project are eligible for
sales tax revenue. Below is a chart that shows how much each jurisdiction
can anticipate receiving from the Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County.

Jurisdiction	Population/Road Mile Percentage	Estimated  Funding	
Cloverdale	1.2%	$	1,090,662
Cotati	1.2%	$	1,089,163
Healdsburg	2.2%	$	2,033,038
Petaluma	8.9%	$	8,329,202
Rohnert Park	6.3%	$	5,902,766
Santa Rosa	26.8%	$	25,180,759
Sebastopol	1.3%	$	1,252,038
Sonoma	1.6%	$	1,528,926
Windsor	3.8%	$	3,527,091
Sonoma County	46.9%	$	44,066,353
Total	100.0%	$	94,000,000

In addition to maintaining local roads the Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma
County will provide approximately $94 million (or 20% of the sales tax reve-
nue) for traffic congestion relief projects. The following projects have been
identified as high priority needs but they are not listed in priority order. All of
these projects will require environmental review, engineering and matching
funds before they can be constructed. All projects will take into consider-
ation bicycle and pedestrian needs, traffic calming, intelligent transportation
system technology and system implementation, and appropriate safety
measures. These components of a road project are eligible for sales tax rev-
enue.

1.	Penngrove Improvements including Railroad Avenue Interchange
Estimated Total Cost: $38,000,000

Estimated Sales Tax Share: $19,000,000
Implementing Agency: County of Sonoma, Caltrans and SCTA
Project Description: This project will include providing access to High-
way 101 at Railroad Avenue. The project will improve circulation and
access, while also relieving congestion in the Penngrove area.

2.	Airport Blvd. Improvements & Airport Blvd. Interchange
Estimated Total Cost: $30,000,000

Estimated Sales Tax Share: $15,000,000
Implementing Agency: County of Sonoma, Caltrans and SCTA
Project Description: This project will signalize and widen Airport Blvd.
from Sonoma County Airport over Highway 101 to Old Redwood Highway.
The project would also extend Brickway from Laughlin Road to River
Road as a congestion relief measure for the Airport Blvd. interchange.

3.	Highway 121/116 Intersection Improvements & Arnold Drive
Improvements

Estimated Total Cost: $14,000,000
Estimated Sales Tax Share: $7,000,000
Implementing Agency: County of Sonoma and Caltrans
Project Description: This project would remove a right turn lane and
install a traffic signal at the intersection of Highway 121 and 116. The project would relocate the park and ride lot, replace the Yellow Creek Bridge, and widen the roadway to allow for turn lanes into and out of existing commercial uses. The capacity of the park and ride lot would be increas- ed from 47 spaces to 94 parking spaces. The Arnold Drive improve- ments would include adding traffic signals and center turn lanes at vari- ous locations. This project is both a congestion relief and safety project.  4.	Fulton Road Improvements and Fulton Road Interchange at Route 12 Estimated Total Cost: $38,000,000  Estimated Sales Tax Share: $19,000,000  Implementing Agency: County of Sonoma, City of Santa Rosa and  Caltrans  Project Description: This project would add turn lanes and one through lane in each direction on Fulton Road and would build an inter- change at Highway 12 and Fulton Road.  5.	Forestville Bypass Estimated Total Cost: $4,000,000 Estimated Sales Tax Share: $2,000,000 Implementing Agency: County of Sonoma and Caltrans  Project Description: This project would realign an "S" curve on High- way 116 and construct minor widening and signalization at the intersec- tions of Highway 116/Packing House and Highway 116/Mirabel. The project would relieve congestion through downtown Forestville and im- prove safety.  6.	Old Redwood Highway Interchange in Petaluma Estimated Total Cost: $20,000,000 Estimated Sales Tax Share: $10,000,000 Implementing Agency: City of Petaluma, Caltrans and SCTA Project Description: This project would construct a replacement inter- change for the Old Redwood Highway/101 interchange with wider ramps, wider over-crossing, and better signalization. This project is both a safety and congestion relief project.  7.	Hearn Avenue Interchange Improvements in Santa Rosa Estimated Total Cost: $18,000,000  Estimated Sales Tax Share: $9,000,000 Implementing Agency: City of Santa Rosa, Caltrans and SCTA Project Description: This project would widen the Hearn Avenue Bridge; add turn lanes and widen the Santa Rosa Avenue approaches to the Hearn interchange and realign the ramps on the west side of the interchange.  8.	Farmers Lane Extension Estimated Total Cost: $20,000,000 Estimated Sales Tax Share: $10,000,000 Implementing Agency: City of Santa Rosa  Project Description: This project would extend Farmers Lane from Bellevue Avenue to Petaluma Hill Road and would relieve congestion on all adjacent arterials as well as provide additional east-west access through Santa Rosa.  9.	Bodega Highway Improvements west of Sebastopol Estimated Total Cost: $2,000,000  Estimated Sales Tax Share: $1,000,000 Implementing Agency: County of Sonoma Project Description: This project would straighten curves near Occi- dental and add turn pockets where needed. This is a safety project.  10.	Mark West Springs Road in northeast Sonoma County Estimated Total Cost: $2,000,000  Estimated Sales Tax Share: $1,000,000 Implementing Agency: County of Sonoma Project Description: This project would add shoulders and turn pock- ets on Mark West Springs Road.	11. River Road Improvements Estimated Total Cost: $2,000,000 Estimated Sales Tax Share: $1,000,000 Implementing Agency: County of Sonoma Project Description: This project would straighten a curve west of Mirabel Road near Guerneville, add shoulders and add turn pockets.  B. Highway 101  Widening Highway 101 to three lanes in each direction will require help from state and federal sources. With local tax revenue, Sonoma County will be- come a ‘‘self-help” county and Sonoma County Transportation Authority will be able to leverage more state and federal money and build the Highway 101 projects much more quickly. All projects will take into consideration bicycle and pedestrian needs, traffic calming, intelligent transportation system technology and system implementation, and appropriate safety measures. These components of a highway project are eligible for sales tax revenue.  1.	Rohnert Park - Santa Rosa Avenue to Rohnert Park Expressway Estimated Total Cost: $40,000,000  Estimated Sales Tax Share: $40,000,000  Implementing Agency: Caltrans and SCTA  Project Description: This project would add one carpool lane in each  direction through Rohnert Park and includes the re-construction of the  Wilfred Avenue Interchange and the local roadways in the interchange  area.  2.	Old Redwood Highway in Petaluma to Rohnert Park Expressway Estimated Total Cost: $105,000,000  Estimated Sales Tax Share: $50,000,000 Implementing Agency: Caltrans and SCTA '  Project Description: This project would add one carpool lane in each direction between Petaluma and Rohnert Park and a northbound truck-climbing lane between Petaluma and Cotati. The sales tax dollars will be used to accelerate project engineering, purchase right of way, and leverage state and federal revenues to construct the project.  3.	Steele Lane in Santa Rosa to Windsor River Road in Windsor Estimated Total Cost: $105,000,000  Estimated Sales Tax Share: $50,000,000 Implementing Agency: Caltrans and SCTA Project Description: This project would add one carpool lane in each direction between Steele Lane in Santa Rosa and Windsor River Road in Windsor. It would also improve the on ramps and off ramps and add deceleration and acceleration lanes where needed. The sales tax dol- lars will be used to accelerate project engineering, purchase right of way, and leverage state and federal revenues to construct the project.  4.	Petaluma - Petaluma River Bridge to Old Redwood Highway Estimated Total Cost: $50,000,000  Estimated Sales Tax Share: $25,000,000 Implementing Agency: Caltrans and the SCTA Project Description: This project would add one carpool lane in each direction through Petaluma. It would also improve the on ramps and off ramps and add deceleration and acceleration lanes where warranted. The sales tax dollars will be used to accelerate project engineering, pur- chase right of way, and leverage state and federal revenues to con- struct the project.  5.	Petaluma River Bridge to Sonoma County Line Estimated Total Cost: $125,000,000 Estimated Sales Tax Share: $10,000,000 Implementing Agency: Caltrans and SCTA  Project Description: This project would add one carpool lane in each direction, improve safety at numerous access points, rebuild the Petaluma River Bridge and provide traffic congestion relief. The sales tax dollars will be used to accelerate project engineering, purchase right of way, and leverage state and federal revenues to construct the
project.

6. Design, Project Development and Financing Costs
Estimated Total Cost: $25,000,000
Estimated Sales Tax Share: $13,000,000
Implementing Agency: Caltrans and SCTA
Project Description: This category of funding would allow the SCTA to
contract with private firms to design and develop projects including en-
gineering and environmental work. This would accelerate the delivery
of projects and avoid having to rely on the state budget to provide the
needed design resources. The SCTA and Caltrans would conduct
oversight. It is anticipated bonds would be used to accelerate Highway
101 projects and the costs associated with doing that would be ac-
counted for in this category.

C.	Local Transit, Passenger Rail & Bicycle/Pedestrian Routes

Restoring and enhancing local bus service, completing the initial steps nec-
essary to develop a passenger rail system and providing safe bicycle and
pedestrian routes make up the third program category in the Traffic Relief
Act for Sonoma County. Approximately $89 million (or 19% of sales tax rev-
enue) is dedicated to this effort.

Below is a table showing the distribution of revenue to the local transit oper-
ators. This formula is in keeping with the TDA population formula currently in
use. Transit operators will use the sales tax funds for such things as express
bus service, later evening service, enhanced services for the elderly and
disabled and other transit opportunities that may arise.

Transit Operator	Estimated Funding	
Sonoma County Transit	$	24,950,971
Santa Rosa CityBus	$	15,373,579
Petaluma Transit	$	5,572,301
Healdsburg Transit	$	1,139,336

The Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District (SMART) will use approxi-
mately $23 million (or 5% of the sales tax revenue) to complete initial steps
that will accelerate the development of passenger rail service for Sonoma
and Marin Counties. The work will include obtaining final environmental
clearance, final engineering, grade crossing improvements on local road-
ways and station site development in Sonoma County. These funds will be
made available to SMART in the first three years of the sales tax to allow
SMART to continue to move forward on the project, in anticipation of a
SMART District ballot measure in 2006 that will provide full funding for the
operation of rail service.

Approximately $19 million (or 4% of the sales tax revenue) will be used to
build new bicycle and pedestrian routes that will increase overall safety,
close gaps in existing routes and provide safe routes to schools and to tran-
sit. Bike safety programs focused on educating the public and, in particular,
school children, will be eligible to receive sales tax funds. In addition, there
will be numerous local road improvement projects that will include bicycle
lanes.

The following projects have been identified as high priority needs but they
are not listed in priority order.

1.	Santa Rosa Creek Trail
Sales Tax: $1,450,000
Implementing Agency: City of Santa Rosa
Project Description: Close gaps along the Santa Rosa Creek Trail in
Santa Rosa. This will create an east-west connection through central
Santa Rosa.

2.	Old Redwood Highway/Mendocino Avenue/Santa Rosa Avenue
Corridor Project

Sales Tax: $500,000

Implementing Agency: City of Santa Rosa

Project Description: Creates a safer north-south bike route through

central Santa Rosa.

3.	Central Sonoma Valley Trail - Hwy 12 alternative route
Sales Tax: $1,900,000

Implementing Agency: Sonoma County (Public Works & Regional Parks)
Project Description: Creates a safe route for pedestrians and bicy-
clists between Verano Avenue and Agua Caliente Road. There is cur-
rently no alternative through route to Highway 12, forcing pedestrians
and bicyclists to use the shoulder of Hwy 12 for such destinations as
Flowery School, Larson Park, La Luz Community Center, Maxwell Farms
Park and the Boys and Girls Club.

4.	Sonoma/Schellville-alongNWP Right-of-Way- Hwy 121 to Lovall
Valley Road

Sales Tax: $650,000

Implementing Agency: Sonoma County (Regional Parks)

Project Description: Class 1 path would connect Hwy 121 to City of
Sonoma Class 1 path through town.

5.	Arnold Drive from Altimira Middle School to Hwy 12
Sales Tax: $2,000,000

Implementing Agency: Sonoma County (Public Works)

Project Description: Build shoulders on Arnold Drive just north of mid-
dle school to add bike lanes, through Sonoma Developmental Center
and Glen Ellen to Hwy 12. This would continue the existing bike lane on
Arnold Drive at Petaluma Avenue.

6.	Petaluma River Trail Enhancement
Sales Tax: $2,000,000
Implementing Agency: City of Petaluma

Project Description: Create a bicycle and pedestrian pathway along
Petaluma River connecting east side of town to new shopping, new
housing and theater district downtown.

7.	Copeland Creek/Laguna Trail - Redwood Drive to RP Expressway
Sales Tax: $350,000

Implementing Agency: City of Rohnert Park
Project Description: Make the existing path along Copeland Creek
and Laguna de Santa Rosa from Redwood to Hinebaugh Creek (at
Rohnert Park Expressway) useable for pedestrians and bicyclists.

8.	Street Smart Sebastopol - enhanced bike & pedestrian access
through downtown

Sales Tax: $2,000,000

Implementing Agency: City of Sebastopol

Project Description: This project includes closing gaps in sidewalks,

adding bike routes, placing directional signs, building transit shelters

and other related items within Sebastopol.

9.	West County Trail - Hwy 116 to Steelhead Beach
Sales Tax: $500,000

Implementing Agency: Sonoma County (Public Works)

Project Description: This is the last segment of the West County Trail.

10.	McCray Road bike lane from Cloverdale city limits to River Park
Sales Tax: $250,000

Implementing Agency: Sonoma County
Project Description: Create safe passage to the River Park from exist-
ing Cloverdale bike lanes.

11.	Healdsburg Foss Creek Trail on NWP Right-of-Way
Sales Tax: $3,250,000

Implementing Agency: City of Healdsburg

Project Description: Create a continuous paved pedestrian and bicy-
cle facility (Class 1 and 2) between the City's northern and southern city
limits. The path is along Foss Creek and the NWP rail line in places.

12.	Northwestern Pacific Railroad Bicycle Trail
Sales Tax: $1,000,000

Implementing Agency: SMART and local jurisdictions
Project Description: Work with SMART to build a north-south bike
path parallel to the Northwestern Pacific railroad track throughout
Sonoma County.

13.	Access Across Highway 101 at Various Locations
Sales Tax: $1,000,000

Implementing Agency: Caltrans and local jurisdictions

Project Description: Identify- key east-west access points across

Highway 101.

14.	Highway 1 in Bodega Bay-Salmon Creek to Doran Beach Road
Sales Tax: $950,000

Implementing Agency: Caltrans and Sonoma County
Project Description: On and offroad bike route along the coast to pro-
vide safe passage for locals and through traffic.

V.	IMPLEMENTATION GUIDELINES

A.	The duration of the tax will be 20 years, beginning on April 1,2005 and expir-
ing on March 31,2025.

B.	Environmental reporting, review and approval procedures as provided for
under the National Environmental Policy Act, the California Environmental
Quality Act, or other applicable laws will be adhered to as a prerequisite to
the implementation of any project.

C.	Use of the retail transactions and use tax underthis Transportation Expendi-
ture Plan will be subject to the following restrictions:

1.	The tax proceeds must be spent for the purposes of funding the trans-
portation programs and projects as allowed in the Traffic Relief Act for
Sonoma County and may not be used for other purposes.

2.	Consistent with California Public Utilities Code Section 180200, the
SCTA intends that the additional funds provided governmental agen-
cies by the T raffic Relief Act for Sonoma County shall supplement exist-
ing local revenues being used for public transportation purposes and
that local jurisdictions maintain their existing commitment of local funds
for transportation purposes.

3.	The SCTA is charged with a fiduciary duty in administering the tax pro-
ceeds in accordance with the applicable laws and this Traffic Relief Act
for Sonoma County. Receipt of tax proceeds may be subject to appro-
priate terms and conditions as determined by the SCTA in its reason-
able discretion, including, but not limited to, the right to require
recipients to execute funding agreements and the right to audit recipi-
ents’ use of the tax proceeds.

D.	Actual tax proceeds may be higher or lower than estimated in this Traffic Re-
lief Act for Sonoma County over the 20-year term. The Traffic Relief Act for
Sonoma County expenditure plan is based on the percentage distributions
to each Program Category and Project and the dollar values included are
estimates only. Actual tax proceeds will be programmed annually in accor-
dance with the percentage distributions in the Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma
County expenditure plan.

E.	The Sonoma County Transportation Authority will prepare a Strategic Plan
prior to July 1,2005, which will identify funding prioritization criteria consis-
tent with the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive Transportation
Plan, developed by the SCTA and periodically updated, and the Traffic Re-
lief Act for Sonoma County expenditure plan. The Strategic Plan will include

general procedures for project sponsors to initiate a project and identify an
implementation schedule and the programming of funds for each listed pro-
ject. The Strategic Plan will include the evaluation criteria for prioritization of
projects and for reallocation of tax proceeds that become available pursuant
to Section V-F below. The Strategic Plan will be updated at least every five
years during the term of the Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County.

F.	The ability to fully fund or complete all programs or projects in this Traffic Re-
lief Act for Sonoma County expenditure plan may be impacted by changing
circumstances over the duration of the tax. Tax proceeds originally allo-
cated to a listed project may become available for reallocation due to any of
the following reasons:

1.	A listed project is completed under budget;

2.	A listed project is partially or fully funded by funding sources other than
tax proceeds;

3.	A project sponsor and implementing agency request deletion of a listed
project because of unavailability of matching funds;

4.	A listed project cannot be completed due to an infeasible design, con-
struction limitation or substantial failure to meet specified implementa-
tion milestones.

Upon a finding that tax proceeds are available for reallocation due to one of
the conditions above, the SCTA may reallocate such tax proceeds subject
to the following guidelines:

1.	Available tax proceeds can be reallocated only to project(s) within the
same Program Category as the original listed project.

2.	Reallocation of tax proceeds within a Program Category will be based
on criteria specified in the Strategic Plan, which may include impact on
congestion, cost-effectiveness, availability of matching funds, project
readiness and schedule adherence as determined by the SCTA.

G.	The SCTA is authorized to bond for the purposes of advancing the com-
mencement of or expediting the delivery of transportation programs or pro-
jects. The SCTA may issue limited tax bonds, from time to time, to finance
any program or project in the Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County as al-
lowed by applicable law and as approved by the SCTA, and the maximum
bonded indebtedness shall not exceed the total amount of proceeds of this
retail transactions and use tax, estimated to be $470 million in 2004 dollars.
All costs associated with the issuance of bonds, including debt service pay-
ments, issuance costs, interest, reserve requirements, and insurance shall
be accounted for within that program category in which the bond proceeds
were used. Such bonds will be payable solely from the proceeds of the retail
transactions and use tax and may be issued any time before expiration of
the tax.

		
						
		Appendix A - Program Summary Chart				
Traffic Relief Act For Sonoma County - EXPENDITURE PLAN  A 1/4 Cent Sales Tax for 20 Years						
The Traffic Relief Act For Sonoma County contains three transportation program categories providing a balanced approach to meeting the mobility needs of Sonoma County. This summary lists the three program categories along with the major projects within each category. The percentage distribution of sales tax fund- ing for each program category and project is listed along with the estimated amount of other funding needed from state and federal sources over a twenty-year period. Prior to implementation of any project included in the Traffic Relief Act for Sonoma County, any necessary environmental review required by the California Environmental Quality Act shall be completed. The estimated total cost includes the cost of environmental review. The Traffic Relief Act is the first of a two-phase funding approach for transportation. Phase two will be a 1/4 cent sales tax proposal by SMART to fully fund a passenger rail system.						
			Percentage Share of Sales Tax Revenue	Estimated Sales Tax Funding by Program/Project	. Estimated State/Federal/Other Funding	
A.	Local Streets & Roads - Pothole Repair & Congestion Relief		Over a 20 Year Period (Using 2004 Dollars & Data)			
	1	Annually, 20% of the total sales tax revenue will be allocated to the nine cities and Sonoma County for the maintenance of local streets and roads based on a 50% population/50% road mile formula as shown below. Formula will be updated annually.	20.0%	$ 94,000,000	$ 263,000,000	
		Cloverdale	1.2%	$ 1,090,662	$ 3,051,326	
		Cotati	1.2%	$ 1,089,163	$ 3,047,118	
		Healdsburg	2.2%	$ 2,033,038	$ 5,688,164	
		Petaluma	8.9%	$ 8,329,202	$ 23,303,904	
		Rohnert Park	6.3%	$ 5,902,766	$ 16,515,348	
		Santa Rosa	26.8%	$ 25,180,759	$ 70,452,440	
		Sebastopol	1.3%	$ 1,252,038	$ 3,503,160	
		Sonoma	1.6%	$ 1,528,926	$ 4,277,958	
		Windsor	3.8%	$ 3,527,091	$ 9,868,286	
		Sonoma County	46.9%	$ 44,066,353	$ 123,291,770	
	T	Local road improvement projects to address congestion and safety such as:	20.0%	$ 94,000,000	$ 94,000,000	
		Penngrove improvements including Railroad Avenue Interchange	20.2%	$ 19,000,000	$ 19,000,000	
		Airport Blvd. improvements including Airport Interchange	16.0%	$ 15,000,000	$ 15,000,000	
		Route 121 and 116 intersection and Arnold Drive improvements	7.4%	$ 7,000,000	$ 7,000,000	
		Fulton Road improvements and Fulton Interchange at Route 12	20.2%	$ 19,000,000	$ 19,000,000	
		Forestville Bypass	2.1%	$ 2,000,000	$ 2,000,000	
		Old Redwood Highway Interchange in Petaluma	10.6%	$ 10,000,000	$ 10,000,000	
		Hearn Avenue Interchange in Santa Rosa	9.6%	$ 9,000,000	$ 9,000,000	
		Farmers Lane Extension in Santa Rosa	10.6%	$ 10,000,000	$ 10,000,000	
		Bodega Highway improvements outside Sebastopol	1.1%	$ 1,000,000	$ ■ 1,000,000	
		Mark West Springs Road in northeast Sonoma County	1.1%	$ 1,000,000	$ 1,000,000	
		River Road improvements	1.1%	$ 1,000,000	$ 1,000,000	
		Local Roads Total	40.0%	$ 188,000,000	$ 357,000,000	
B.	Highhway 101					
	1	Fund the widening of Highway 101 from Petaluma to Windsor, including providing matching funds to leverage state and federal money. Sales tax funds are needed to deliver the projects more expeditiously and without relying on the state budget.	40.0%	$ 188,000,000	$ 287,000,000	
		Rohnert Park - Santa Rosa Avenue to Rohnert Park Expressway	21.3%	$ 40,000,000		
		Old Redwood Highway in Petaluma to Rohnert Park Expressway	26.6%	$ 50,000,000	$ 55,000,000	
		Steele Lane in Santa Rosa to Windsor River Road	26.6%	$ 50,000,000	$ 55,000,000	
		Petaluma - from the Petaluma Bridge to Old Redwood Highway	13.3%	$ 25,000,000	$ 40,000,000	
		Petaluma Bridge south to Sonoma County line	5.3%	$ 10,000,000	$ 125,000,000	
		Design, Project Development & Financing Costs	6.9%	$ 13,000,000	$ 12,000,000	
		Highway Total	40.0%	$ 188,000,000	$ 287,000,000	
		CONT. NEXT PAGE				


		Percentage Share of Sales Tax Revenue	Estimated Sales Tax Funding by Program/Project	Estimated  State/Federal/Other  Funding	
Local Transit, Passenger Rail, Bicycle & Pedestrian		Over a 20 Year Period (Using 2004 Dollars & Data)			
1	Restore and enhance local bus service, including express bus service, enhanced services for the elderly and disabled, shuttle connections to future rail service and other transit opportunities that may arise. Distribution of sales tax funding is based on the current TDA formula excluding Golden Gate Transit. Formula will be updated annually.	10.0%	$ 47,000,000	$	352,500,000
	Sonoma County Transit	53.05%	$ 24,950,971	$_	187,001,250
	Santa Rosa Transit	32.68%	$ 15,373,579	$'	115,197,000
	Petaluma Transit	11.85%	$ 5,572,301	$	41,771,250
	Healdsburg Transit	2.42%	$ 1,139,336	$	8,530,500
2	Complete initial steps to accelerate the development of passenger rail service for Sonoma and Marin Counties including environmental clearance, final engineering, grade crossing improvements and station site development. Sales tax funding will be provided to SMART in the first three years of the measure and will match $17 million in state bond funding otherwise due to expire in 2010.	5.0%	$ 23,000,000	$	17,000,000
	Final engineering	56.5%	$ 13,000,000	$	13,000,000
	Grade crossings at twenty five street locations	15.2%	$ 3,500,000	$	3,500,000
	Station site development and joint development plan	13.0%	$ 3,000,000	$_	500,000
	Finalize environmental document including public outreach and FTA coordination	15.2%	$ 3,500,000		
3	Provide safe routes for bicyclists and pedestrians including closing gaps in existing routes and providing safe routes to schools and transit. Example projects include:	4.0%	$ 19,000,000	$24,000,000	
	Santa Rosa Creek Trail	7.6%	$ 1,450,000		
	Old Redwood Hiqhway/Mendocino Avenue/Santa Rosa Avenue Corridor	2.6%	$ 500,000		
	Central Sonoma Valley Trail	10.0%	$ 1,900,000		
	Sonoma/Schellville Trail	3.4%	$ 650,000		
	Arnold Drive from Altimira Middle School to Hwy 12	10.5%	$ 2,000,000		
	Petaluma River Trail Enhancement Project	10.5%	$ 2,000,000		
	Copeland Creek Trail from Redwood Drive to Rohnert Park Expressway	1.8%	$ 350,000		
	Street Smart Sebastopol Program	10.5%	$ 2,000,000		
	West County Trail - final segment on Mirabel Road from Hwy 116 to Steelhead Beach	2.6%	$ 500,000		
	McCray Road in Cloverdale	1.3%	$ 250,000		
i	Highway 1 in Bodega Bay	5.0%	$ 950,000		
	Foss Creek Trail in Healdsburg	17.1%	$ 3,250,000		
	Northwestern Pacific Bike Path Segments	5.3%	$ 1,000,000		
	Access across Highway 101	5.3%	$ 1,000,000		
	Unallocated at this time	6.3%	$ 1,200,000		
	Bicycle and Pedestrian Total	19.0%	$ 89,000,000	JL	393,500,000
	Totals	99.0%	$ 465,000,000		1,037,500,000

1 % of sales tax revenues will be used for administration of the sales tax program including audits and reports to the public.
Percentages shown above have been rounded.

 Appendix B - Goals & Objectives  The Sonoma County Transportation Authority has developed and regularly up- dates the Comprehensive Transportation Plan. As part of that plan, goals for a comprehensive transportation system were defined and the county was divided into four geographic sub-areas with more specific objectives.  Plan Goals  •	Relieve congestion on roads and highways.  •	Improve safety and reduce accidents for all modes, including pedestrians. Improve key connection points between corridors for all modes of travel.  •	Maximize transportation funding.  •	Improve travel on Highway 101.  •	Design, implement and operate an effective, efficient and convenient passenger and freight rail system.  •	Reduce truck traffic on local streets and roads. Emphasize highway and rail for movement of goods instead.  •	Implement the countywide bicycle plan with emphasis on bicycles as a transportation alternative.  •	Develop a transportation system that is consistent with the General Plans in Sonoma County.  •	Emphasize projects that demonstrate Transit Oriented Development.  •	Make Sonoma County roads and highways more easily navigable for tourists.  •	Enhance bus transit service.  •	Provide facilities to allow functional transfers between modes.  North/South Sub-area Objectives:  •	Relieve congestion on Petaluma Hill Road at Adobe Road and between Snyder Lane and Santa Rosa Avenue.  •	Discourage through truck traffic on Old Redwood Highway in Cotati.  •	Keep through traffic on Highway 101.  •	Improve bike safety and bike continuity through Petaluma.  •	Relieve congestion at the key connection point of Stony Point Road/Highway 101/Petaluma Boulevard.  •	Improve east Petaluma and inter-city transit service.  •	Improve rail crossings and seek funds for grade separations.  •	Relieve congestion on Stony Point between Hearn Avenue and Highway 12.  •	Increase the number of transit trips throughout the sub-area.  •	Create functional access to rail.  •	Improve the intersection at Old Redwood Highway and Fulton Road to relieve congestion and improve bike traffic.  •	Create bicycle “alternative routes" that don't go through cities.  •	Improve access to Hwy 101 in Central Healdsburg.  •	Seismically retrofit bridges north of Healdsburg to maintain emergency access and for serviceability.  •	Relieve truck traffic and congestion in southern Healdsburg.  •	Improve access to jobsites at Airport Business Park and Fountaingrove area.  •	Improve east-west traffic flow in northern Santa Rosa.  •	Improve access to and overall circulation at the Charles M. Schulz Regional Airport.  •	Expand bus transit service between Santa Rosa and Cloverdale.	Northeast Sub-area Objectives:  •	Improve circulation/relieve congestion on Mark West Springs Road  -	Address truck traffic, commuter needs, bike traffic, safety and multi-county use.  •	Improve safety on Calistoga Road and Alexander Valley Road  -	Address truck and commute traffic.  Southeast Sub-area Objectives:  •	Relieve congestion on Highway 12 in Sonoma through Agua Caliente.  •	Relieve congestion and make safety improvements within the 121/12/ 116/Arnold Drive corridor including 8th Street East, Broadway and other intersections.  •	Increase and enhance transit service as follows:  -	On Route 30 for students.  -	Reinstate weekend service on Route 40 between Petaluma and Sonoma.  -	Improve transit service to Napa County.  -	Provide feeder bus service to rail.  •	Address emergency vehicle and safety issues on Highway 12 in the Oakmont area.  •	Improve rail crossings and seek funds for grade separations.  •	Study participation in future ferry service.  West Sub-area Objectives:  •	Reduce congestion in Sebastopol on 116/12.  •	Increase transit service - especially express service to the lower Russian River area.  •	Ensure the transportation system operates during emergency flood conditions. <summaryend>