Sales Tax Increase

PROPOSITION J

Shall the City increase the local sales tax by %% (one-quarter-of-one-percent)?

Digest

by the Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: There is an 8/2% (eight-and-one-half per-
cent) sales tax on most retail goods purchased in San Francisco.
This includes a Statewide 6% sales tax that is controlled and
spent by the State. The remaining 2/2% (two-and-one-half per-
cent) sales tax funds are controlled and spent by the City and other
local agencies, including the Bay Area Rapid Transit District, the
San Francisco County Transportation Authority and the San
Francisco Unified School District.

Under State law, the City can increase the local portion of the sales
tax by up to %% (three-quarters-of-one percent), for a total sales
tax of 9/4% (nine-and-one-quarter percent).

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition J is an ordinance that would allow
the City to increase the local sales tax by V4% (one-quarter-of-one
percent). The total sales tax on most retail goods purchased in
San Francisco would be 83A% (eight-and-three-quarters percent).
The City would control the additional tax funds and could spend
them for any public purpose.

A "YES" VOTE MEANS: If you vote "yes,11 you want to allow the
City to increase the local sales tax by %% (one-quarter-of-one
percent).

A "NO" VOTE MEANS: If you vote "no," you do not want to allow
the City to increase the local sales tax by %% (one-quarter-of-one
percent).

Controller’s Statement on “J”

City Controller Edward Harrington has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition J:

Should the proposed ordinance be approved by the voters, in
my opinion, it would generate additional sales tax revenue for the
City of approximately $8 million in the fiscal year which began on
July 1, 2004, and total revenues of approximately $33.6 million
annually beginning in FY 2005-2006, the first full fiscal year that
the new tax rate would be effective.

The ordinance increases San Francisco’s sales tax rate from
8.5 to 8.75 percent. Revenue generated by the proposed tax could
be spent by the City for any public purpose.

How “J” Got on the Ballot

On July 27, 2004 the Board of Supervisors voted 8 to 3 to place
Proposition J on the ballot.

The Supervisors voted as follows:

Yes: Supervisors Alioto-Pier, Ammiano, Dufty, Ma, Maxwell,
McGoldrick, Peskin, and Sandoval.

No: Supervisors Daly, Gonzalez, and Hall.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 50%+1 AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE 145.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE 53.

38-CP137-NE04

38-CP137-NE04

Sales Tax Increase

PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION J

The Board of Supervisors authorized the submission of the fol-
lowing argument. As of the date of the publication of this Voter
Information Pamphlet, the following Supervisors endorse the
measure: Supervisors Alioto-Pier, Ammiano, Dufty, Ma,
Maxwell, McGoldrick, Peskin, and Sandoval; oppose the meas-
ure: Supervisor Gonzalez; take no position on the measure:
Supervisors Daly, and Elsbernd.

All of us are working to overcome an economic crisis in San
Francisco, including the largest deficit in San Francisco history.
Now - in this election - we face an important choice: Do we live
up to our promise of being a compassionate city, or do we cut crit-
ical services to the poor, seniors, the disabled and children?

I ran for Mayor to make San Francisco work better for all San
Franciscans. And I would never ask for your sacrifice if we were
not doing our part in City government:

Today we’re doing more with less at City Hall:

• We’ve cut the pay of top city officials, eliminated free park-
ing for city employees, reduced their use of cell phones, and
asked that all full time employees of the City and County of
San Francisco make contributions to their own retirement
funds.

•	We’ve reduced the size of government by eliminating over
1,000 positions in the past six months. We’re streamlining
government, consolidating departments, eliminating unneces-
sary bureaucracy, and improving the way that the City deliv-
ers services.

•	We’re aggressively tackling waste, fraud and abuse at every
level to make sure we have the money we need to fund vital
services.

These measures close the vast majority - about 85% - of the
$1 billion budget shortfall the City faces during the coming three
years. But a gap remains. That is why, as part of a package of
reforms, cuts, increased efficiencies and shared sacrifices - and as
a last resort - we must find new revenues for our city and close
existing tax loopholes.

Please join me and our fellow San Franciscans as we come
together and Vote YES on Propositions J and K.

Mayor Gavin Newsom

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION J

Mayor Newsom is to be commended for his modest reductions
in city government, as described in the argument for Proposition J.

However he has barely begun to clean out the Aegean stables.

A 2001 Committee on Jobs study found that “During the last 10
years, the City added 4,000 new employees so that San Francisco
now has more than one-and-a-half times as many municipal work-
ers per capita as Santa Clara, San Diego or Los Angeles.”

The study also found that the average city worker made $70,644
in wages and benefits, as opposed to about $62,854 for non-city
workers, a disparity I doubt has improved. Aren’t city employees
supposed to be “public servants?” Who’s serving who?

Anyone remember Mary Ellen O’Brien? She once headed the
DPT’s parking ticket division. According to a City Attorney’s
report, she improperly dismissed over 300 parking citations for
friends, family members and others. She solicited and accepted
gifts including Giants tickets and champagne, and even dismissed
a ticket on a car parked outside her home - it turned out to be a

city vehicle “that she apparently kept for her own use while she
supposedly was out on a four-month medical leave.” (Matier and
Ross, San Francisco Chronicle, January 12, 2004)

I just checked and O’Brien, who also illegally campaigned for
Mayor Newsom on city time, still has a nice city job over at
MUNI. Could it be that waste, fraud and abuse still aren’t being
taken quite seriously enough?

Starchild

Candidate for School Board

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP138-NE04

Sales Tax Increase



OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION J

Whatever you tax you discourage. Taxes on sales discourage
purchases. Increasing the sales tax in San Francisco will discour-
age people from buying things in The City.

Proposition J will cost you $ 1 extra for every $400 you spend.
Someone buying a new $20,000 vehicle will save $50 simply by
buying it outside the city. You can imagine the negative impact this
will have on local auto retailers and others selling high-priced
items.

This tax will hurt local and neighborhood businesses.
Consumers too, especially those on fixed incomes. Ordinary San
Franciscans will be made poorer while city government has more
money to play with.

The Board of Supervisors has deliberately approved a budget
that was not balanced. They hope to pass the burden of making up
their shortfall on to us, in the form of new taxes.

There is a fairer, less painful way to balance the budget.
According to the Controller’s Office, 3,060 people made more
than $100,000 working for the city government last year, includ-
ing overtime and other special pay.

Capping city employee paychecks at $99,999 will save San
Francisco over $56 million annually, more than the Controller’s
estimate of $33.6 million a year that will be taken under Prop. J.

Surely individuals in “public service” who already enjoy gener-
ous benefits and pension plans can get by on $99,999 a year. Why
should San Franciscans making $8.50 an hour have to pay higher
sales taxes in order to fatten the pockets of officials taking home
six figure paychecks?

Reject this tax increase which will hit the poor right along with
the wealthy, and demand that city leaders fix their deficit by turn-
ing to those in their own ranks who can afford to pay.

Please vote NO on Proposition J.

Starchild

Candidate for School Board

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION J

In this time of economic crisis, we have a city budget that unites
all San Franciscans. Instead of dividing us along special interest
lines, our community, business and political leaders have joined
together to preserve vital city services for the most vulnerable -
the poor, seniors, the disabled and children - and to close the
largest budget deficit in San Francisco’s history.

•	City workers are leading by example: taking pay cuts, giving
up free parking, reducing the use of cell phones, and making
contributions to their own retirement funds.

•	We’re closing business tax loopholes and asking the business
community to do its part by restoring the gross receipts tax
(Proposition K).

•	We’re doing more with less by consolidating departments and
streamlining bureaucracy. We’re aggressively tackling waste,
fraud and abuse at every level of government.

But there is still a gap. Proposition J is a last resort that asks
each San Franciscan to make a modest contribution to save
critical city services for the neediest San Franciscans. The

average San Franciscan family will contribute $34 - 10 cents per
day - and many will contribute much less. Together, we will raise
$34 million in sales tax revenue to help close San Francisco’s
$352 million budget gap.

Proposition J is a crucial part of a fair, reasonable and compre-
hensive package of cuts, increased efficiencies and shared
sacrifices.

Please join me and our fellow San Franciscans as we all come
together and Vote Yes on Proposition J.

Mayor Gavin Newsom

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP139-NE04

Sales Tax Increase

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION J

Sales Tax Increase Will Help Keep SF Healthy.

San Francisco, like cities everywhere, is facing tough econom-
ic times. A quarter-cent sales tax increase will raise $32 million
annually, and is critical to balancing the city’s budget and avoid-
ing further cuts in park maintenance, health clinics and after-
school programs. Increased sales-tax revenue will help keep
libraries and pool open. It will help pay for more safety workers,
and it will allow San Francisco to continue to provide vital city
services.

We urge a Yes vote on Prop. J.

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.

YES on J: A small price to protect vital services for children and
youth!

Coleman Advocates for Children and Youth

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the Coleman Advocates for Children and Youth.

Vote Yes on J - Save Vital City Services

Our record economic crisis threatens the hopes and aspirations
of the working people of San Francisco. As part of a great and
compassionate city, we urge you to vote Yes on Proposition J to
prevent deep cuts in vital city services - services that are a lifeline
for poor, disabled, elderly or young San Franciscans.

City workers are doing their part by taking on more work for
less pay. City government has tackled waste, fraud and abuse at
every level. Yet state and federal governments continue to take
more and more of San Francisco’s revenue.

Proposition J asks each of us to make a small sacrifice to pro-
tect our most vulnerable fellow San Franciscans.

Please join with us and vote Yes on Proposition J. Help San
Francisco live up to its promise as a compassionate city.

San Francisco Labor Council, AFL-CIO

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Labor Council, AFL-CIO.

Vote Yes on Prop J - Save City Health Services

Health care services for the most vulnerable San Franciscans
are at risk because of San Francisco’s record budget deficit.

Proposition J asks each of us to make a small sacrifice to pro-
tect seniors, children, the poor, and the disabled.

Please vote Yes on Prop J and keep San Francisco a compas-
sionate city with health care for those in need.

SEIU Local 250 Health Care Workers

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the SEIU Local 250, Health Care Workers Union.

Vote Yes on Prop J - Protect City Services

State and federal budget cuts have left San Francisco with a
record deficit that threatens important city services we all rely on.

Our members do the work in city government. We know the
consequences of deep service cuts, both to workers and their fam-
ilies, and to the most at-risk San Franciscans. We’re doing more
with less at the City.

But there is still a gap. Proposition J asks each of us to make a
small sacrifice to protect our most vulnerable fellow San
Franciscans.

Please join with us and Vote Yes on Proposition J.

SEIU Local 790 Members, Committed to Public Service and
Social Justice

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the SEIU, Local 790.

Vote Yes on J to Keep San Francisco Healthy

As Commissioners of the Department of Public Health, we
know too well how thinly stretched our funds for trauma centers,
nursing care, and other vital public health services are.

The City has reduced the size of its workforce, cut the pay of
city workers, and rooted out waste and inefficiencies. But there is
still a gap. New revenues must be part of the solution to avoid
drastic reductions in critical city services.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP140-NE04

Sales Tax Increase

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION J

Proposition J asks each San Franciscan to make a modest con-
tribution to prevent deep cuts in critical city services.

Please join with us and vote Yes on Proposition J.

San Francisco Health Commissioners:

Edward A. Chow, M.D.*

Roma Guy, M.S.W.*

James M Illig
Lee Ann Monfredini

* For identification purposes only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the SEIU, Local 790.

Yes on J to Preserve a Compassionate City.

We need to close a $1 billion budget gap without destroying the
safety net our neediest residents rely on for their health and safety.

We must protect San Francisco’s emergency and trauma services.

I urge you to vote Yes on Proposition J - and yes on the com-
panion measure Proposition O - to save services for children,
seniors and the disabled.

Supervisor Tom Ammiano

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Tom Ammiano.

Vote Yes on Prop. J - Save our Safety Net

Proposition J will help close a severe budget gap and prevent
deep cuts in services for the most vulnerable San Franciscans: the
poor, the disabled, children and seniors.

Vote Yes on Prop J and help San Francisco live up to its prom-
ise as a compassionate city.

Catholic Charities CYO

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the Catholic Charities CYO.

Yes on J to Keep San Francisco Safe.

These are funds we need to keep the trained officers on the
street fighting crime. Please join the San Francisco Police Officers
Association in voting YES on J.

San Francisco Police Officers' Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Police Officers Association.

Vote Yes on J to Keep San Francisco Safe.

Prop. J helps fund police and fire services. We face a historic
budget deficit. Prop J, along with deep cuts in spending and other
sacrifices, helps close that deficit and protect the services that
keep us safe.

Please vote Yes on J.

San Francisco Fire Fighters Local 798

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Fire Fighters Political Action Committee.

Vote Yes on Proposition J - Protect Mental Health Services

San Francisco’s economic crisis threatens deep cuts to vital city
services that are a lifeline for San Franciscans with serious men-
tally disabilities. Many of these San Franciscans at-risk receive no
regular medical health care, either because it is unavailable to
them or they find it too difficult to obtain in emergency rooms.

If San Francisco is to live up to its promise of being a compas-
sionate city, we simply cannot cut these San Franciscans loose.

Proposition J is a humane measure, and a last resort that asks
each of us to make a small sacrifice - an average of 10 cents per
day - to save critical city services for the least fortunate. Voting
Yes on Proposition J will help prevent deep cuts in mental health
services.

Please join with us and vote Yes on Proposition J.

Progress Foundation

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the Progress Foundation.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP141-NE04

Sales Tax Increase

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION J

Prop J is necessary to protect our City services.

Because of the slow economy, our City government faces a
huge budget shortfall this year. Most of this problem has been
solved by finding ways to lower the cost of government. But the
fact is, the City also needs more revenue to keep up services
like hospitals, parks, and fire stations.

Proposition J will raise the sales tax by one fourth of one per-
cent, making it equal to neighboring cities like Oakland and
Emeryville. Much of this new tax will be paid by visitors and
commuters - not people who live in San Francisco.

This is a responsible and necessary step to keep our critical
government services.

VOTE YES ON J.

San Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association (SPUR)

For more information, visit www.spur.org

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the SPUR Urban Issues Committee.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Oz Erickson 2. James Chappell 3. Evette Davis.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP142-NE04

Sales Tax Increase

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION J

This applies equally to Proposition K.

TAX LAND RENT

Let’s talk justice and taxes. Taxes pay for schools, fire protec-
tion, streets, public transportation, museums, etc. The landowner
then charges the user of land, in the form of land rent, for the value
of those government services. There is no justice in people paying
sales, business and income taxes for services for which the land-
lord gets paid. The rent of land includes the cost of government.
The rent of land should pay for government. Those other taxes are
deadweight on production, and they amount to a payment to land-
lords. Let’s start taxing land values more, stop taxing earned
income, and end the muddle-headedness. If this information star-
tles and intrigues you, please visit http://www.gogiesen.com or
call 415-948-4265.

David Giesen
Citizen

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is David Giesen.

Increasing the sales tax is not an equitable solution to our City’s
budget crisis. Vote NO on J.

Christine Linnenbach, candidate for Supervisor, District 7*

* For identification purposes only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Christine Linnenbach.

NO on J

This sales tax increase will further hurt hard-pressed working
families. It will make San Francisco’s sales tax the highest in
California. It will also send shoppers out of the City and further
hurt San Francisco businesses.

The San Francisco Republican Party

Chairman

Michael A. DeNunzio

Ballot Advisory Committee
Howard Epstein, Assembly Candidate

Member - Candidates

Jennifer DePalma, Candidate, 8th Congressional District

Mike Garza, Candidate, 12th Congressional District

Members
Albert Chang
Elsa Cheung

Thomas D Amato, General Counsel
Carolyn Devine, Vice Chairman
Harold M. Hoogasian
Barbara Kiley
Leo Lacayo, Vice Chairman
Sue Woods

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Republican Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. Michael A. DeNunzio 2. Michael J. Antonini 3. Sue C.
Woods.

JUST SAY NO TO A TAX INCREASE!

Here’s another way to motivate people to get shop out of town:
drive our City’s sales tax to 8 3/4% placing it among the highest in
the State of California.

It’s bad for shoppers and it’s bad for business.

The Mayor and the Board of Supervisors must be forced to face
responsible financing and restraint in spending.

The buck stops with us: We say NO TO PROPOSITION J.

Denise LaPointe,

Mara Kopp,

Good Government Alliance

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the Kopp’s Good Government Committee.

When Anatole France said: (more or less) "the law in its majesty
equally forbids the rich as well as the poor from stealing bread and
sleeping under bridges," he was observing how laws may affect
people differently according to their station in life. Sales taxes, or
"flat taxes" are that way too. They have the effect of taking a
greater percentage of the disposable income of lower and middle
income earners. This kind of flat tax is one of the least fair of all

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP143-NE04

Sales Tax Increase

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION J

taxes. In principal, it is a bad tax. Increasing it is to make a bad tax
worse.

Worse yet is that San Francisco is already one of the most
expensive places to live in United States. Working class people
here can hardly get by as it is. Increasing a regressive tax is espe-
cially bad policy (unless you are rich).

Worse yet, San Francisco has historically had a very wasteful
government with out of control growth of our budget, our work-
force and our Bureaucracy. We should be cleaning up our act and
clean up the horrendous waste in government instead of increas-
ing taxes. Stop the coin box thieves, stop the goldbricking, stop
the phony grants. Only then can we intelligently talk about raising
taxes.

I am informed, San Francisco spends more money per capita on
government than any other City in United States. Why not reduce
the size of our budget instead of continually raising taxes. It clear-
ly is possible.

Worse yet, San Francisco never saw a tax it didn’t like. It real-
ly is time to get control of our Government and demand perform-
ance instead of more taxes to pay for more rip offs and nonsense
in government. You are the only one who can stop this process of
tax and waste. Vote no on Prop J!

Former Supervisor* Richard Hongisto

*For identification purposes only

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Richard Hongisto.

Oppose the Sales Tax Increase

San Francisco businesses and residents are being driven out of
the City. From 2002 to 2003 more than 15,000 people have been
forced to leave San Francisco. Residents are consistently saying:
"We cannot afford to live in San Francisco anymore."

Now the Board of Supervisors wants to increase the sales tax.
That means the average person will pay even more for all goods
and services, from medicine to clothing to any basic, essential
household item. This especially hurts our poor, the unemployed,
fixed-income elderly as well the average working family.

We need government reform, not more taxes. If you agree it’s
time for a change, visit www.districtllsupervisor.org.

Myrna Lim

Candidate for Supervisor
District 11

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Myrna Lim.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP144-NE04

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION J

Ordinance (i) amending the Business and
Tax Regulations Code to add Article 16-A to
impose a transactions and use tax at the rate
of one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) in
accordance with Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division
2 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code, (ii) directing submission of the tax for
voter approval at the November 2.2004 elec-
tion and setting forth the ballot question
therefor.

Note: Additions are single-underline
italics Times New Roman:
deletions are strikethrough italics
Times New Roman.

Board amendment additions are
do^kunderlined.

Board amendment deletions are
strikethrough normal.

Be it ordained by the People of the City
and County of San Francisco:

Section 1. The San Francisco Business
and Tax Regulations Code is hereby amended
by adding Article 16-A (Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance), to read as follows:

Article 16-A
Transactions and Use Tax
SEC 1620. TITLE. This ordinance shall
be known as the “San Francisco Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance” The City and Countv
of San Francisco hereinafter shall be called
“City and County ” This ordinance shall be
applicable in the City and County.

SEC 1621. OPERATIVE DATE. u Operative
Date ” means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after
the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below.

SEC 1622. PURPOSE, (a) This ordi-
nance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the pro-
visions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

1.	To impose a retail transac-
tions and use tax in accordance with
the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing
with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and
Section 7285 of Part 1.7 of Division 2
which authorizes the City and Countv
to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative if a majority of the elec-
tors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

2.	To adopt a retail transactions
and use tax ordinance that incorpo-
rates provisions identical to those of
the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State
of California insofar as those provi-
sions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained

in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

3.	To adopt a retail transactions
and use tax ordinance that imposes a
tax and provides a measure therefor
that can be administered and collected
bv the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to. and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative proce-
dures followed bv the State Board of
Equalization in administering and col-
lecting the California State Sales and
Use Taxes.

4.	To adopt a retail transactions
and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be.
to the greatest degree possible, consis-
tent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, minimize the cost of collecting
the transactions and use taxes, and at
the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance.

(b)	The transactions and use tax
imposed under this ordinance is imposed for
general governmental purposes: proceeds from
the tax shall be deposited in the general fund of
the City and County and may be expended for
any purposes of the City and County.

SEC. 1623. CONTRACT WITH STATE.
Prior to the operative date, the City and County
shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident
to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance: provided,
that if the City and County shall not have con-
tracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative
date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a
contract.

SEC 1624. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.
For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon
all retailers in the City and County at the rate
of 0.25% of the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property
sold at retail in the City and County on and
after the operative date of this ordinance.

SEC. 1625. PLACE OF SALE. For the
purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to
an out-of-state destination or to a common car-
rier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from such sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are sub-
ject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of

the place to which delivery is made. In the event
a retailer has no permanent place of business
in the State or has more than one place of busi-
ness. the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined
under rules and regulations to be prescribed
and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

SEC 1626. USE TAX RATE. An excise
tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City and Countv of
tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this
ordinance for storage, use or other consump-
tion in the City and County at the rate of 0.25%
of the sales price of the property. The sales
price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

SEC 1627. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS
OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided
in this ordinance and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this ordinance as though fully
set forth herein.

SEC 1628. LIMITATIONS ON ADOP-
TION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF
USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part
1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

(a) Wherever the State of California is
named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of the City and County shall be substitut-
ed therefor. However, the substitution shall not
be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as
a part of the title of the State
Controller. State Treasurer. State Board
of Control. State Board of
Equalization. State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California:

2.	The result of that substitution
would require action to be taken bv or
against the City and County or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than bv or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing
the functions incident to the adminis-
tration or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including,
but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of
the State of California, where the result
of the substitution would be to:

A. Provide an exemption

(Continued on next page)

38-CP145-NE04

145

38-CP145-NE04

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION J (CONTINUED)

from this tax with respect to cer-
tain sales. storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal
property which would not other-
wise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax
by the State of California under
the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code. or:

B. Impose this tax with
respect to certain sales. storage,
use or other consumption of tangi-
ble personal property which
would not be subject to tax by the
State of California under the pro-
visions of such code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except
in the last sentence thereof). 6711.
6715. 6737. 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b) The words “the City and County of
San Francisco” shall be substituted for the
words “this State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State ” in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

SEC. 1629. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.
If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor's per-
mit shall not be required by this ordinance.

SEC.	1630. EXEMPTIONS AND

EXCLUSIONS, (a) There shall be excluded
from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use
tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county; or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use
Tax Law or the amount of any state-adminis-
tered transactions or use tax.

(b) There are exempted from the com-
putation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal
property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside
the City and County in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in
the use of such aircraft as common car-
riers of persons or property under the
authority of the laws of the State of
California, the United States, or any
foreisn government.

2.	Sales of property to be used
outside the City and County which is
shipped to a point outside the City and
County, pursuant to the contract of
sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his asent. or by delivery by
the retailer to a carrier for shipment to
a consignee at such point. For the pur-
poses of this paragraph, delivery to a

point outside the City and County shall
be satisfied:

A.	With respect to vehi-
cles (other than commercial vehi-
cles) subject to registration pur-
suant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) o f the Vehicle Code by reg-
istration to an address outside the
City and County and by a declara-
tion under penalty of perjury,
simed by the buyer, stating that
such address is. in fact, his or her
principal place of residence: and

B.	With respect to com-
mercial vehicles, by resistration to
a place of business outside the
City and County and declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will
be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal
property if the seller is obligated to fur-
nish the property for a fixed price pur-
suant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date o f this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal
property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time
for which the lessor is obligated to
lease the property for an amount fixed
by the lease prior to the operative date
o f this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subpara-
graphs (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal prop-
erty shall be deemed not to be obligat-
ed pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party
to the contract or lease has the uncon-
ditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not
such risht is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use
tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use
or other consumption in the City and County of
tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the
sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum
products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in
the use of such aircraft as common car-
riers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of the State

of California, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is
in addition to the exemptions provided
in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated
to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	If the possession of. or the
exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any peri-
od of time for which the lessee is obli-
gated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date o f this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subpara-
graphs (3) and (4) of this section, stor-
age. use, or other consumption, or pos-
session of. or exercise of any right or
power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the uncondi-
tional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (7). a retailer engaged in
business in the City and County shall
not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tansible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the City and
County or participates within the City
and County in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to.
soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of busi-
ness of the retailer in the City and
County or through any representative,
agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary,
or person in the City and County under
the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in busi-
ness in the City and County ” shall also
include any retailer of any of the fol-
lowing: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in com-
pliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, or undocument-
ed vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the

(Continued on next page)

146

38-CP146-NE04

38-CP146-NE04

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION J (CONTINUED)

vehicle. vessel. or aircraft at an

address in the City and Countv.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax
under this ordinance may credit against that
tax am transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a county imposing. or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage. use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

SEC 1631. AMENDMENTS. All amend-
ments subsequent to the effective date o f this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales
and use taxes and which are not inconsistent
with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code. and all amend-
ments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code. shall automat-
ically become a part of this ordinance. provid-
ed however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed
bv this ordinance.

SEC 1632. ENJOINING COTEECTJON
FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of man-
date or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State of California or the City
and County, or against any o fficer o f the State
of California or the City and County, to prevent
or enjoin the collection under this ordinance,
or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.

SEC. 1633. SEVERABILITY. If any pro-
vision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held
invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons
or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 2. Pursuant to Article XIIIC of
the Constitution of the State of California and
Section 7285 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code, this ordinance shall be submit-
ted to the qualified electors of the City and
County of San Francisco, at the November 2,
2004 general municipal election. This ordi-
nance shall become operative only if approved
by the qualified electors at such election.

Shall the City increase its sales tax on
retail sales by 74 of 1%, except for sales
exempt under state law?

Section 3. Section 510 of the San
Francisco Elections Code shall not apply to the
ballot question for the San Francisco
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance set forth
in Section 1 of this ordinance and submitted for
voter approval at the November 2, 2004 gener-
al municipal election. The ballot question for
the San Francisco Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance at such election shall read as
follows:

