Sample Ballot

Sample Ballot

MEASURE"NN"

PROPOSED ORDINANCE NUMBER 1141

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PERRIS ENACTING A SPECIAL TAX FOR POLICE AND FIRE

PROTECTION SERVICES

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Perris (the “Council") recognizes that it is necessary and desirable that the City of Perris (the "City") levy
a special tax within the City to provide funding for police and fire protection services; and

WHEREAS, the special tax shall be designated as the "Public Safety Special Tax" (the "Special Tax'1); and

WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary and essential to submit the question of the Special Tax to qualified voters within the City at a special
election to be to be held on November 2,2004 and consolidated with the Statewide election to be held on that date; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code Section 50077, the Council has heretofore held a public hearing on the question of the Special Tax
following notice of such public hearing; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Government Code Sections 50075 et. seq. and California Constitution Sections XIIIA and XIIIC, the Council may impose
the Special Tax upon adoption and approval of the Ordinance by a minimum 2/3 vote of the Council and a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electorate of the
City voting in the election; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority of California Government Code Section 53970, et. seq., the City is authorized to levy special taxes by
ordinance for the provision of fire and police protection services as described in such ordinance; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF PERMS, DOES HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1, Election. A special election has been called and shall be held in the City on the 2nd day of November, 2004, for the purpose of submit-
ting to the voters of the City the question of the Special Tax to be levied by the City in the amounts and for the purposes hereinafter set forth. Such
special election shall be consolidated with the Statewide general election to be held on November 2,2004.

Section 2, Annua! Tax. Commencing with the Fiscal Year 2004-2005, an annual special tax to raise revenue to support police	and fire protection

services within the City of Perris, is hereby imposed upon each "Eligible Property" within the City. "Eligible Property* within the City shall mean any
parcel of property or improved real property, including, but not limited to any commercial and industrial property, any single family residential unit, multi-
family residential unit, condominium units, and on vacant or agricultural land or any other unit of real property subject to the California Subdivided
Lands Act (Business and Professions Code Sections 11000, et. seq.) to which fire and police protection services are made available.

Section 3. Purpose. The purpose of this Special Tax is to raise revenue only for the purposes of obtaining, providing, operating, maintaining and
expanding tire and police protection services, facilities and equipment, for paying the salaries and benefits to fire protection and police personnel, and
for such other necessary fire and police protection services expenses of the City as such services shall be made available throughout the entire City.
The proceeds from the Special Tax shall be used only for the purposes identified in this Section.

Section 4. Special Account. Upon the effective date of this Special Tax, the City’s Finance Director is	hereby	directed to	create a	separate

account into which all revenue raised by the Special Tax shall be placed. The City’s Finance Director shall file a report with the City Council no later than
June 30 of each year, commencing June 30,2005. and at least once a year thereafter which shall contain both of the following: (i) the amount of funds
collected and expended under this Ordinance; and (ii) the status of any project required or authorized to be funded to carry out the purposes set forth in
this Ordinance.

Section 5. Amount of Tax. For the initial Fiscal Year. July 1.2004 through June 30.2005 (the “Base Year"), the Special Tax shall be levied upon

Eligible Property in the following amounts, herein called the “Base Year Amount"

Eligible Property

Residential Units (single (1) and double (2) family dwellings)
Residential Units (three (3) or more living units)

Stores and Offices
Industry and Utility
Storage in Structures
Unimproved/Agricultural/Vacant Property
Hotels/Public Assembiy/Educational/lnstitutional

Base Year Amount
$49.00 per unit
$37.00 per unit
$79.00 per store or office
$387.00 per parcel
SI,738.00 per parcel
$11.00 per parcel
$3,543.00 per parcel

nunrniii

' /

For the Fiscal Year July 1,2005 through June 30,2006, the maximum annual amount of the Special Tax for each category of property shall be deter-
mined by multiplying the Base Year Amount by an inflation factor of two percent (2.0%). In each succeeding year, the maximum amount of the fire
protection services for each category of property shall be determined by multiplying the preceding fiscal year's maximum special tax by an inflation
factor of two percent (2%).

The Council shall establish the amount of the Special Tax annually by Resolution each fiscal year in amounts not to exceed the maximum amounts
specified herein. In no case shall the amount of the Special Tax to be levied in any fiscal year exceed the maximum amount authorized herein without
an approval of the voters.

Section 6. Exemptions. The Special Tax shall not be imposed upon a federal or state governmental agency, any local public agency, or any parcel
of property which is exempt from ad valorem taxes under any other applicable law.

Section 7. Credits for CFD 2001-3 (North Perris Public Safety). Eligible Property located within CFD 2001-3 (North Perris Public Safety) ("CFD
2003-1") and subject to the special tax within CFD 2003-1 (the "CFD Tax") shall be entitled during each fiscal year, to receive credit toward its CFD Tax
in the amount of the Special Tax authorized herein for such year; provided, however, that such property owner has paid the Special Tax for such fiscal
year.

Section 8. Method of Collection. The City of Perris hereby directs the Treasurer and Tax Collector of the County of Riverside to collect the Special
Tax authorized herein for the initial Fiscal Year 2004-2005 and for subsequent fiscal years, on the same tax roll at the same time and in the same
manner, and subject to the same penalties as the property taxes fixed and collected by the County of Riverside (the “County") on behalf of the City of
Perris. The County may deduct its reasonable costs incurred for such services before remittal to the City.

The Special Tax, together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall constitute a lien upon each parcel of Eligible Property upon which it is levied until
it has been paid, and said Special Tax, together with all penalties and interest thereon, shall, until paid, constitute a personal obligation to the City by
the person(s) who own the parcel of property on the date said Special Tax is due.

Section 9 Unexpended Revenue. Any surplus moneys raised by the City from the Special Tax may in the discretion of the Council be (i) used in
the succeeding year for the purposes stated in this Ordinance; or (ii) used for lowering the succeeding year’s levy of the Special Tax by the amount of
the Surplus or a portion thereof or (iii) returned in a proportionate amount to owners of the Eligible Property at the time such Special Tax was paid. In no
event shall such Surplus moneys be used by the City for any purposes other than those specified in Section 3 hereof.

Section 10. Effective Date. The special election to approve the Special Tax shall take place on November 2,2004. The Special Tax shall become
effective upon passage of this Ordinance by a minimum two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Council and a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electorate of the City
voting in the election as certified by this Council and the City Clerk.

Section 11. Severability. If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause of phrase in this Ordinance, or any part thereof, is
held invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining sections or portions of this chapter or part thereof. The City
Council hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Ordinance
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases may be declared invalid or unconstitu-
tional.

ADOPTED SIGNED and APPROVED this_____________________

Mayor, Daryl R. Busch

Attest:

City Clerk. Margaret Rey

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE	)	§

CITY OF PERRIS	)

I,	Margaret Rey, CITY CLERK OF THE CITY OF PERRIS, DO HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing Proposed Ordinance 1141 was duly adopted
by the City Council of the City of Perris at a regular meeting of said Council on the	and	that	it	was	so	adopted	by	the	following	vote:

AYES:	Rogers,	Yarbrough,	Busch, Landers. Motte

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

City Clerk, Margaret Rey

ARGUMEN.. ,i FAVOR OF MEASURE "NN'

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF ML ,..JRE "NN"

PUBLIC SAFETY TAX

Measure “NN” is a special tax measure of the City of Perris. If approved
by voters. Measure “NN” will authorize the City to levy a special tax
annually on all parcels of real property within the City which are not
exempt from regular property taxes. The tax would be collected along
with regular property taxes. All revenue the City receives from the tax
must be deposited in a special fund, and will be restricted by law to pay
solely for fire and police services, including operations, equipment, and
personnel.

Fire and police services are currently provided to the City under contract
with Riverside County and paid for out of the City’s General Fund. The
City currently has one fire station which is owned by the State of Califor-
nia and located in the central part of the City. The City Council has autho-
rized the design of a second fire station which will be owned by the City
and located in the northern part of the City. The new North Perris Fire
Station is scheduled for completion in 2006 and will include a small
annex for police services.

Approximately half of the City’s General Fund is used annually to pay for
the current level of fire and police services: Any additional services
provided by the North Perris Fire Station will require additional funding.

in 2001, the City formed the North Perris Community Facilities District
(“North Perris CFD") to partially fund the operation of the North Perris
Fire Station. Properties within the North Perris CFD are subject to a
special CFD tax. However, all of the CFD taxes collected from properties
within the North Perris CFD are restricted by law to fund public safety
services only within the North Perris CFD. Since the North Perris Fire
Station will also serve residents and properties outside the North Perris
CFD, the new Station must receive part of its funding from some other
source, such as the General Fund or the proposed Measure "NN."

if Measure "NN" is approved, parcels within the North Perris CFD will be

subject to the new tax in addition to the existing CFD tax. However, their
existing CFD tax will be reduced by the amount of the Measure “NN" tax,
resulting in no net tax increase within the North Perris CFD. If Measure

"NN" is not approved, the existing CFD tax will remain the same.

The tax proposed by Measure "NN" is divided into several categories,
with the lowest tax on vacant property and the highest tax on hotels and
institutional facilities. The tax formula provides for an annual increase of
not more, than two percent. The City’s consultant estimates Measure
“NN" wilPYaise approximately 5585,000 annually for fire and police
services.

If two-thirds of the qualified voters vote in favor of Measure “NN”, the
special tax 'will be imposed beginning in the 2004-2005 Fiscal Year. If
less than two-thirds of the voters vote in favor of it, the Measure will fail
and the City will not levy the tax.

The City of Perris needs more fire and police protection services.
Perris has only one fire station now on San Jacinto Avenue, which is one
of the busiest stations in Riverside County. This station stays busy
because of the rapid population growth in the City over the last tew years.
Last Fiscal Year 1,289 building permits were issued for new homes, and
2,634 permits are expected to be issued in Fiscal Year 2004. It is antici-
pated that the City’s population will jump from 37,650 to more than

40,000	residents within the next two years.

City leaders have prudently taken steps to build a second fire station

in the City that will be jointly used by the Riverside County Sheriff as a
police sub-station, but they are finding it extremely difficult to operate this

station and maintain current public services. The City's police and fire
costs have increased by over 23% from 2002 and by over 15% from
2003. The City needs to enact a special tax to fund public safety services
at a level that will make Perris a safe place to work and live.

The special tax must be enacted because;

•	THE CITY NEEDS ADDITIONAL POLICE AND FIRE
SERVICES TO KEEP UP WITH THE RAPID POPULATION

GROWTH

•	WITHOUT ANOTHER REVENUE SOURCE, CITY LEADERS
WILL HAVE TO TAKE FUNDING FROM EXISTING CITY
PROGRAMS TO PAY FOR POLICE AND FIRE SERVICES

•	THE CITY CANNOT AFFORD TO COMPROMISE THE
HEALTH AND SAFETY OF THE RESIDENTS OF PERRIS BY
PROVIDING LESS THAN ADEQUATE FIRE AND POLICE
PROTECTION

Measure "NN" will help make Perris a safer community both now

and in the future.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE "NN!"

By; Craig E. Anthony
Fire Chief
Riverside County

NO ARGUMENT FILED AGAINST MEASURE "NN"

i

La

s/Eric L. Dunn City Attorney City of Perris