MEASURE“Z”

MORONGO VALLEY COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ELECTION

Shall a limited 4 year General Tax terminating June 30, 2007 in the amount of $49.50
per year per parcel, both developed and undeveloped within the Morongo Valley
Community Services District, be authorized to fund general governmental purposes,
allowing for full-time fire protection and emergency response services?

YES

NO

MEASURE “Z”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL*

The Board of Directors of the Morongo Valley Community Services District (“District”)
has called this election, pursuant to Government Code section 61750 et.seq., to
authorize it to impose a tax for general governmental purposes to carry out the objects
and purposes of the District. The tax will be a four year general tax terminating June
30, 2007 in the amount of $49.50 per year per parcel, both developed or undeveloped,
within the District to fund general governmental purposes, allowing for full-time fire
protection and emergency response services.

If a majority of the voters voting upon the proposition within the District vote YES, the
tax, not to exceed the maximum amount authorized and for the purposes stated, will be
approved.

If less than a majority of the voters voting upon the proposition within the District vote
YES, the District will not be authorized to impose the general tax.

This measure will not have any effect on existing law.

* Section 9160 of the Elections Code requires the County Counsel to prepare an
impartial analysis of measures appearing on the ballot.

MEASURE“Z”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Measure Z is a general tax of $49.50 annually per parcel, developed or undeveloped,
for a period of 4 years only, ending fiscal year 2006/2007.

Measure Z will provide the same level of fire protection and emergency medical service
as the prior Measure P, along with maintaining services in other CSD governed areas.
The priority of this measure is still to guarantee two firefighter/EMT’s 24/7...the bare
minimum of what our community needs. The combination of taxes will continue to
upkeep other basic community facilities such as Covington Park. Providing a fulltime
fire department is key to maintaining the increasing property values and available and
affordable homeowner’s insurance, insuring the growth the prosperity that CSD
taxpayers are presently enjoying.

The CSD and local community interest groups have explored every alternative to avoid
the extra tax. San Bernardino County has stated that they can not provide fire
protection or emergency medical services in the Morongo Valley CSD area due to their
own financial difficulties.

The CSD and Fire Department should stabilize within these 4 years. Rapid growth in
the area and the rise in valuation of homes and businesses will increase the tax base
eliminating the need for the supplemental tax after 2007.

Copies of the resolution that proposed and defined this increase are readily available at
the CSD Office.

William F. Swarat
Sign Manufacturer

Jimmy Ross
Retired

Cleo D. Conrad
Homemaker

Miriam Collins
Contractor

Leslie K. Rotstein
Business Owner

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “Z” WAS FILED