<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G
MARIPOSA COUNTY BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

Measure G has been placed on the ballot by the Mariposa County
Board of Supervisors, at the request of the John C. Fremont
Healthcare District. The John C. Fremont Healthcare District has
determined that an increase of one-half of one percent (1/2%) in
the Transaction and Use Tax charged countywide is needed for the
John C. Fremont Hospital which is operated by the John C. Fremont
Healthcare District. The Tax will be paid by persons making taxable
purchases in Mariposa County. Pursuant to California Revenue and
Taxation Code Section 7285.5, Measure G requires an affirmative
vote of two-thirds or more of the electors voting on the Measure at
the election held on November 2,2004. If approved, the tax increase
will become operative on April 1, 2005. The tax increase will cease
twenty (20) years following its operative date. A portion of the
proceeds of the increase will be used for payment of the costs of
collection and administration of the tax increase; all other proceeds
after payment of costs of collection and administration shall be paid
to the John C. Fremont Healthcare District Board of Directors to be
used for the benefit of the John C. Fremont Hospital, including but
not limited to, the payment of operations expenses, maintenance
expenses, equipment purchases, facility expansion, repayment of
debt, and extension of services and programs.

Currently the Transaction and Use Tax in Mariposa County is 7.25%.
There are two Tax Measures on this ballot, Measure G is seeking
an increase of the Transaction and Use Tax of one-half percent
(1/2%) and Measure H is seeking an increase of the Transaction
and Use Tax of one-quarter percent (1/4%). If neither of the Measures
pass the Transaction and Use Tax will remain seven and one-quarter
percent (7.25%). If Measure H passes and Measure G fails the Tax
will be seven and one-half percent (7.50%). If Measure G passes
and Measure H fails the Tax will be seven and three-quarters percent
(7.75%). If both of the Measures pass the Tax will be 8.00%. <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> /s/ Thomas P. Guarino
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G


The 1/2 percent sales tax that saved the J. C. Fremont Healthcare
District expired in June. Now the hospital is operating in the red.
We must REINSTATE that sales tax or we face closure.

A medical emergency can strike anyone. Treatment during the first
“critical hour” provides a patient’s best chance of survival. If J. C.
Fremont Hospital’s emergency room closes, it will take most Mariposa
citizens more than an hour to reach the nearest hospital, thus
reducing their chances. One person lost is one too many.

Payments for services don’t come close to covering the costs of
running a small, rural hospital. The population of Mariposa County
will not be large enough to support the hospital for the next twenty
years.

To assure future healthcare, we need a twenty-year sales tax, mostly
paid by tourists.

The J. C. Fremont Healthcare District operates a hospital with an
emergency room, diagnostic services, Ewing Wing nursing home,

J.	C. Fremont Clinic, home health, hospice, private duty and lifeline
services. These services are interdependent; closing one would
threaten the others.

Without J. C. Fremont Healthcare District, property values would
drop. Lost jobs would affect our local economy. The District is
necessary for a healthy future

Vote for Measure G - The life you save may be your own!

Submitted by the “Yes on Measure ‘G’ Committee” <favorend>





<favorsigs> s/ Frances L. Shell
Chair <favorsigsend>






NO ARGUMENT AGAINST
THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED


