Measure R: Utility Users Tax, City of Scotts Valley

To prevent reductions in general City services and programs, shall the existing utility users’ tax of 4% on electricity and gas utilities, established by the City in 1992, be affirmed and ratified fixing the rate of tax at 4% on all gas and electrical  charges only?   A “YES” vote on Measure R is a vote to continue in place the Scotts Valley utility users tax at its present rate of 4% on electric and gas utilities. A “NO” vote on Measure R is a vote to discontinue the existing Scotts Valley utility users tax.

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
Measure seeks voter approval for the continued collection of Scotts Valley's utility users tax which generates approximately $600,000 a year for the City's general fund representing approximately 10% of the City's annual revenues. This measure will fix the rate of the utility users tax at 4% on all gas and electrical service in the City with exemptions for low income householders. The rate of the tax cannot be changed without a vote of the people. The measure also, to the extent allowed by law, provides that past collections are also approved. The loss of $600,000 a year to the City's general fund may impact the provision of vital services such as police and public works.
s/ Robert J. Logan, City Attorney
City of Scotts Valley

Argument in Favor of Measure R
Your YES vote on Measure R will keep Scotts Valley's 4% utility tax on PG&E only, to help pay for our essential services like police, streets, and parks. The utility tax provides around $600,000 yearly, which is 10% of the City’s budget. That's just $6 on an average $150 monthly bill. The utility tax has made a positive difference in Scotts Valley.  In spite of the city's low property tax revenues (only 4%), we've been able to keep our services top-rate.
·    The average response time for police emergencies is under three minutes.
·    Scotts Valley has the lowest crime rate in the county thanks to your investment in our police department.
·    The utility tax also provides a police officer at Scotts Valley High School and a successful juvenile diversion program. 
·    Utility tax revenues provide yearly resurfacing of the city’s 35 miles of streets, now in its second rotation, and significantly contributes to the annual street maintenance budget.
·    Scotts Valley Drive, Mt. Hermon Road, and Glenwood Drive have been reconstructed.
·    We now have sidewalks on Bethany Drive and Granite Creek Road from the utility tax revenues.
·    The maintenance necessary to keep our parks clean, the soccer fields green, the play equipment safe and maintain the landscaped medians on Scotts Valley Drive and Mt. Hermon Road, has been helped by the utility tax.
·    Our parks, such as Hocus Pocus and Skypark have beautified and enhanced the community, with events like the July 4th Fireworks and new soccer programs at Skypark.
Scotts Valley is a small government that consistently uses its money wisely and efficiently. The City Council has unanimously asked the voters to continue their investment in police, streets, and parks, which are 2/3 of city budget expenses. Let’s keep Scotts Valley’s quality of life great and vote YES on Measure R.
s/ Stephen D. Walpole, Retired Chief of Police
s/ Debbie Zanotto, Zanotto’s Family Mkt.
s/ Dene Bustichi, Bustichi Const., Local Business Owner
s/ Mary Dettle, Teacher, Vine Hill Elementary, SVUSD
s/ Ferd Bergholz, Scotts Valley Senior Cntr President

(No argument against Measure R was submitted.)

Full Text of Ballot R
THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SCOTTS VALLEY DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.   Chapter 3.35 of the Scotts Valley Municipal Code (‘Code’) entitled ‘Utility Users’ Tax’ which applies a four percent tax rate on all gas and electric charges in the City of Scotts Valley is hereby approved as set forth in Chapter 3.35 of the Code as of June 31, 2002, and the City is hereby authorized to continue to impose and collect the utility tax on a yearly basis as provided by the terms set out in Chapter 3.35 of the Code.
Section 2.   In no event may the City Council alter the provisions of sections 3.35.040 and 3.35.050 which set the four percent tax rate on electrical and gas use without the approval of a majority of voters of the City voting on the question of the tax rate; provided, however, the City Council is hereby authorized to amend any other provision of Chapter 3.35 of the Code by three (3) affirmative votes of its members to, without limitation, carry out the general administrative purposes of Chapter 3.35 of the Code to reasonably implement the collection of the utility tax through public utilities and other service suppliers as authorized in Chapter 3.35 of the Code.
Section 3.   It is the intent of the voters to apply the provisions of Chapter 3.35 of the Code retroactively to the fullest extent provided by law.
Section 4.   This Ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a majority of voters voting thereon and shall go into effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the City Council.