

<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF COUNTY COUNSEL
RESOURCE DEPLETION TAX
MEASURE D

This Measure would impose a fifteen cent per ton resource
depletion surcharge on mined aggregate and sand and manufactured
asphalt concrete on businesses located in the unincorporated area
of the County engaged in the mining of sand and gravel from land
within Yuba County, The surcharge would also be imposed on
businesses located within the unincorporated area of the County
that manufactured asphalt concrete. All surcharge amounts collected
would be only used for construction, repair and maintenance of
County roads. The Measure would provide the Yuba County Board
of Supervisors with authority to appropriate, in the Board’s sole
discretion, money collected as a surcharge to the incorporated areas
of the County solely for construction, repair and maintenance of City
roads. The Measure provides that no more than 3% of the total
surcharge collected annually may be used for administration.

The surcharge is to be collected from every business engaged
in the mining of gravel, sand and manufacturer of asphalt concrete
on land within the County and shall be reported and paid by each
such business on a quarterly basis.

The Measure provides for an annual increase or decrease in the
surcharge in an amount corresponding to the Consumer Price Index.
However, the surcharge may not be adjusted below fifteen cents per
ton.

The Measure provides that delinquent payments shall be subject
to a 10% penalty. If the delinquency continues for more than thirty
(30) days, an additional 10% penalty shall be imposed on the past
due amount plus the original 10% penalty. Interest on delinquent
amounts shall accrue at the rate of 1 1/2% of 1% per month (18% apr).
Interest and penalties imposed because of delinquency shall become
part of the surcharge amount. This Measure may be passed by a
super majority (66 2/3%) affirmative vote of the voters voting. <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> s/ Daniel G, Montgomery

Yuba County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF AGGREGATE SURCHARGE
MEASURE D

As voters know, Yuba County does not have sufficient funds to
maintain our roads. Measure D will help by providing additional funds
by requiring companies that mine sand, gravel and rock, and
manufacture asphalt concrete to contribute $0.15 per every ton sold
towards the construction, repair and maintenance of county and city
roads within Yuba County,

Only companies involved in these specific aggregate-related activities
would make this contribution to our roads - not individual taxpayers
or other businesses.

Measure D ensures that funds collected will be used only for improving
our roads by capping any administrative costs at 3%,

Vote to improve Yuba County’s road system. Vote YES on Measure D.
The mining operators listed below are in support of Measure D. <favorend>






<favorsigs> s/ Dana Davis
Teichert Aggregates
s/ Nicole Lindbom
Silica Resources, Inc.
s/ Noble D. Plant Jr
Triangle Engineering
s/ Wayne R. Dutra
Baldwin Contracting Company, Inc. <favorsigsend>








<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

The proponents of Measure D are right about one thing: Yuba County
has transportation problems. BUT Measure D is not the answer. Why
not?

NO ACCOUNTABILITY.

Measure D provides NO guarantee that the money will be used to
repair the roads that need to be fixed. In fact, it is not clear just
how or where the county will spend the money. There are just too
many cases where politicians have mishandled our tax dollars. We
deserve to know where the money will be spent and Measure D
doesn’t tell us.

BAD FOR BUSINESS

Measure D is one of the highest taxes of its kind in alt of California.
Small companies are hit hardest by Measure D. Big producers
OUTSIDE of Yuba County will gain a competitive advantage over
small operators. In addition, not all the mining companies will be
taxed the same -and some may avoid the tax completely. Measure
0 picks winners and losers among local companies. That's not right.

TODAY ROCKS, TOMORROW YOU. 

Measure D says it is a resource tax, but Yuba County’s next tax is
just as likely to be a tax on agriculture or some other industry. These
taxes hurt local taxpayers and jobs.

EMPTY PROMISE

Measure D does not begin to meet our real transportation needs.
Enough is enough. Vote NO on Measure D! <rebutfavorend>





<rebutfavorsigs> s/ James E. Sanders
Taxpayer, Farmer
s/ Cotton Rosser
Taxpayer, Rancher <rebutfavorsigsend> 





<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

County. Measure D is virtually the same tax measure that was rejected
by Yuba County voters 8 year ago. Today, it would be even worse
for our economy and raise taxes twice as much.

Measure D WON'T WORK. The Board of Supervisors put this tax
on the ballot and says it will fix our roads. Measure D doesn’t begin
to do the job and it does nothing to reduce big truck traffic on our
roads. It does nothing to reduce traffic congestion.

NO-ACCOUNTABiLITY.	

There are no costs controls in place that tell us how much money the new tax will raise and where the money will be spent. Under Measure D, we are left to guess where the
Supervisors will spend the money. We've all seen too many examples
where the politicians FAILED to protect taxpayer interests.

Measure D is UNFAIR. Gravel companies in other counties will gain
an advantage over companies here. Small business and small gravel
operators will be hit the hardest by the tax, and may be taxed out
of business, in addition, under Measure D some gravel companies
that make blacktop can simply PASS THE TAX onto TAXPAYERS
again by raising the price of fixing our roads. And other companies
that manufacture concrete on site will not pay any tax on the
aggregate used in their concrete product.

Higher taxes = fewer jobs. Yuba County cannot afford to lose any
more jobs. This tax scheme is a bad idea for all Yuba County residents.
We need honest answers to our transportation challenges, not more
taxes and promises without accountability

Send the politicians a message. VOTE NO ON MEASURE D! <againstend>






<againstsigs> James E. Sanders
Taxpayer, Farmer <againstsigsend>






<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

Measure D is much simpler than opponents want you to believe. It's
a choice between taking a real step to improve Yuba County’s road
system, or keeping the status quo of an under-funded and
inadequately maintained road system.

If you want a new source of funds - WITHOUT ANY NEW TAXES
on individual taxpayers - for repairing Yuba County’s roads, VOTE
YES on MEASURE D.

If you want those funds used on roads that need it the most, including
improving roadways around Beale Air Force Base to help ensure its
on-going mission in Yuba County, VOTE YES on MEASURE D.

If you want to improve the business climate in Yuba County, by
having an overall better road system, VOTE YES on MEASURE D.

if you want accountability by ensuring 97% of all funds raised by
Measure D must be spent only on road maintenance and construction,
VOTE YES on MEASURE D.

If you want to reject gridlock created by those who oppose efforts
like Measure D that inject real dollars, not unfulfilled plans, into
improving Yuba County’s roads, VOTE YES on MEASURE D.

Please join a majority of the Yuba County aggregate industry in
supporting the improvement of Yuba County's entire road system.
VOTE YES on MEASURE D. <rebutagainstend>





<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Dana Davis
Teichert Aggregates
s/ Nicole Lindbom
Silica Resources, Inc.
s/ Wayne R. Dutra
Baldwin Contracting Co., Inc.
s/ Noble D. Plant Jr
Kino Agg. Inc. <rebutagainstsigsend>

