VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

SONOMA VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE A

In order to keep school libraries open, restore art and music

A programs, enhance high school vocational programs;
provide expanded academic programs for college-bound
students, attract and retain high quality teachers, and
reduce class size, should the Sonoma Valley Unified School District
be authorized to levy an annual parcel tax of $85 for five years,
beginning July 1, 2004, with annual citizens’ oversight committee
audits, exempting parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years
of age or more?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The Sonoma Valley Unified School District has called an election on a special tax
measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a
school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $85 per year per parcel for each parcel of
land within the District's boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1, 2004, and would remain in effect for no
more than five years.

Proceeds of the tax could only be used for purposes set out in the measure, which
include reducing class size, keeping school libraries open, restoring art and music
programs, enhancing school vocational programs, and providing expanded
academic programs for college-bound students, and retaining experienced
teachers.

If the tax is approved, the school board must create a special, separate account
to be established for deposit of the proceeds of the tax. A citizens’ oversight
committee shall be appointed by the school board to review the budgeting of the
special tax revenue, and to annually review an audit of the special tax funds and
expenditures. The annual audit shall include a report of the amount received and
expended from the tax for each year, and the status of any projects, and
description of any programs, funded from the proceeds of the tax.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and
occupied by a person who will be 65 years of age or older on or before May 1 of the
year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemptions based on
ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for this exemption
the first year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps must be
followed to appeal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a refund of the
tax, if appropriate.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Sonoma Valley Unified School District who vote on
this measure vote "yes," the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied.
The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes starting
with the 2004-2005 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: s / Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Our schools are on the right track: we are raising test scores, improving com-
munication and providing the foundation for our students to succeed in this new
century. We have budgeted conservatively and lived within our means.

However, now we face uncertain times with regard to the state budget. We cannot
let our Sonoma schools suffer as a result of Sacramento’s problems. To continue
on the right track we need to pass Measure A. Measure A is a modest investment
that will help to keep our school libraries open, restore art and music programs,
continue vocational education and strengthen support for our academic college-
bound students. We need to keep our class size reduction programs for
kindergarten through third grade. We need to make sure we can recruit and retain
highly qualified teachers.

Measure A provides tangible benefits to the entire community, not the least of
which are higher property values. It’s more important than ever for local Sonoma
students to find a good job and be prepared for college. Measure A will improve the
economic outlook for Sonoma Valley.

Measure A guarantees accountability. All funds generated by Measure A will be
accounted for by an Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee charged with the
responsibility to make sure that every dollar benefits children. All monies will stay
in Sonoma and will be used in classrooms — not for bureaucracy.

Teachers, parents, local businesspeople and seniors support Measure A. We urge
your support of Measure A. We thank you for your vote on March 2.

si Niels A. Chew, President	si	Adele	S.	Harrison,	Founder

Sonoma Valley Business of the Year	Friends	in	Sonoma	Helping

VALLEY OF THE MOON TEACHERS ASSN. si Kathy Witkowicki
si Kevin McWilliams Evans, President	Parent

s/ Bill Cogbill
Sheriff-Coroner

NO REBUTTAL TO
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A
WAS SUBMITTED

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Wise counsel dictates that when you have dug yourself into a hole—stop digging.
Facing a statewide financial crisis, it is time to stop spending and tighten our belts.
As painful as this can sometimes be, there can be benefits. When we are forced to
live within our means, we will choose to spend on those programs we collectively
deem most valuable and delay programs of lesser value. We make no judgments
about the merits of the programs proposed by the District, although we do suggest
that the case for more spending has not been adequately made and there are no
guarantees the money raised from the parcel tax will be dedicated to the uses the
District has indicated, We urge you to take a good look at your current property tax
bill’s special assessments and add the requested parcel tax. Then, ask yourself, is
this the right time for the District to ask me for more money? We already paid our
share of taxes, but where did the money go? The state’s financial crisis has made it
imperative for all areas of government to rethink how money is spent, especially
education which represents nearly 40 percent of California’s budget. We urge you
to send a strong message to the District’s board and management to rethink how
existing funds will be spent by voting No on this measure.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION
si Spencer Flournoy, President	si	Jack Atkin, Treasurer

si John B. Landis, Vice President	si	Jeanne I. Levin, Board Member

si Fred H. Levin, Executive Director

18

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Don’t be fooled. Authors of the Argument against Measure A can’t even vote on
the issue. They don’t live in Sonoma Valley. We do.

Measure A was put on the ballot by the local school board with input from local
taxpayers. All monies from Measure A will go to support classrooms, and not one
dime will go to administration. All Measure A proceeds will be kept in a separate
fund and will be subject to an independent citizens’ oversight committee. This
measure ends in five years. Seniors may file exemptions, as is the case with all
such measures.

Measure A will keep school libraries open, provide our High School students with
opportunities whether for college or career, keep our class sizes manageable, restore
art and music programs and ensure we can recruit and retain highly qualified
teachers. This will result in higher property values. Sheriff Cogbill states that every
one-dollar invested in schools saves seven dollars in the criminal justice system.

Measure A promises that local priorities for our schools will be met. Measure A
allows us to sidestep Sacramento and take care of our own. Measure A is by us
and for us. We appreciate your support for Measure A. On behalf of the children in
our community, we respectfully ask for your vote on March 2. Thank you.

si Gail Purtell	si	Timothy J. Bowe, Executive Director

National Board Certified Teacher Sonoma Valley Education Foundation

si Wendy Roberts Swanson	SONOMA VALLEY CHAMBER OF COMMERCE

Parent, Project Everybody si Jennifer Yankovich, Executive Director

si Evelyn Berger
Homemaker

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

SONOMA VALLEY UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
MAINTAINING EDUCATIONAL EXCELLENCE ACT OF 2004 TAX

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Sonoma Valley
Unified School District Maintaining Educational Excellence Act of 2004 Tax”
or as “Measure A”.

TERMS OF MAINTAINING
EDUCATIONAL EXCELLENCE ACT OF 2004 SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this
measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $85 per
year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no more than five
years, commencing July 1, 2004. The qualified special tax shall be known and
referred to as the “Maintaining Educational Excellence Act of 2004 Tax”. To the
extent such funds are available, proceeds of the Maintaining Educational
Excellence Act of 2004 Tax shall be authorized to keep school libraries open,
restore art and music programs, enhance high school vocational programs,
provide expanded academic programs for college-bound students, keep high
quality teachers, and reduce class size.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the
community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older
shall be exempt from the Maintaining Educational Excellence Act of 2004 Tax
upon proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption must apply
to the District on or before May 1,2004 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment
year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for
the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant
continues to qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Maintaining
Educational Excellence Act of 2004 Tax, the Board of Trustees shall cause an
account to be established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A, CONT.

of the Maintaining Educational Excellence Act of 2004 Tax remain unexpended,
the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District shall cause an
independent financial auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of
Education and the Community Oversight Committee no later than December 31 of
each year, commencing December 31,2005, stating (1) the amount of Maintaining
Educational Excellence Act of 2004 Tax received and expended in such year, and
(2) the status of any projects or description of any programs funded from proceeds
of the tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other
appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and may be
incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine
report to the Board of Trustees.

Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Board of Trustees shall appoint a Citizens’
Oversight Committee which shall, on an annual basis, review both the Maintaining
Educational Excellence Act of 2004 Budget and the Maintaining Educational
Excellence Act of 2004 Independent Audit.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall constitute the
specific purposes of the Maintaining Educational Excellence Act of 2004 Tax, and
proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Maintaining Educational Excellence Act of 2004 Tax shall be collected by the
Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall
be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the
rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the
Maintaining Educational Excellence Act of 2004 Tax shall not decrease the funds
available from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date
hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property" shall be defined as any unit of real property in the
District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. All property which is otherwise
exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall
also be exempt from the Maintaining Educational Excellence Act of 2004 Tax in
such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older are
exempt from the Maintaining Educational Excellence Act of 2004 Tax as described
above.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has approved
for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Maintaining Educational Excellence Act of
2004 Tax as described above to the Sonoma County tax collection officials. The
Sonoma County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason
other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be final and
binding for the purposes of the Maintaining Educational Excellence Act of 2004
Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor's determination must
do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant
to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable
procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Maintaining Educational Excellence
Act of 2004 Tax paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds
pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure
concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent value, and the
Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof
regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the
voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid
for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the
fullest extent allowed by law.

19