<fiscal> Fiscal Impact from County Auditor-Controller

Measure J is a 1/2 cent Special Tax for Highway 1 and Other Transportation

Projections Measure J is a special tax to provide funds that can legally be used only for Highway
1 and other local transportation projects specified in the Expenditure Plan for the Measure. The
tax is limited to thirty years. The tax may be retired earlier than the full 30-year term if funds are
no longer needed for debt service and if all projects and commitments in the Expenditure Plan
have been fulfilled.

Fiscal Effect Measure J is a transactions and use tax, also known as a sales tax. The tax will be
paid by residents and visitors on all taxable sales occurring in Santa Cruz County. In general,
taxable sales include all retail purchases except food. Taxable sales do not include services. The
direct fiscal impact of a 1/2 cent sales tax is 500 for each one hundred dollars ($100) spent on
taxable transactions. Payment is collected at the time of sale.

Estimated Tax Revenue The estimated tax revenue over the 30 year life of Measure J is
$577,000,000 measured in 2003 dollars. The revenue estimate includes a 1.5% growth factor
each year. The revenue estimate has not been adjusted for inflation. It is assumed that inflation
revenue increases will be offset by inflation in the costs to deliver the projects. All revenue
produced by the Measure would be deposited into the Measure J Regional Transportation Fund
established and maintained by the Auditor-Controller.

Expenditure Plan The Measure is a special tax that is restricted for certain transportation projects
set forth in the Measure's Expenditure Plan. Below is a summary of the Expenditure Plan for the
estimated Measure J tax revenue. The table shows the percentage distribution and estimated
amount rounded to the nearest million dollars for each project to be funded by Measure J tax
revenue.

Project % Est. Amount

Highway 1 Projects o Highway 1 Widening/Carpool and Bus Lanes 63.0% $363,000,000 o

Highway 1 Bicycle/Pedestrian Crossings 1.0% $6,000,000 o Highway 1 Express Buses 1.0%

$6,000,000 o Highway 1 Park and Ride Lots and Carpool Programs

1.5% $9,000,000

Other Transportation Projects

o Local City & County Transportation Improvements allocated among the cities and the County
based on population
19.5% $112,000,000

o Highway 17 Safety Programs 1.0% $6,000,000
o Senior & Disabled Transportation Services 4.0% $23,000,000

o Watsonville-Pajaro Junction Rail Station 1.0% $6,000,000
o Coastal Bicycle/Pedestrian Trail, adjacent to Rail Line
4.0% $23,000,000

o Contingency/Reserve 3.0% $17,000,000
o Administration 1.0% $6,000,000
Total 100.0% $577,000,000

Debt The Measure authorizes the issuance of debt payable from the Measure's tax revenues. The
Measure gives priority for the issuance of debt to the Highway 1 Projects and states that debt
service shall have priority over other distributions.

Accountability of Funds The Measure creates an independent audit committee of four members
to oversee the annual financial audits of the funds, allocations and expenditures of revenues of
the Regional Transportation Fund. <fiscalend>






<fiscalsigs> s/ Gary A. Knutson, Auditor-Controller Santa Cruz County 44-514 9200
 <fiscalsigsend>






<impartial> Impartial Analysis from County Counsel Local Transportation Improvement Act This ballot measure, if adopted by the voters, would
enact a one-half of one (0.5) percent increase to the sales tax rate applied throughout the cities
and unincorporated area of the County of Santa Cruz. All revenue produced by the proposed
sales tax increase would be deposited into the Regional Transportation Fund, required by the
measure to be established and maintained by the County Auditor-Controller.

The Regional Transportation Fund may only legally be used to finance the transportation
improvement projects described in the Local Transportation Expenditure Plan included in and
approved as part of the ballot measure.

The current sales tax rate in the City of Santa Cruz is eight and one-quarter (8.25) percent while
the rate for the remaining cities and unincorporated area is eight (8) percent. Accordingly, if this
ballot measure is adopted the sales tax rate would add one-half of one (0.5) percent to the
existing rate for each city and the unincorporated area for a thirty year period.

The proposed increased sales tax, like the current sales tax, would be imposed upon the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail within the cities and the unincorporated area of the
County as well as upon the storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer in the cities and County.

This ballot measure proposes a "special purpose tax,” rather than a "general purpose tax," and
requires the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of those voting for adoption.

Dated: August 17, 2004 <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> s/ DANA MCRAE County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<favor> Arguments For Measure J

With a "YE$" vote on Measure J, Santa Cruz County voters can:
o Widen Highway 1

o Repair or build neighborhood streets, sidewalks and bike lanes
o Purchase Express buses for use on Highway 1
o Build bicycle and pedestrian bridges over the highway
o Build a pedestrian/bike trail along the coastal rail line

o Provide increased transportation for the elderly and disabled
o Build a train station in Pajaro
o Make Highway 17 safer

Measure J will enact a 30-year, half-cent sales tax that will be dedicated to these projects. We
will solve local problems with local money that can't be taken away or used by the State.
Highway 1 was built in the 1950's when Santa Cruz County was a very different place. Since
then our population has increased 400% and Highway 1 is now terribly inadequate. Every day
thousands of County residents sit in Highway 1 gridlock that now lasts for hours every morning
and every afternoon. Not only is considerable time and gasoline wasted, but our air is polluted by
thousands of idling cars. In addition, drivers trying to avoid the congestion on Highway 1 crowd
neighborhood streets.

Even more important than pollution and time loss is the very serious problem of ambulances, fire
trucks and police cars that can't get through the traffic in emergencies. With a new lane for high
occupancy and emergency vehicles, emergency personnel will be able to get through and save
lives and property. The other transportation projects, such as the coastal bike and pedestrian trail,
improved local roads, rides for the elderly and safety improvements on Highway 17, will also
make Santa Cruz County a better place to live. Our quality of life depends on our willingness to
invest in our community. Please join us in supporting Measure J.

Let's get our community moving again! Vote "YES" on Measure J!! <favorend>








<favorsigs> s/ Mark Tracy, Santa Cruz County Sheriff

s/ Sam L. Robustelli, Fire Chief

s/ Diane K. Siri, County Superintendent of Schools

s/ Ted Burke, Business Owner

s/ Tony Campos, County Supervisor <favorsigsend>








<rebutfavor> Rebuttal to Arguments For

Measure J would cost you and every other household over $5,000, but fails to provide the
balanced transportation system that Santa Cruz County deserves. Emergency access the
expensive way We could do more to help public safety without this boondoggle. An emergency
lane would be faster, and could be provided without widening, at a fraction of the cost. More air
pollution How could gridlock with six lanes mean less pollution than with four lanes? The
County's own study admits that widening will increase air pollution, exceeding Monterey Bay
area air quality thresholds. Read the fine print Measure J is being rushed to the ballot before the
full costs of widening Highway 1 are known. The projects listed along with widening were added
because polls said voters want balanced transportation funding. But how secure is the funding for
other projects? Measure J's fine print states: It shall be the priority of this Plan that the issuance
of bonds, certificates of participation, or other forms of indebtedness for the Highway 1
Widening/ Carpool Lane project, as necessary, shall take precedence over the issuance of bonds,
certificates of participation, or other forms of indebtedness for other Plan projects. [Section
II-2D] Who pays? Highway 1 is a State Highway. Any expansion should be paid for from State
highway funds, not by county residents. When budgets are being cut for police, fire, and other
basic services, this project is the wrong use of scarce local tax dollars.

Please Vote NO on Measure J. <rebutfavorend>







<rebutfavorsigs> Sierra Club-Santa Cruz County
s/ George Jammal, Past Chair

s/ Mary E. Hammer, San Lorenzo Valley Community Advocate
s/ Marian T. Martinez, Resident, Watsonville
s/ Nora Hochman, Union Organizer, Mid County Resident
s/ Katherine Beiers, Former Mayor, City of Santa Cruz <rebutfavorsigsend>






<against> Arguments Against Measure J

Measure J is NOT a genuine transportation improvement tax. It is a 30-year sales tax to widen
Highway 1. We urge voters to reject this misleading tax because: o The true costs of widening
are not known, o Widening will not fix traffic jams, o The tax sacrifices bus, rail, and other
transportation needs, for the sake of widening. Please consider: o Cost is astronomical. .. and
still rising. The estimated cost of Highway 1 widening has grown to nearly one-half billion
dollars. Engineering design and environmental reports for the widening project will not be
completed for three years. Costs could double. Cost overruns and delays could use up all of the
available tax funds, leaving nothing for other transportation needs ... or maybe not enough to
complete the widening itself, o Construction nightmare and then .. . more traffic jams.
Continuous construction until 2017 will delay traffic and blight the landscape. The County's own
studies show that once complete, the lane added in each direction of Highway 1 will soon be
overloaded, and commute-hour traffic will stay just as congested as it is today, o Unbalanced
transportation priorities . .. misleading finances. Even without cost overruns, widening the
freeway consumes most of Measure J's tax money. There is nothing for fixing the Fishhook
bottleneck at Highways 1 and 17, creative solutions to UCSC access, or our faltering public and
school bus systems. This misleading measure actually reduces funds now budgeted for other
transportation needs. Don't let them turn the Highway 1 scenic corridor into a canyon of concrete
sound walls. It's a false fix, an expensive mistake.

Please Vote NO on Measure J. <againstend>







<againstsigs> Santa Cruz County Group, Ventana Chapter, Sierra Club
s/ James Danaher, Member Campaign for Sensible Transportation
s/ Paul Elerick, Chair
s/ Joan H. Anderson, CASA volunteer

s/ Patricia A. Shand, Past President of Democratic Women's Club
s/ Bruce Van Allen, Software Developer, Former Mayor, Santa Cruz <againstsigsend>







<rebutagainst> Rebuttal to Arguments Against

The Measure J opponents' answer to our traffic problems is simple: Do nothing! Do nothing
about terrible traffic congestion. Do nothing about wasting time and gas and polluting our air. Do
nothing about ambulances, police and fire trucks stuck in traffic. With no plan to improve the
situation, the arguments against Measure J are simply aimed at misleading the voters. For
example: They say: Traffic will be just as bad after adding two lanes to Highway 1. The facts:
This is false and defies common sense. The truth is traffic studies show if we do nothing,
commute times will triple in a few years. Plus every year we delay, construction will cost $10
million more. They say: Measure J sacrifices bus, rail and other transportation needs. The facts:

This is false. The truth is this measure will include more than $200 million of NEW funds
available for bus, rail, local streets, a Coastal Trail, rides for the elderly and other transportation
alternatives. The new lanes on Highway 1 will encourage use of express buses and carpools,
reducing congestion in the other lanes. They say: The tax won't fix the "fishhook" where
Highway 1 meets Highway

17. The facts: This argument is incredibly misleading. The truth is there is a separate
construction project already funded to deal with this problem area. Construction is to begin next
summer.

Don't let a "do nothing" minority control our future. Get the facts on Measure J and vote YES!
Let's get our community moving again ! <rebutagainstend>







<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Ellen Pirie, County Supervisor

s/ Sister Julie Hyer, O.P., President/CEO Dominican Hospital, Santa Cruz, CA
s/ Gary W. Smith, Aptos/La Selva Fire Chief (Ret.), Watsonville Fire Chief (Ret.)
s/ Bonnie Morr, Bus Driver Santa Cruz County Business Council
s/ James E. Conklin, Executive Director <rebutagainstsigsend>







<full> Full Text of Measure J

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF SANTA CRUZ IMPOSING A ONE-HALF OF ONE
PERCENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY STATE BOARD
OF EQUALIZATION FOR TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS INCLUDED IN THE
SANTA CRUZ COUNTY LOCAL TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN
ORDINANCE

The people of the County of Santa Cruz ordain as follows:

SECTION I

The Santa Cruz County Code is hereby amended by adding Chapter 4.22 to read as follows:
Chapter 4.22 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
Sections:

4.22.010 Summary.

4.22.020 Definitions.

4.22.030 Purposes.

4.22.040 Imposition of transactions and use tax.

4.22.050 Transactions tax rate.

4.22.060 Place of sale.

4.22.070 Use tax rate.

4.22.080 Adoption of provisions of state law.

4.22.090 Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use tax.

4.22.100 Permit not required.

4.22.110 Exemptions and exclusions.

4.22.120 Conformance with statutory amendments.

4.22.130 Enjoining collection forbidden.

4.22.140 Bonding authority.

4.22.150 Maintenance of effort.

4.22.160 Matching funds.

4.22.170 Collection and administration of funds.

4.22.180 Administrative costs.

4.22.190 Effective date.

4.22.200 Election.

4.22.210 Implementing policies and regulations.

4.22.220 Independent audit committee.

4.22.230 Contract with state.

4.22.240 Expenditure plan amendment.

4.22.250 Termination date.

4.22.010 Summary. Pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.5, this Chapter
provides for the imposition of a retail transactions and use tax (commonly known as a "sales
tax") of one-half of one percent for a period of thirty (30) years, the authority to issue notes,
bonds, certificates of participation, or other forms of indebtedness secured by such taxes, the
administration of the tax proceeds, and a Local Transportation Expenditure Plan. The
transactions and use tax provisions of this Chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of Santa Cruz County, which territory shall be referred to herein as
"District". This tax shall be in addition to any other taxes authorized by law, including any
existing or future state or local sales and use tax or transactions and use tax.

4.22.020 Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in this Chapter and Expenditure Plan:

A.	"Auditor-Controller" means the elected Auditor-Controller of the County of Santa Cruz.

B.	"Commission" means the Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation Commission, the local
area transportation planning agency created by Government Code Section 67940.

C.	"County" means the County of Santa Cruz, governed by the Board of Supervisors.

D.	"Expenditure Plan" or "Plan" means the Santa Cruz County Local Transportation Expenditure
Plan adopted as part of the Ordinance enacting this Chapter, including any future amendments
thereto.

E.	"Fund" means the Regional Transportation Fund established by this Chapter and as set forth in
Government Code Section 29532(a).

F.	“Highway Authority" means the Highway 1 Construction Authority, the joint exercise of
powers agency created pursuant to the provisions of Title 1, Division 7, Chapter 5, Article 1
(Section 6500, et seq.) of the California Government Code, committed exclusively to delivering
the Highway 1 Widening/Carpool lane project.

G. "Local jurisdictions" means the County of Santa Cruz, the City of Capitola, the City of Santa
Cruz, the City of Scotts Valley and the City of Watsonville.

H.	"Sales Tax" or "Sales and Use Tax" means the retail transactions and use tax established by
this Chapter.

4.22.030 Purposes. The Commission has recommended that the County submit to the voters of
Santa Cruz County for their approval an ordinance which would, if so approved, authorize the
County to impose a one-half of one percent transactions and use tax for a period of thirty years to
fund the transportation improvements set forth in the Expenditure Plan, and authorizes the public
entities designated in the Expenditure Plan to issue notes, bonds, certificates of participation, or
other forms of indebtedness served by said tax. Measure "J" funds may only be used for the

transportation projects and programs outlined in the Expenditure Plan, including the
administration of this Chapter, and legal actions related thereto, and the construction, capital,
acquisition, maintenance, and operation of streets, roads, highways, including state highways and
public transit systems, and for related purposes including financing costs and costs of issuance of
any debt relating thereto. These purposes include expenditures for planning, environmental
reviews, engineering and design costs, and related right-of-way acquisition. Expenditures for
administration are subject to the limitations specified in Section 4.22.180 and in the Expenditure
Plan.

4.22.040 Imposition of transactions and use tax. This Chapter is enacted to achieve the
following, among other, purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes.

A.	To impose a one-half of one percent transactions and use tax for a thirty (30) year period in
accordance with the provisions of Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.5;

B.	To adopt a one-half of one percent transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California, in so far as
those provisions are not inconsistant with the requirements and limitations set forth in Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251 and following) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code;

C.	To adopt a one-half of one percent transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax
that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting sales and use taxes;

D.	To adopt a one-half of one percent transactions and use tax ordinance which can be
administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code (commencing with
Section 7251 and following), minimize the cost of collecting this transactions and use tax and at
the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this Chapter; and

E.	Consistent with the amendment process specified in Section 4.22.240, the tax to be imposed
by this Chapter may be retired earlier than the full 30-year term if funds are no longer needed for
debt service and if all projects and commitments in the Expenditure Plan have been fulfilled.
4.22.050 Transactions tax rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a
tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the
District at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from
the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative
date of the tax established by this Chapter.

4.22.060 Place of sale. For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-
of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one

place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

4.22.070 Use tax rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption
in the District of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of the tax established by this Chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50 %) of the sales price of the property. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

4.22.080 Adoption of provisions of state law. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this
Chapter as though fully set forth herein.

4.22.090 Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use tax. In adopting the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this
County shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State
Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this County or
any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that
code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "County" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in
business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.
4.22.100 Permit not required. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this
Chapter.

4.22.110 Exemptions and exclusions.

A.There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of

any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or
county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of
any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts
from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the county which is shipped to a point outside the District,
pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the District shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division

3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-District
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-County and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from
that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any
period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Chapter, the storage, use or other
consumption in this District of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any
state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract

entered into prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property
arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the District shall not
be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the District or participates within the District in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly
or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the District or through any representative,
agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the District under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the District" shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the
District.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Chapter may credit against that tax any transactions
tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.

4.22.120 Conformance with statutory amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective
date of this Chapter, to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales
and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this Chapter, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
Chapter.

4.22.130 Enjoining collection forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or
equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the
County, or against any officer of the State or the County, to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this Chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or
any amount of tax required to be collected.

4.22.140 Bonding authority. Upon voter approval of Measure "J”, the designated public entities
shall have the power to sell, issue or incur, from time to time, on or before the collection of
taxes, notes, bonds, certificates of participation, or other evidence of indebtedness, including, but

not limited to, capital appreciation bonds, and to secure such indebtedness solely by way of a
pledge of the present and future collection of taxes, for financing capital outlay expenditures
described in the Expenditure Plan and this Chapter. Pursuant to this Chapter, the maximum
bonded indebtedness which may be outstanding at any one time shall be an amount equal to the
sum of the principal of, and interest on, the bonds, but not to exceed the estimated proceeds of
the tax as determined by the Expenditure Plan. The amount of bonds outstanding at any one time
does not include the amount of bonds, refunding bonds or bond anticipation notes for which
funds necessary for the payment thereof have been set aside for that purpose in a trust or escrow
account.

4.22.150 Maintenance of effort. By the enactment of this Chapter, it is intended that the
additional funds to be provided to from the imposition of this transactions (sales) and use tax
shall be used to supplement statutory commitments and required developer fees being used for
transportation purposes.

4.22.160 Matching funds. Notwithstanding the maintenance of effort requirements of Section
4.22.150, funds from Measure "J" may and are expected to be used as matching funds in order to
leverage other federal, state, local or private transportation or other funds for applicable
transportation projects and programs.

4.22.170 Collection and administration of funds. The County shall impose and collect Measure
"J" funds, and the Auditor-Controller shall establish and maintain a Regional Transportation
Fund and allocate revenues derived from Measure "J” consistent with the Expenditure Plan
authority cited herein. The Commission will administer the Expenditure Plan except for those
funds allocated to the Highway Authority or local jurisdictions pursuant to the Expenditure Plan.
4.22.180 Administrative costs. The Auditor-Controller shall be authorized to expend up to one
percent (1%) of the annual net amount of revenue raised by Measure "J" for administrative
expenses, audits, programming processes, reporting, financing costs, and other implementation
and oversight responsibilities as may be necessary to administer the Expenditure Plan. The
Commission shall be authorized to annually invoice the Auditor-Controller for the cost of
compiling and publishing an annual report, providing public information concerning Measure "J"
and other administrative responsibilities.

4.22.190 Effective and operative dates. The Ordinance enacting this Chapter shall become
effective according to law only if at least two-thirds of the electors voting on the Measure at the
election on November 2, 2004, vote to approve its enactment. Pursuant to Revenue and Taxation
Code Section 7265, this Chapter shall become operative on the first day of the first calendar
quarter, commencing more than 110 days after the enactment of the Ordinance or as soon
thereafter as applicable law permits.

4.22.200 Election. The County shall call an election for voter approval of Measure "J", which
election shall be held on November 2, 2004. The election shall be called and conducted in the
same manner as provided by law for the conduct of elections by a county. Approval of Measure
"J", and the imposition of the Measure "J" transactions and use tax described herein, shall require
the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the electors voting on the Measure.

4.22.210 Implementing policies and regulations. Upon approval of Measure "J" by two-thirds of
the electors voting on the Measure, the Commission, the Highway Authority, and the local
jurisdictions may each adopt policies and procedures and take such other action as may be

necessary for the implementation of the Expenditure Plan authorized by this Chapter.

4.22.220 Independent audit committee.

A.	An independent audit committee shall be established to oversee annual financial audits of the
Fund, allocations, and expenditures of revenues from the Fund. Annual audits shall be published
in at least two local newspapers of general circulation and shall otherwise be made fully
available to the public.

B.	The independent audit committee shall consist of of four members. The following named
entities, its successor entity, or if the entity ceases to exist, a comparable entity designated by the
Commission, shall each appoint one person as follows:

1.	A person appointed by the League of Women Voters.

2.	A person appointed by the Santa Cruz County Grand Jury sitting at the time a vacancy arises.
This person shall not be a current member of the Grand Jury.

3.	A person appointed by the Presiding Judge of the Santa Cruz County courts.

4.	A person appointed by the Cabrillo College Board of Trustees.

C.	Each committee member appointed shall serve a four year term, and may serve for more than
one term.

D.	Appointees do not need to be members of their appointing entities. No elected officials or
Board members or alternates of any agency that is a recipient of Measure "J" funds shall be
appointed to the Independent Audit Committee.

E.	The committee shall adopt a conflict of interest code in accordance with the Political Reform
Act of 1974.

4.22.230 Contract with state. Prior to the operative date, the County shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of
this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the County shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract
and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract.

4.22.240 Expenditure plan amendments. Amendments to this Chapter or the Expenditure Plan
for Measure "J", may only be made by an affirmative vote of the electors voting on the
amendment. Until any such amendments are approved, the then existing Expenditure Plan shall
remain in full force and effect.

4.22.250 Termination date. This Chapter shall terminate and shall be of no further force and
effect on that date that is thirty years after the operative date provided in Section 4.22.190.
SECTION II
<fullend>








<summary> In accordance with the requirements of Revenue and Taxation Code § 7285.5, the following
expenditure plan describes those specific projects for which the revenues from the transactions
and use tax established by Chapter 4.22 of the Santa Cruz County may be expended: SANTA
CRUZ COUNTY LOCAL TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN 1.	INTRODUCTION

1A.	SUMMARY The Santa Cruz County Local Transportation Expenditure Plan ("Expenditure
Plan” or "Plan"), presented by the Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation Commission
("Commission"), identifies transportation improvements to be funded from a new one-half of one
percent transactions and use tax, if two-thirds of the electors voting on November 2, 2004

approve Measure "J". The major projects to be funded by the Expenditure Plan are:
o Highway 1 Widening to add new carpool/bus lanes between Santa Cruz and Aptos
o New Bicycle/Pedestrian crossings over Highway 1
o Highway 1 Express Buses

o Highway 1 Park and Ride Lots and Carpool Programs

o Local Transportation Improvements for Streets/Roads/Bicycles/Pedestrians/ Transit
o Highway 17 Safety Programs
o Senior and Disabled Transportation Services

o A Coastal Bicycle and Pedestrian Trail next to the rail line between Santa Cruz and
Watsonville

o A Train Station at the Watsonville-Pajaro Junction in Monterey County that links with trains to
the Bay Area and the rest of California

The projects and programs included in the Expenditure Plan are designed to be implemented
over the next 30 years. This Expenditure Plan is presented to the voters of Santa Cruz County as
a means to fill the funding shortfall to: implement necessary highway, local street and road,
transit, rail, bicycle, and pedestrian projects; provide adequate maintenance and improvements
on the local street and road system; accommodate and promote economic growth throughout the
county; and provide specialized programs to meet the needs of commuters, youth and the
growing senior and disabled population.

IB.	GOALS AND OBJECTIVES The purpose of the Expenditure Plan is to implement the goals
and priorities of the 2001 Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation Plan through investment
in a set of projects and programs contained in the Regional Transportation Plan that include
planning, maintenance and rehabilitation of, and improvements to the county's multi-modal
transportation system.

IC.	STRUCTURE This Expenditure Plan is organized into six sections:

Section 1: Introduction provides a summary of the purpose and goals of the Plan.

Section 2: General Provisions provides further context on the Plan's policies and administration.
Section 3: Plan Summary provides the Plan's investment detail by category.

Section 4: Description of Projects and Programs contains detailed descriptions of the projects
and programs (by category and subcategory), and the types of items that are eligible for funding
under each of them.

Section 5: Implementation Provisions describes the process for prioritizing and allocating funds
following adoption of the Plan.

Section 6: Severance Provisions

2.	GENERALPROVISIONS

2A. BASIS FOR REVENUE AND COST ESTIMATES

2A1. SALES TAX REVENUES: Revenues are estimated using economic projections that real
growth in taxable sales will be 1.5% over the 30-year period of the Plan. The projection
estimates the total revenue level at $577 million (in 2003 dollars). This estimate is based on
historical trends in sales and use tax receipts in Santa Cruz County, and was developed by the
County of Santa Cruz ("County") in collaboration with the Regional Transportation Commission.
Measure "J" revenue estimates have not been adjusted to reflect inflation. It is assumed that
inflation revenue increases will be offset by inflation costs to deliver the projects.

2A2. OTHER REVENUES Based on historical trends, Federal and State participation in
highway, transit, and non-highway roadway improvements in Santa Cruz County is assumed to
be an average of $5 million per year, programmed biannually by the California Transportation
Commission through the State Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) process. An
additional $4 million in federal funds are allocated to the region annually through the Federal
Surface Transportation Act (currently TEA-21). The Santa Cruz County Regional Transportation
Commission currently programs all of these funds on a discretionary basis consistent with state
and federal law and regional and local policy. Additional revenues are allocated directly to cities
and counties for transportation projects. Revenues generated through the transactions (sales) and
use tax measure will supplement the traditional transportation revenue sources identified above
to complete implementation of the projects and programs identified in this Expenditure Plan. It is
expected that the availability of locally-generated transportation revenues through the
transactions (sales) and use tax measure will increase the potential to attract additional state and
federal discretionary funds.

2A3. BASIS FOR COST ESTIMATES All cost estimates used in this plan are based on
preliminary engineering studies or program needs and expressed in 2003 dollars. Future costs
may increase due to inflation or other factors. The 2003 cost estimates are to be used to
determine the proportionate distribution of funds to the categories of projects and programs
identified in the Plan.

2B. ADMINISTRATION OF THE SALES AND USE TAX MEASURE All sales and use tax
measure funds shall be collected by and distributed through the County Auditor Controller. The
Auditor-Controller shall establish a new fund in the County Treasury entitled "Measure "J"
Regional Transportation Fund". The Auditor-Controller shall allocate Measure "J" funds
consistent with Section 4 of this Plan to the Highway 1 Construction Authority ("Highway
Authority"), to local jurisdictions, and to the Commission. In order to maximize efficient and
cost-effective use ofMeasure "J" funds and reduce debt service, the Auditor-Controller is
authorized, upon request of the Commission and Highway Authority and in consultation with
other fund recipients, to modify annual allocations consistent with Section 5B, as long as overall
Plan allocation levels are met. The Commission, which currently allocates, administers and
oversees the expenditure of federal and state funding for local and regional transportation
projects and programs, shall allocate, administer and oversee the expenditure of all Measure "J"
funds which are not directly allocated to the Highway Authority or to local jurisdictions.

2C. RESTRICTION OF FUNDS Sales and use tax revenues shall be spent on capital projects
rather than to fund administration, operations and maintenance of existing transportation
services, unless otherwise explicitly specified in the Plan Description in Section 4 as eligible
non-capital expenses. In accordance with enabling legislation and adopted principles,
transactions (sales) and use tax revenues generated pursuant to this plan shall be subject to the
following restrictions:

a.	Sales and use tax revenues shall be used to supplement and under no circumstances replace
existing local revenues used for transportation purposes.

b.	Proceeds from the sale or liquidation of capital assets funded with transactions (sales) and use
tax revenues shall be returned to the Auditor-Controller (in proportion to the contribution of
transactions (sales) and use tax revenues to the total original cost of the asset), for re-allocation

to eligible expenses within the categories from which funds were originally expended

c.	Measure "J" funds may be used as matching funds to leverage other funding sources.

d.	Upon joint request by the Commission and Highway Authority, the Auditor Controller may
make loans to other transportation projects from the Measure "J" Regional Transportation Fund
if allowed for by cash flow, debt service, and prudent management of other demands on the fund
by Plan projects. This will not affect the funding percentage to the local jurisdictions.

2D. BONDING AUTHORITY The Highway Authority and the Commission shall be authorized
to request the County and its related entities to issue, from time to time, limited notes, bonds,
certificates of participation, or other forms of indebtedness, payable from Measure "J" sales and
use tax revenues. It shall be the priority of this Plan that the issuance of bonds, certificates of
participation, or other form of indebtedness for the Highway 1 Widening/Carpool Lane project,
as necessary, shall take precedence over the issuance of bonds, certificates of participation, or
other forms of indebtedness for other Plan projects. Debt Service on any Highway 1 Widening/
Carpool Lane project financing shall have priority over other distributions.

2E. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW Environmental reporting, review and approval procedures as
provided for under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), and/or the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), and other applicable laws shall be carried out as a
prerequisite to the construction of any project to be funded partially or entirely with Measure "J"
funds. Final design and alignment of specific projects may change in order to mitigate
environmental impacts. Program-level environmental review of the projects included in this
Expenditure Plan has been conducted as part of adoption of the 2001 Santa Cruz County
Regional Transportation Plan and an addendum to that plan has been prepared which specifically
addresses this ordinance and Expenditure Plan.

3.	PLAN SUMMARY Table 1 summarizes the one-half of one percent transactions (sales) and
use tax revenue allocations by project category and subcategory in constant 2003 dollars. The
Local Transportation Expenditure Plan is fiscally constrained to the total funding expected to be
available for each category. Adoption of an ordinance to implement a new one-half of one
percent transactions (sales) and use tax is necessary in order to fund the projects and programs
listed in Table 1; this Plan is included as part of that ordinance. The tax shall be continued for the
period of implementation of the Expenditure Plan and its updates, which is 30 years.

TABLE 1: Santa Cruz County Expenditure Plan Summary ($ millions, shown in 2003 dollars -
assumes 1.5% real growth in taxable sales) Highway 1 Projects: Percentage Total Est. Revenues
Highway 1 Widening/Carpool Lane Project 63.0% $363M Highway 1 Bicycle/Pedestrian
Crossings 1.0% $6M Highway 1 Express Buses 1.0% $6M Highway 1 Park and Ride Lots and
Carpool Programs

1.5% $9M Subtotal 66.5% $384M Allocation of Remaining Revenues to Other Projects: Local
City & County Transportation Improvements
- Street/Road/Bicycle/Pedestrian/Transit

19.5% $112M Highway 17 Safety Programs 1.0% $6M Senior & Disabled Transportation
Services 4.0% $23M Watsonville-Pajaro Junction Rail Station 1.0% $6M Coastal Bicycle/
Pedestrian Trail, adjacent to Rail Line

4.0% $23M Contingency/Reserve 3.0% $17M Administration 1.0% $6M Subtotal 33.5% $193M
TOTAL: 100% $577 million NOTE: Measure "J” estimates have not been adjusted to reflect

inflation. It is assumed that inflation revenue increases will be offset by inflation costs to deliver
the projects. All dollar amounts are approximate and have been rounded to the nearest million;
see text for allocation instruction details.

4.	DESCRIPTION OF PROJECTS AND PROGRAMS TO BE FUNDED This section contains
general descriptions of the projects, categories and subcategories in the Plan, the types of
projects or programs that are eligible for funding under each category, and allocation procedures.
The final scope, cost, and project limits of all improvements will be determined through noticed
public hearings, and environmental review processes.

4A. HIGHWAY 1 PROJECTS State highways provide essential regional and local mobility for
Santa Cruz County residents, businesses, and visitors. State highway improvement projects are
needed to address local congestion and safety problems beyond those which can be funded with
existing state and federal revenues. Projected state and federal formula funds are inadequate to
fund most major highway improvements in Santa Cruz County. Measure "J" funds will
supplement those funding sources and will cover the remaining costs estimated to accomplish the
following highway improvements:

4A1. HIGHWAY 1 WIDENING/CARPOOL LANES PROJECT - 63% per year ($363 million)
x Widen Highway 1 from Morrissey Boulevard south to Aptos with one additional High
Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lane in each direction, for use by carpools, buses, and emergency
vehicles x Add auxiliary lanes to improve merging of traffic at specific freeway interchanges x
Add metering lights at on-ramps where appropriate/feasible x Add soundwalls and landscaping
where appropriate x Modify interchanges and over-crossings as needed and improve bicycle/
pedestrian facilities on those over-crossings x Use notes, bonds, certificates of finance, or other
forms of indebtedness to finance construction of the project as soon as possible. Allocation
Instructions: Sixty-three percent (63%) of annual Measure "J" revenues shall be allocated by the
Auditor-Controller to the Highway Authority for the Highway 1 Widening/Carpool Lane project.
The total anticipated cost is $491 million (including bicycle/pedestrian crossings listed below
and anticipated interest payments on bonds). It is anticipated that a portion ($101 million) of the
total project cost will be funded from federal and state funding sources, as well as interest earned
on the Measure "J" funds.

4A2. HIGHWAY 1 BICYCLE/PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS - 1% per year ($6 million) In order
to improve bicycle and pedestrian movement between communities on either side of Highway 1,
funds will be used to construct bicycle/pedestrian bridges crossing over Highway 1 generally in
the areas of Live Oak, and Aptos, and improve bicycle and pedestrian facilities on existing
crossings. Exact locations will be determined during the project development phase of the
Highway 1 Widening/Carpool Lane project. Allocation Instructions: One percent (1%) of annual
Measure "J" revenues shall be allocated by the Auditor-Controller to the Highway Authority for
construction of the crossings as part of the Highway 1 Widening/Carpool Lane project.

4A3. HIGHWAY 1 EXPRESS BUSES - 1% per year ($6 million) Provide additional express bus
service on Highway 1 between Santa Cruz and Watsonville, and major destinations within the
county, including UCSC and Cabrillo College, in order to provide a reasonable alternative to the
automobile for daily commuters who travel within the region. Measure "J" funds will be made
available for operation of these services (eligible non-capital expense) and to match federal funds
for capital bus purchases. Public transportation offers communities many benefits - reduced

traffic congestion and lower emissions, reduced wear and tear on roads, reduced parking
demand, and essential access for non-drivers and those unable to afford automobiles. By
providing access to schools, jobs, visitor attractions, and shopping, public transportation is a vital
force in the local economy. Allocation Instructions: One percent (1%) of annual Measure "J"
revenues shall be allocated by the Auditor-Controller to the Commission for Highway 1 Express
Buses.

4A4. HIGHWAY 1 PARK AND RIDE LOTS and CARPOOL/ALTERNATIVE
TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS - 1.5% per year ($9 million) Commuter traffic created by
Santa Cruz County residents traveling between, north, mid, and south County and traveling to
jobs in neighboring Santa Clara and Monterey counties adds significantly to the peak hour
congestion on the local streets and the highway system. A number of programs have been
implemented to maximize the number of people using the transportation network by encouraging
commuters to share rides, reduce congestion, and take advantage of travel in the "carpool" lanes
proposed in the Highway 1 Widening project. These programs may include: rideshare matching
services; incentive programs; vanpool "seed money"; buspool subsidies; and park and ride lot
leases. These programs will encourage maximum use of new highway lanes and will become
even more essential in the future as traffic growth increases (eligible non-capital expense).
Allocation Instructions: One and one-half of one percent (1.5%) of annual Measure "J" revenues
shall be allocated by the Auditor-Controller to the Commission for Highway 1 park and ride lots
and carpool/altemative transportation programs.

4B. LOCAL CITY AND COUNTY TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS STREET
RESURFACING/MAINTENANCE, BICYCLE, PEDESTRIAN, AND TRANSIT - 19.5% per
year ($112 M) The existing local street/road, bicycle, and pedestrian systems are critical to the
every day movement of people within the county. Much of the local street system has reached its
expected life-cycle and years of deferred maintenance have resulted in an accelerated rate of
pavement deterioration. Continued deferred maintenance will result in an exponential increase in
the cost of roadway rehabilitation and reconstruction. Additionally, many sections of the county
currently have inadequate bicycle and pedestrian facilities and programs. Current resources,
without generation of new transactions (sales) and use tax revenues for transportation cannot
provide adequate funding to maintain the local street and road system nor expand the bicycle and
pedestrian system at the level necessary to adequately serve the public. Projects that could be
funded using revenues from Measure "J" may include:

•	Fixing pot holes on local streets and roads, roadway repairs, rehabilitation and
reconstruction

•	Improvements to the Highway 1/9 intersection in the City of Santa Cruz

•	New and improved sidewalks, especially near schools

•	New and improved bicycle facilities, consistent with local agency bicycle plans

•	Crossing guards (eligible non-capital expense)

•	Improvements to transit facilities/service/park and ride lots These funds will supplement
existing federal, state, and local funds. Local transportation improvements adjacent to
new residential and business developments will continue to be funded by local
development fees. In order to be eligible for these funds, each agency will be required to
adopt a Five-Year Capital Improvement Program, updated annually and adopted

following a public hearing. Allocation Instructions: Nineteen and one-half of a percent
(19.5%) of annual Measure "J" revenues shall be allocated by the Auditor-Controller to
the Cities of Capitola, Santa Cruz, Scotts Valley, and Watsonville and to the County for
local street and road maintenance and improvements by a formula calculated annually
based on proportionate population as reported annually by the State Department of
Finance (DOF).

AC. HIGHWAY 17 SAFETY PROGRAMS - 1% ($6 million) x Continue extra California
Highway Patrol (CHP) enforcement (eligible non-capital expense) x Widen shoulders where
feasible x Install traffic message signs and automated traffic monitoring stations x Other Safety
measures Allocation Instructions: One percent (1%) of the annual Measure "J” revenues shall be
allocated by the Auditor-Controller to the Commission for Highway 17 safety projects.

4D. TRANSPORTATION FOR SENIORS AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES - 4% per
year ($23 million)

4D1. Expanded Transportation Services for Seniors and Persons with Disabilities Seniors and
disabled persons are becoming an increasing percentage of the population each year. For seniors
(age 60 and older) and persons with disabilities, access to healthcare, social services, shopping,
and recreation is a key to quality of life. In addition, a number of specialized transportation
programs have been implemented which meet specialized needs for transportation to medical
services, social service agencies and programs, shopping and other purposes that cannot be met
by conventional transit. An aging population will require expanded and enhanced specialized
transportation services for the elderly and disabled in the future (eligible non-capital expense).
To allow transit access, construction of new wheelchair curb ramps, reconstruction of existing
ramps, and related roadway work will permit ease of movement for the mobility impaired, with
an emphasis on areas near fixed route transit. Allocation Instructions: Four percent (4%) of
annual Measure " J" revenues shall be allocated by the Auditor-Controller to the Commission for
transportation projects and services for seniors and persons with disabilities.

4E. WATSONVILLE-PAJARO JUNCTION RAIL STATION FOR PASSENGER RAIL
SERVICE TO THE BAY AREA AND THE REST OF CALIFORNIA - 1% ($6 million) In
order to enhance regional access for local residents and visitors, funds will be used to build a
passenger rail station just south of Watsonville in Monterey County at Pajaro Station. This
station will be served by Caltrain and Amtrak service to the San Francisco Bay Are and the rest
of California. It is projected that 90% of the users of this station will be Santa Cruz County
residents. Allocation Instructions: One percent (1%) of the annual Measure "J" revenues shall be
allocated by the Auditor-Controller to the Commission for the Watsonville-Pajaro Rail Station
project. The project will be implemented by the Transportation Agency for Monterey County in
coordination with the Commission.

4F. COASTAL BICYCLE/PEDESTRIAN TRAIL - 4% ($23 million) The Coastal Bicycle/
Pedestrian Trail, a path or "Rail Trail" adjacent to (not in place of) the Santa Cruz Branch Rail
Line, will extend between Davenport and Watsonville. The rail corridor offers spectacular views
of the Monterey Bay, historic trestles, and a flat surface free of automobile traffic. This trail will
offer both commuter and recreational bicyclists and walkers a safe and enjoyable way to travel.
Due to limited right-of-way in some sections of the rail right-of-way, portions of the trail may be
designated on adjacent streets and roads. Allocation Instructions: Four percent of the annual

Measure "J" revenues shall be allocated by the Auditor-Controller to the Commission for the
Coastal Bicycle/ Pedestrian Trail. 4G. CONTINGENCY RESERVE - 3% per year ($17 million)
In anticipation of possible cost overruns or project modifications that may arise for any of the
specific projects listed herein, a 3% contingency is included in the Plan. Allocation Instructions:
Three percent (3%) of annual Measure "J" revenues shall be retained by the Auditor-Controller
for this purpose, to be allocated by agreement of the Commission, the Highway Authority and
the local jurisdictions for projects identified in the Plan as deemed to be necessary. If there are
any funds remaining in the Contingency Reserve at the end of the term of the tax, those funds
shall be allocated by the Auditor-Controller to the projects by the relative percentages in the
Expenditure Plan.

4H. ADMINISTRATION - 1% per year ($6 million) Annual funds are needed by the Auditor-
Controller and the Commission to administer and oversee implementation of this Plan (eligible
non-capital expense). Allocation Instructions: The Auditor-Controller shall be authorized to
collect up to one percent (1%) of the annual net amount of revenue raised by Measure "J" for
administrative expenses, audits, programming processes, reporting, financial costs, and other
implementation and oversight responsibilities as may be necessary to administer the Expenditure
Plan. The Commission shall be authorized to annually invoice the Auditor-Controller for the cost
of compiling and publishing an annual report, providing public information concerning Measure
"J" and other administrative responsibilities. Any excess administration funds may be
redistributed by the Auditor-Controller according to the percentages for projects included in this
Expenditure Plan.

5.	IMPLEMENTATION PROVISIONS

5A. TAXPAYER ACCOUNTABILITY SAFEGUARDS

5A1. Legal Dedication of Funds Measure "J" funds may only be used for transportation purposes
and as described in the Ordinance and Plan governing this program, including the construction,
environmental mitigation of transportation projects, capital activities, acquisition, maintenance,
and operation of streets, roads, highways, including state highways and public transit systems
and for related purposes. These purposes include but are not limited to expenditures for planning,
environmental reviews, engineering and design, related right-of-way acquisition, construction,
and payment of principal and interest on notes, bonds, certificates of participation, or other forms
of indebtedness.

5A2. Independent Audit Committee An Independent Audit Committee shall be established to
oversee annual independent fiscal audits of the expenditure of tax revenues raised by Measure
"J". The audits, which shall be published in local newspapers, posted on the web, and otherwise
made available to the public, shall include the Independent Audit Committee's conclusions as to
whether the expenditure of Measure "J" tax revenues is or is not in accordance with the Santa
Cruz County Local Transportation Expenditure Plan as adopted by the voters in approving the
transactions (sales) and use tax measure on November 2, 2004, and as may be amended
consistent with the Ordinance and Plan. The audits shall report on whether requirements of this
Ordinance and Plan have been met and that no more than one percent (1%) of total transactions
(sales) and use tax revenues are used to administer this Plan, consistent with Section 4H. The
Independent Audit Committee shall be appointed as set forth in Section
4.22.220.

5B. FUNDING FLEXIBILITY AND BONDING TO EXPEDITE PROJECTS The Auditor-
Controller and Commission are authorized to make maximum use of available funds by
temporarily shifting allocations between projects and programs which are included in the Plan,
so long as no project included herein is deprived of needed funding. However, the proportionate
shares for areas and purposes over the 30-year period may not be changed without an
amendment of the Plan, as approved by the voters. Designated entities may also use bonds to
speed implementation of some projects.

5C. INFORMING THE PUBLIC OF MEASURE "J" FUNDING SUPPORT All state highway,
transit, and local arterial projects and programs using Measure "J" transactions (sales) and use
tax revenues shall be signed or otherwise noted to inform the public that voter approved Measure
"J” revenues are being used to support the project.

5D.TERMINATION OF THE TAX The transactions (sales) and use tax authorized to be
collected by the voters shall terminate on that date that is thirty years after the operative date
provided in Section 4.22.190 of the Santa Cruz County Code. This tax may be retired early if
funds are no longer needed for debt service and if all projects and commitments in the
Expenditure Plan have been fullfiled. SECTION III If any provision of this Ordinance, including,
but not limited to, any tax or other matter contained in the Santa Cruz County Local
Transportation Expenditure Plan or Chapter 4.22 of the Santa Cruz County Code, is for any
reason held invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, that holding shall not
affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Ordinance, and the people
of the County of Santa Cruz declare that it would have passed each part of this Ordinance
irrespective of the validity of any other part. Santa Cruz County <summaryend>