

County of
San Diego



Sample Ballot & voter information Pamphlet

PRIMARY ELECTION

TUESDAY, MARCH 2,2004

ABSENTEE VOTERS:

/ Save this pamphlet for voting; another will not be
sent with your ballot

POLL VOTERS:

✓ Check back cover for your polling place. Polls open at
7 a.m. and close at 8 p.m.

✓	Don't wait! Call before Election Day if directions are
needed or check www.sdvote.com

✓	Mark and take this pamphlet with you to the polls

Secretary of State will mail information
about the state propositions.

For election night results go to www.sdvote.com

Sally McPherson, Registrar of Voters
5201 Ruffin Road, Suite I
San Diego, CA 92123
858-565-5800 or 1-800-696-0136

176

COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. Ill - BOULEVARD
Proposition M

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

a a Shall an ordinance for funding structural fire protection
IJ Ufj U lul and emergency medical services within County Service
* 1	1	Area	No. 111 - Boulevard be approved establishing spe-

cial taxes not exceeding the amounts set forth in the ordinance?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds of the voters.

Full text of this proposition follows the arguments/rebuttals.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

You are asked to vote on the adoption of a special benefit tax within the boundaries of County
Service Area No. 111-Boulevard for purposes of paying for structural fire protection and
emergency medical services. If approved, the tax will be levied on a parcel and class of
improvement to property basis not to exceed the following schedule:

Parcel

Residential

Commercial, Industrial
Institutional, Recreational
Agricultural

Maximum Special Benefit Tax

$50 per parcel

$50 per parcel

$50 per parcel

$50 per parcel

No increase in the amounts specified above is permitted based on increases in the consumer
price index. Therefore, the maximum special benefit tax may not be increased except with approval
of two-thirds of the voters voting on the matter of increasing the tax.

The ordinance imposing the special benefit tax shall become operative within CSA 111-
Boulevard on July 1, 2004, if the special benefit tax is approved by two-thirds of the registered
voters voting on the question of adopting the special benefit tax.

A ‘ yes’’ vote is a vote in favor of adopting the special benefit tax.

A “no" vote is a vote against adopting the special benefit tax.

N SD 176-048

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION M

County Service Area 111-Boulevard Fire and Rescue Dept Inc. received approximately $38,000
property tax allocation per year. The cost of running the department is in access of this amount and
without donations from the residents we could not maintain the level of service we have. We are
requesting a benefit fee of $50.00 per tax assessors parcel which will generate approximately $75,

000.00. Eighty percent of our calls are medical emergencies. This money can be used to hire a full
time EMT/Firefighter 5 days a week with the volunteers picking up the evenings and weekends.
The response time of which the majority is from 8AM to 5PM would be much quicker. We would
also be able to upgrade equipment to industry standards.

The amount of $50,00 per year breaks down to $0.14 per day. If 14 cents per day means that you
have medical aid faster during the day, can you afford to spend that amount of money on it?

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION M

Citizens of Boulevard, leaders of the Fire Board/Fire Department are scaring you with closing the
fire department if you don't give them more money.

Consider:

□	This Year, more than $273,000.00 was deposited into our Fire Board bank account for
operating costs. These funds were more than enough for the department’s needs.

Source of these funds:

1.	Property taxes we pay yearly

2.	Fire Mitigation fees

3.	First Responder fees

4.	County Reimbursements

5.	Rents from the Community Center

6.	Grants

7.	Fundraisers

There is no reason why these funds won’t continue every year to pay for our fire department
and provide the same level of services.

□	15-18 medical emergencies come in per month, 85% are freeway emergencies.

Freeway emergencies are the responsibility of the State, not Boulevard. We cannot
encumber our properties with more debt to perform duties belonging to the State. Volunteers
are free to respond to any emergencies they choose without it costing property owners for
such services.

□	A full time EMT will cost Boulevard $60,000 a year. The handful of property owners
cannot afford it.

These costs belong to the State/ County.

No Matter How Much Money We Give, They Want More and More. It never stopsl Boulevard
doesn't have the Budget of California. Fire departments cost millions. We cannot continue to
pay indefinitely. We are paying enough!

Small politics are as bad as Big politics in wasting your money. Please vote NO ON
PROPOSITION M.

BOULEVARD FIRE AND RESCUE DEPARTMENT INC.

MARY SCHOEPFER
Chairman

WILLIAM A. MARSHALL
Chief

ALICE KEYSER
Concerned Citizen

FRANKIE SMITH
Vice President
Boulevard Fire Board

N SD 176-049

f

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION M

They Want Your Money Again!

Can you afford to pay $85.00 in Taxes for every parcel of land you own in addition to your high
yearly property taxes?

•	Proponents of proposition M want you to pay $50.00
Per parcel for fire protection and Para-medics.

•	The State of California now requires you to pay $35.00
Per parcel for fire protection and Para-medics.

•	The State of California requires you to pay yearly property taxes, which include fire
protection, and Paramedics.

Boulevard cannot afford such heavy taxation. The small number of property owners cannot pay
for a fire department (volunteers or otherwise), and its heavy financial requirements, liabilities, and
many legal obligations.

If Proposition M passes:

•	THE DOOR WILL BE OPENED TO YOUR POCKET BOOK.

You will be obligated to finance the fire department for as long as you own property in
Boulevard. Taxes won’t stop. Next year, another tax. Taxing will continue until they break you
financially, and drive you out of Boulevard.

•	BOULEVARD WILL BE PAYING more in taxes Per parcel for fire protection than wealthy
La Jolla.

•	YOUR OBLIGATION TO PAY for fire service will be firm, while your entitlement to fire
protection will be uncertain. As "Volunteers", firefighters may choose not to fight a fire. No
laws requires them. They are under no legal or moral obligation to put out a fire.

•	WHO WILL BE AROUND TO FIGHT THE FIRE?

Most volunteer firefighters in Boulevard have full time jobs.

Who will fight your fire while they work?

It takes 4 firemen, minimum to respond to a structural fire. One Para-Medic alone
cannot put out a fire.

•	BOULEVARD PROPERTY OWNERS WILL BE OBLIGATED TO PAY the County for the
costs of this election.

PLEASE VOTE ‘NO'ON PROPOSITION M!

Or, we will all be broke and Sorry.

FRANKIE SMITH
Vice President
Boulevard Fire Board

WAYNE L. THIBODEAU

ALICE KEYSER

Concerned resident of Boulevard
DEE A. SCOTT

PR-40J0-3

N SD 176-050

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION M

Opponents for Proposition M are mistaken about the following points:

1.	The proposed $50 per parcel assessment is for one full-time Firefighter/Emergency Medical
Technician (EMT), Monday through Friday, 8 to 5. Volunteers will augment services.

2.	The $35 assessment, required by the State of California is to pay off the current deficient of
the California Department of Forestry (CDF) not to benefit the Boulevard Fire Department. CDF
is required to provide us with wildland fire coverage during the “Fire Season" only and it doesn't
include paramedic and structure fire protection. This tax assessment will end in two years.

3.	Boulevard's portion of the State of California property taxes is $36,634.81 which is not
adequate to maintain and operate our station, and the half million dollars’ worth of equipment
we have acquired through grants.

4.	This proposed benefit fee requires a 2/3 vote of the Boulevard voters to pass and can not be
increased without another election with a 2/3 majority.

"WHO WILL BE AROUND TO FIGHT THE FIRE?’’, they asked, WE WILL - AS ALWAYS!

We respond to over 250 calls per year, about 80% of which are MEDICAL calls. The majority of all
the calls occur during regular daytime hours.

One person can make a life or death difference. With a Firefighter/EMT on staff, response time
would be significantly shortened. This Firefighter can save a life or assess a situation and call in
other resources as needed.

YOUR “YES” VOTE ON PROP “M” MAY SAVE YOUR LIFE!

MARY G. SCHOEPFER	WILLIAM	A.	MARSHALL

Chairman of the Board of Directors	Chief,	Boulevard	Fire

LAURIE POWERS	IDA MANALE

President of Women's Auxiliary	Treasurer, Boulevard Fire

BILL PARSONS
Board Member, Boulevard Fire

PR-40J0-4

N SD 176-051

1

ORDINANCE NO. 9612 (NEW SERIES)

AN ORDINANCE DETERMINING AND PROPOSING FOR
ADOPTION AN ANNUAL SPECIAL BENEFIT TAX FOR
STRUCTURAL FIRE PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY
MEDICAL SERVICES WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES
OF COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 111 - BOULEVARD

The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Diego ordains as follows:

Section 1. The Board does hereby determine and propose for adoption an annual Special
Benefit Tax for structural fire protection services within the boundaries of County Service Area No.
111 of San Diego County, pursuant to Government Code Section 50077, to be levied on a parcel
and class of improvement to property basis in amounts not to exceed the following schedule:

Parcel_______________________________Maximum	Special	Benefit	Tax

Residential	$ 50 per parcel
Commercial, Industrial	$ 50 per parcel
Institutional, Recreational	$ 50 per parcel
Agricultural	$ 50 per parcel
No adjustments based on increases in the Consumer Price Index will be applied to the Benefit Tax.	

Special

Section 2. Such charges shall be charged to any parcel to which fire protection services may be
made available, whether or not such fire protection services are'actually used upon such parcel,
except such tax shall not be imposed upon a federal or state governmental agency or another local
agency.

Section 3. Such charges shall be imposed for the purposes of obtaining, furnishing, operating,
and maintaining fire protection equipment and apparatus, and for the purpose of paying salaries,
insurance costs, and benefits to firefighting personnel.

Section 4. Pursuant to Government Code Section 50077, the Special Benefit Tax proposed by
this Ordinance shall be submitted to the voters within the boundaries of County Service Area No.
111 - Boulevard. The ballot proposition shall be worded as provided in the resolution of the Board
of Supervisors calling the election within the County Service Area.

Section 5. This Ordinance shall become operative within County Service Area No. 111 on July 1,
2004, if the Special Benefit Tax proposed by this Ordinance is approved by two-thirds of the voters
voting on the question of adoption of the Special Benefit Tax.

Section 6. If the proposition is approved, the Board of Supervisors shall establish schedules
varying each of such Special Benefit Taxes according to value of benefits to each parcel and
according to availability of fire suppression equipment, apparatus, and personnel to the affected
parcel and improvement. However, the Special Benefit Tax shall not exceed the maximum charges
set forth in Section 1 hereof.

Section 7. If any portion of this Ordinance be declared unconstitutional, invalid or otherwise
unenforceable, the other provisions of this Ordinance shall remain in full force and effect.

Section 8. Pursuant to Government Code Section 25123, this Ordinance is effective immediately
as an Ordinance relating to an election.

Section 9. Before the expiration of fifteen (15) days after its passage, this Ordinance shall be
published once with names of members voting for and against the same, in the San Diego
Commerce, a newspaper of general circulation published in the County of San Diego.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 3rd day of December, 2003.

GREG COX, CHAIRMAN
Board of Supervisors
County of San Diego, State of California

PFM0J0-5

N SD 176-052