FULL TEXT MEASURE P
ORDINANCE NO. 2138

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DAVIS ADDING ARTICLE
15.19 OF CHAPTER 15 TO THE CITY OF DAVIS MUNICIPAL
CODE ENACTING A SALES TAX (TRANSACTIONS AND USE
TAX) FOR GENERAL PURPOSES SUBJECT TO THE
APPROVAL OF THE VOTERS

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DAVIS DOES HEREBY
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Article 15.19 is hereby added to the City of Davis
Municipal Code to read as follows:

Article 15.19 Transactions and Use Tax

15.19.010	Short Title
15.19.020	Definitions
15.19.030	Purpose of article
15.19.040	Contract with state
15.19.050	Imposition of transactions tax; transactions tax rate
15.19.060	Place of sale
15.19.070	Imposition of use tax; use tax rate
15.19.080	Adoption of provisions of state law
15.19.090	Adoption of provisions of state law - limitations; limitations on collection of use taxes
15.19.100	Permit not required
15.19.110	Severability

15.19.010	Short title

This article shall be known as the Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance of the city of Davis.

15.19.020	Definitions

For the purpose of this article the following terms shall have the
meanings given in this section:

(a)	The words “in the city" mean and include all territory within the
city limits.

(b)	"Operative date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than one hundred ten days after the later
of the adoption of this article and the approval by the voters of the city
of a measure approving the imposition of a transactions and use tax;
provided that, if the city shall not have entered into a contract with the
State Board of Equalization as required by Section 15.19.040 prior to
such date, the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract. If this article is
approved by the City Council, and subsequently approved by the
voters at the March 2, 2004, election, and the contract is executed
before June 30,2004, the operative date shall be July 1, 2004.

(c)	"Termination date" initially means December 31,2010, and as
of that date this Article is repealed unless an extension or re-
authorization of this Article is approved by the voters of the City at
an election called for that purpose.

15.19.030	Purpose of article

The city council hereby declares that this article is adopted
to achieve the following purposes, among others, and directs that
the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with
the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7290 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2, which authorizes the city to levy a transactions and use tax
if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose, which
election shall be consolidated with a regularly scheduled general
election for members of the city council, in accordance with Section
2(b) of Article XIII C of the California Constitution.

(b)	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that
incorporate provisions identical to those of the Transactions and Use

Tax Law of the state insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent
with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that impose
a tax and provide a measure therefor that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

(d)	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that can
be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time minimize the burden
of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this article.

15.19.040	Contract with state

Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this article.

15.19.050	Imposition of transactions tax: transactions tax rate

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail,
a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the city at the rate of
one-half of one percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from
the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the city
on and after the operative date and before the termination date,

15.19.060	Place of sale

For the purposes of this article, all retail sales are consummated
at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-
state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-
state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales
and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In
the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the state
or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

15.19.070	Imposition of use tax: use tax rate

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the city of tangible personal property purchased from
any retailer on and after the Operative Date and before the
Termination Date for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one-half of one percent of the sales price of
the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

15.19.080	Adoption of provisions of state law

(a)	Except as otherwise provided in this article and except insofar
as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part
1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this article
as though fully set forth herein.

(b)	Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
including but not limited to sections 7261 and 7262 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and the state regulations implementing Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, as set forth in article
20, section 1821 et seq., of the California Code of Regulations, are
hereby adopted as they are written now and as they may later
be amended, and are made a part of this article as if fully set
forth herein.

57-501

15.19.090 Adoption of provisions of state law—limitations:
limitations on collection of use taxes
In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code:'

(a)	Wherever the state of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of the city shall be substituted therefor.
However, the substitution shall not be made;

(1) When the word "state" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California; ■■

: (2) When the result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against the city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of
this article;

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the state, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

(A)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
that would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales,
storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the state
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or

(B)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property that would not be
subject to tax by the state under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

(4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711,6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(b)	The word "city" shall be substituted for the word "State" in
the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.
15.19.100 Permit not required

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section
6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s
permit shall not be required by this article.

15.19.110 Severability

If any provision of this article or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this article
and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 28th day of October 2003, by a two-
thirds vote of the City Council, by the following roll call vote:

AYES:	ASMUNDSON,	GREENWALD,	HARRINGTON,

PUNTILLO, BOYD.

NOES:	NONE.

ABSENT: NONE,

si Susie Boyd, Mayor

ATTEST:

si Bette Racki, City Clerk

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY MEASURE P

Measure P, if approved by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure, will authorize an additional 1/2 cent sales tax within the
City of Davis. This 1/2 cent sales tax would be a "general tax,"
meaning that the revenue raised from the tax would go into the City’s
general fund and could be used for any legal governmental purpose.
The City would not be bound to use these tax monies for any special
purpose or for any particular projects, facilities, or programs.

California Revenue and Taxation Code section 7290 authorizes
the City of Davis to levy a transactions and use fax (sales tax) at
a 0.5 percent (1/2 cent) rate so long as the tax is approved by the
City Council and a majority of the voters voting in an election on
that issue. If approved, the Measure P sales tax would become
effective on July 1, 2004.

This 1/2 cent sales tax would be paid in addition to current sales
taxes. The current sales tax within the City (including state and local
sales taxes) is 7.25 percent. If Measure P is approved by the voters,
the total sales tax would be 7.75 percent. This 1/2 cent sales tax
would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
existing sales taxes.

The 1/2 cent sales tax would sunset and be repealed on December
31, 2010 and could not be collected after that time unless a majority
of the voters voting in an election approved an extension or re-
authorization of the tax.

s/ Harriet A. Steiner, Davis City Attorney

"The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance
2138 Measure P. If you desire a copy of the Ordinance or
Measure, please call the elections official’s office at (530)
757-5602 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you."

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

The City will be placing a 1/2 -cent sales tax override measure
on the ballot on March 2, 2004. This Measure P would increase the
sales tax revenue that the city receives from 1% to 1.5% of the
amount of the sales (an increase of the overall sales tax from 7.25%
to 7.75%). It is estimated that this will bring additional $3.2 million
to the city’s general fund, which pays for the basic city services
such as fire, police, parks and more. The measure would be in place
for six years until December 31, 2010.

This will make our sales tax the same as many other communities
in the region: Woodland, West Sacramento, all Sacramento County
cities and all Solano County cities.

The City faces increasing costs. We will face higher expenditures
if we are to provide the additional police protection and meet park and
recreation and open space commitments we have made to our citizens.

About 53% of our General Fund budget pays for police officers
and firefighters. An additional 28% supports our parks and recreational
for our children, our seniors and the rest of the community. The other
19% pays for public works, planning and building and other services
needed to provide the public with the services they expect.

Without the Measure P revenue, given the uncertain state support
to the General Fund, we would be faced with very deep service
cuts in police, fire, and parks.

The passage of Measure P will assure the continuation of current
services and their possible improvement.

si Lois Wolk, Assemblywoman, 8th District
si Doug Malinoff, Owner, University Honda
si Helen Thomson, Supervisor, Yolo County 2nd District
si Manny Carbahal, Chairman, Chamber of Commerce
si Susie Boyd, Mayor, City of Davis

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

57-502

57502