COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

This impartial analysis of Measure “P” is submitted to the voters pursuant
to Elections Code §9160.

Measure P is placed on the ballot by the Board of Supervisors pursuant
to Government Code §§53722 and 53724.

Prior to July 1,1995, due to State budget actions, the Countywide Library
suffered severe budget reductions causing an inability to provide
adequate library services to County residents. Hours of operation were
reduced countywide and the library’s ability to acquire new materials
and provide reference services limited.

Effective January 1,1995, the state enacted a law authorizing the Board
of Supervisors to adopt a Library use and transaction “sales” tax at the
rate of one-eighth of one percent for periods of five years, subject to a
two-thirds vote of those voting in an election on the measure. On March
7, 1995, County Ordinance CS-581 received more than a two-thirds
vote and resulted in a one-eighth of one percent Library Sales Tax
being adopted five years from July 1,1995 through June 30, 2000. On
June 8, 1999, County Ordinance CS-690 received more than a two-
thirds vote and resulted in the tax being adopted for the five years from
July 1,2000 through June 30,2005. Tax revenue from these ordinances
has been used exclusively for the purpose of funding countywide library
programs and operations and provides seventy-eight percent of the cost
of the countywide library system. The library tax is due to expire on
June 30, 2005, unless this measure is adopted.

This measure is based upon Revenue and Taxation Code §7286.59
which authorizes a one-eighth of one percent tax similar to the two prior
measures approved by more than two-thirds vote in both 1995 and 1999,
except that this new law allows the term of the tax to be increased up to
sixteen years. This measure, if adopted would authorize the imposition
of a one-eighth of one percent sales tax solely for the purpose of funding
countywide library programs and operations for a period of eight years
from July 1, 2005 through June 30, 2013.

The Board of Supervisors has adopted ordinance CS-860 imposing a
one-eighth of one percent transaction and use tax for County library
purposes in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in
Revenue and Taxation Code §7286.59 and which is subject to the
approval by the voters of the County by a two-thirds vote of the those
voters voting on this measure.

If this measure fails to pass by the required two-thirds vote, countywide
library programs and operations may have to be severely cut back.

If approved by two-thirds of those voting, the one-eighth of one percent
library transaction and use tax will be collected and administered for
the County by the State Board of Equalization, effective July 1,2005.

—	A “Yes” Vote approves a transaction and use tax of one-eighth of
one percent for a period not to exceed eight years from July 1, 2005,
through June 30, 2013.

—	A “No" Vote disapproves a transaction and use tax of one- eighth of
one percent for a period not to exceed eight years from July 1, 2005,
through June 30, 2013.

Michael H. Krausnick
County Counsel of the
County of Stanislaus

The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Measure “P”. If you desire a copy of the ordinance,
please call the Elections Officials Office at 525-5200,
and a copy will be mailed at no cost.

ANALISISIMPARCIAL POR EL ABOGADO PUBLICO
DELACTOP

Se presents este analisis imparciat del Acta “P" a los votantes en
cumplimiento del Cddigo Electoral 9160.

La Directiva del Condado coloco el Acto P en la boleta de vatacion,
como to exige el Cddigo Gubernamental 53722 y 53724.

Previo al Iro de Julio de 1995, debido a acciones que se llevaron a
cabo en el presupuesto estatal, las bibliotecas pdblicas del condado
sufrieron graves recodes a sus presupuestos, to que ha impedido que
se proporcionen servicios bibliotecarios adecuados a los residentes del
condado. Se disminuyeron las horas habiles per todo el condado y se
limito la capacidad que tenia la biblioteca de adquirir nuevas obras y
proveer servicios de consults.

El gobierno del Estado promulgo una ley que entro en vigor el Iro de
Enero de 1995, la cual autorizo a to Directiva del Condado a adoptar un
impuesto sobre el volumen de negocios y servicios, cuya tasa gravable
es un octavo del uno por ciento, por un ptozo de cinco afios. Sin
embargo, solo se puede adoptar si dos tercios de los votantes en una
eleccion aprueban el acto. El 7 de Marzo de 1995, la Ordenanza del
Condado CS-581 recibio mas de dos tercios del voto, to cual resulto en
que se adoptara un impuesto de un octavo de un centesimo entituiado
“Impuesto Bibliotecario Sobre las Ventas”; por cinco ahos desde el Iro
de Julio de 1995 hasta el 30 de Junto del 2000. El 8 de Junto de 1999 to
Ordenanza del Condado CS-690 recibio mas de dos tercios del voto, to
cual results en que se adoptara el impuesto por los cinco afios desde
el Iro de Julio del 2000 hasta el 30 de Junto del 2005. Los ingresos
impositivos procedentes de esas ordenanzas se han usado
exclusivamente con el propdsito de proveer fondos a los programas
bibliotecarios por todo el condado, su funcionamiento y tambiSn
proporciona e! 78% de los gastos necesarios para el sistema
bibliotecario para todo el condado. El impuesto bibliotecario esta pronto
a caducarse el 30 de Junto del 2005, al menos que este Acto se apruebe.

Este Acto se funda en el Cddigo 7286.59 de Recaudacion y Tasacton,
el cual autoriza se grave un octavo del uno por ciento, semejante a los
dos Ados previamente aprobados por mas de dos tercios de los votantes
en ambas elecciones, tanto en 1995 y en 1999. Lo que distingue a esta
nueva ley es que permite que el ptozo del impuesto se atorgue hasta
los diesiseis ahos. Si se adopta este Acto, autorizara que se imponga
un octavo del uno por ciento de impuesto sobre las ventas; con el unico
propdsito de proveer fondos para el funcionamiento y los programas
bibliotecarios por todo el condado por un plazo de ocho ahos desde el
Iro de Julio del 2005 hasta el 30 de Junto de! 2013.

La Directiva del Condado ha adoptado la Ordenanza CS-860
imponiendo un impuesto de un octavo de un centesimo por volumen de
negocios y servicios con el propdsito que se use para las bibliotecas
del Condado; de acuerdo con los plazos y condictones que se enumeran
en el Cddigo de Recaudacion y Tasacion 7286.59, y el cual queda sujeto
a ser aprobado por los votantes del condado con una mayorfa de dos
tercios del voto respecto a este acto.

Si este acto falto en ser aprobado con los dos tercios del voto que se
requieren, es posible que el funcionamiento y los programas
bibliotecarios por todo el condado tengan que recortarse severamente.

Si se aprueba este acto con los dos tercios del voto que se requieren,
el impuesto de un octavo de un centesimo sobre volumen de negocios
y servicios se prodra recaudar y lo administrara to Mesa Directiva de
Regulacion Estatal, entrando en vigencia el Iro de Julio de 2005.

—	Un voto a favor aprueba el impuesto de un octavo de un centesimo
sobre volumen de negocios y servicios por un plazo que no excedera
ocho ahos desde el Iro de Julio del 2005 hasta el 30 de Junto del 2013.

—	Un voto en contra no aprueba el impuesto de un octavo de un
centesimo sobre volumen de negocios y servicios por un plazo que no
excedera ocho ahos desde el 1 rode Julio del2005 hasta el 30 de Junto
del 2013.

Michael Krausnick

Abogado Publico del Condado de Stanislaus

La declaracion anterior es un analisis imparcial del
Acto “P”. Si usted desea una copia de la ordinanza
favor de I lama r la Qficina de Funcionarios de
elecciones al 525-5200, y le enviaran un copia a vuelta
de correo sin costp alguno para usted.

50/5

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Please continue our commitment to literacy, education and local libraries
by voting Yes on Measure P.

Measure P will not raise taxes. It merely continues the existing one-
eighth of a cent library sales tax, overwhelmingly approved by voters.

The revenue raised provides 75% of the total library budget and funds
essential services, including open hours, reading programs for children,
and replacement of outdated books and reference materials that are
important to students and businesses.

If this measure fails, our libraries will be in real trouble, meaning:

•	Open hours at every library will be slashed, including nights and
weekends.

•	Children’s story times, teen reading programs, large print books
for seniors and home delivery for the elderly will be eliminated or
seriously reduced.

•	Libraries will be unable to replace outdated books and materials.

•	Important research and reference services will be virtually
eliminated.

•	Adult literacy programs will be cut back or eliminated altogether.

Lifelong education and training are more important than ever before
and our local libraries are an essential part of our education system.

With our State budget in a shambles, we cannot rely on Sacramento
politicians to provide the resources we need to fund local priorities.

Voting Yes on Measure P will allow us to continue the existing library
sales tax - which amounts to just 12 % cents on a $100 purchase and
provides nearly $8 million annually for our libraries. By law this money
can only be used to fund library services. It expires automatically after 8
years and would need voter approval to be renewed.

Please join us and vote Yes for Literacy, Libraries and Local Control.
Vote Yes on Measure P.

Les Weidman, Stanislaus County Sheriff

Bette Belle Smith, Community Volunteer

Paul Wenger, Former Stanislaus Farm Bureau President

Carol Whiteside, CEO, Great Valley Center and Former Mayor of

Modesto

Peter Johansen, Founder, Parent Institute for Quality Education and
Stanislaus Partners in Education

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

(None Filed)

ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DEL ACTO P

Por favor continuemos con nuestro cometido a la educacion, la
bibtiotecas publicas locales y el desanalfabetismo al votar a favor del
Acto P.

El Acto P no aumentara los impuestos. Simplemente permits que se
pueda seguir recaudando el impuesto sobre las ventas, de un octavo
de un centavo para las bibliotecas publicas que los votantes aprobaron
de manera sobresaliente.

Los ingresos recaudados proporcionan el 75% del presupuesto
bibliotecario y aportan servicios esenciales tales como las horas en
que pueden estar abiertas las bibliotecas, programas de lectura infantiles
y a reemplazar los libros y obras de consulta desfasados, los cuales
son de importancia para los estudiantes y las empresas.

Si no se aprueba este Acto, nuestras bibliotecas se veran en verdaderos
problemas, lo que significa:

•	Las horas habiles de cada biblioteca se recortaran, inciuyendo
por las noches y los fines de semana.

•	Los momentos de lectura infantiles, los programas de lectura para
adolecentes, los libros de letra grande para personas mayores y
entrega a domicilio para los ancianos quedaran eliminados o se
reduciran seriamente.

•	Las bibliotecas no podran reemplazar los libros y obras desfasados.

•	Casi quedaran eliminados importantes servicios de investigacion
y referenda

•	Los programas anti-analfabetismo para adultos se recortaran o
seran eliminados completamente.

La preparacion y la capacitacion para toda la vida son mas importantes
que nunca antes y nuestras bibliotecas locales son una parte esencial
de nuestro sistema educativo.

Ya que el presupuesto estatal esta tan reburujado, no podemos confiar
que los politicos en Sacramento nos proporcionaran los recursos
necesarios para cubrir nuestras prioridades locales.

Un voto a favor del Acto P nos permitira dejar vigente el impuesto sobre
las ventas bibliotecario ya existente- lo cual asciende a solo 12 centavos
y medio en una compra de $100 dolares y aporta casi 8 millones de
dolares anualmente para nuestras bibliotecas. La ley exige que estos
fondos solo se deberan usar para servicios bibiotecarios. Se expira
automaticamente a los 8 ahos y necesitarfa la aprobacidn de los votantes
para ser renovado.

Por favor unase a nosotros en votar a favor del desanalfabetismo, las
bibliotecas, y el control local. Vote a favor del Acto P.

Les Weidman, Sheriff del Condado de Stanislaus,

Bette Belle Smith, Voluntaria en la Comunidad,

Paul Wenger, anterior Presidente de la Oficina Agricola de Stanislaus,
Carol Whiteside, Ejecutiva Principal del Great Valley Center y anterior
Alcaldesa de Modesto,

Peter Johansen, fundador del Parent Institute for Quality Education y
miembro de Stanislaus Partners in Education.

ALEGATO EN CONTRA DEL ACTO P

(No se presento ninguno)

50/6

October 28,
*A-2

f 2003-987

ORDINANCE NO. C.S. 860	.	,	.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE STANISLAUS COUNTY BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF STANISLAUS, STATE OF
CALIFORNIA, ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Stanislaus County
Library Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. This ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of Stanislaus, which shall be
referred to herein as “District.”

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of
July, 2005, commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date
of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following,
among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7286.59 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the District to adopt
this tax ordinance which shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	This ordinance is to be submitted to the voters of Stanislaus County on
March 4, 2004, the Board of Supervisors having previously called for an election on that
date.

2 008

ORD-54-P-4

C.	If two-thirds of the electors voting at said election approve the imposition of
the tax, then the operative date of the imposition of this tax shall be on July 1,2005.

D.	The revenue collected from the tax shall be used only for funding County-
wide library programs and operations.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar
as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained
in Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

F.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by
the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales
and Use Taxes.

G.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be
administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize
the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the District
shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if
the District shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the

operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall
be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5.	TRANSACTIONS	TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling

tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the District at the rate of one-eighth of one
percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property
sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales
are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place or business, the
place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules
and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage,
use or other consumption in the District of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of one-eighth of one percent of the sales price of
property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject
to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. TERM. The transactions and use tax imposed by this ordinance shall
be collected for a period not to exceed eight years from and after the operative date of this

-3-

ordinance. The Board of Supervisors of the County of Stanislaus pursuant to Revenue and
Taxation Code §7286.59 (c) may impose a transactions and use tax in any succeeding
period not to exceed eight years per period if all the conditions contained in Revenue and
Taxation Code Section 7286.69 (a) are met.

Section 9.	ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise

provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 or 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all the provisions of Part
1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 10. LIMITATION ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF
USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this District shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution
shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against this District or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance;

■ 3. In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of

.4.

the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by
the state under the said provision of that code.

4, In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711,6715, 6737, 6797, or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B. The word “District” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of
that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 11. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s
permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 12. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California of by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of

transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property to operators of aircraft to
be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made and directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under
the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is
shipped to a point outside the District, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the Retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to
a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside
the District shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles {otherthan commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division
3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of District
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to
a place of business out-of-District and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sales of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sales
of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the

-6-

property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5. Forthe purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this sections, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this District of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject
to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and
necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Section 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of ordinance No. C.S. 581, effective
July 1, 1995.

5.	For the purposes of subsection (3) and (4) of this section,

-7-

storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the District shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the District
or participates within the District in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business
of the canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the District under the authority of the
retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the District” shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers
or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the District.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

-8-

Section 13. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date
of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sates
and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 or 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 or 1.7of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by
this ordinance.

Section 14. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding
in any court against the State or the District, or against any officer of the State or the
District, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 or 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to
be collected.

Section 15. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and
the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.

Section 16. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and
collecting of the District transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

Section 17. PUBLICATION. Before the expiration of fifteen (15) days after the
passage of this ordinance, it shall be published once, with the names of the members
voting for and against the same, in the Modesto Bee, a newspaper published in the County
of Stanislaus, State of California.

Upon motion of Supervisor Paul_______________,	seconded	by

Supervisor Grover__________, the foregoing ordinance was passed and adopted

at a regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Stanislaus, State of
California, this 28th day of October, 2003, by the following called vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT

ATTEST:

CHRISTINE FERRARO TALLMAN, Clerk
of the Board of Supervisors of the County of
Stanislaus, State of California

Eliz^bejh A. King, Assista(itpierk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

MICHAEL H. KRAUSNICK, County Counsel

Supervisors:	Paul,	Mayfield,	Grover,	Caruso,	and	Chairman	Simon

---------------------------- 111 ----

Ray Simon, Chairman of the Board of Supervisors
Of the County of Stanislaus, State of California

By_

CL

Dean Wright, DeputydZounty Counsel

-10-