





IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “G”

NO ARGUMENT FILED IN FAVOR OR AGAINST MEASURE

If enacted by a 2/3 vote of the persons voting, Measure “G” would
adopt Temecula Community Services District (“TCSD”) Resolution No,
03-21, and approve the District’s rates and charges tor residential street
lighting within the Redfiawk Annexation Area (LAFCO No. 2003-26-02),
This approval would assure compliance with Proposition 218, the “Right
to Vote on Taxes Act.” adopted by the voters of California on November
5,1996.

The Measure provides that owners of properties within the Redhawk
Annexation Area would pay an annual charge on their property tax bill in
the total amount of $25,68 per improved residential lot for Service Level
B, servicing, operation and maintenance of local street lighting within the
Redhawk Annexation Area.

The charges proposed by this Measure have been calculated in
accordance with the method used by the TCSD for all areas within the
current boundaries of the City. The proposed charges do not exceed trie
reasonable cost of the services to be provided to the properties being
charged. If approved, these charges 'would replace the current charges
for services imposed by County Service Area 143,

Public hearings have been held in accordance with law during which
the basis of the proposed charges was explained by the TCSD officials
and any comments or protests of property owners within the Redhawk
and Vail Ranch areas of the Annexation Area were received.

Copies of the reports and analyses prepared by the TCSD explain-
ing the charges and detailing the basis on which they were calculated are
available for review in the City Clerk’s Office.

Completion of the Redhawk Annexation requires approval by a 2/3
vote of this Measure and Measures “E," and “F.”

By:	Peter	M,	Thorson

City Attorney
City of Temecula






RESOLUTION NO. CSD 03-21

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
TEMECULA COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT ADOPTING
SERVICE LEVEL B (RESIDENTIAL STREET LIGHTS) RATES
AND CHARGES WITHIN THE REDHAWK ANNEXATION AREA
TO BE ANNEXED TO THE TEMECULA COMMUNITY
SERVICES DISTRICT AS PART OF THE REORGANIZATION
DESIGNATED BY THE RIVERSIDE COUNTY LOCAL AGENCY
FORMATION COMMISSION AS LAFCO 2003-26-3 SUBJECT
TO TWO-THIRDS VOTER APPROVAL OF VOTERS WITHIN
THE REDHAWK ANNEXATION AREA

THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE TEMECULA COMMUNITY SERVICES
DISTRICT HEREBY FINDS, RESOLVES, DECLARES, DETERMINES AND ORDERS AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Upon incorporation of the City of Temecula, effective December 1,
1989, voters approved the formation of the Temecula Community Services District (“TCSD”), to
provide specified services to properties within its jurisdiction.

Section 2. Pursuant to Government Code Sections 61621 and 61621.2, the
TCSD has prescribed, revised and collected rates and charges for services furnished by it, and
has elected to have these rates and charges collected on the tax roll in the same manner, by
the same persons, and at the same time as, together with and not separately from, property
taxes collected within the TCSD in the manner prescribed by Government Code Sections
61765.2 to 61765.6, inclusive.

Section 3. By its Resolution No. 53-03, the Riverside County Local Agency
Formation Commission ordered the reorganization designated as LAFCO 2003-26-02, a
reorganization to include annexation of Redhawk to the City of Temecula and the Temecula
Community Services District and concurrent detachment from County Service Areas 143 and
152 and the Riverside County Waste Resources Management District (“Redhawk Annexation”).
The Redhawk Annexation specifies the area to be annexed to the City of Temecula and the
Temecula Community Services District, which area includes the Redhawk Specific Plan Area
(“Redhawk Annexation Area”). Such reorganization is subject to two-thirds (2/3) voter approval
by the residents of the annexed area of rates and charges against parcels within that area for
street lighting and slope maintenance provided by the TCSD to those parcels within the
Redhawk Annexation Area.

Section 4. On November 25, 2003, a public hearing was conducted on the
proposed rates and charges and the authorization to impose the rates and charges in the
Redhawk Annexation Area. At the public hearing, all oral and written objections and comments
by any interested person concerning the proposed rates and charges were heard and
considered.

Section 5. The Board of Directors hereby finds and determines that, based on
the information set forth in the administrative record of the November 25, 2003 public hearing,
the rates and charges to be imposed do not exceed the reasonable cost of the services to be
provided to the affected parcels by the TCSD for fiscal year 2004-05. The Board of Directors
will hold additional public hearings in January 2004 and June 2005 for the purpose of formally

1

reviewing the rates and charges prior to their implementation on July 1, 2005. The Rates and
Charges will not be imposed unless they are approved by a two-thirds vote of the voters voting
on the matter in an election on March 2,2004.

Section 6. The Board of Directors hereby adopts the following rates and
charges for fiscal year 2004-05 for the services to be provided by the TCSD for fiscal year
2004-05 subject to two-thirds voter approval:	Service	Level B - Residential Street Lights.

$25.68 per improved residential lot for parcels in the Redhawk Annexation Area.

Section 7. When approved by two-thirds of the voters voting within the
Redhawk Annexation Area, this Resolution shall constitute the voter approval authorizing the
imposition of the rates and charges in the Redhawk Annexation Area pursuant to Article XIII D if
the California Constitution and applicable law. When so approved, this Resolution shall also
authorize the Board of Directors to adjust the rates and charges and the collection procedures
for the rates and charges each year in accordance with and pursuant to the public hearing
procedures and other applicable procedures set forth in California law. Prior to the
implementation of the rates and charges specifically set forth in Section 6 of this Resolution on
July 1, 2005, the Board of Directors is hereby authorized to reduce said rates and charges to
the extent required by law following further public hearings on the rates and charges in January
2003 and June 2005. Such hearings shall be noticed and conducted in accordance with
applicable California law.

Section 8. The TCSD shall prescribe, revise and collect such rates and
charges pursuant to Government Code Sections 61621 and 61621.2. The TCSD shall collect
such rates and charges at the same time and in the same manner and by the same persons as,
together with and not separately from, the property taxes collected within the TCSD. These
rates and charges shall be delinquent at the same time and thereafter be subject to the same
delinquency penalties as such property taxes. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and
enforcement of property taxes, including, but not limited to, those pertaining to the matters of
delinquency, correction, cancellation, refund and redemption, are applicable to these rates and
charges, except for California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 4831. However, if for the
first year the charge is levied, the real property to which the charge relates has been transferred
or conveyed to a bona fide purchaser for value, or if a lien of a bona fide encumbrance for value
has been created and attaches thereon, prior to the date on which the first installment of such
taxes appear on the roll, then the charge shall not result in a lien against the property, but
instead shall be transferred to the unsecured roll for collection.

Section 8. If a property owner subject to these rates and charges questions the
classification of the owner’s property for fiscal year 2005-06, or claims that an error has been
made with respect to the implementation of the rates and charges or the application of the rates
and charges to the owner’s property for that fiscal year, such property owner must appeal the
levy by filing an appeal with the Secretary of the TCSD before 5:00 p.m. on December 1, 2005,
pursuant to procedures established by the TCSD, in order to be considered under the appeal of
classification or correction of errors program.

Section 9. If a property owner subject to these rates and charges believes that
payment of the rates and charges for fiscal year 2005-06 would create a hardship for that
property owner during that fiscal year, such property owner must appeal the levy by filing a
hardship appeal with the Secretary of the TCSD before 5:00 p.m. on December 1, 2005,
pursuant to procedures established by the TCSD, in order to be considered under the hardship
appeal program.

R:/TCSD Resos 2003/TCSD 03-21

2

Section 10. Pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), the

levy and collection of these rates and charges is exempt from CEQA pursuant to Public
Resources Code Section 21080(b)(8) and Section 15273 of the State CEQA Guidelines
because the rates and charges are necessary to maintain existing improvements within the
TCSD. Additionally, both the City Council and the Riverside County Local Agency Formation
Commission have duly considered the environmental impacts of the proposed Redhawk
Annexation and each have adopted a Negative Declaration indicating that all adverse
environmental impacts from the Redhawk Annexation have been mitigated.

Section 11. The Secretary of the TCSD shall certify to the adoption of this

Resolution.

on July 1, 2005 only if they are approved by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electorate within the
Redhawk Annexation Area voting at an election to be held on March 2, 2004, in accordance
with the requirements of California Constitution Article XIII D.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Directors of the Temecula
Community Services District this 25th day of November, 2003.

Section 12. The rates and charges adopted by this resolution shall take effect

ATTEST:

[SEAL]

R:/TCSD Resos 2003/TCSD 03-21

3

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF RIVERSIDE ) ss
CITY OF TEMECULA	)

I, Susan W. Jones, CMC, Secretary for the Temecula Community Services District, do
hereby certify that foregoing Resolution No. CSD 03-21 was duly and regularly adopted by the
Board of Directors of the Temecula Community Services District at a regular meeting thereof
held this 25th day of November, 2003, by the following vote:

AYES:	5	DIRECTORS:	Naggar, Roberts, Stone, Washington, Comerchero
NOES:	0	DIRECTORS:	None
ABSENT:	0	DIRECTORS:	None
ABSTAIN:	0	DIRECTORS:	None

R:/TCSD Resos 2003/TCSD 03-21

4