NOTICE OF ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that a General Municipal Election will be held in the
City of Montclair on Tuesday, November 2, 2004, for the following Measure:

In order to fund the general needs of the community including, but not limited to, construction of a new Police facility and senior and youth centers, street and sidewalk repairs, and park development; maintain municipal services; and replace	Yes
Montclair’s ongoing revenue losses to the State, shall Ordinance No. 04-849 be	
approved, providing for a one quarter of 1 percent transactions and use tax that raises for the community 25 cents on each $100 retail purchase?	No
	

The Dolls will be ODen between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F

This ballot measure proposes a general purpose tax that requires a simple majority vote
for adoption. If approved by the voters, it would enact a one quarter of 1 percent (0.25%)
transactions and use tax rate in the City of Montclair. This tax will add 25 cents to each
$100 of taxable sales.

The proposed transactions and use tax, like the current sales tax, would be imposed upon
the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail within the City of Montclair, as
well as upon the storage, use, or other consumption of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer within the City of Montclair. If this measure is approved by
the voters, the combined sales tax and transactions and use tax rate will be 8 percent. The
proposed tax rate would be applied equally to residents and nonresidents making retail
purchases in the City of Montclair.

During its first year of operation, the proposed transactions and use tax is expected to
generate approximately $2.5 million in revenue.

Revenues generated from the proposed transactions and use tax would be deposited into
the City's General Fund to be used by the City of Montclair for general City operations
and services, including, but not limited to, construction of a new Police facility and senior
and youth centers, park development, street and sidewalk repairs, construction of
overpasses at railroad crossings, traffic congestion mitigation, and maintenance of
municipal services.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure F. If you desire a copy of the
measure, please call the election official's office at (909) 625-9415; a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

Montclair is facing serious revenue shortages created by the State's inability to
keep their fiscal house in order. The State will take away over $1.5 million from
Montclair taxpayers this year alone!

Community leaders representing taxpayers, public safety, seniors, educators,
and neighbors have joined together to present a solution that will help protect
taxpayer dollars in Montclair...the solution is Measure F.

Vote YES on Measure F to MAINTAIN OUR COMMUNITY’S SERVICES:

Montclair must take steps to guarantee that our funding for police, fire, street
repairs, parks, and other essential services is protected from future state
government raids.

Vote YES on Measure F for a NEW POLICE FACILITY AND EMERGENCY
OPERATIONS CENTER: Construction of these facilities will enable our police,
fire and other public safety professionals to manage and respond more quickly
to major disasters and provide greater protection to our families, homes, and
businesses.

Vote YES on Measure F for a NEW SENIOR CENTER: Montclair senior
citizens need a dedicated facility to provide access to city services and programs.
Voting YES on Measure F will provide for the expansion of these services and
programs, including health, nutrition, and recreational activities.

Vote YES on Measure F for a NEW YOUTH CENTER: Our children deserve a
safe place where they can learn, play, and meet hew friends. A new youth
center, supervised by trained adults, will provide our children with a facility free
from gangs and other influences that could cause them harm.

Vote YES on Measure F for a LOCALLY CONTROLLED AND PROTECTED
SOURCE OF REVENUE: Montclair residents will benefit from the collection of
25 cents on each $100 retail purchase. An estimated 92 percent of the revenues
generated would be paid by people who are not residents of Montclair, and the
funds would be off limits to the state!

signed/

Judy Post, Principal, Montclair High School
Maynard Lenhert, President, Montclair Seniors Association
Dana Cox, Treasurer, Montclair Chamber of Commerce
Tom Stoudt, President, Montclair Firefighters Association
Ken Pollich, President, Montclair Police Officers Association

ORDINANCE NO. 04-849

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF MONTCLAIR ADDING CHAPTER 3.30 TO
TITLE 3 OF THE MONTCLAIR MUNICIPAL CODE
RELATED TO IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND
USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MONTCLAIR DOES ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION I. The Montclair Municipal Code is hereby amended by adding
Chapter 3.30 to Title 3, as follows:

Sec. 3.30.010 Title. Administrative Territory.

A.	This chapter shall be known as the "Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance of the City of Montclair.”

B.	This Ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of
the City of Montclair.

Sec. 3.30.020 Purpose.

This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following purposes, among
others, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish these purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2 which authorizes the City of Montclair to adopt this tax
Ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors
voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at
an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax
Law of the State of California, insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a
tax and provides a measure, therefore, that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State sales and use taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will, to the greatest degree possible,
be consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code; minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes; and, at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under
the provisions of this Ordinance.

Sec. 3.30.030 Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date of this Ordinance as set forth in
Section 3.30.020, the City of Montclair shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax Ordinance; provided that if the City
has not contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, nevertheless, it shall so contract, and in such a case the operative date

Page 1 of 6

shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of
such a contract.

Sec. 3.30.040 Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City of
Montclair at the rate of one quarter of 1 percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts of
any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this Ordinance.

Sec. 3.30.0S0 Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at
the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-State destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-State destination. The gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to
the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In
the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State, or has more
than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed
and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Sec. 3.30.060 Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other
consumption in the City of Montclair of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this Ordinance for storage,
use, or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one quarter of
1 percent (0.25%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to State sales or use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Sec. 3.30.070 Proceeds of Tax.

The proceeds of this tax shall be deposited into the general fund to be
used for all general government needs of the City, which may include, but is not
limited to capital equipment requirements, capital improvement projects, fire
and police protection, street and park maintenance, planning and engineering
services, code enforcement, youth and senior citizen programs, operational
expenses, fiduciary responsibilities, indebtedness, and general obligations of
the City. The tax imposed herein is intended to be, and is, a general tax, the
proceeds of which are to be spent as the City Council shall, in its discretion,
from time to time determine.

Sec. 3.30.080 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided for in this Ordinance, and except insofar as
they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with
Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby
adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Sec. 3.30.090 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use
Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor.
However, the substitution shall not be made in the following
circumstances:

1.	When the word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board

Page 2 of 6

of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State
of California.

2.	When the result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee
thereof, rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to,
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

(a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use, or other consumption of tangible
personal property that would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax, while such sales, storage, use, or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

(b)	impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use,
or other consumption of tangible personal property that
would not be subject to tax by the State under said
provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711,671 5, 6737, 6797, or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

B. The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the
phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203
and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Sec. 3.30.100 Additional Seller’s Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this Ordinance.

Sec. 3.30.110 Additional Business License Not Required.

If a business license has been issued to a retailer under Chapter 4.04 of
Title 4 of the Montclair Municipal Code, an additional business license shall not
be required by this Ordinance.

Sec. 3.30.120 Exemptions and Exclusions:

A.	There shall be excluded from the computation of the measure of the
transactions tax and use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of California, or by any city, city and county, or
county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use
Tax Law, or the amount of any State-administered transactions or
use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of

transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the City in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

Page 3 of 6

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City, which is shipped
to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by
delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery
by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the City shall be satisfied:

(a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commenc-
ing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is,
in fact, his or her principal place of residence.

(b)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out of the City and declaration, under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property, which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the
lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
the lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not
to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance,

the storage, use, or other consumption in this City of tangible

personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to
a transactions tax under any State-administered transactions
and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators
of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers
of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant
to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease that is a
continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
Ordinance.

Ordinance No. 04-849

Page 4 of 6

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or
exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax
from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer
in the City, or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority
of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include

any retailer of any of the following:	vehicles subject to

registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser
who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property, the storage, use, or other consumption of which is subject
to the use tax.

Sec. 3.30.130 Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes that are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this Ordinance, provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so
as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

Sec. 3.30.140 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate, or other legal or equitable process,
shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against the State or the
City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

SECTION II. Severability.

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of this Ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby.

SECTION III. Validity.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, word, or phrase of this
Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such holding or holdings shall

Page 5 of 6

not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The City
Council hereby declares that it would have passed this Ordinance and each
section, subsection, sentence, clause, word, and phrase thereof, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, words,
or phrases have been declared invalid.

SECTION IV. Operative Date.

A.	This Ordinance shall become operative on the first day of the
first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after
adoption of this Ordinance by the Montclair City Council.

B.	This Ordinance shall not become operative unless and until a
majority of the electors voting on this measure vote to adopt this
Ordinance, and thereby approve the imposition of the tax, at the
General Election to be held on November 2, 2004.

SECTION V. Effective Date.

This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

SECTION VI. Posting.

The City Clerk shall certify to the passage of this Ordinance and cause the
same to be posted pursuant to Government Code Section 3693S.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 28th day of July, 2004.

Mayor

ATTEST:

I, Donna M. Jackson, City Clerk of the City of Montclair, DO HE
the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Ordinance No. 0
which was introduced at a regular meeting of the City Counci
day of July, 2004, and finally passed not less than five (5) days
28th day of July, 2004, by the following vote, to wit:

Y CERTIFY that
9 of said City
eld on the 6th
hereafter on the

AYES:	Raft, Paulitz, Dutrey, Eaton

NOES:	Ruh

ABSTAIN: None
ABSENT:	None

Ordinance No. 04-849

Page 6 of 6