March 2, 2004 Primary Election

Total Yes Votes: 13,822 66.8%

Total No Votes: 6,882 33.2%

CITY OF VISALIA
MEASURE T

(Required to Pass: 2/3 votes cast)

VISALIA POLICE, FIRE, AND PUBLIC SAFETY/9-1-1 MEASURE.
Shall Visalia voters enact a one-quarter cent sales tax, with citizens
advisory committee oversight and independent annual audits, to:
improve 9-1-1 police/fire response time; expand programs to reduce
gang violence, drug trafficking and graffiti; increase number of police
officers/firefighters; build neighborhood police/fire stations and
firefighter training center; improve hazardous material/bomb squad
response times; repair/upgrade outdated public safety
building/emergency 9-1-1 dispatch center?

YES

NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE T

Measure T proposes to raise revenue for the purpose of funding
police and fire facilities, equipment and personnel, by authorizing a
sales tax of one-fourth of a cent within the City of Visalia. The tax
would be paid in addition to the current state and local sales taxes
and would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7286.44 authorizes
the City Council to levy a transaction and use tax (i.e., a “sales”) tax
at a rate not to exceed 0.25 percent if the tax is approved by two
thirds of the qualified voters of the city voting in an election on that
issue. If approved by the voters, the sales tax will be adopted by
ordinance to become effective no sooner than May 1, 2004.

The revenues raised from the sales tax will be used to hire and equip
28 additional police officers and 18 new firefighters. It will provide for
opening of two new police precincts and two new fire stations. The
revenues will also be used to improve the 911 emergency dispatch
center to decrease emergency response time.

The sales tax increases will be subject to certain conditions included
in a plan adopted by the City Council. Such conditions provide that
the expenditures of money pursuant to the plan be independently
audited on an annual basis and that a citizen’s advisory committee
review the auditor’s report and report to the community their findings.
The City Manager is required to re-certify the plan of expenditures
annually at the time of submittal of the budget to the City Council and
every eight years the City Council must reaffirm the need for the
public safety sales tax by a four-fifths vote.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

Vote Yes on T to improve Visalia’s police and fire services and
reduce response times to emergency 9-1-1 calls - ensuring the
safety of all Visalians.

Visalia’s Emergency 9-1-1 calls for help have gone up 7.000 in the
last year alone. Yes on T will add greatly needed police officers and
firefighters to meet Visalia’s growing need for police and fire service.

Visalia’s 9-1-1 Dispatch Center was built in 1970, and hasn’t had
significant upgrades in decades. Current police and fire buildings
can’t accommodate the modern technology needed to fight crime and
respond to emergency 9-1-1 calls. Yes on T repairs and upgrades
these outdated public safety buildings.

Yes on T reduces the time it takes for emergency workers to reach
people who need help.

Yes on T adds beat officers to our neighborhoods to reduce gang
violence, graffiti and drug trafficking.

Yes on T increases the number of firefighters on call to respond to
medical and fire emergencies.

Yes on T establishes two neighborhood fire stations in underserved
areas of our city - ensuring that Visalia can handle more than one fire
emergency at a time.

Yes on T keeps all funding local - addressing Visalia’s public safety
needs only.

Yes on T includes strict financial accountability requirements. An
independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee will oversee all funds,
and issue annual audits. By law, money can only be spent on the
projects promised to voters.

Though Visalia has continued to grow, our police and fire
departments have not. Yes on T makes necessary upgrades, repairs
and improvements now, while it is less expensive. If we wait, these
problems will only get worse.

Yes on T protects Visalia from state-wide budget cuts. It is time for
Visalians to take control of the future of local police, fire and
emergency services. Vote Yes on T!

s/ James M. Chamberlain, Visalia Police Officer’s Association

s/ Ray Ramirez, Visalia Firefighters Local 3719

s/ Mary T. Hill, Visalia Banker

s/ Floyd Westbrook, Visalia Police Chaplain Corps.

s/ Brian Blain, Business Owner and Farmer

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE T

Measure T would assign to the Fire and Police Department
$4,500,000 in the first year of its operation based on a conservative
estimate by the City. In five years it would grow to $4,800,000, in ten
years $5,300,000, in twenty years $6,500,000. Sixty percent of this
would go to the police department and forty percent to the fire
department.

At the present time 50% of the spendable money in the City Budget
goes to the police and fire departments. That percentage will
increase as the time goes on.

The City now has five fully manned fire crews and has agreements
with Tulare and the County fire department to provide aid when
needed. A fire two blocks from the Station on Whitendale recently
was fought by thirteen fire trucks from the city, Tulare and the County.
WE DON’T NEED MORE FIRE STATIONS.

THIS MEASURE WILL GUARANTEE OVER LAPPING AND
DUPLICATION OF FIRE PROTECTION. The fire department
proposes to build a new station in the northwest part of Visalia. It will
“protect” the Industrial area in that portion of the City. The buildings
in that Industrial area of the city are already protected by automatic
fire sprinklers. Fires in those buildings will be extinguished or
controlled before any fire department help arrives. Furthermore the
County Fire Station at Goshen will respond to fires in that area and
the City Station at the airport which receives less calls than any other
station is available.

PROTECT YOUR TAX DOLLARS - VOTE NO ON MEASURE T
s/ Joe Randall, Individual

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T

We live in a great age. Hundreds of people in Visalia carry cell
phones which can be used to report crimes and fires. Methods of
extinguishing fires and saving lives and property have been perfected
to a high degree. A comparison of these systems with the ancient
plans originally developed by Benjamin Franklin is as follows:

Property Loss Fire Deaths

(Over last 7 years)

Visalia $20,157, 000

Nine Deaths over 11 years

2RCID $100,000 No deaths over thirty years

The Reedy Creek Improvement District in Florida has 38.4 square
miles to protect while Visalia has 28.0 square miles. RCID has two
fire stations and is not planning on additional stations. Visalia has
four fire stations and is planning on two additional stations in the near
future. RCID has 100% of its buildings protected by modern fire
extinguishing systems. Visalia has less than 2% of its buildings so
protected.

If the Police Department would give the voters of Visalia and
opportunity to use their cell phones to report crimes and to back up
the department it would be a great advance.

Voting against this proposal of spending millions of dollars for the
existing police and fire departments will encourage them to look to
modern systems and the cooperation of citizens in controlling crime
and fires.

If this proposal is approved the City Council will have no opportunity
to use these funds for things that they feel are important for the
community. It ties their hands.

I strongly urge voters to turn down this proposal and encourage the
fire and police department to use the latest and most modern
technics available.

s/ Joe Randall, Retired Fire Protection Engineer

1	From the records of the Visalia Fire Department

2	From personal interviews and the internet

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T

Should misinformation jeopardize your safety? No!

A YES vote on T improves Visalia’s safety. Consider the facts:

FACT: Measure T is a comprehensive public safety plan to improve
your safety. This proposal was developed over many months by
Visalia community leaders, police officers and firefighters to respond
specifically to local public safety needs. Over 1,000 Visalia residents
participated in the planning process by identifying priorities.

FACT: In the past year, emergency calls for help increased bv 7.000.

To lower response times to emergency calls, and to keep our

neighborhoods safe from gang violence and drug trafficking, we must

increase the number of police officers and firefighters in our

neighborhoods.

FACT: Visalia needs modern systems to respond to crime and fires.
Measure T will upgrade the old and outdated public safety building
and emergency dispatch 9-1-1 center, which haven’t had significant
upgrades in over thirty years.

FACT:	If	we	wait to make these improvements, our public safety

problems will only get worse. Measure T responds to Visalia’s public
safety needs NOW, before it is too late.

FACT: Measure T is a fiscally responsible plan, subject to review bv
an Independent Citizens Committee, annual audits, and additional
reviews bv the City Council. It can only be extended bv a super-
majority vote of the Council.

All monies raised by Measure T stay here in Visalia, and can only be
spent on your police and fire services.

Together we can make Visalia safe—vote YES on T.

s/ Bob Link, Mayor & Business Owner

s/ Ray Forsyth, Former Police Chief & City Manager

s/ George Sandoval, Fire Chief

s/ Lynne Hare, Accountant

s/ Brian Blain, Business Owner & Farmer








Ordinance No. 2003-24

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF VISALIA
ORDERING THE SUBMISSION OF A PROPOSITION TO INCREASE THE
CITY’S TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX BY A RATE OF 0.25 PERCENT TO
THE QUALIFIED VOTERS OF THE CITY AT A SPECIAL ELECTION TO BE
HELD FOR THAT PURPOSE ON MARCH 2,2004.

WHEREAS, section 7286.44 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code was added
by Chapter 346 of the Statues of2002 authorizing the City of Visalia to levy a
transactions and use tax (“sales tax” or “sales and use tax”) at a rate of no more than

0.25% to be expended only for the provision of improving public safety, fire and law
enforcement services, and subject to the approval by a majority vote of all of the
members of the Visalia City Council and by a two-thirds vote of the qualified voters of
the City voting in an election on the issue; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit a ballot measure on the sales tax
proposition to the qualified voters of the City of Visalia at a Special Municipal Election
to be held in the City on March 2,2004; and

WHEREAS, the California Elections Code authorizes the filing of an impartial analysis
and the filing of arguments for or against any ballot proposition and rebuttal arguments.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED:

1.	A special municipal election is hereby called and ordered to be held in the
City on March 2, 2004, at which election there shall be submitted to the
qualified voters the proposition set forth below.

2.	Said proposition shall appear on the ballot for said special municipal election
in the following form:

“VISALIA POLICE, FIRE, AND PUBLIC SAFETY/9-1-1 MEASURE. Shall
Visalia voters enact a one-quarter cent sales tax, with citizens advisory
committee oversight and independent annual audits, to:

-	improve 9-1-1 police/fire response time;

-	expand programs to reduce gang violence, drug trafficking and graffiti;

-	increase number of police officers/firefighters;

-	build neighborhood police/fire stations and firefighter training center;

-	improve hazardous material/bomb squad response times;

-	repair/upgrade outdated public safety building/emergency 9-1-1 dispatch
center?”

3.	The proposition shall be submitted to the voters of Visalia as required by State
Statute approved by the voters of California in 1986 as Proposition 62, and in
1996 as Proposition 218, and as required by Section 7286.44 of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.

4.	The object and purpose of the increase is to provide additional revenue for the
purpose of improving public safety, fire, and law enforcement services in
Visalia

5.	The Transactions and Use Tax shall be increased by an additional rate of

0.25% if more than two-thirds of the qualified voters voting on the proposition
vote in favor thereof.

6.	The special municipal election hereby called for March 2,2004, shall be and
is hereby ordered consolidated with the general district election to be held
within the City on said date, and within the territory affected by the
consolidation.

PASSED AND ADOPTED: 12/15/03

ATTEST:

STEVEN M. SALOMON, CITY CLERK

STATE OF CALIFORNIA)
COUNTY OF TULARE ) ss.
CITY OF VISALIA )

I,	Steven M. Salomon, City Clerk of the City .of Visalia, certify the foregoing is the full and
true Ordinance 2003-24 passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Visalia at a regular
meeting held on December 15,2003 and certify a summary of this ordinance has been published
in the Visalia Times Delta.

Dated:



/d, ZOO#

ORDINANCE NO. 2004-10

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF VISALIA
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Visalia Public Safety
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The city of Visalia hereinafter shall be called "City." This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption approval of the special tax by the
electors of the City to fund police and fire operations, facilities, furnishings and equipment as set
forth in resolution xx-xx. The election was held March 2, 2004 and operative date is July 1,
2004.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7286.44 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which
shall be operative if a 2/3 majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject
to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

l

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the City at the rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the gross
receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory
on and after the operative date of this ordinance. The tax in addition the City’s existing sales and
use tax set forth in Article 5 of Chapter 3.24 of Title 3 of the Visalia Municipal Code.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of one quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF
USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

2

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be
to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not
be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the City in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

3

y^^ii

2.	Sales or property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal
place of residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease
of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use
or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

4

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a

. lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

5

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 15. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting
of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

PASSED AND ADOPTED: 4/27/04
ATTEST:

BOB LINK, MAYOR

STEVEN M. SALOMON, CITY CLERK

STATE OF CALIFORNIA)
COUNTY OF TULARE ) ss.
CITY OF VISALIA )

I, Steven M. Salomon, City Clerk of the City of Visalia, certify the foregoing is the full and true
Ordinance 2004-10 passed and adopted by the Council of the City of Visalia at a regular meeting held on
April 19, 2004, and certify a summary of this ordinance has been published in the Visalia Times Delta.

Dated'	Zoo1/

.STJEVEN^sZt^ALOMON, CSYCLERK
By R<^arihe^)cfen Q tffef Deputy

\

\

6

ord_auth
(rev 03/02)