
CITY OF GALT

MEASURE S

Shall Ordinance No. 2004-05, which would en-

Sact a one quarter cent transactions and use tax
for general government purposes, be adopted?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S

Prepared by Galt City Attorney

Measure S proposes to raise revenue for general City of Galt pur-
poses by authorizing a % cent sales tax within the City of Galt. The
tax would be paid in addition to current State and local sales taxes
and would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
the existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 authorizes
the City Council to levy a transactions and use (/.e., a “sales”) tax, if
the tax is approved by a majority of the voters in an election on that
issue. If approved by a majority of the voters, the Measure S sales
tax would become effective April 1,2005, and would remain in effect
until terminated by vote of the City Council.

Measure S states that the % cent sales tax is to be used "for general
government purposes.” Because this sales tax would be a “general
tax,” the City would be able to use proceeds from this tax for any le-
gal governmental purpose without restriction. The City would not be
legally bound in any way to use the tax monies for any special pur-
pose or for any particular program or service.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE S

ORDINANCE NO. 2004-05

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF GALT, CALIFORNIA
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION
AND ADDING CHAPTER 3.40 TO THE GALT MUNICIPAL CODE

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF GALT does ordain as fol-
lows:

SECTION 1. The Galt Municipal Code is hereby amended by the
addition of Chapter 3.40, which shall read as follows:

3.40.010. TITLE AND EFFECT. This chapter shall be known as the
Galt Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. This chapter shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City of Galt (“City”).
This chapter shall complement, and not replace or supersede, the
City’s existing sales and use tax, as such tax is described in Chapter
3.32 of the Municipal Code.

3.40.020. OPERATIVE DATE. As used in Chapter 3.40, “Operative
Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the adoption of this chapter. If this chapter
is approved by the City Council, and subsequently approved by the
voters at the November 2004 election, the operative date shall be
April 1,2005.

3.40.030. PURPOSE. This chapter is adopted to achieve the follow-
ing, among other purposes, and the City Council directs that the
provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those pur-
poses:

A.	To impose retail transactions and use tax regulations in accor-
dance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section
7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt
this chapter, which shall be operative if a majority of the electors vot-
ing on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that incorpo-
rates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of
the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsis-
tent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt retail transak. .is and use tax regulations that imposes
a tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible devia-
tion from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures fol-
lowed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt retail transactions and use tax regulations that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possi-
ble, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under
the provisions of this chapter.

3.40.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the Operative Date of
April 1,2005, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equal-
ization to perform all functions incident to the administration and op-
eration of these transactions and use tax regulations; provided, that
if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equal-
ization prior to the Operative Date, it shall nevertheless so contract
and in such a case the Operative Date shall be the first day of the
first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.40.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling
tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of .25% of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible per-
sonal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the Opera-
tive Date of this chapter.

3.40.060. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this chapter, all re-
tail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer
unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer
or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which deliv-
ery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of busi-
ness in the State or has more than one place of business, the place
or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be deter-
mined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

3.40.070. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal
property purchased from any retailer on and after the Operative
Date of this chapter for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of .25% of the sales price of the property. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which de-
livery is made.

3.40.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except
as otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are
inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Reve-
nue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully
set forth herein.

3.40.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part
1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor.
However, the substitution shall not be made when:

- T.-The word- State" is used as a part of the title of the State Con-
troller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in per-
forming the functions incident to the administration or operation of

34-8145

Ballot Type 000 Page 15

this Chapter.	V

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sec-
tions referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California,
where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Di-
vision 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would

not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of
that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

B. The word “City" shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203
and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.40.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by
this chapter.

3.40.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax
and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by
the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pur-
suant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law
or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petro-
leum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the county in which the sale is made and dir-
ectly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carri-
ers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to
a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by deliv-
ery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the
retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For
the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City
shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft li-
censed incompliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division
3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration un-
der penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating
that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of resi-
dence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the Operative Date of this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale
of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obli-
gated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior
to the Operative Date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the uncondi-
tional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted V n the use tax imposed by this chapter,
the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible per-
sonal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to
a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and
use tax regulations.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators
of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of per-
sons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This ex-
emption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of Cal-
ifornia.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative
Date of this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a con
tinuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which
the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
a lease prior to the Operative Date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise

of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the
City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a
place of business of the retailer in the City or through any repre-
sentative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the
City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Divi-
sion 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented ves-
sels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transac-
tions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transac-
tions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property
the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use
tax.

3.40.120. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the ef-
fective date of this chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are
not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Reve-
nue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part
1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automati-
cally become a part of this chapter, provided however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by
this chapter. Except as provided above and in Section 3.40.140, this
chapter may be amended only by the voters pursuant to the provi-
sions of Elections Code Section 9217 and as provided by law.

3.40.130. TERMINATION OF TAX. Following adoption of this chap-
ter, the City Council shall retain the discretion and authority to termi-
nate the tax imposed by this chapter. Any such termination shall be
effected by adoption by the City Council of an ordinance setting
forth the termination. If the City Council terminates the tax imposed

34-8145

Ballot Type 000 Page 16

"—V----------------------------------------------; r ;------

by this chapter, the City shall notify the States, yard of Equalization
in writing of such termination. The operative date of any termination
pursuant to this section shall be the end of the quarter immediately
preceding the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110
days after the City Council’s approval of that termination.

3.40.140. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction
or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the
City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or en-
join the collection under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax re-
quired to be collected.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any provision of this chapter or the ap-
plication thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the
chapter which can be given effect without the invalid provision or ap-
plication, and to this end the provisions of this chapter are sever-
able. The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted
this chapter irrespective of the invalidity of any particular portion
thereof.

SECTION 3. Effective Date. After its adoption by the voters, this
chapter shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after the vote is
declared by the legislative body, pursuant to the provisions of Elec-
tions Code Sections 9217 and 15400 and as provided by law.

SECTION 4. Publication. The City Clerk shall certify to the adoption
of this chapter and cause it, or a summary of it, to be published once
in a newspaper of general circulation printed and published within
the City of Galt.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Over the past decade, the City of Galt’s ability to provide all levels of
general fund services commensurate with the City’s population
growth has been minimal. Through Senate Bill 566, it is now possi-
ble to increase revenue for City services by increasing our sales tax.
An additional 1/4 cent to the City’s sales tax will provide funding to
the general fund to support items such as police services, senior
programs, and other general fund supported functions, while main-
taining a competitive sales tax rate within our region.

In analyzing the submittal of this tax increase to the voters. City
Council identified the need for additional police officers as the most
important issue to increase funding.

The proposed new sales tax increase will be used for general fund
services only and can be terminated at any time by Council action.
City staff and Council Members support the sales tax increase to
meet the needs of our rapidly growing community. Recent action by
the State indicates that local government funding will be in jeopardy
unless constitutionally protected. If approved, these monies are
guaranteed to come back to the City for the direct benefit of our
community.

As Citizens of Galt, you will be able to indicate by your vote the level
of City services that are acceptable to you and your family.

s/ Darryl Clare, Mayor
s/ Randy Shelton, Vice Mayor
s/ Tim Raboy, Councilmember
s/Tom Malson, Councilmember
si Rick Stand I, Councilmember

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

Don’t give Galt politicians a blank check. Vote NO on Measure S.

Measure S asks for yet another sales tax increase - Galt's sales tax
rate would be the highest in Sacramento County!

Where will the money go? No one knows!

Measure S provides no guarantee that the money will be used for
any specific purpose. What we do know is the tax increase will go
into the City’s bank account. Galt politicians will decide how to
spend the money after the election!

How will we attract new, jsinesses to Galt when our tax rate is
higher than neighboring cities? Why would local residents shop in
Gait when they can save sales tax money by shopping in Elk Grove
and Lodi?

Even worse, for major purchases like a new car, you will pay Galt's
higher sales tax no matter where you purchase the car. This is a
transaction tax - it requires other cities to collect the higher Galt
sales tax regardless of where you buy the car.

Because sales tax and transaction taxes are regressive measures,
it will disproportionately and unfairly burden those who can least af-
ford it. Seniors and other citizens on fixed incomes will be most im-
pacted. Rising utility fees and other expenses already burden our
citizens. Simply said we cannot afford another tax.

We support our local police, our firefighters, our libraries and
schools. But Measure S doesn’t provide any guarantee that they will
receive a dime in additional revenues.

Vote No on Measure S - Galt taxpayers deserve to know how our
money will be spent before we agree to higher taxes.

s/Terry Parker, Chairman, Businesses United for Good
Government

s/Joe Sullivan, Executive Director, Sacramento County Taxpayers
League

si Ted Costa, CEO, People's Advocate Inc.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

Vote Yes on Measure S. This is the only tax that your local repre-
sentatives have complete control over!

Is 250 per $100 too much to pay for additional police protection? As
a citizen of Galt, you will have the opportunity to make this decision
with your vote. Our City Council is committed to funding police per-
sonnel for your safety. This is the only tax the City Council has com-
plete control over. The tax generated from this increase will be
accounted for and presented to the public in the City budget. It is
against the law to hide money from our citizens. Does the City
Council like to raise taxes orfees? No, but the simple fact is that ev-
ery time prices or wages increase, so do City expenses. The State
of California will have “taken” approximately $1,000,000 from your
City over the next 2 years. Almost all fees collected by your City go
to a specified purpose and can not be used for anything else, such
as sewer, water and garbage. Your City can not “make a profit” - it
must spend what it takes in for a specific purpose. This tax is the
only way to provide additional police officers “on the street’ for your
safety.

This measure is written so that future City Councils can rescind this
tax. Please remember that Galt citizens have requested improved
police services and the Galt Police Officers Association has re-
quested additional officers. The Galt City Council is only responding
to your requests.

si Doug Matthews, Chief of Police

s/ Robert Whittington, President, Galt Police Officers Association
sf Ai Baldwin, Concerned Citizen
si Darryl Clare, Mayor
s/Tim Raboy, Council Member