BEFORE THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF LAFAYETTE

In the Matter of:

CALLING A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL BOND ) ORDINANCE NO. 545
ELECTION FOR APPROVAL OF RESIDENTIAL )

AND NEIGHBORHOOD ROAD AND DRAIN )

IMPROVEMENT BONDS	)

WHEREAS, the City Council (the “Council”) of the City of Lafayette (the “City”),
by resolution duly passed and adopted by affirmative vote of more than two-thirds of all its
members at a meeting of the Council duly and regularly held on July 9, 2004, did determine that the
public interest and necessity demand the acquisition, construction and completion of the municipal
improvements hereinafter mentioned; and did further determine that the cost of the acquisition,
construction and completion of said municipal improvements will be too great to be paid out of the
ordinary annual income and revenue of the City and will require an expenditure greater than the
amount allowed therefor by the annual tax lev}7, and will require the incurring of a bonded
indebtedness therefor;

NOW, THEREFORE, The City Council of the City of Lafayette does ordain as

follows:

Section 1. Specifications of Election Order, (a) A special municipal bond election is
hereby ordered to be held throughout the City of Lafayette on November 2, 2004, for the purpose
of submitting to the qualified electors of the City a proposition of incurring bonded indebtedness of
the City, summarized for purposes of Section 13247 of the Elections Code of the State of California
(the “Elections Code”), as follows:

“In order to continue the road and drain repair and reconstruction
work begun in 1995 on Lafayette’s major thoroughfares, and extend
work to all of the City’s neighborhood streets, shall the City of
Lafayette be authorized to incur bonded indebtedness of 329 million,
to be repaid through an increase in the property tax?”

(b) The Registrar of Voters (the “Registrar of Voters”) of the County of Contra
Costa (the “County”) is hereby requested to reprint the summary of the measure contained in
subdivision (a) of this Section (the “Measure”) as the ballot measure in all official materials
pertaining to the election, including notices of election, notices inviting arguments, and other
notices, voter information pamphlets, and the official ballots.

D0CSSF1:751188.1

(a)	Purpose. The object and specific purpose of incurring the indebtedness is to
finance a portion of the cost of acquisition, construction and/or completion of municipal
improvements consisting of repair and reconstruction of the City's residential and neighborhood
roads and storm drains, and proceeds of the bonds shall be spent only for such purpose, pursuant to
Government Code Section 53410.

(b)	Cost of Improvements. The estimated cost of the municipal improvements
described in subdivision (a) to be funded from the bonds is $29,000,000. The City plans to spend
other available City moneys for the remaining portion of the costs of the municipal improvements.
The estimated cost of the municipal improvements includes legal and all other fees incidental to or
connected with the authorization, issuance and sale of the proposed bonds, the costs of printing the
bonds, and all other costs and expenses incidental to or connected with the authorization, issuance and
sale of the bonds.

(c)	Amount of Bonds. The amount of principal of the indebtedness proposed to be
incurred for said municipal improvements is $29,000,000.

(d)	Maximum Interest Rate. Said bonds shall bear interest at the rate of not to
exceed 12% per annum, the maximum currently allowed by law, such rate or rates to be determined
at the time of sale of the bonds or any series thereof.

(e)	Date of Election. The election will be held on November 2, 2004.

(f)	Election Procedures. Except as otherwise provided herein, the manner of
holding the election, the forms of the ballots, the procedures for voting for or against the Measure,
the procedures for canvassing the vote, and all other procedures for conducting the election, shall be
as directed by the Elections Code, or as determined by the Registrar of Voters in accordance with
the Elections Code. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to cooperate with the
Registrar of Voters and to follow the procedures and meet all deadlines established by the Registrar
of Voters. The Measure shall be approved by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the
qualified electors voting on the Measure.

(g)	Maximum Maturity of Bonds. The final maturity date of any of the bonds shall
not exceed 40 years from the time of incurring the indebtedness evidenced by such bonds or the
series of bonds of which such bonds are a part.

(h)	Special Bond Proceeds Account: Annual Report to Council. Upon approval of
the Measure and the sale of any bonds approved, the Council shall establish an improvement fund
or account (which may be an existing fund or account, if appropriate) in which proceeds of the sale
of bonds will be deposited. As long as any proceeds of the bonds remain unexpended, the City
Manager shall cause a report to be filed with the Council no later than December 31 of each year,
commencing December 31, 2005, stating (1) the amount of bond proceeds received and expended
in that year, and (2) the status of any project funded or to be funded from bond proceeds. The
report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period as the City
Manager shall determine, and may be incorporated into the annual budget, audit, or other
appropriate routine report to the Council.

2

Section 3. Request for Consolidation. Pursuant to its Resolution No. 2004-034,
adopted on June 14, 2004, the Council has requested with respect to its general municipal election,
and hereby requests with respect to the special municipal bond election called hereby, that the Board
of Supervisors of the County consolidate said election with any other election being conducted on
the same date in the same territory or any territory which is in part the same.

The precincts, polling places and officers of election shall be the same as those set
forth in any order of the Registrar of Voters or the Board of Supervisors of the County providing
for the precincts, polling places and election officers for the general city, county and statewide
election to be conducted on the date of the special municipal bond election, as set forth in the notice
to be published by the Registrar of Voters pursuant to Sections 12105 and 10417 of the Elections
Code.

Section 4. Impartial Analysis. The City Clerk is hereby directed to transmit a copy
of the Measure to the City Attorney of the City, who is hereby directed to prepare the impartial
analysis of the Measure pursuant to Elections Code Section 9280. The City Attorney shall cause the
Impartial Analysis to be filed with the City Clerk no later than August 13, 2004.

Section 5. Primary Arguments. Arguments in favor of or against the Measure shall
be submitted to the office of the City Clerk no later than August 13, 2004.

Section 6. Tax Rate Statement. The Administrative Services Director of the City is
hereby authorized and directed to cause to be prepared a tax rate statement as required by Elections
Code Section 9401 in connection with the Measure. The Administrative Services Director shall
cause the Tax Rate Statement to be filed with the Registrar of Voters at the same time as this
Ordinance is filed, and in any event no later than August 6, 2004.

Section 7. Rebuttal Arguments. The Council has adopted the provisions of
Elections Code Section 9285(a) for elections on City measures, and will accept rebuttal arguments
on the Measure. If both primary arguments in favor of and against the Measure are submitted,
rebuttal arguments must be filed with the City Clerk no later than August 20, 2004.

Section 8. Notice of Election. Notice of the election shall be given by publication
of this ordinance in the Contra Costa Times, a newspaper published at least six days per week in the
City, once a day for at least seven days prior to the holding of the election, and the City Clerk is
hereby ordered and directed to cause this ordinance to be so published. No other notice of the
election need be given.

Section 9. Filing with Registrar of Voters. The City Clerk is hereby authorized and
directed to file a certified copy of this Ordinance with the Registrar of Voters as soon as practicable
after the adoption hereof, and in any event no later than August 6, 2004.

D0CSSF1:751188.1

3

Section 10. Effective Date. A two-thirds vote of all of the members of the Council
is required for approval of this ordinance. Being an ordinance calling and ordering an election, this
ordinance shall take effect from and after its final passage and approval.

The foregoing ordinance was introduced at a special meeting of the City Council of the
City of Lafayette held on July 9, 2004, and adopted and ordered published at a regular meeting of the
Council held on July 26, 2004, by the following vote:

ATTEST:

AYES:	Horn, Federighi, Samson,	Tatzin

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Anduri

ABSTAIN:	None 4



Cherie Lilly, City Clerk

4

CLERK'S CERTIFICATE

follows:

I, the undersigned City Clerk of the City of Lafayette, California, do hereby certify as

The foregoing is a full, true and correct copy of an ordinance introduced at a special
meeting of the City Council of the City of Lafayette duly and regularly held at the offices of the City
at 3675 Mt. Diablo Boulevard, Suite 210, on July 9, 2004, and duly adopted by the City Council at a
regular meeting of the City Council duly and regularly held at the tegular meeting place thereof on
July 26, 2004, of which meeting all of the members of the City Council had due notice and at which
a quorum thereof was present and acting throughout.

At said meeting the ordinance was introduced by Council Member Horn and read by
title only, and was thereupon, upon motion of Council Member Tatzin, seconded by Council
Member Federighi, adopted by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Horn,	Federighi,	Samson,	Tatzin

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Anduri

I have carefully compared the attached with the original minutes of the meeting on
file and of record in my office and the attached is a full, true and correct copy of the original
ordinance adopted at the meeting and entered in the minutes.

The ordinance has not been amended, modified or rescinded since the date of its
introduction and adoption and is now in full force and effect.

Dated: July 27, 2004.	■

D0CSSF1:751188.1