<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

DEL NORTE COUNTY ORDINANCE CODE CHAPTER 3.06
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Sec. 3.06.010	Title.

This ordinance shall be known as the “County of Del Norte Temporary General Purpose Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.' The county
hereinafter shall be called "District.’ This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the county, which
territory shall be referred to herein as “District"

Sec 3.06.020	Operative	Date.

“Operative date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than one hundred ten days after adoption of the ordinance
(April 1, 2005), the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Sec 3.06.030	Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commending with Section 7251) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the District to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called
for that purpose. The tax imposed by this ordinance is a general tax for general governmental purposes, and the revenue generated by
the tax shall be available to the Del Norte County Board of Supervisors for appropriations in the County's budget for any lawful expenditure.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of
the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered
and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Tax.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Sec. 3.06.040 Expiration of Tax in Event of State Diversion.

If the State of California takes action to divert local general purpose tax revenues from Del Norte County for State purposes in an amount
equal to or greater than the amount of revenue generated by the tax imposed pursuant to this ordinance, then, effective on the date that
such diversion takes effect, any tax which would otherwise be imposed pursuant to this ordinance will expire. The Del Norte County Auditor-
Controller is authorized to determine whether the State has taken such action to divert local general purpose tax revenue and shall notify
the Board of Supervisors and the State Board of Equalization of such determination.

Sec. 3.060.050 Expiration of Tax in Four Years.

The one-half of one percent tax imposed by Sections 3.060.070 and 3.060.090 of this ordinance shall continue in full effect through March
31, 2009, unless this transaction and use tax is extended by the voters at an election held subsequent to the November 2, 2004, election.

Sec. 3.06.060 Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the District shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration
and operation of the transactions and use tax ordinance.

Sec. 3.06.070	Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated
territory of the District at the rate of one-half of one percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Sec 3.06.080	Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business fn the state or has more
than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Sec. 3.06.090	Use of Tax Rate.

An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the District of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer
on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent
of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Sec. 3.06.100 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though full set forth herein.

Sec. 3.06.110 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes
In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this District shall be substituted therefor.
However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State" is used as part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the Sate of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this District or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather
than by or against the Sate Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California,
where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax
by the Sate under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
be subject to tax by the State under said provisions of that code;

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 or the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “District" shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203
and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Sec. 3.06.120	Permit Not Required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit
shall not be required by this ordinance.

Sec 3.06.130	Exemptions and Exclusions

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by
the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law
of the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of person or property under the authority of the
law of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped to a point outside the District, pursuant to the contract of sales,
by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the District shall be satisfied;

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1, (commending with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of division 3.5 (commencing with section 9850) of the Vehicle Code, by
registration to an out-of-District address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business of-of-District and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operate from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is
obligated to lease the property, for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections 3 and 4 of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this District of tangible personal
property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and
use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the	exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a

continuing purchase of such	property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated	to	lease the property for an amount

fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections 3 and 4 of this section, storage, use or other consumption,	or	possession of, or exercise of any

right or power over, tangible	personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant	to	a contract of lease for any period

of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether
or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph 7, a retailer engaged in business in the District shall not be required to collect use tax from
the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the District or participates within
the District in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly,
at a place of business of the canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the District under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the District” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9850) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle,
vessel, or aircraft at an address in the District.

D. Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax reimbursement for transaction tax
paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person the property storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Sec. 3.06.140	Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to
sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance; provided, however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Sec. 3.06.150	Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the
State or the District, or against any officer of the State or the District, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Sec. 3.06.160	Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance
and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not affected thereby.

Sec. 3.06.170	Effective Date.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the District transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

Section 3. This ordinance is subject to approval by the voters of Del Norte County and shall not be operative and shall not be codified
in the Del Norte County Ordinance Code until a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the general
purpose transactions and use tax a regularly scheduled general election for members of the Del Norte County Board of Supervisors. <fullend>







<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE C

COUNTY OF DEL NORTE

MEASURE C is a local ballot measure which proposes to raise the retail sales tax charged in Del Norte County by one-half of one-
percent (1/2%). AYES vote on this measure is a vote in favor of imposing this increase in the retail sales tax. A NO vote is a vote against
the imposition of this increase in the retail sales tax.

The increase in the sales tax will take place only if a majority of the voters approve of MEASURE C on November 2, 2004. If approved,
MEASURE C will impose the additional sales tax for a period of four (4) years and will automatically expire March 31, 2009. MEASURE C
imposes the sales tax increase in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Del Norte County.

The money generated by the passage of MEASURE C will become general fund revenue of the County of Del Norte. The Board of
Supervisors in a recent resolution has stated that the increased general fund revenue will be used to fund essential public services to the
citizens of Del Norte County.

Date: August 6, 2004 <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> s/ Robert N. Black, Del Norte County Counsel
By Michael J. Mazzei, Deputy County Counsel <impartialsigsend>








<favor> COUNTY MEASURE C

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

The County has been struggling financially for years, due to reduced revenues, unfunded mandates, and cost increases. General governmental
services are now reduced to bare bones. Discretionary revenues that provide emergency services, jail, patrol, juvenile hall, elections, animal
control, auditing and community development are decreasing at an alarming rate. As we grow, so do services, unfortunately revenue hasn’t
kept pace with demand.' Exacerbating the problem is the State’s seizing of more of our local dollars. This reduction in revenues last year
alone, equaled a loss of $1,900,000.

Not considering the annual loss mentioned above, the State has diverted over $12,000,000 in local property tax dollars since 1992/1993.
The public purchase of privately held timberlands and restrictions on timber harvesting has caused a loss of timber yield tax over the last
20 years by more than $900,000 annually.

Del Norte County has maintained essential services through department consolidation, deferring maintenance primarily in recreational
facilities, establishing hiring freezes and eliminating positions. Maintaining the status quo without additional revenues will be impossible.

The Vz cent sales tax equates to an additional .500 on every $100.00 purchase. Exempt from sales tax are groceries, rent, healthcare,
prescription medication, and utilities. The impact on low-income families is then minimized. The tax burden is spread across a wide spectrum
of people, including tourist and visitors.

Example:

Item	Approx.  Price	Cost with Current Tax	Cost with 7.75% Tax
Loaf of Bread	$0.99	$0.99	$0.99
Gallon of Milk	$2.19	$2.19	$2.19
CD	$14.99	$16.08	$16.15
27” Television	$177.00	$189.83	$190.72
Lawnmower	$180.00	$193.05	$193.95
Loveseat & Sofa Combo	$1,248.00	$1,338.48	$1,344.72

This proposed increase sales tax would become effective April 1, 2005 and end automatically on March 31, 2009. <favorend>






<favorsigs> s/ Jack B. Reese, Chairman Del Norte County Board of Supervisors
s/ Christie Babich, Auditor-Controller
s/ Gerald D. Cochran, Assessor
s/ Dawn Langston, Treasurer/Tax Collector
s/ Dean Wilson, Sheriff <favorsigsend>





NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED