VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in favor of, or against, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FORESTVILLE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE H

To prevent the loss of educational programs and staffing,

H shall the Forestville Union School District replace its
existing parcel tax of $26.91 with a parcel tax of $96.00
per year, such tax to continue for a period of eight years
beginning on July 1,2004, with an exemption for parcels owned
and occupied by persons 65 years of age or over, and other
exemptions as set out in the full text of the measure?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

The Forestville Union School District has called an election on a special tax
measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval
before a school district can impose a special tax.

Currently, the District imposes a voter-approved tax of $26.91 per parcel to
fund educational programs. This measure proposes to replace that tax with a
special tax of $96 per year per parcel for each non-exempt parcel of land within
the District’s boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of using the
parcel, would begin on July 1, 2004, and would remain in effect for no more
than eight years,

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used
for purposes set out in the measure, which include maintaining high-quality
academic classes, providing enriched educational programs for all students,
increasing art, music, and drama programs that have been reduced or
eliminated from the district budget, maintaining counseling and other student
support services, supporting library services and materials, supporting
technology programs and services, supporting school sports programs,
supporting student bus transportation costs, attracting and retaining qualified
and experienced teachers, providing instructional materials and equipment for
science and technology programs, and supporting the continuation of reduced
class sizes for District classes.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that
receives a separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from
property tax, or on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt
from this tax. The measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or
partially owned and occupied by a person who will be 65 years of age or older
on or before August 1,2004, or May 1 of any subsequent year for which the tax
is assessed. Persons claiming exemptions based on ownership by a senior
citizen would need to apply to the District for this exemption the first year it
applied to them. The measure requires the District to establish an
administrative review process governing the grant or denial of exemptions.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Forestville Union School District who vote on
this measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be
levied. The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property
taxes starting with the 2004-2005 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE

County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)
j Arguments in favor of, or against, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

The Forestville Union School District has a proud history of educational
i success for over 100 years. Quirks in the state funding formula provide us with
inequitable funding from the State. We are 533"1 lowest out of 572 elementary
school districts in California. Because of this inequity, we have laid off teachers,

'' completely eliminated band, instrumental music, sports, drama, the K-3 student
support program (TreeHouse Program), and K-3 art from the district budget,
and have reduced K-6 classroom music instruction, art, and library services by
over 40%. All employees have had their salaries frozen for the past two years.

I For 2004-2005, we are again reducing administration time, laying off teaching
positions, and anticipating the need to freeze salaries. Even with these addi-
|	tional budget cuts, we still cannot restore the programs which have been reduced

I	and eliminated. Without passage of Measure H we will lose the remaining

i	portions of our art and music programs funded by the expiring parcel tax.

Passage of Measure H will provide the funds the District needs to restore art,
music, library services, drama, and sports to Forestville School. It will provide
student support services from a licensed counselor and provide support for
student attendance. Better yet the entire cost to fund all of these programs is
only eight dollars per month per non-exempt parcel. None of the parcel tax
funds will be used for administrative salaries, and we will regain the means to
provide a comprehensive and inspiring curriculum.

Let’s give today’s Forestville School students the opportunities that we had as
children for a rich educational experience. Join us in voting yes on Measure HI
si Joseph A. Standridge, President si Kenneth H. Jones
Board of Trustees	Forestville	School Teacher

si Dave Henry	si	Cristi	McMahan

Local Business Owner	Parent	of	Forestville Students

si Vesta Copestakes
Local Newspaper Publisher

NO REBUTTAL WAS SUBMITTED TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE H

-05-

-06-

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in favor of, or against, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.		VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot) .  Arguments in favor of, or against, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H  Wise counsel dictates that when you have dug yourself into a hole — stop digging. Facing a statewide financial crisis, it is time to stop spending and tighten our belts. As painful as this can sometimes be, there can be benefits. When we are forced to live within our means, we will choose to spend on those programs we collectively deem most valuable and delay programs of lesser value. This school district has not made the annual progress (between 2002 - 2003) required by the State toward academic proficiency. Existing resources should be directed toward academic achievement rather than non-academic activities. Why reward the District with additional tax revenues for non- academic programs when it has not met its primary goals?  We urge you to take a good look at your current property tax bill’s special assessments and add the requested parcel tax. Then, ask yourself, is this the right time for the District to askme for more money? We already paid our share of taxes, but where did the money go?  The State spends more than $9,600 per pupil and we are still considerably below the national average in student achievement. The financial crisis has made it imperative for all areas of government to rethink how money is spent, especially education which represents more than 40 percent of California’s budget. We urge you to send a strong message to the District’s board and management to rethink how existing funds will be spent by voting No on this measure.  SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION s/ Jeanne Levin, Director/Past President s/ Jack Atkin, Treasurer si John B. Landis, Vice President s/ Fred Levin, Executive Director	1  i	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H  The Forestville Union School District is committed to providing a compre- hensive educational program to the students of our community. Forestville School has consistently maintained high academic standards and worked hard to assure that all students attain them. We have demonstrated educational achievement as measured by the State’s Academic Performance Index, Governor’s Reading Awards, designations as a California Distinguished School, and state recognition for Fine Arts Achievement. The hard work of staff and parents and the community’s commitment to a comprehensive education make that achievement possible.  It is false and misleading to say that Forestville School is not meeting its educational responsibility. Our achievement data is clear and available on the state website.  Although 93% of elementary districts in the entire state receive more funding than our district, we are ranked in the top 20% for student achievement. In Sonoma County, 26 of the 28 elementary districts receive up to $167 more funding per pupil than our district, resulting in a revenue inequity of over $100,000 per year!  Comparisons with state spending per pupil show only the vast discrepancy between how much the state spends elsewhere compared to how little is spent here. Forestville School does not receive $9,600 per pupil from the state, but rather a woeful $4,572.58! Measure H will only partially offset the disparity in revenue allocations.  The Forestville community works together to take care of its own needs. The revenue generated locally by Measure H will be spent on children who live here. Please support Measure H.  s/ Leone Manni si Dan Mori Forestville School Parent Forestville School Parent  si Susan Bryer s/ Chris Uebel Forestville School Parent Board Member/Parent  s/ Warren S. Enochian Former Forestville School Parent

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in favor of, or against, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE H

Shall the Forestville Union School District provide additional local funds for
the purpose of maintaining its current high quality educational programs and
staffing and preventing the loss of programs, teachers and other staff by
replacing the existing special tax of $26.91 with a special tax of $96.00 per
year on each non-exempt parcel of taxable real property within the District for
a period of eight years beginning on July 1,2004?

The proceeds of the tax shall be deposited in a special account to be used, to
the extent that such funds are available, for the purposes of maintaining
rigorous, challenging academic classes and high quality, enriched
educational programs for all students, increasing art, music, and drama
programs that have been reduced or eliminated from the district budget,
maintaining counseling and other student support services, supporting quality
library services and materials, supporting technology programs and services,
supporting school sports programs, supporting student bus transportation
costs, attracting and retaining highly qualified and experienced teachers,
providing instructional materials and equipment for science and technology
programs, and supporting the continuation of reduced class sizes in the
Forestville Union School District.

Exemptions from the assessment will be made available to each individual in
the District who will attain 65 years on or before May 1 of the tax year, and who
owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of
such parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of
residence. Exemptions will be made for contiguous parcels that form a single
economic unit under the same name and ownership, which shall be charged
as one parcel, and for parcels that are restricted from being developed by
existing laws and regulations.

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before August 1,
2004, or May 1 of ahy succeeding tax year. Any one application from a
qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining
term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to qualify for the
exemption. The District shall establish an administrative review process to
grant such exemptions.

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in favor of, or against, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

IMPORTANT!

THIS ELECTION IS BEING CONDUCTED ENTIRELY BY MAIL.

NO POLLING PLACE WILL BE ESTABLISHED.

YOUR OFFICIAL BALLOT MUST BE RECEIVED BY
THE SONOMA COUNTY REGISTRAR OF VOTERS OFFICE
NO LATER THAN 8:00 P.M., TUESDAY, JUNE 8, 2004.

POSTMARKS ARE NOT CONSIDERED.

TO BE SURE YOUR VOTE IS COUNTED,

MAIL YOUR BALLOT WELL IN ADVANCE OF ELECTION DAY.

IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL
THE SONOMA COUNTY REGISTRAR OF VOTERS OFFICE
AT 707-565-6800 OR 1-800-750-VOTE (8683).