COUNTY OF SACRAMENTO
MEASURE A

To relieve traffic congestion, improve-safety,

A and match state/federal funds by: Improving
. 1-5, 1-80, US 50, SR 99; Constructing a new
road connecting 1-5/ SR 99 /US 50; Maintairi-
ing/improving local roads; Increasing transit for se-
niors and disabled person; Expanding/planning for
light rail and commuter rail; Shall Sacramento County
voters continue the existing half-cent transportation
sales tax for thirty years, including creating an Inde-
pendent Taxpayer Oversight Committee to conduct
audits ensuring all voter mandates are met?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A
Prepared by Sacramento County Counsel

■	i

Measure A submits to the vote of the .electorate of Sacramento
County an ordinance adopted by the Sacramento Transportation
Authority. If approved by two-thirds of the voters voting thereon,
Measure A would continue a retail transactions and use tax (sales
tax) within Sacramento County of 1/2 of one percent for a period
from April 1, 2009, to March 31,2039, for the purpose of financing
certain transportation improvements. The proceeds of this tax must
be used to fund local road maintenance, safety and congestion re-
lief (38%), capital improvements, maintenance and operation of
public transit (38.25%), local interchange projects, safety projects
and congestion relief improvements on the local freeway system
(12%), senior and disabled transportation services (4.5%), safety,
streetscaping, pedestrian and bicycle facilities (5%), and air quality
mitigation' (1.5%). A.maximum of 0.75% of tax proceeds can.be
spent for administration that will include funding for an Independent
Taxpayer Oversight Committee to review and audit tax
expenditures.

The Sacramento Transportation Authority will administer the tax
proceeds and will select those projects within the unincorporated
territory of the County, as well as within the cities of Citrus Heights,
Elk Grove, Folsom, Rancho Cordova a'nd the City of Sacramento,
that are to be funded, consistent with required allocations regarding
the types of projects that may be funded and according to a Trans-
portation Expenditure Plan that has been approved by the County of
Sacramento and a majority of the cities within the County represent-
ing a majority of the population residing within those cities. The City
of Galt will receive 1 % of annual tax revenues and the City of Isleton
will receive 0.04% of such revenues. The governing bodies of the
Cities of Galt and Isleton will be responsible for administering the
tax revenues allocated to those cities.

Additionally, Measure A requires, subject to further studies, local ju-
risdictions to impose fees on new development. Revenues from
those fees will also be administered by the Sacramento Transporta-
tion Authority subject to requirements of the Transportation Expen-
diture Plan. That Plan may not be amended until 2019 and only
upon approval of the governing bodies of the County and a majority
of the cities constituting a majority of the incorporated area
population.

The text of the Transportation Expenditure Plan is set forth in the
sample ballot pamphlet for this election.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE A

ORDINANCE NO. STA 04-01

AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE CONTINUATION OF A
ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND
USE TAX BY THE SACRAMENTO TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY FOR LOCAL TRANSPORTATION PURPOSES

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
SACRAMENTO TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY:

GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND PREAMBLE

To maintain and improve the quality of life in Sacramento County,
the Sacramento Transportation Authority has crafted the Sacra-
mento County Transportation Expenditure Plan:

•	To reduce traffic congestion

•	To improve air quality

•	To maintain and strengthen the county’s road and transportation
systems

•	To enhance Sacramento County’s ability to secure state and fed-
eral funding for transportation by providing local matching funds

•	To preserve unique, natural amenities

•	To preserve agricultural land

•	To serve all residents of Sacramento County.

This one-half of one percent retail transactions and use tax is statu-
torily dedicated for transportation planning, design, construction,
operation and maintenance only in Sacramento County and cannot
be used for other governmental purposes or programs. There are
specific safeguards in this Ordinance to ensure that funding from
the one-half of one percent transactions and use tax is used in ac-
cordance with the specified voter-approved transportation- project
improvements and programs. These safeguards include:

•	The specific projects and programs included in the Expenditure
Plan will be funded by revenue raised by this transactions and
use tax. The Expenditure Plan can only be changed upon ap-
proval by the Sacramento County Board of Supervisors and a
majority of all cities in the County representing a majority of the
incorporated population.

•	An Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee is created to su-
pervise fiscal and performance audits regarding the use of all
sales tax funds and provide for independent review to ensure that
all Measure funds are spent in accordance with provisions of the
Expenditure Plan and Ordinance as approved by the voters.

•	Continuation of Sacramento County’s one-half of one percent
transactions and use tax is for transportation programs only and
is not intended to replace traditionalrevenues generated through
locally-adopted development fees and assessment districts. Col-
lection of the one-half of one percent transactions and use tax will
start upon the expiration of the Existing Tax.

•	The Sacramento Transportation Authority will continue to seek
maximum funding for transportation improvements through State
and federal programs. The Authority will not provide transactions
and use tax revenue to any city or to the County unless all trans-
portation revenues currently used by that jurisdiction continue to
be used for transportation purposes.

•	No more than three quarters of one percent of the available funds
will be expended on administration of the sales tax program.

•	A mandatory Expenditure Plan review is required every ten years
to ensure that the program reflects current community needs as
demographics, economics and technology change.

SECTION 1. SUMMARY. This Ordinance provides for the continuec
imposition of a retail transactions and use tax of one-half of one per-
cent for local transportation purposes for a period of thirty (30]
years.

SECTION 11. MANDATED TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS.

A.	Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee. By April 1, 2010
an Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee will be establishec
as specified in Exhibit B of this Ordinance to provide citizen reviev
and to ensure that all Measure funds are spent in accordance wit!
provisions' of the Expenditure Plan and this Ordinance. Exhibit E
contains the specific terms and conditions for an independent Tax
payer Oversight Committee and its role in supervising of periods
independent financial and performance audits.

B.	Administrative Costs. The Authority shall expend only that

amount of funds generated from the tax that is necessary and rea-
sonable to carry out its responsibilities for audit, administrative ex-
penses, staff support, and contract services, in no case shall the
funds expended for administration exceed three quarters of one
percent (0.75%) of the annual net amount of revenue raised by the
tax.	•.

C.	Maintenance of Effort. The Authority, by the enactment of this Or-
dinance, intends the additional funds provided, government agen-
cies by this measure to supplement existing local revenues being
used for street and highway purposes. Transactions and use tax
revenue shall not be used to replace existing road funding programs
or to replace requirements for new development to provide for its
own road needs. Under this Measure, funding priorities should be
given to addressing current transportation needs, easing
congestion, and improving safety.

The government agencies shall maintain their existing commitment
of transportation funds for street and highway, and1 the Authority
shall enforce this provision by appropriate actions, including fiscal
audits of the local agencies.

SECTION III. DEFINITIONS. The following definitions shall apply in
this ordinance: -

A.	“Expenditure Plan” means the Sacramento County Transporta-
tion Expenditure Plan 2009-2039 (attached as Exhibit A and
adopted as part of this Ordinance) including any future amend-
ments thereto.

B.	"County" means the County of Sacramento.

C.	"Authority” means the Sacramento Transportation Authority, a
public district formed for the local performance of governmental
functions under the Local Transportation Authority and Improve-
ment Act, commencing at Section 180000 of the Public Utilities
Code.

D.	“Existing Tax” means the one-half of one percent retail transac-
tions and use tax adopted pursuant to Ordinance No. STA-0002.

SECTION IV. AUTHORITY. This Ordinance is enacted pursuant to
the provisions of Division 19 (commencing with Section 180000) of
the Public Utilities Code, and Section 7252.16 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

SECTION V. CONTINUED IMPOSITION OF RETAIL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX. Upon voter approval, the Au-
thority shall continue to impose, in the incorporated and unincorpo-
rated territory, of the County of Sacramento, a transactions and use
tax for transportation purposes (referred to as “the tax”) at the rate
of one-half of one percent (0.5%) for a period of thirty (30) years be-
ginning April 1,2009. There shall be no concurrent assessment of
the Existing Tax (which will expire on March 31,2009) and the tax to
be imposed pursuant to this Ordinance. The tax shall be imposed by
the Authority in accordance with Section 180201 of the Public Utili-
ties Code and Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. The provisions of Revenue
and Taxation Code Sections 7261 and 7262 and the provisions of
Ordinance No. STA 0002, unless specifically modified by this Ordi-
nance, are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth
herein. The tax shall be in addition to any other taxes authorized by
law, incjuding any existing or future state or local sales tax or
transactions and use tax,

SECTION VI. USE OF PROCEEDS. Revenues from the tax shall
be used for transportation purposes only and may include, but are
not limited to, administration, construction, maintenance, improve-
ments; and operation of local streets, roads, and highways, state
highways and freeways, public transit systems including rail, bicycle
and pedestrian facilities and related purposes. These purposes in-
clude expenditures for planning, environmental reviews and mitiga-
tion, engineering and design costs, and related right-of-way
acquisition and for the.Cosumnes River Permanent Open Space
Preserve and the American River Parkway/Bikeway Network. Ex-
penditures also include, but are not limited to, debt service on bonds

and expenses in connection with issuance of bonds. Routine ac-
commodation of bicycles and pedestrians shall be included in all
transportation projects.

SECTION VII. SACRAMENTO COUNTYWIDE
TRANSPORTATION MITIGATION FEE PROGRAM (SCTMFP).

,No revenue generated from the tax shall be used to replace trans-
portation mitigation fees required from new development now in ef-
fect in Sacramento County. In addition, each local jurisdiction must
adopt a development financing mechanism as stated below in order
to qualify for its local road maintenance formula funds.

Goal: To develop and implement a uniform transportation mitiga-
tion fee on ail new development in Sacramento County that will as-
sist in funding road and transit system improvements needed to
accommodate projected growth and development.

Specific Program Guidelines:

A.	The Authority shall develop, in coordination with all local ju-
, risdictions, a professional engineering and planning based

process for charging new development with the cost of traffic
impacts caused by each development during the period cov-
ered by this sales tax measure. Such a process will be con-
sistent with state law, require each local jurisdiction to
project growth of travel demand, identify specific road and
transit capital improvements to meet such demands, de-
scribe the appropriate "nexus” between such demand and
improvements, and adopt such fee programs as necessary
to implement the revenues required.

B.	The Authority process guidelines shall be adopted by the Au-
thority Board no later than November 1, 2005. Each local
government jurisdiction shall have completed the adopted
process and implemented the fee program in its jurisdiction
no later than March 31,2009 for implementation on April 1,
2009. The fees to be implemented for this program shall be
remitted to the Authority for reallocation to the local jurisdic-
tion(s) in accordance with the SCTMFP. The fees to be im-
plemented shall be in the following amounts:

•	For each new single familyunit - $1,000.00

•	For new multi-family units, retail building space, of-
fice space, and industrial or warehousing space, the
fee shall be proportionate to the trip generation rate
of the affected land use relative to the trip genera-
tion rate of a single family unit.

The fees shall be adjusted .annually by action of the STA
Governing Board to reflect changes in construction costs
based on the McGfaw-Hijl Engineering News Record (ENR)
20-city Construction Cost Index.

The fee structure shall be implemented if validated by the
nexus study described in A. above.

C.	All new low and very low income housing as defined by the
California Department of Housing & Community Develop-
ment shall be exempt from this fee program.

D.	The overall program allocation for the fees collected by this
program shall be:

35% Local streets and roads for capital improvements
and rehabilitation

20% Public transit for capital improvements and rehabil-
itation

20% Local interchange upgrades, safety projects and
congestion relief improvements on the local free-
way system, including bus and carpool iane
projects.

15% Smart Growth Incentive Program

10% Transportation Project Environmental Mitigation,
including, but not limited to habitat conservation,
open space preservation, habitat replacement, and

34-8100

Ballot Type 122 Page 17

recreation, and overall environmental enhance-
ment of transportation facilities to the benefit of lo-
cal transit users and neighborhoods. Necessary
open space preservation and natural habitat pres-
ervation programs shall be eligible usds of these
funds.

E.	Authority Board may approve changes in the overall formula
allocation described in D. above by a 2/3 vote.

F.	All projects and program priorities for use of the SCTMFP
shall be included in a five-year program, annually updated
and approved by the Authority Board.

G.	Ail fees raised under this program must be expended in the
impacted area where the fees were generated.

H.	A local jurisdiction that fails to implement the SCTMFP on
April 1,2009 shall forfeit its allocation of local street and road
maintenance funds authorized by extension of the transpor-
tation sales tax. For each month such local jurisdiction does'
not have this fee program in full operation, such local juris-
diction shall lose Ideal formula road maintenance funds and
ail such funds shall be made immediately available on a
pro-rata basis to all other local jurisdictions that do have this
fee program in place and operational.

SECTION Vltl. BONDING. AUTHORITY. Upon voter approval of
the Measure, the Authority shall have the power to sell or issue,
from time to time, on or before the collection of taxes, bonds or other
evidence of indebtedness, in the aggregate principal amount at any
one time outstanding of not to exceed the estimated proceeds of the
tax, and to secure such indebtedness solely by way of future collec-
tion of taxes, for capital outlay expenditures for the purposes set
forth in Section VI hereof, including the carrying out of transporta-
tion projects described in the'Expenditure Plan.

SECTION IX. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. The annual ap-
propriations limit established pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIB of
the California Constitution and Section 180202 of the Public Utilities
Code shall be $195,000,000.00 for fiscal year 2009/10. The appro-
priations limit shall be subject to adjustment as provided by law.

SECTION X. OPERATIVE DATE. Subject to voter approval, this
Ordinance shall become operative on the first day of the first calen-
dar quarter commencing more than 110 days after adoption of this
Ordinance but in no event earlier than April 1,2009. Prior to the op-
erative date of this Ordinance, the Authority shall contract with the
State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incidental to the
administration and operation of this Ordinance. The intent is that the
extension of the sales tax shall become operative immediately upon
expiration of the Existing Tax.

SECTION XI. ELECTION. The Authority requests the Board of Su-
pervisors to call an. election for voter approval of this Ordinance
which election shall be held on November2,2004, and consolidated
with other elections to be held on that same date, that the measure
retain its designation as Measure “A,” and that it appear first in order
on the County ballot before all other local measures. The election
shail be called and conducted in the same manner' as provided by
law for the conduct of elections by a county. The sample ballot to be
mailed to the voters shall include this full Ordinance and the entire
Expenditure Plan. Approval of the Ordinance and the imposition of
the tax shall require the affirmative vote of 2/3rds of the electors vot-
ing on the proposition at the election described in this section. The
proposition to be placed on the ballot shall read substantially as
follows:

To relieve traffic congestion, improve safety, and match state/fed-
eral funds by:

•	Improving 1-5,1-80, US 50, SR 99;

•	Constructing a new road connecting 1-5/ SR 99 /US 50;

•	Maintaining/improving local roads;

•	Increasing transit for seniors and persons with disabilities;

• Expanding/plannlng for light rail and commuter rail;

Shall Sacramento County voters continue the existing half-cent
transportation sales tax for thirty years, including creating an Inde-
pendent Taxpayer Oversight Committee to conduct audits ensuring
all voter mandates are met?

SECTION XII. EXPENDITURE PLAN AMENDMENTS. The Expen-
diture Plan may only be amended by the following process:

,1. Beginning in 2019, and every ten years thereafter, the Au-
thority shall review and, where necessary, propose amend-
ments to the Expenditure Plan to meet changing
transportation needs. Such review shall consider recom-
mendations from local governments, transportation agen-
cies and interest groups, and the general public.

2.	The Authority shall notify the Board of Supervisors and the
city councils in writing of its initiation of an amendment, recit-
ing findings of necessity.

3.	Actions of the Board of Supervisors and city councils to ap-
prove or to oppose the amendment shall be communicated
to the Authority within 60 days after the date the notice is
mailed. Failure of the Board of Supervisors or any city coun-
cil to notify the Authority of formal action within 60 days after
the date the notice is mailed shall constitute approval.

4.	The amendment must be approved by the Board of Supervi-
sors.

5.	The amendment must be approved by a majority of the city
councils constituting a majority of the incorporated
population.

SECTION XIII. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Ordinance
is for any reason held invalid or unenforceable by a court of compe-
tent jurisdiction, that holding shall not affect the validity or
enforceability of the remaining provisions, or the Existing Tax, and
the Authority declares that it would have passed each part of this
Ordinance irrespective of the validity of any other part.

SECTION XIV. THE EXISTING TAX. Nothing in the Ordinance is
intended to modify, repeal, alter or increase the Existing Tax. The
. provisions of this Ordinance shall apply solely to the retail transac-
tions and use tax adopted herein and not to the collection or admin-
istration of the Existing Tax.

SECTION XV. This Ordinance was introduced and the title thereof
read at the regular meeting of the Governing Board on July 22,2004
and on July 22,2004 further reading was waived by a vote of the Di-
rectors present.

On a motion by Member Slowey, seconded by Member Scherman,
the foregoing Ordinance was passed and enacted by the Governing
Body of the Sacramento Transportation Authority, State of Califor-
nia at a regular meeting thereof, this 29th day of July, 2004 by the
following vote, to wit:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

Members	Clare, Cooley, Dickinson, Fargo, Johnson, Morin, Niello, Pannell, Slowey, Scherman, Nottoli
Members	None
Members	Collin, Hammond, Tretheway
Members	None

s/ Don Nottoli, Chair, Governing Board of the ,
Sacramento Transportation Authority

ATTEST: si Sandra Leahy, Clerk of the Governing Board

34-8100

Ballot Type 122 Page 18

, EXHIBIT A

Sacramento County Transportation Expenditure Plan
2009-2039

'	June	IP,	2004

Revenue Estimates and Distribution. Allocation of revenue au-
thorized by Ordinance No. STA 04-01 is established within this Ex-
penditure Plan. Funds shall be allocated by percentage of the actual
revenue received. An estimate of revenues and allocation among
categories is reflected in the Expenditure Plan. The estimated reve-
nue is based upon 2004 value of money and is not binding or con-
trolling.

Formula Allocations. After deduction of required Board of Equal-
ization fees and authorized costs, revenues to be distributed by for-
mula allocation to local governments and transit agencies as
described below. All other funds shall be deposited with the Author-
ity and expended at the discretion of the Authority Board as
described below.

Contribution from New Development. No revenue generated
from the tax shall be used to replace transportation mitigation fees
currently required from new development in each local jurisdiction.
In addition, each local jurisdiction must adopt a development financ-
ing mechanism as specified in Ordinance No. STA 04-01 in order to
continue receiving local road maintenance funds.

Requirement for Annual Financial and Performance Audits of
Measure Funds. The Sacramento Transportation Authority and
each agency receiving an allocation of Measure revenue authorized
in this Expenditure Plan shall undergo an annual financial audit su-
pervised by the Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee
(ITOC) and performed in accordance with generally accepted audit-
ing standards and government auditing standards issued by the
Comptroller General of the United States. Compliance audits shall
also be conducted to ensure that each agency is expending funds in
accordance with the provisions and guidelines established for Mea-
sure revenues. In addition, the ITOC shall, based on performance
standards for expending sales tax funds adopted by the Authority
Board, conduct a performance audit to report on progress in meet-
ing such standards and make recommendations for improving over-
all program performance. The Authority Board shall adopt the
performance standards for each part of the program no later than
December 31,2009.

Sacramento Expenditure Plan. All available sales tax revenues
shall be expended as follows:

I.	Revenue Estimates. Tax revenues generated by Ordinance No.
STA 04-01 over a thirty-year period are estimated to be $4,740 mil-
lion. Approximately $488 million in contributions from new devel-
opment are projected over this period, for an estimated total
revenue of $5,228 million for transportation improvements. Reve-
nue estimates are not binding or controlling. To the extent these es-
timates provide more or less revenue, the Authority Board shall
make appropriate allocation adjustments periodically to reflect
actual revenues received.

II.	Allocations to the Cities of Galt and Isleton. The City of Galt
shall receive 1 % of the sales tax revenues collected annually for eli-
gible transportation purposes. The City of Isleton shall receive
0.04% of the sales tax revenues collected annually for eligible
transportation purposes.

III.	Cosumnes River Permanent Open Space, Preserve. Funding
shall be available for planning, development and acquisition of the
Cosumnes River Permanent Open Space Preserve for the
I5/SR99/US50 corridor and/or any other environmental mitigation
needed to offset project impacts from such project consistent with
the adjacent local jurisdictions' land use planning documents and
processes. The Preserve shall be eligible for funding in the amount
of at least $5 million in each of the following categories: Local Arte-
rial Program, as part of the funding dedicated for the 1-5/US 50/SR
99 corridor; the Smart Growth Incentive Program; and the Trans-
portation Environmental Mitigation Program. Facilities located in

the Preserve can also qualify for funds available in the Safety,
Streetscaping, Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities Program at the dis-
cretion of each local jurisdiction receiving such funding. The Pre-
serve shall be administered by an appropriate private, not for profit
land preservation organization or other organization created
specifically for the purpose of administering Measure open space
funds as selected by the Authority Board. «

IV.	Local Road Maintenance, Safety and Congestion Relief Pro-
gram. 38% of sales tax revenue collected and 35% of the revenues
collected from new development shall fund the programs and pro-
jects included in this program. Cost estimates for such projects are
not binding or controlling. Included in this program are subcatego-
ries described below.

A.	City Street and County Road Maintenance Program. 30% of

the sales tax revenue collected shall be distributed among the
local jurisdictions for city street and county road maintenance. A
Maintenance of Effort is required regarding existing road
maintenance programs to ensure that the net impact, of the pro-
gram will provide continuing funds for this purpose in each of the
cities and in the unincorporated areas of the County. Each of the
local jurisdictions receiving these funds shall file a pavement and
bridge maintenance system report on a biennial basis with the
Authority regarding progress in maintaining local streets and
roads.The report shall be in a format that can be audited on a
biennial basis by the Independent Taxpayer Oversight
Committee.

Distribution among the cities and unincorporated County area
shall be based 75% on relative population and 25% on total
streef/road mileage. The formula will be updated annually based
on the California Department of Finance population estimates for
cities and counties.

B.	Local Arterial Safety and Traffic Operations Improvements
Program. 8% of the sales tax revenue collected and 35% of the
revenues collected from new development shall fund local arterial
safety and traffic operations improvements. The 8% portion would
be separated into two categories of which 5% would be dedicated
to the Local Arterial Program and 3% will be dedicated to the
Traffic Control and Safety Program.

1.	Local Arterial Program. This program will fund arterial
safety, operational, streetscaping, bicycle, and pedestrian
improvements, improved accessibility for the disabled, and
upgrades of arterials to urban standards. A technical advisory
committee made up. of the public works directors or their
designees from the County and each city in the county shall
develop a recommended five-year program, updated

■ annually, for expenditure of these program funds. Funds from
this program shall be expended for implementation of, but
shall not be limited to, the specific arterials or proposed corri-
dors detailed in this Expenditure Plan. This list of arterials
may be modified based on changing traffic, safety, and other
changed conditions and priorities of each loca! jurisdiction
over time. The costs shall also include necessary
environmenal mitigation directly related to project implemen-
tation. Receipt of funding for the I-5/SR99/US50
,	Connector is contingent on establishment of a habitat conser-

vation approach, approval of the habitat conservation
approach by the appropriate agencies, and adoption of the
habitat conservation approach by the local recipient of funds.

2.	Traffic Control and Safety Program. This program will
fund traffic control system improvements, high priority pedes-
trian and vehicle safety projects, and emergency vehicle pre-
emption systems for quicker police, fire and ambulance re-
sponse throughout Sacramento County. Distribution among

’ the cities and unincorporated County area shall be based 75%
on relative population and 25% on total street/road mileage.
The formula will be updated annually based on the California
- Department of Finance population estimates for cities and
counties. Each local jurisdiction shall file a five-year program

34-8100 ,

Ballot Type 122 Page 19

for use of the funds with the Authority, updated every other
year to ensure program integrity and performance.

V.	;Transit Congestion Relief Program. 38.25% of the sales tax
revenue collected and 20% of the revenues collected fromnew de-
velopment shall fund transit capital improvements and provide fund-
ing for operating and maintaining such improvements, as well as
existing transit services. The funding for capital improvements as-
sumes 1/3 sales tax and a match of 2/3 federal, state and/or local
funding other than sales tax. The funding for operations shall aug-
ment existing funds available for transit operations. These funds will
be directly subvented to Sacramento Regional Transit based on-a
five year, annually updated transit capital and operating business
plan recommended by Sacramento Regional-Transit District, and
approved by the Authority Board.

VI.	Neighborhood Shuttle System. At least $30 million in sales tax
revenues will fund the development of additional Neighborhood
Shuttles throughout Sacramento County. The Authority shall de-
velop a program that will allow local jurisdictions to compete for
these funds.

VII.	Senior and Disabled Transportation Services. This program
will be funded by an average of 4.5% of the sales tax revenues col-
lected over the life of the tax. The sales taxes dedicated in support
of the Consolidated Transportation Services Agency (CTSA) shall
be 3.5% for years 1-10. In years 11.-20 the funding would increase to
4.5% and then increase in years 21-30 to 5.5%. The City and
County of Sacramento General Fund contribution to CTSA will ex-
pire with the Existing Tax. The funds will be directly subvented to the
CTSA based on a five year, annually updated business plan recom-
mended by the CTSA and approved by the Authority Board.

VIH. Freeway Safety and Congestion Relief Program. 12% of the

sales tax revenue collected and 20% of the revenues collected from
new development shall fund congestion relief projects on the free-
way systemin Sacramento County. This program is separated into
two categories of which 9% of the sales tax revenues collected shall
be dedicated to Regional Bus/Carpool Lane Connectors and Exten-
sions and 3% of the sales tax revenues collected shall be dedicated
to Local Freeway Interchange Congestion Relief Upgrades.

A.	Regional Bus/Carpool Lane Connectors/Extensions.

These projects will provide congestion relief on the freeway sys-
tem throughout the County. The funding for these capital improve-
ments assumes % sales tax and a match of % federal, state
and/or local funding other than sales tax. All local jurisdictions, ex-
cept the City of Isleton, shall establish transportation manage-
, ment associations to promote the use of carpools and public
transit.

B.	Local Freeway.Interchange Congestion Relief Upgrades.
Funding for these projects assumes 2/3 federal, state, and/or de-
veloper oriented funding and 1/3 sales tax funding. The Authority
Board has the flexibility to change the matching formula based on
project delivery and other issues the Board deems appropriate for
consideration. Funding is dedicated for, but is not limited to, inter-
changes described in this Expenditure Plan. The Authority Board
in collaboration with the Technical Advisory Committee of Author-
ity may add additional local freeway congestion relief projects to

. reflect the changing transportation needs of the County overtime.

IX.	Safety, Streetscaping, Pedestrian and Bicycle Facilities. 5%

of the sales tax revenues collected shall fund non-motorized, pe-
destrian and bicycle safety improvements. With the exception of
$30 million dedicated for improvement and maintenance of the
American River Parkway/Bikeway Network, funds shall be distrib-
uted among the cities and unincorporated County area based 75%
on relative population and 25% on total street/road mileage. The
formula will be updated annually based on the California Depart-
ment of Finance population estimates for cities and counties.

X.	Transportation-Related Air Quality Program. 1.50% of the

sales tax revenues collected shall exclusively fund projects and pro-
grams that facilitate the Authority’s ability to meet state and federal
air quality mandates for mobile sources and to environmentally miti-

gate for transportation capital improvements in this Expenditure
Plan. The Sacramento Metropolitan Air Quality Management Dis-
trict (SMAQMD) shall administer the program. The program will be
based on a five-year program, updated annually, recommended by
the SMAQMD and approved by the Authority Board.

XI.	Smart Growth Incentive Program. 15% of the revenues col-
lected from new development shall be available to local jurisdictions
on a competitive basis for projects that meet certain smart growth
objectives. This program shall be administered by the Authority and
shall take into account the SACOG Community Design competitive
funding program. The program shall include planning, development
and acquisition of the Cosumnes River Permanent Open Space
Preserve for the 15/ SR99 /US50 corridor and/or any other environ-
mental mitigation needed to offset impacts from that project consis-
tent with the adjacent local jurisdictions’ land use planning
documents and processes.

XII.	Transportation Project Environmental Mitigation Program.

10% of the revenues collected from new development shall fund en-
vironmental mitigation for transportation projects contained in the
Expenditure Plan. The program shall be administered by the Au-
thority and will be available for a variety of eligible categories of miti-
gationl The program shall include planning, development and
acquisition of the Cosumnes River Permanent Open Space Pre-
serve for the 15/ SR99 /US50 corridor and/or any other environmen-
tal mitigation needed to offset impacts from that project consistent
with the adjacent local jurisdictions’ land use planning documents
and processes.

XIII.	General Program Administration and Independent Tax-
payer Oversight Committee. 0.75% of the sales tax revenues col-
lected shall fund staff costs of the Authority and other costs of
administering the programs and projects contained in this Expendi-
ture Plan and the activities of the Independent Taxpayer Oversight
Committee described in Exhibit B.

34-8100

Ballot Type 122 Page 20

Sacramento County Transportation Expenditure Plan 2009-2039 |					
Percentage of DEVELOPER FEES	Percentage of SALES TAX		Proposed Sales Tax Allocation in $	Proposed Developer Fee Allocation in $	total PROPOSED ALLOCATION IN $$
	if:;	.w		'-V-ay ‘  €H7i^  3::'	£*$1,95*!!
	30%	City Street and County Road Maintenance Program	$1,410		$1.410
,35%	8%	Local Arterial Safety & Traffic Operations Improve- ments Program	v $376	$171	$547
	.5%	Local Arterial Program	$235	sin	$406 .
		* Antelope Road: Watt—Auburn			
		* Arden Wav: ITS improvements Del Paso—Fair Oaks Blvd			
		* Bradshaw Road: Grant Line—Folsom Blvd			
		• Bruceville Road: Sheldon—Cosumnes River Blvd			
		• Cosumnes River Blvd: 1-5—Franklin Blvd			
		• Elk Grove Blvd: Big Horn—Waterman			
		• Folsom Bivd: 65th—Sunrise			
		• Folsom Bridqe Crossing			
		• I5/SR99/SR50 Connector, including at least $5 million for the Cosumnes River Permanent Open Space Preserve			
		* Greenback Lane: 1/80—Folsom/Aubum Road			
		* Hazel Ave Improvements: Placer Co Line—Folsom Blvd			
		• Madison Ave: Watt—Greenback -			
		• S Watt/Elk Grove-Florin Road: Folsom—Elk Grove Blvd			
		• Sheldon Road: Bruceville—Bradshaw			
		• Sunrise Blvd: Placer Co line—Grant Line			
		• Watt Ave: Antelope—Capital City Freeway			
- n					
	3%	Traffic Control and Safety Program	23M		$141
		Eligible funding categories:			
		• Synchronizing Traffic Signals			
		* Emergency Vehicle Signal Preemption			
		• Installing Fog/Rain/Night Roadwav Reflectors			
		• Construct Shoulders for Safety on Rural Roads			
		• Audible Pedestrian Signals			
		• Changeable Message Signs			
		* Modifications to streetscape to improve accessibilitv for disabled persons			
	38'25%		p$1^798S	ItSs ■	
	34.50%	Transit Operations, Maintenance & Safety	$1,622  ‘		$1.622
		Eligible funding categories:			
		• Operating & Maintaining Existing Bus, Light Rail, & Neighborhood Shuttle  System.			
		• Guaranteed Discount Transit Fares for Students, Seniors & Disabled			
	.	• Operating & Maintaining New Transit Capital Improvements			
20%	3.75%	Transit Capital Improvement Program	$176	$98	$274
r	1.25%	Construct Downtown Sacramento Intermodal Station	$58		m
	2.50%	Rail Transit Improvements	$118		$118
		• Construct LRT extension from Meadowview Road to Cosumnes River Col- lege			
		• Implement Regional Rail commuter service (Sacto County portion) ■			
		• Fund planning, environmental, and design studies and processing for Downtown to Airport LRT Extension			
		• LRT Improvements in the 1-80 Corridor			
					
	::		p *  $30		' $30

34-8100

Ballot Type 122 Page 21

Percentage of DEVELOPER FEES ■	Percentage of SALES TAX		Proposed Sales Tax Allocation In $	Proposed Developer Fee Allocation in $	TOTAL PROPOSED ALLOCATION IN $$
	W0&-		''$212  •. ”	rp I4|  m  ■ ■	IfllSlIifl
		t			
'f3M&	flfiif;  .Jjr. ;		/ fS64.  * “<<&li	J^| , •	jpwii
	9%	Regional Bus/Carpool Lane Connectors/Extensions	|«2		$423
		• Bus/Carpool ramp connection from SR 50 E to SR 99 S			
		• 1/80 Bus/Carpool Lanes: 1-5—Capital City Freeway			
		• 1-5 Bus/Carpool Lanes: Elk Grove to 1-80			
		• Ramp widenings for connectors between SR 50 and 1-5			
		* SR 60 Bus/Carpool Lanes: Sunrise thru Downtown Sacto.			
	3%	Local Freeway Interchange Congestion Relief Up- grades	$141		$141
		• Central Galt/SR 99 interchange Upgrade			
		• Cosumnes BIvd/l-5 Interchange Upgrade			
		• Grant Line Road/SR 99 Interchange Upgrade			
		• 1-5/1-80 Interchange Upgrade & Carpool Lane Connector			
		• Richards Blvd/l-5 Interchange Upgrade			
		• Sheldon Road/SR 99 Interchange Upgrade			
		• Watt Ave/SR 50 Interchange Upgrade			
WiM	-:i: ■		*235	>•••**• ' .o:	»iP3Siii  liiiiillisiii
		Eligible funding categories:			
		• American River Parkway/Bikeway Network Improvement Program ($30 mil- lion or $1 million per vear)			
		• Local Corridor Streetscape Enhancements			
		• Pedestrian, Bike, and Road Safety improvements			
		• Installing & Maintaining Safe Pedestrian Sidewalks (Inc. ADA)			
		• Installing Safe Bike & Pedestrian Wavs Near Schools			
		• Smart Growth Transportation Objectives			
					
m&m	: - .• -13-~; A*  ■ 1.50% .■:		S71	•	
		Eligible funding categories:			
		• Air Quality Monitoring & Public Information			
		• Accelerated Replacement of Dirtv Diesel Engines		-	
		• Replacement of Gasoline Engine Catalysts			
		• Installation of Diesel Engine Catalysts			
		• Other proven emission-reducing strategies			
iSSilt	■			: ££3	liS^fcll
		Eligible funding categories:			
		• Promotion of transit oriented joint development			
		* At least $5 million for planning,- development and acquisition of the Cosumnes River Permanent Open Space Preserve for the 15/SR99/US50 corridor and/or any other environmental mitigation needed to offset project impacts from such project consistent with the adjacent local agencies land use planning documents and process.			
					
m£g&  ;f exR	■'• ■ 	*	Eijyfrw Pro"	mum	{48  ,	|4S  ■
		Eligible funding categories:			
<■		• Environmental mitigation for transportation projects contained in Measure A			
		• Open space acquisition			
		• Natural habitat preservation			

Sacramento County	34-8100	Ballot Type	122	Page 22

. • '■					
Percentage of DEVELOPER FEES	Percentage of. SALES TAX		Proposed Sales Tax Allocation in $	Proposed Developer Fee Allocation in $	TOTAL. - PROPOSED ALLOCATION IN $$
		• At least $5 million for planning, development and acquisition of the Cosumnes River Permanent Open Space Preserve for the I5/SR99/US50 corridor and/or any other environmental mitigation needed to offset project impacts from such project consistent with the adjacent local agencies land use planning documents and process,			
					
Oil®			lIHli	ills:	ill
		• General Program Administration			
		• Independent Taxpayers’ Oversight Committee & Independent Audit			
	100%	Total Revenue over 30 years	$4.74B	$488	$5.188 B

EXHIBIT B

INDEPENDENT TAXPAYER OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

(ITOC)

ITOC Goal and Function. Voter adoption of this transportation
sales tax ordinance shall result in creation of the Indepen dent Tax-
payer Oversight Committee (ITOC) as follows:

The ITOC shall review the fiscal and program performance of the
sales tax transportation program through an annual audit to ensure
that all transportation sales tax funds are spent by the Sacramento
Transportation Authority (hereby referred to as the Authority) in ac-
cordance with ail provisions of the voter-approved expenditure plan
and ordinance. The ITOC’s other mission is to provide positive, con-
structive advice to.the Authority on how to improve implementation
over the thirty-year course of the program for the benefit of Sacra-
mento County residents and businesses, and to study and report on
other issues related to the current or future use of transportation
sales tax funds that may be expressly authorized by the Authority
Board.

Audit Requirement. The ITOC shall supervise annual fiscal and
periodic performance audits, which shall be performed in accor-
dance with generally accepted auditing standards and Government
Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United
States and based on performance standards adopted by the Au-
thority Board for each program or project funded in whole or in part
with sales tax funds. The first set of performance standards shall be
adopted not later than July 1,2009 and shall be updated every five
years.

Role of Financial and Performance Audits. The ITOC shall, un-
der the competitive procurement rules of the Authority and with the
active involvement of the Authority Executive Director, select a pro-
fessional auditor to conduct the fiscal and performance audits of ex-
penditure of all sales tax funds, report findings based on the audits
to the Authority and to the public; and recommend any additional
audits that the ITOC believes may improve the financial operation
and integrity of program implementation, while meeting all voter
mandates. No professional audit firm shall conduct more than three
consecutive fiscal audits during the course of the 30-year sales tax
extension.

The Authority, with the direct participation of the ITOC, shall hold
publicly noticed meetings, which may or may not be part of a regu-
larly scheduled Board meeting, to consider the findings and recom-
mendations of the audits. A report of the findings and
recommendations of each audit by the ITOC shall be made readily
available to the public in print and on the Authority’s electronic
website.

Membership and Selection Process. The Authority shall develop
an open selection process that actively advertises for potential
members and selects three committee members who are all resi-
dents of Sacramento County and possess the following profes-
sional and/or community credentials:	,

•	One member who is a professional—active or retired—in the field
of municipal audit, finance and/or budgeting with at least five
years in a relevant and senior decision-making position in the
public or private sector.

•	One member who is a licensed civil engineer or trained transpor-
tation planner—active or retired—with at least five years of dem-
onstrated experience in the field of transportation in government
and/or the private sector.

•	One member who is a current or retired manager of major public
and/or privately financed development or construction projects,
who by training and experience would understand the complexity,
costs and implementation issues involved in building large scale
infrastructure improvements.

•	The Chair of the Authority Governing Board, the Executive Direc-
tor of the Authority, and the County Auditor shall serve as
ex-offiqio non-voting members of the ITOC.

Terms and Conditions for Committees

•	Members shall serve staggered four-year terms. In no case shall
any voting committee member serve more than eight years on
the ITOC.

•	Members shall serve without compensation, except they shall be
reimbursed for authorized travel and other expenses .directly re-
lated to the work of the ITOC.

•	Members cannot be current local elected officials in the county or
a full time or part time staff member of any city, the county gov-
ernment, local transit operator, or state transportation agency.

•	If and when vacancies on the ITOC occur on the part of voting
committee members, the Authority shall appoint an appropriate
replacement within 90 days of the vacancy to fill the remainder of
the term.

Sales Tax ITOC Operation Protocols. Given the thirty-year dura-
tion of the sales tax extension, the ITOC shall be appointed 120
days after the effective date of the sales tax extension and continue
as long as sales tax funds from the current voter authorization are
made available. The Authority Board and staff shall fully cooperate
with and provide necessary financial and'staff support to ensure the
ITOC effectively carries out its duties and obligations. The annual
cost of the activities of the ITOC shall not exceed $150,000, ad-
justed for inflation.

Conflict of Interest. ITOC voting members are prohibited from act-
ing in any commercial activity directly or indirectly involving the Au-
thority, such as being a consultant or vendor to the Authority during
their tenure on the ITOC. ITOC voting members shall not have di-
rect commercial interest or employment with any public or private
entity that receives transportation sales tax funds authorized by the
voters in this ordinance.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Vote YES on Measure A. Relieve congestion, fix pothoies, improve •
safety and keep Sacramento County moving — without raising
taxes!

Measure A renews the half-cent sales tax that has helped finance
nearly every major highway and transit improvement, bridge and
street repair in Sacramento County since 1988.

Vote YES on Measure A to improve interchanges and add capacity
on every freeway — 5, 80, 50 and 99.

Vote YES to synchronize traffic signals and improve and maintain
roads in every city and in the county.

Vote YES to increase support for Regional Transit, begin planning
and design for light rail to the airport and build light rail to Cosumnes
River College. Vote YES for special transit services for seniors and
persons with disabilities and to develop new neighborhood shuttle
buses.

Vote YES to create a Cosumnes River Parkway linking Elk Grove,
Rancho Cordova and Folsom from 1-5 to U.S. 50, relieving pressure
on downtown Sacramento interchanges. Vote YES to improve bike
and pedestrian routes to schools and to maintain our American
River Parkway bike and pedestrian trail.

Vote YES to improve police, firefighter and ambulance response in
emergencies.

Your YES vote safeguards your tax dollars. An independent taxpay-
ers' oversight committee-will hold officials accountable and review
financial audits annually to ensure voter mandates are met. No
more than 1% of your tax dollars can go for bureaucracy.

Without Measure A, traffic relief will be delayed for decades. We
can't rely solely on state and federal funds anymore. And Measure
A funds will stay in Sacramento County, it’s one source of funding
state government can’t take away from us.

Measure A is critical for jobs, for public safety and for our quality of
life. Taxpayers and seniors, highway and transit advocates, orga-
nized labor, environmentalists and the Metropolitan Chamber, of
Commerce agree: Vote YES on Measure A.

s/ James R. Pouliot, California State Automobile Association (AAA)
s/ Lou Blanas, Sacramento County Sheriff
s/ Brice W. Harris,'Chair, Sacramento Metropolitan Chamber of
Commerce

s/ Frances Gracechild, Resources for Independent Living, Inc.
si Richard Ikeda, M.D., Executive Director, Health for All

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Sacramento County voters are being asked to approve a laundry list
of expenditures that was not shaped by community dialogue, a col-
laborative process, or any comprehensive plan to maintain or im-
prove our quality of life. Residents were not given the opportunity to
determine how best to leverage limited transportation dollars for .ex-
isting needs, population growth, and poor air quality. The current
Measure A expires in 2009. What’s the rush to enact a shortsighted
plan?

Measure A promises more than it can deliver.. It won’t relieve traffic
congestion or improve the air we breathe. It doesn’t support smart
growth or renewal of existing neighborhoods. It doesn't sufficiently
address the needs of our growing elderly and disabled populations.*
It adds carpooi lanes and encourages sprawl. It promises an open
space preserve it cannot deliver, yet proposes to pay for a 36-mile
beltway. Transit officials say the half-cent tax won’t provide enough
over the 30 years for transit, rail extensions, and neighborhood
shuttles.

Measure A misuses local sales tax to benefit commuters^rom sur-
rounding counties by making improvements to state and federal
highways that should be paid by state gas taxes. This is the vjsion of
r land speculators and business interests who tied their bankrolling of
Measure A to the inclusion of hew freeway lanes and their beltway.
Resist Los Angelization of our region. ______________________

We have time for community education and consensus about trans-
portation and our vision. Vote NO. In 2006, we can renew a compre-
hensive, community-developed plan for our future.

si Carol Borden, African American Transportation Air Quality
Advisory Committee
si Andy Sawyer, Environmental Council of Sacramento
s/ Vicki Lee, Sierra Club
si Anne Geraghty, WALKSacramento
si Walt Seifert, Sacramento Area Bicycle Advocates

ARGUMENTS AGAINST MEASURE A

DON’T BE FOLLED: This “New Measure A" is not the same mea-
sure approved by voters in 1988.

This “New Measure A” costs taxpayers $4.7 BILLION over 30 years,
but includes no guarantees as to what top-priority projects will be
built. That’s why taxpayer groups oppose this extension of measure
A.

REMEMBER: Even if this measure fails, the current half-cent sales
tax will continue until 2009. We still have four more years, and four
more elections to craft a better plan we all can support.

The Sacramento Bee says, “There is a growing sense that simply
renewing this sales tax isn't the solution.... Simple extending this
half-cent sales will be woefully inadequate as a means of funding
basic road maintenance, transportation and transit needs." May 9,
2004). They also wrote, "The whole brainstorming process behind
Measure A. frankly, has been one of the most disappointing,
turf-centric, poll-driven exercises in recent political memory... The
leasers, today of all days, need to know that they need to do Mea-
sure A right, Or not at all. (June 10*2004). We agree.

The Environmental Council of Sacramento also opposes THIS ex-
tension of Measure A.

Once these tax revenues are “bonded,” the “New Measure A” tax
cannot be changed or repealed for THIRTY YEARS.... no matter
how poorly our tax dollars are spent or wasted. Tax repeal provi-
sions of the state Constitution we approved in the “Right to Vote on
Taxes Act” DO NOT APPLY once taxes are bonded.

Finally, the Sacramento Bee wars: “If Measure A passes, get ready
for Measure B... That’s because, at a half-cent, Measure A has
made no one in the transportation business happy.’’ (July 12,2004)

The “New Measure A” is a blank check with no guarantees. Vote
NO.

si Edward J. “Ted” Costa, CEO, People's Advocate
si Joe Sullivan, Executive Director, Sacramento County
Taxpayers League
si Carl Burton, Concerned Citizen

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Sacramento County's worst problems are traffic congestion and air
quality.

Measure A’s opponents come from two extremes of the ideological
spectrum that would leave us sitting in congestion for years to
come: the anti-tax crusaders who argue there isn’t enough money
for road construction in Measure A, and the anti-growth crusaders
who oppose any new highway construction and say we’re not
spending enough on transit.

Measure A is a balanced transportation plan that brings new re-
sources to road improvements and highway upgrades and more
money for public transit so that we can take on traffic congestion
and worsening air quality.

. Without Measure A, Regional Transit operations will have to be
slashed by more than half. Without Measure A, seniors and dis-
abled residents will have more trouble getting to their medical ap-
pointments and emergency response vehicles will face increasing
traffic bottlenecks..

Carramonln flm intv

34-8100

Ballot Type 122 Page 24

Without Measure A, potholes will spread and deepen on our neigh-
borhood streets and our quality of life will continue to deteriorate. 1

Vote YES on Measure A to tackle Sacramento County’s worst traffic
problems NOW, so we can spend less time fuming installed traffic.
Vote YES to provide the balanced transportation system needed to
support local jobs and businesses.	.

Vote YES on Measure A to create an independent taxpayers’
watchdog committee to make sure our money is being spent effi-
ciently and on the projects we want.

Vote YES on Measure A. And to see Measure A’s benefits in your
neighborhood, go to www.RenewMeasureA.com.

s/ Gloria M. Hernandez, Executive Director, Area Congregations
Together

s/ Rick Martinez, Chief, Metro Fire.District
s/ Barney Donnelly, Senior advocate, Sacramento Mobility
Coalition	1

s/ Anne Rudin, Former Mayor of Sacramento
s/ Matt Kelly, Executive Secretary-Treasurer, Sacramento-Sierra's
Building and Construction Trades Council

	