<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE U
ORDINANCE NO. 1085

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF INYO,

STATE OF CALIFORNIA, AMENDING CHAPTER 3.32
OF THE INYO COUNTY CODE, TO INCREASE THE
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX WITHIN THE COUNTY
FOR A PERIOD OF SIX (6) YEARS

The Board of Supervisors, the County of Inyo, State of California
ordains as follows:

SECTION I. Authority.

Provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division
2, and Section 7285 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, of the Revenue and
Taxation Code authorizes the County to levy a transactions and use
tax within the County if the ordinance proposing the tax is approved
by two-thirds vote of all members of the Board of Supervisors, and
by a majority of the voters of the county voting on the tax measure.

SECTION II.	Purpose.

In accordance with the authority set forth above, a Transactions
and Use Tax was imposed within Inyo County in 1988 at the rate
of one-half of one percent. The purpose of this ordinance is to
increase the Transactions and Use Tax within Inyo County to one
percent for a period of six (6) years.

SECTION III.	Inyo County Code Section 3.32.050 Amended.

Section 3.32.050 of the Inyo County Code is hereby amended
to read as follows:

3.32.050 Imposition of transactions tax - Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail,
a tax is imposed upon all retailers in the district at the rate of one
percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in the district on and after
the operative date of this ordinance.

SECTION IV. Inyo County Code Section 3.32.070 Amended.

Section 3.32.070 of the Inyo County Code is hereby amended
to read as follows:

3.32.070 Imposition of use tax - Rate.

An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption
in the district of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage,
use, or other consumption in the district at the rate of one percent
of the sales price of the property. The sales prices shall include
delivery charges of property subject to this tax, regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

SECTION V. Voter Approval Required.

As required by law, the Board of Supervisors shall call for a
special election to be conducted within the boundaries of the County
on November 2, 2004, for the purpose of submitting the tax increase
set forth in this ordinance to all of the electors within the County.
Such election shall be consolidated with the statewide general election
held on that date and will be conducted in conformity with applicable
elections laws and constitutional voting requirements. The tax increase
set forth in this ordinance shall be imposed only if it is approved by
a majority of the voters voting upon such tax increase in such election.

SECTION VI.	Operative Date.

Subject to the provisions of Section VII below, “Operative Date”
means April 1, 2005 which is the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after voter approval as
required by Section V above.

SECTION VII.	Contract With State.

Prior to the operative date, the County shall contract with the
State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the County shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it
shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date

shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such a contract.

SECTION VIII.	Termination of Tax Increase/Sunset Clause.

The authority to levy the Transaction and Use Tax increase
authorized by this ordinance expires on March 31,2011. Thereafter,
this ordinance is repealed.

SECTION IX.	Severability.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by
a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed
this ordinance, and each and every section, subsection, sentence,
clause, or phrase not declared invalid or unconstitutional without
regard to whether any portion of this ordinance would be subsequently
declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION X.	Effective Date.

This ordinance provides for an increase of the County's existing
transactions and use tax, and requires approval by a majority of the
voters voting upon such tax increase at the statewide general election
held on November 2, 2004. If so approved, this ordinance shall
become effective immediately.

SECTION XI.	Publication.

Before the expiration of fifteen (15) days from the adoption hereof,
this ordinance shall be published once in a newspaper of general
circulation printed and published in the County of

Inyo, State of California. The Clerk of the Board is hereby
instructed and ordered to so publish this ordinance together with
the names of the Board voting for and against the same.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 3rd day of August , 2004 by the
following vote:

AYES: Supervisors Arcularius, Bear, Williams, Hambleton and Dorame
NOES:	-0-

ABSTAIN: -0-
ABSENT: -0-

s/ Carroll M. Hambleton, Jr.

CARROLL “Butch” HAMBLETON, JR.
Chairman, Inyo County Board of Supervisors

ATTEST: Rene Mendez

Clerk of the Board

By: Patricia Gunsolley

Assistant Clerk of the Board <fullend>









<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE“U”

State law authorizes a county to impose a transactions and use
tax within the county. This tax is commonly referred to as “TUX
and is applied to the sales price of personal property sold within
the county or purchased for storage, use, or other consumption
within the county. T.U.T. applies to goods now subject to state and
local sales and use taxes. Goods exempt from the state and local
sales taxes are also exempt from T.U.T. A county T.U.T. is applicable
in both the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county. In
Inyo County, a county T.U.T. would apply within the boundaries of
the City of Bishop. The state collects the T.U.T. on behalf of a county
in the same manner as state and local sales and use taxes are
collected by the state. After deducting the cost of administering the
tax from the T.U.T. collected, the state provides the remainder to the
county.

Inyo County’s existing T.U.T. is imposed at the rate of one-half
of one percent (0.5%). It is collected along with the statewide sales
tax of 7 1/4%, of which 6% goes to the state and 1 1/4% is divided
among cities, counties and transportation projects. Combining the
existing county T.U.T. with the statewide sales tax results in a current
total sales tax rate in Inyo County of 7 3/4%.

Measure “U” would approve an ordinance amending sections of
the Inyo County Code dealing with the County’s T.U.T. These
amendments would increase the County's T.U.T. by one-half of one
percent (0.5%) fora period of six (6) years. If Measure “U” is approved
by the voters, the County's T.U.T. would be imposed at the rate of
1% during the six (6) year period from April 1,2005 through March
31, 2011. During this same period, the total sales tax rate in Inyo
County would be 8 1/4%. Unless otherwise approved by the voters,
at the end of the six (6) year period, the County's T.U.T. would return
to 0.5% and the total sales tax rate would return to 7 3/4%.

Inyo County ordinance 833 provides that after fiscal year 1988-
89, 30% of the T.U.T. received by Inyo County will be disbursed to
the City of Bishop. Inyo County ordinance 832 provides that Inyo
County’s share of T.U.T proceeds will be used first to fund solid
waste disposal (dumps), second, hazardous waste disposal, and
finally the criminal justice systems. Measure “U" makes no changes
to these ordinances.

The increase in the County’s T.U.T. from 0.5% to 1% for a period
of six (6) years will only be imposed if Measure “U” is approved by
a majority of the voters voting on it.

A “YES” vote on Measure “U” is a vote to increase the County’s
T.U.T by 0.5% for six (6) years.

A “NO” vote is a vote to disapprove the increase in the County’s
T.U.T. <impartialend>








<impartialsigs> s/ Paul N. Bruce
Inyo County Counsel <impartialsigsend> 







