VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

PALM DRIVE HEALTH CARE DISTRICT
MEASUREW

MEASURE TO KEEP PALM DRIVE HOSPITAL OPEN. To

W ensure survival of Palm Drive Hospital and access to local
emergency, acute care, medical and physician services, and
provide for ongoing expenses, repair and improvements to
equipment and technology, shall Palm Drive Health Care District
repeal its existing tax and levy a special tax of up to $155.00 on each
taxable parcel in the District (excluding low value parcels) while
assuring independent fiscal oversight and financial accountability?

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W

Yes on W Keeps Palm Drive Hospital Open. Otherwise the Hospital will close,
which would be devastating to our community.

Like many district hospitals throughout California, the dramatic increases in health
care costs have hurt Palm Drive Hospital. These funding challenges mean that
many community-owned hospitals like ours must seek community support at new
levels to protect local emergency and healthcare services.

In a life-threatening emergency, Palm Drive Hospital is your community hospital.
Yes on W keeps the Palm Drive Hospital Emergency Room, Intensive Care Unit,
surgery and other critical services available to our community 7 days a week, 24-
hours a day, ready when you need them.

Yes on W ensures that critically ill or injured patients in our community have access
to the best care as quickly as possible. Some District residents are already as
much as 40 minutes away from Palm Drive’s Emergency Room. If this measure
does not pass, coastal residents would be forced to travel to Santa Rosa, enduring
ER waits of up to six hours, after a drive of close to an hour on country roads. Yes
on W ensures saving our network of local physician-specialists and enables the
hospital to recruit excellent doctors and nurses for our community.

Yes on W implements independent fiscal oversight and audits to ensure that funds
are spent efficiently and as promised. Yes on W ensures that the parcel tax struc-
ture is fair, by creating exemptions for low-value and eligible contiguous parcels, as
requested by the community.

You never know when a medical emergency will threaten your family or neighbors.
Keep Palm Drive Hospital Open-Vote Yes on W. www.neighborsforpalmdrive.org

sl Harry Polley	si	Suzanne Lande, RN

Local Business Person	Emergency Room Coordinator

si Steve Baxman, Fire Chief	si	Diane Spain

Monte Rio Fire Protection District	Senior Advocate

si Craig Campbell, M.D.

Orthopedic Surgeon

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE W

The Palm Drive Health Care District’s proposal to increase the parcel tax is poorly
conceived and lacks credibility. The District is asking for the highest parcel tax of
any area hospital, $155, which is an increase of over 150 percent from the present
tax. As proposed it is a permanent tax in that there is no “sunset” provisions. This
leaves few options open to taxpayers’ should they become disenchanted with the
future operations of the District.

No doubt the District is suffering financially. This may be partially a result of a
national system of financing health care that is dysfunctional and partially by
taking on too much debt load when the community acquired the hospital. What-
ever the cause of the District’s continued financial troubles, the taxpayers' must
be concerned with the lack of complete and reliable financial data needed to
evaluate and solve the problems the hospital is facing. At the time the tax pro-
posal was filed for the ballot, an audited financial statement and detailed projec-
tions were not available for review and analysis. Add to this the rapid turnover of
the hospital's chief financial officers, three in the last two years, and the commu-
nity has a right to question the prudence of continuing to support the hospital with
an increased level of taxes.

We urge voters to reject the proposal for a permanent, increased parcel tax.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION

sl Jack Atkin, President	si	John B. Landis, Vice President

si Jack Abercrombie, Treasurer	sl	Jeanne Levin, Secretary

sl Fred Levin, Executive Director

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE W

The opponents’ argument is false. Don’t believe misleading statements by people
who aren't even residents of West County.

Without Measure W, Palm Drive Hospital will close. This will hurt thousands of
West County residents who rely on our hospital.

Fact: Measure W includes strict fiscal accountability. Annual, independent audits
ensure funds are spent properly and the public has access to complete financial
data.

Fact: Measure W’s structure is fair. Medical, agricultural and business representa-
tives, retirees and working taxpayers provided input on Measure W at public meet-
ings. District officials responded to community requests by exempting low-value
parcels and eligible contiguous parcels to ensure fairness.

Fact: The Palm Drive Health Care District began preparing for the expiration of the
current parcel tax early in 2004. Finance experts developed a 10-year economic
projection for the hospital’s long-term financial sustainability on which this proposal
is based.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W

We urge you to take a good look at your current property tax bill’s special assess-
ments and add the proposed $155 parcel tax. This is the highest parcel tax of any
area hospital. Then ask yourself, can I afford to continually support this hospital.
There are no guarantees that the District will not ask for additional taxes. There are
no sunset provisions. We already paid our share of taxes, but where did the money
go? Why has the hospital’s foundation not been effective in attracting private fund-
ing thereby relieving some of the tax burden? Why has there been such rapid turn-
over in the hospital’s management? Would an emergency room with ancillary
facilities be less expensive to operate than a full-scale hospital?

When it comes to proposals to increase taxes, credibility is the coin of the realm.
The hospital district has lost this critical element. There are too many unanswered
questions; vote No on Measure W.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION

sl Jack Atkin, President	sl	John B. Landis, Vice President

sl Jack Abercrombie, Treasurer	sl	Jeanne Levin, Secretary

sl Fred Levin, Executive Director

Fact: Taxpayer dollars have been expended judiciously. Funding cutbacks make it
impossible to balance the budget while serving community needs. The nationwide
nursing shortage, low reimbursement rates (as low as 30% of billed charges),
HPR’s closure, and skyrocketing workers’ compensation costs all contribute to the
complex financial picture for local hospitals.

Measure W is about providing local residents access to critical health pare ser-
vices—emergency care, inpatient and outpatient services, and physicians. You
never know when your family or neighbors might have a medical emergency where
every minute counts.

Absent major healthcare reform, it is up to us to Keep Palm Drive Hospital Open.
Vote Yes on W.

sl Richard E. Powers, M.D.

Sebastopol Humanitarian of the Year

sl Paulene Goddard, Member
AARP State Legislative Committee

sl Michael Elson, Captain
Bodega Bay Fire Protection District

sl Darlene Kersnar, R.N.

Operating Room Nurse

sl Mark Sell, Owner
Sebastopol Hardware Center

49-544

9745

49544

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE W

MEASURE TO KEEP PALM DRIVE HOSPITAL OPEN

The people of the Palm Drive Health Care District adopt the following ballot
measure:

SECTION I. AUTHORITY.

This ballot measure is adopted pursuant to Article XIII A, section 4 and Article
XIIIC, section 2 of the California Constitution, Article 3.8 (commencing with Sec-
tion 53730.01) of Chapter 4 of Division 2 of Title 5 of the California Government
Code, and Article 3.5 (commencing with Section 50075) of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of
Division 1 of Title 5 of the California Government Code.

SECTION II. DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY.

Hospitals throughout California are struggling with significant increases in the
cost of providing health care. As a small, community-owned hospital, the national
nursing shortage and low insurance reimbursements have contributed to the fiscal
challenges of the Palm Drive Health Care District. Due to these factors, the amount
of revenue available to the District from existing revenue sources, including the ex-
isting parcel tax, is inadequate to meet the costs of providing access to local emer-
gency, acute care, medical and physician services, and maintaining and improving
Palm Drive Hospital property, facilities, equipment and technology. After conferring
with local physicians, nurses, and community members, the District finds that it
must establish a larger stable source of supplementary revenue to meet the costs
of providing such services and exercising its other rights and powers. This Mea-
sure is necessary to:

•	Keep Palm Drive Hospital open for the good of the community.

•	Ensure the survival of Palm Drive Hospital's Emergency Room and its
acute care services. The Emergency Room treats nearly 10,000 patients
yearly.

•	Provide prompt local access to quality medical care for West Sonoma
County residents. The rural nature of the area served by Palm Drive
Hospital can make it difficult for patients to travel long distances to Santa
Rosa hospitals.

•	Maintain our local network of physicians and qualified nurses.

SECTION III. PURPOSE OF PARCEL TAX.

The purpose for which the new parcel tax shall be imposed and levied is to
raise revenue for the District to use in order to ensure the survival of Palm Drive
Hospital and access to local emergency, acute care, and other medical and physi-
cian services for District residents and visitors, and to provide for ongoing ex-
penses, repair and improvements to equipment and technology. The primary
purpose of the Measure is to ensure that Palm Drive Hospital, with its Emergency
Room serving approximately 10,000 patients yearly, can remain open. Due to the
size and diversity of the West Sonoma County region, local access to quality health
care is essential. The aging population, commuting trends, and increased traffic
congestion necessitate keeping Palm Drive Hospital open for the health and well
being of West Sonoma County residents.

A secondary purpose of the measure is to enable the hospital to retain its
nurses, physicians, and clinical staff, in addition, the hospital will be able to keep up
with advances in medical treatment and technology.

SECTION IV. PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION AND LIMIT.

Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this measure, the District shall
be authorized to impose and levy the new parcel tax each year on each parcel of
real property within the District, except parcels of real property owned by a federal,
state, or local agency, based on the use or right of use of the parcel, for the purpose
stated in Section III of this ballot measure. The new parcel tax may be levied at a
rate not to exceed $155.00 per parcel of real property. The Board of Directors shall
set the rate of the new parcel tax each year as provided in Section VIII of this ballot
measure, provided that in no year shall the rate exceed the maximum specified in

this section. The new annual parcel tax shall continue for so long as the District re-
quires the funds for the specific purposes described in Section III of this ballot
measure.

SECTION V. REPEAL OF EXISTING PARCEL TAX.

The existing parcel tax shall be repealed.

SECTION VI. TAXPAYER EQUITY/EXEMPTIONS.

Exemptions from the parcel tax shall be made available for certain parcels of
real property. Any property that the County of Sonoma has determined to be ex-
empt from property tax due to low value shall be exempt. Multiple parcels of real
property under the same name and ownership which are contiguous and part of
one economic unit may be charged as one parcel of real property. The District shall
establish an administrative review process to grant exemptions and consider ap-
peals with respect to contiguous parcels of real property.

SECTION VII. INDEPENDENT FISCAL OVERSIGHT AND ACCOUNTABILITY.

The measure includes independent fiscal oversight to ensure that parcel tax
funds are spent efficiently. Each year the District’s chief fiscal officer shall cause
an independent financial auditor to prepare a report, which shall be filed with the
Board of Directors no later than January 1st of each year, commencing with Janu-
ary 1,2006,. containing information regarding the amount of new parcel tax reve-
nues collected and expended.

SECTION VIII. REPORT ON AND REVIEW OF PARCEL TAX.

Each year prior to the imposition of the parcel tax, the Board of Directors shall
cause a report to be prepared showing each parcel of real property subject to the
new parcel tax, the owner(s) thereof, and the proposed levy thereon. Upon the re-
ceipt of the report, the Board of Directors shall review the amount required to meet
the purposes for which the parcel tax is levied, and estimate the total revenues
which may be collected from parcel taxes, and shall adopt a resolution fixing the
parcel taxes, if any, to be levied for the next fiscal year in an amount projected to be
sufficient to meet the requirements of the District. The resolution shall set forth the
schedule of charges against all parcels of land lying within the boundaries of the
District upon which the tax may be levied.

SECTION IX. COLLECTION.

The new parcel tax shall be collected in the same manner and subject to the
same penalty as other charges and taxes collected by or on behalf of the District by
the County of Sonoma.

The parcel tax revenues will be deposited into a fund held by the Sonoma
County Treasurer. The Sonoma County Tax Collector may deduct reasonable
administrative costs incurred in collecting the new parcel tax and deposit the
amounts deducted in the Sonoma County General Fund. In accordance with Arti-
cle 1 (commencing with section 29300) of Chapter 2 of Division 3 of Title 3 of the
California Government Code, there shall be added to the amount of the parcel tax
an amount for the reasonable administrative costs incurred in collecting the new
parcel tax.

SECTION X. SEVERABILITY.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ballot measure is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional and invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portion of this ballot measure. The people of the Palm
Drive Health Care District hereby declare that they would have passed this ballot
measure and every section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irre-
spective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional or invalid, except that Section X of this bal-
lot measure shall only be effective if the remaining portions of this ballot measure
are effective.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

9745

49545

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE W, CONT.  SECTION XI. EFFECTIVE DATE.  This ballot measure shall take effect the day following its approval by two-thirds of the District's qualified voters voting on its approval at the election on November 2,2004.  SECTION XII. DEFINITIONS.  For the purposes of this ballot measure, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section unless the context clearly requires a different meaning. The definition of a word or phrase applies to any of that word’s or phrase’s variants.  “Board of Directors” means the Board of Directors of the Palm Drive Health Care District.  “District” means the Palm Drive Health Care District in Sonoma County, California.  “Existing Parcel Tax” means the special tax authorized by and imposed pur- suant to the ballot measure adopted in 2001 at the special election held pursuant to Resolution No. 01-10 of the Board of Directors.  “Parcel of Real Property” means any unit of real property in the District .which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which is levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year, including low value parcels, shall also be exempt from the new parcel tax in such year. With respect to multiple parcels which are contiguous and in the same ownership and which form a single economic unit, only one such parcel shall be subject to the new parcel tax.  “New Parcel Tax” means the special tax authorized by and imposed pursu- ant to this ballot measure. The new parcel tax is a special tax within the meaning of Article XIII A, section 4 and Article XIIIC, section 1 of the California Constitution.	

Sonoma County

49-546

9745

49546