SCHOOL

PAARALAN

PALO ALTO UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
PINAG-ISANG DISTRITO NG PAARALAN NG PALO ALTO

To maintain high quality education in our neighborhood schools, avoid deeper cuts to classroom instruction, maintain manageable class sizes, and preserve educational programs
I that attract the best teachers and school employees, and enhance student achievement, shall Palo Alto Unified School District increase its current parcel tax by $19 per parcel per
month for 8 years, with an exemption for senior citizens and all money staying in our community to benefit local schools?

Upang parwtiiihm ang mataas na un ng edukasyon sa mga paaralan sa atmg kapitbahayan, iwasan ang mas malalaking pagbawas sa pagtutuno sa silid-aralan. panatrlihr ang
napamamahalaang mga laki no klase, at pamalagun ang mga programang pang-edukasyon na umaakit ng mga pinakamahuhusay na auno at empleyado ng paaralan, at itaas ang
nakakamit ng esuldyante ang Pinag-isang Distrito ng Paaralan ng Palo Alto ay dapat bang magtaas sa kasalukuyang buwis sa parsela ng $19 kada parsela kada buwan para sa 8 taon,
hmdi kasama ang mga nakatatandang mamamayan at lahat ng pera ay mananatili sa ating komunidad upang pakinabangan ng mga lokal na paaralan?

*OMT

V



■- ..

MB

MEASURE I

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

California law permits a school district to levy a special tax on parcels of
land witnm the distnct if the tax is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting in
an election.

The Board of Education of the Palo Alto Unified School District proposes
continuing a special tax approved on June 5, 2001 in the amount of $293 per
vea' and increasing the special tax by an additional $19 per month (or $228 per
veari De^ parcel, for a total of 8 years, beginning as of July 1, 2005. A vote for
tne special tax is also a vote to increase the appropriations limit by the amount
of tne increased special tax.

The purpose of the special tax is to maintain high quality education in
neignDorhood schools, avoid deeper cuts to classroom instruction, maintain
manageable class sizes, preserve educational programs that attract the best
leacners and school employees, and enhance student achievement in order to
maximize teaming by the community's children.

The proceeds of the special tax will be applied only to the specific
purposes listed above and will be deposited into a special account. The school
district will also produce an annual report on the special tax.

The school district will grant an exemption from the special tax, upon
annual application, for each individual in the school district who will attain 65
years of age before July 1, 2005 or July 1 of any succeeding tax year, owns a
beneficial interest in the parcel, and uses the parcel as his or her principal place
of residence.

A >65" vote is a vote to approve an increase and extension of the current
special tax on parcels within Palo Alto Unified School District.

A “no" vote is a vote not to approve the special tax.

Ann Miller Ravel
County Counsel

By: Isi Lisa Herrick

Deputy County Counsel

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE I

Palo Alto Unified School District Quality Public Education
Preservation Act of 2004

INTRODUCTION

To maintain high quality education in our neighborhood schools, avoid deeoer
cuts to classroom instruction, maintain manageable class sizes, and preserve
educational programs that attract the best teachers and school employees, and
enhance student achievement in order to maximize learning by our community s
children, shall the Palo Alto Unified School District be authorized to levy a
qualified special tax in an amount not to exceed $293 per year plus an
additional $19 per month, for eight years beginning as of July 1, 2005. assessed
against each parcel of taxable land in the District? Said qualified special tax
would extend the qualified special tax approved by the voters of the Distnct on
June 5. 2001 for an additional 7 years and increase the tax by $19 per month
per parcel.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

If the special taxes are approved, the Board of Education will implement the
following accountability measures in accordance with State law:

(a)	A statement, as set forth above, indicating the specific purposes of the
qualified special tax,

(b)	a requirement that the proceeds be applied only to the specific
purposes identified above,

(c)	the creation of an account into which the proceeds shall be deposited

and

(d)	an annual report pursuant to Section 50075.3. of the Government
Code.

PURPOSE

To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain the
high quality of neighborhood schools, the Palo Alto Unified School District
proposes to levy a qualified special tax for a period of 8 years, beginning July 1,
2005, at the rate of $293 per year, plus an additional $19 per month, on each
assessor’s parcel located within the School District, with an exemption annually
available for senior citizens, and to implement accountability measures in
connection with the special tax to provide oversight and accountability to ensure
that funds are used to:

•	Restore programs and replace funds lost or reduced due to budget 1
cuts;

•	Sustain achievement in reading, writing, and mathematics for all
students at all grade levels by avoiding increases in class size, while
maintaining the ability to attract and retain quality teachers;

•	Maintain essential academic programs, including science, reading,
math, music, and art;

•	Protect the taxpayers' investment in education and ensure District
accountability by providing for oversight and independent financial
audits of revenues and expenditures.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE I ■ Continued

SENIOR CITIZEN EXEMPTION AVAILABLE

An exemption from the special tax will be made available annually to each
individual in the District who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax
year, and who owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, and who uses that parcel
as his or her principal place of residence, and who applies to the School District
on or before July 1. 2005. or July 1 of any succeeding tax year. Any application
for such exemption must be renewed annually.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections
50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others,
shall apply to the special taxes levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the
specific purposes of the special tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b)
the proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes
identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the
proceeds of the special taxes must be deposited; and (d) an annual written
report shall be made to the Board of Education of the District showing (i) the
amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special taxes
and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be
funded from the proceeds of the special taxes, as identified above.

AROlJMtNI IN I AVON 01 Ml A8URI I

Palo Allo's schools am among Ilia boat in the atam and Km nation Text v r»i
are high and ninety-live pen ant ot out students gn on to college I « npiion^i
teachers, challenging programs, dedicated parents and support from our
community contribute to student achievement

In June, 2001 ovei 10% ol local votoiu supported Me.r.ure 0, whu.h provider
$5.5 million each year to allreel amt relaln quality teachers, reduce class si/ex
and support important educational programs This stable source ol local
funding helped our schools weather (he economic downturn and stale budget
crisis

Measure D funding is now sol to expire II we lei this critical funding source
expire, many ot our outstanding leaehms will have lo be laid off and claw sizes
will increase across Ihe board Cull ol this magnitude would have a significant
impact on Ihe quality ol our schools

Measure I will renew out existing parcel lax and Increase it by $228 lor eight
years

Measure I funds may only he used lo avoid devastating cuts and enhance
essential educational programs, Including

•	Avoiding teacher layolts

•	Maintaining manageable class sizes

•	Attracting Ihe hesl toacheis and encouraging our outstanding
teachers to continue working here

•	Preserving remedial courses that help students struggling with the
basics, like reading, wntmg or math

•	Preventing reductions In honors and advanced placement courses
that enable our high school students to quality lor the best colleges

The cost ol Measure I is deductible on stale and federal taxes Seniors are
eligible lor an exemption.

An independent oversight committee will ensure Measure I lunds are properly
spent All funds will remain In Palo Alio lo benefit local schools

Good schools keep our property values high and maintain the quality of life in
our community.

PLEASE VOTE YES ON MEASURE I.

Isl Cathy Kroymann

President. Board of Education

Isl Barbara H. Sprang

President, Palo Alto Council of PTA's

/s/ Leonard W Ely, Jr.

Philanthropist. 75-year Palo Alio resident

Isl Gary Fazzino
High Tech Industry Executive

Isl Veronica S. Tincher
President, League ol Women Voters ol Palo Alto



REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE I

The wording of the Argument For Measure I doesn't clearly specify that property
owners currently paying $293 year * ! now be responsible for $521/year.

The Measure D parcel tax funds were used to increase teachers’ salaries
to an average of $71,255 for 180 days of work, when the statewide average
salary for teachers is $55,693. At this rate of salary increase (over the last ten
years), the average teachers salary could easily exceed $100,000 by 2011.
Long term, tenured teachers could easily make $120-5130.000 yearly at that
time. In addition to salary, teachers receive health care and a lucrative pension
for life.

The School District currently educates and subsidizes over 570 students
from East Palo Alto, over 100 children of staff members. 400+ from
Stanford and over 200 from other cities. These 1,100+ students, compnsing
about 11% of the student body, do not live in Palo Alto, or on property that is
taxed for the benefit of the School Distnct. Whether Court-ordered or not.
expenditures for these non-resident students can't really be considered as
"remaining in Palo Alto."

If Measure I passes, the School District can propose another tax increase at any
time.

Rather than avoiding the Parcel Tax by taking the exemption, seniors are
encouraged to vote NO on Measure I, requinng the School District to budget
wisely.

Please vote NO on Measure I.

For more information see www.VoteNoOnl.us

Isl Allen Hacker

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

Isl Dennis Umphress

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association

Isl Jack E. Davis

Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association

Isl Elizabeth C. Brierly

Board Member, Silicon Valley Taxpayers’ Assn.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE I

Palo Alto Unified School District ALREADY receives a S293 yearly parcel tax.
Now they want ANOTHER $228/yead

No specific plan exists on how to spend this money.

All of the money raised by this new tax can be used to inflate administrators
and teachers salaries. There s no requirement mat any of it go to enhancing
student achievement or preserving educational programs.

There's no plan to measure how effective mis money will be in relieving
problems

Parcel taxes have a number of detrimental features.

Because parcel taxes affect all parcels of property equally, and residential
property makes up the bulk of most districts, the burden falls disproportionately
hard on homeowners.

Additionally, these taxes make no distinction regarding ability to pay Measure I
impacts those most who can afford it least-those on fixed incomes and it taxes
uniformly no matter how large/expensive the parcel! A homeowner living in a
modest home could owe the same parcel tax amount as someone who lives in
an expensive mansion, or the owner of a huge office building worth tens of
millions of dollars.

The use of parcel taxes to get around Proposition 13 s limitation on property tax
increases is accelerating, and taxpayers throughout the state are beginning to
feel the pinch.

Now is the wrong time to heighten financial burdens on already struggling
property owners and their tenants.

There are only three voter positions when it comes to taxes:

1. Taxes are too high.

2 Taxes are about nght.

3. Taxes are too low.

If you agree with position “3", then you could support this tax. However, if you
agree with position T or “2”, then you should vote "NO" on Measure I.

Visit www.VoteNoOnl.us for more information.

/s/ Allen Hacker

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

Isl Dennis Umphress

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers Association

Isl Jack E. Davis
Businessman

Isl Elizabeth C. Bnerly

Board member, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE I

The people who wrote the argument against Measure I don't live m our
community and have not visited our schools to understand our needs They ve
submitted boilerplate arguments against other local measures that would benefit
public schools in our county, regardless of the individual distnct needs or
specifics. Their argument is full of factual errors.

Here's the truth:

Measure I is a frugal, detailed and carefully crafted proposal to renew an
existing funding source for our schools and maintain essential educational
programs.

No Measure I funds will be used to increase administrator or teacher salanes
Legally, Measure I funds can only be used to maintain manageable class sizes,
continue to attract and retain the best teachers and maintain existing academic
courses and programs.

California law requires local funding to support academic programs be applied
equally to every parcel of property.

All funds will remain in Palo Alto to beneft local schools. An independent
oversight committee will ensure funds are properly spent.

Measure I is not only an investment in Palo Alto schools, but also an investment
in your neighborhood and property values. Investing in quality schools protects
your property value. The entire cost of Measure I is deductible on your income
taxes. Seniors are eligible for a full exemption.

Measure I is supported by a broad coalition of teachers, parents, seniors,
business leaders and other Palo Alto residents.

Please vote Yes on I.

Isl Sandra Pearson

Retired Teacher & Principal

Isl J. Robert Taylor

Chairman, Palo Alto District of the Silicon Valley Association of Realtors

Isl Michael W. Kirst

Professor of Education, Stanford

Isl Frances M Codispoti

Parent & Co-chair, Housing Options for Teachers

Isl Barbara Gross
Palo Alto Businesswoman and Tall Tree Recipient