MEASURE“A”
TWENTYNINE PALMS WATER DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX ELECTION

Do the registered voters within the service area of the Twentynine Palms Fire
Department, and operated by the Twentynine Palms Water District, approve Ordinance
88 which authorizes an increase in the yearly levy of the special tax from $54.00 to
$80.00 per benefit unit plus yearly increases thereafter of 2%, for funding of fire and
emergency medical services within the boundaries of the District?

YES

NO

MEASURE“A”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL*

The Board of Directors (“Board”) of the Twentynine Palms Water District (“District”),
acting in its capacity as the Governing Body of the Twentynine Palms Fire Department,
has adopted an ordinance proposing an increase of a special tax, and called this
election to authorize such increase. The tax will be used only for the purpose of
obtaining, furnishing, operating and maintaining fire suppression equipment or
apparatus; for the purpose of hiring and paying salaries and benefits to fire fighting
personnel; for other necessary fire protection and prevention expenses; and for
emergency medical services as permitted by law.

The amount of the special tax shall be determined by the Board annually, following a
public hearing. The increase proposed will be from $54 to $80 per benefit unit; with a
maximum 2% annual increase for inflation. The special tax will be levied on any parcel,
improvement and use of property to which fire protection and prevention service are
made available. The tax will be imposed per the benefit unit table set forth in the
ordinance.

If two-thirds of the votes cast within the District are YES on the measure, it will be
approved.

If less than two-thirds of the votes cast within the district are YES on the measure, the
District will not be allowed to impose the special tax.

This measure will not have any effect on existing law.

* Section 9160 of the Elections Code requires the County Counsel to prepare an
impartial analysis of measures appearing on the ballot.

MEASURE“A”
BALLOT TEXT

The registered voters within the service area of the Twentynine Palms Fire Department,
as owned and operated by the Twentynine Palms Water District, are asked to consider
approving Ordinance 88 of the District which authorizes the yearly levy and collection of
a special tax, in the amount of $80.00 per benefit unit, where said amount will be
subject to a yearly adjustment of 2.0% for inflation. On an annual basis, the Board of
Directors of the District, at a public hearing, shall determine the amount to be levied.

The amount determined by the Board shall be within a range from the amount imposed
for the previous year up to the maximum amount of 2.0% for the inflation adjustment as
set forth herein. The proceeds from the special tax shall be used for obtaining,
furnishing, operating and maintaining fire suppression equipment or apparatus, for
paying the salaries and benefits to firefighting personnel and for such other necessary
expenses for fire protection, prevention and emergency medical services of the District
within the service area of the Fire Department.

MEASURE“A”
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Voters in Twentynine Palms have a unique ability to control both the amount of tax they
pay, and the level of service they receive from the Twentynine Palms Fire Department.
Other areas must rely on departments funded through General Tax monies which are
disbursed by the whims of State, County, or City officials, with varied agendas. The
Twentynine Palms Fire Department is funded entirely by a Special Tax approved seven
years ago by the voters of Twentynine Palms. The funds cannot be used for any other
purpose. At that time, it was projected that the funding level would be sufficient for five
years.

Since then, both Fire Stations have been staffed twenty-four hours per day, seven
days per week, resulting in lower Fire Insurance premiums and increased public safety
throughout the community.

In the same time, calls for help have increased over forty-eight percent. State
Worker's Compensation Insurance rates have spiraled continually upward. Without
additional funding, services must be cut back.

To maintain the current level of protection, the Tax must be increased to $80 per
year, per benefit unit. This amount should be adequate to fund the Department unitl
2013, or beyond. The District Board will be required to review the rate each year, to
lower it if costs stabilize. It cannot be increased except by a 2/3 majority vote in another
election.

I am confident, as a homeowner in Twentynine Palms, that this increase is
necessary, and that a YES vote on Measure A will secure the future of the Twentynine
Palms Fire Department. Less than 22 cents per day seems a fair price to pay for the
quality of Fire and Emergency Medical Services we have come to expect in the
Twentynine Palms area. Vote Yes on Measure A.

Edith Carter

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “A” WAS FILED