“Shall the Burlingame School District extend without increase for six years its existing local education tax of $104 per parcel that is due to expire in
2005 in order to protect small class sizes, retain quality teachers, support reading programs and school libraries, provide classroom instructional
supplies and support high quality education, with all expenditures monitored by an independent volunteer oversight committee and exempting parcels
owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older?”

FULL TEXT

Shall the Burlingame School District extend without increase for six years
its existing local education tax of $104 per parcel that is due to expire in
2005 in order to protect small class sizes, retain quality teachers, support
reading programs and school libraries, provide classroom instructional
supplies and support high quality education, with all expenditures
monitored by an independent volunteer oversight committee and
exempting parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older,
by undertaking such actions as:

(a)	providing local funding for our schools that cannot
be taken away by the State of California and used for other purposes;

(b)	attracting and retaining highly-qualified teachers and
other employees;

(c)	supporting class size reduction;

(d)	supporting reading programs and libraries; and

(e)	supporting the teaching of the basics, including
writing and math?

An exemption will be granted for any parcel owned by one or more
persons 65 years of age or older who occupies a parcel as a principal
residence, following an application for exemption.

To provide additional accountability, a volunteer community
budget advisory committee will be appointed by the Board of Trustees of
the District to monitor all expenditures funded by this Measure to ensure
that the funds are spent wisely and used only for the purposes approved by
the voters. The budget advisory committee will report on an annual basis
to the community on how these funds have been spent. In addition, none
of the proceeds of the special tax will be used for administrative salaries.

A parcel is defined as a unit of land in the District which now
receives a separate tax bill from the San Mateo County Assessor's Office.
All property which would otherwise be exempt from property taxes also
will be exempt from the special tax.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

In 1993, the voters in the Burlingame Elementary School District
approved a special tax in an amount of $64 per year per parcel. In 1997, the
voters extended the $64 tax and approved an additional special tax of $40
(for a total of $104 per parcel), both of which expire June 30, 2005. In
2003, the voters approved a special tax of $76 per parcel for 8 years
commencing July 1, 2003 and expiring June 30, 2011. By this measure, the
District’s Board of Trustees propose to extend for six years, commencing
July 1, 2005 and expiring June 30,2011, the $104 per parcel special tax that
is expiring on June 30, 2005.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District which now
receives a separate tax bill from San Mateo County. Any person 65 years
of age or older who owns and occupies a parcel as a principal residence
may qualify for an exemption from the special tax. All property which
would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from
imposition of this special tax.

The purposes of the special tax are to: maintain teachers, class sizes,
support reading programs and libraries. The tax will not be used for
administrative salaries.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special account.
The Board of Trustees must file an annual report accounting for the parcel
tax revenues collected and the manner in which they have been spent.

This measure would also increase the District’s appropriations limit per
fiscal year, in an amount equal to the levy of the special tax for that year,
as permitted by Article XIIIB, section 4 of the California Constitution.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow an additional
special tax to be levied on property within the boundaries of
the Burlingame Elementary School District in an amount of
up to $104 per year per taxable parcels in the District to be
used to maintain teachers, class sizes, support reading
programs and libraries. It would also allow the appropriations
(spending) limit to be raised.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the additional
$104 special tax to be levied and would not allow the
appropriations limit to be raised.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote
“yes.”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

The Burlingame School District is well-known for excellent teachers,
high-achieving students and challenging academic programs. Our
community cares deeply about education and has made an on-going
investment in our schools. Measure S will renew this community
investment - without raising taxes.

In 1993 and again in 1997, Burlingame voters agreed to provide local funds
for local schools that cannot be taken away by the state. These funds have
been used over the years to attract and retain good teachers, protect small
class sizes and support critical programs.

The local education assessment that provides these funds will expire next
year. Measure S will renew this critical source of funding which is needed
to:

Recruit good teachers and prevent teacher lay-offs in hard times;
Preserve small class sizes;

Support teaching the basics, including reading, writing and math, as
well as enrichment programs like art and music; and
Provide books and other classroom supplies.

Measure S also will help to strengthen local property values. In today’s
residential real estate market, great neighborhood schools typically mean
higher home resale prices.

A volunteer citizen oversight committee will monitor all Measure S
expenditures to ensure that the funds are spent wisely and used only for the
purposes approved by the voters. No funds will be used for administrative
salaries.

Spare us the double talk!

•A parcel tax is not an ‘investment’. It is extra money extorted from
defenseless residents under threat of home foreclosure. Pretty words about
“caring” and “community” don’t change the hard, ugly truth.

•If this measure didn’t raise taxes, it wouldn’t be on the ballot. If the
mugger who robbed you Monday robs you again Tuesday, is that not a new
crime? Parcel tax proponents effectively say to victims: “Stop
complaining. —It’s just an extension of Monday’s mugging.”

•Parcel taxes do not “strengthen local property values”. Burlingame’s
backers of higher taxation would like to take credit for the 88% growth in
local property valuation over the past decade, but valuations doubled in the
rest of the county, which does not generally share Burlingame’s penchant
for parcel taxes.

•Schools are the beneficiaries of high property values—not the cause.
(High achieving parents bring high achieving students—and more taxes—
to the community.) Everything on the proponents’ wish list can be secured
with regular funding and thrift.

•This is not about stabilizing funding. To the degree state funding is
variable, it will continue to be so, with or without Measure S. The parcel
tax is just more money for the same people.

•Those who do wish to give more money to the school district don’t need
Measure S. Measure S is 100% about extorting money from those who
disagree with city leaders and the school-centered special interest groups.

The measure will expire in six years, and cannot be renewed without voter
approval. Residents 65 years of age and older are, and will continue to be,
exempt if they so choose.

Measure S will preserve our excellent local schools and benefit the entire
community. It does not increase the tax rate by a single penny. We hope
you will join us in voting YES on Measure S.

/s/ Rosalie M. O’Mahony	August 12, 2004
Mayor of Burlingame	
/s/ Annette J. DeMaria	August 11, 2004
Burlingame School District First Grade Teacher	
/s/ Mark Lucchesi	August 13, 2004
Store Manager, Mollie Stone’s Market	
/s/ Judy Meuschke	August 6, 2004
Outstanding School Volunteer Award Winner	
/s/ Robert G. Shaw	August 11, 2004
Co-Chair, Burlingame School District Budget Advisory Committee	

/s/ Christopher V.A. Schmidt	August 19, 2004
Lincoln Elementary ‘72	
/s/ John J. “Jack” Hickey	August 19, 2004
Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	
/s/ Harland Harrison	August 19, 2004
Candidate for Congress	

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

History

This “temporary” parcel tax was first adopted in 1993 as a $64 tax, to last
only 6 years.

Four years later, the $490,000 in supplemental revenue was no longer
necessary, and (logically) should have been repealed, because regular
property tax revenue had increased by $1.6 million in the meantime.

Instead, the District cried poormouth, and persuaded voters to increase the
tax to $104, and extend it for 8 more years.

Only six years later, the $800,000 in supplemental revenue was even more
obviously unnecessary, since property tax revenue was now $4.3 million
higher than in 1993.

What about inflation? And population growth?

In 1993, the District had $8.1 million in revenue. The dollar equivalent
budget in 2003 would have been $9.9 million. A further adjustment, to
reflect the slightly larger student population, yields a more comparable
figure of $11 million.

Did the District need a parcel tax to obtain $11 million in revenue in 2003?

—No. By that time, revenues excluding the parcel tax had grown to
$14 million.

In other words, even without the parcel tax, the District’s revenue
grew 28% over and above the amount needed to account for
inflation and student body growth.

Honorable stewards would have arranged to cease collection of the parcel
tax long before 2003, but did they? No. Instead they trotted out the same
old sorry song and dance in 2003 and passed an additional $76 parcel tax.

With today’s measure, they seek to increase the parcel tax to $180 per year,
or $1232 total (for both measures).

Enough Already!

It’s time school officials learned a little fiscal discipline, and stopped asking
for tax hikes all the time.

Please vote ‘no’. Thank you.

Is/ Christopher V.A. Schmidt  Lincoln Elementary ’72	August 12, 2004
Is/ John J. “Jack” Hickey  Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	August 13, 2004

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

The individuals opposing Measure S use the same boilerplate argument
against all school measures. Their argument relies on deceptive and
misleading statements about Burlingame schools. And they don’t even live
in Burlingame! Please don’t let misinformation endanger our excellent
local schools and the high property values they help to sustain.

Measure S is not a new tax. It renews an existing tax that property owners
are already paying. Measure S will prevent teacher layoffs, preserve small
class sizes, support teaching the basics and help fund enrichment programs.

Our opponents claim that rising property taxes directly benefit Burlingame
schools - but this is false. Rising property taxes have no direct effect on
Burlingame schools’ revenue. The State of California allocates funds to
schools based on a statewide funding formula, which has become more
unpredictable in recent years. Burlingame schools receive only a fixed
amount per student from the state. In fact, this amount is among the lowest
for schools in San Mateo County. Burlingame school funding does not
increase when local property taxes increase.

Measure S is different from property taxes. Measure S will generate local
funds for our schools that cannot be taken by the state.

The Burlingame Elementary School District is an invaluable community
asset. Our excellent schools provide a quality education for our children
and contribute to high property values for everyone. Passing Measure S
will simply maintain the status quo.

On November 2n^, protect the quality of our excellent local schools
without raising taxes - Vote YES on Measure S.

is/ Vic Mangini	August 23, 2004
Retiree - Former Burlingame Mayor	
Is/ Diane E. Condon Wirgler	August 23, 2004
Burlingame Citizen of the Year	
/s/ Ross Bruce	August 23, 2004
Business Owner, AVR Realty, Inc	
/s/ Marlys D. Loveall	August 22, 2004
Longtime Burlingame School District Teacher	