MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

MUNICIPAL

TOWN OF FAIRFAX
ADOPTION OF SPECIAL MUNICIPAL
SERVICES TAX
MEASURE L

L Shall an ordinance be adopted approving the adoption
of the Fairfax special municipal services tax upon
improved residential property to a maximum rate of
one hundred twenty-five dollars for each dwelling unit and
upon improved business property to a maximum rate of one
hundred twenty-five dollars for each business occupancy and
specifying that all proceeds of the special municipal services
tax shall be paid into the general fund to be used exclusively
for the specific purposes of public safety, including police,
fire, emergency medical and public works which includes
bazard/safety improvements to our public streets and
sidewalks?

TOWN OF FAIRFAX
ADOPTION OF SPECIAL MUNICIPAL
SERVICES TAX
FULL TEXT OF EXHIBIT A
ORDINANCE NO. 707
MEASURE L

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE
TOWN OF FAIRFAX, CALIFORNIA,
ADOPTING A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL
SERVICES TAX BY ADDING SECTIONS

3.20.080	AND 3.20.090 TO CHAPTER 3.30,
“MUNICIPAL SERVICES TAX”, OF THE
FAIRFAX MUNICIPAL CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE TOWN OF FAIRFAX DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. ADDITIONS TO CODE. Sections 3.20.080, “Special
Municipal Services Tax Imposed - Rate,” and 3.20.090, “Deposit and
Use of Funds from Special Municipal Services Tax” are added to
Chapter 3.30 of the Fairfax Town Code as follows;

3.20.080	Special Services Tax Imposed - Rate.

A special municipal services tax not exceeding the maximum amounts
set forth in this section is imposed on all improved real property within
the boundaries of the town of Fairfax for a period of five (5) years:

A.	A special municipal services tax is levied and imposed upon
improved residential property at a maximum rate of one hundred
twenty five dollars per dwelling unit for five (5) years. As used
herein the term “dwelling unit” means any building or portion
thereof used and/or designed as a separate dwelling
accommodation, with cooking, living and sleeping facilities.

B.	A special municipal services tax is levied and imposed upon
improved business property at a maximum rate of one hundred
twenty-five dollars for each business occupancy for five (5)
years. As used herein, the term “business occupancy” means
any portion of a building or structure or other improved real
property which is occupied or designed to be occupied by a
separate business establishment required to be licensed as such
pursuant to Title 5 of this code.

3.20.090	Deposit and use of funds from Special Municipal Services
Tax.

All proceeds of the special municipal services tax levied and imposed
under Section 3.20.080 of this chapter shall be paid into the general fund
to be used exclusively for the specific purposes of public safety,
including police, fire, emergency medical and public works which
includes nazard/safety improvements to our public streets and
sidewalks.

SECTION 2. REMAINING SECTIONS OF CHAPTER 3.20
UNCHANGED. The remaining sections of Chapter 3.20 of the Fairfax
Town Code shall remain unchanged.

SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to the levying
and collecting of the Town special municipal services tax and shall be in
full force ana effect ten (10) days after the certification by the Town
Council of the election returns indicating passage of the Ordinance by
two-thirds of the voters casting votes in the election.

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, subdivisiort,
sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, is for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this Ordinance. The People of the Town of Fairfax
hereby declare that they would have adopted this Ordinance, and each
section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion
thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions
thereof be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION 5. PUBLIC NOTICE. Copies of the foregoing ordinance shall
within fifteen (15) days after its final passage and adoption be posted in
three public places in the Town of Fairfax, to wit:

(a)	Bulletin Board, Fairfax Town Offices, Town Hall;

(b)	Bulletin Board, Fairfax Post Office; and

(c)	Bulletin Board, Fairfax Women’s Club Building.

Which said places are hereby designated for that purpose.

The foregoing Ordinance was approved by the voters of the Town of
Fairfax at a special election held on the 2nd day of November, 2004, by
the following vote tally:

YES:

NO:

MEASURE I CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21609

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE TOWN ATTORNEY MEASURE L  This measure, if passed by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters, would add Sections 3.20.080 and 3.20.090 to the Fairfax Town Code, imposing a special tax at a maximum rate of one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00) on each improved residential and business parcel within the boundaries of the town of Fairfax for a period of five (5) years. The measure requires that the revenue from the tax be used exclusively for the specific purposes of public safety, including police, fire, emergency medical and public works which includes hazard/safety improvements to public streets and sidewalks.  The remaining sections of Chapter 3.20 of the Fairfax Town Code shall remain unchanged.  A “YES” vote would be a vote to impose the tax, subject to the conditions and restrictions stated above.  A “NO" vote would be a vote to not impose the tax.	
JOSEPH J. BRECHER Town Attorney	ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST
	THIS MEASURE
	Start on the next page
	MEASURE L CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

Fairfax faces a fiscal crisis in the wake of our state leaders'
mismanagement of California's budget. As usual, the state
government has lived above its means, and again they have bailed
themselves out on the backs of the local governments.

Over the past decade Sacramento has taken over $2,700,000 from

Fairfax.

We are asking our residents to pass Measure L, a five year, $125 per
year special tax, so that we can recover some of these diverted property
tax funds.

Measure L will allow us to maintain our excellent fire, emergency medical
and police services and to continue to make emergency and safety
repairs to our roads and sidewalks.

The fact is, our great successes in:

•	vastly improving our Caltrans road rating,

•	adding paramedic firefighters to our fire station, and

•	professionalizing our police department

are at great risk if we cannot replace some of the revenues Sacramento
has taken from us.

None of us asked the Public Retirement System to invest unwisely

in Enron and PG&E. When those investments turned sour, the losses
were passed on to us in spiraling pension costs.

None of us asked the State to squander California’s multi-billion
dollar surplus on irresponsible energy contracts. When they did, the
state government reached into our coffers to make up the difference.
They, in effect, squandered our budget surplus too - a surplus that we
worked so hard to build and maintain.

Fairfax can simply accept lower quality services from its local
government and a lower quality of life, OR we can decide that it is
worth $10.42 per month to maintain and improve the community we
have worked so hard to build.

Stand up for Fairfax. Please vote YES on Measure L.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE L

Proponents fail to mention that your rising property tax bill allowed the
town budget to inflate 60% in the last 8 years from 3 million to almost 5
million. They fail to mention that they have not come up with one idea to
save our town money.

One day after this tax measure was submitted for the ballot the council
increased fees, which you cannot vote on, raising almost $200,000 a
year. That same night they designated $30,000 dollars for our new
Open Space fund rather than using it to decrease the deficit. They are
asking you to vote for a tax that will raise $460,000 a year for five years
and at the same time raise almost half of that amount on an ongoing
basis. How long will this "fiscal crisis" last and how much do they
actually need?

Every business and household in Fairfax has to live within its means.
Our town needs to do the same. As a business owner in town for 26
years I can tell you that, in Fairfax, you have to think small - watch and
stretch every dollar. Our government needs to financially reflect our
community. The overspending will not stop until taxpayers say no more.

We should not assume that our Fairfax neighbors can afford to pay more
taxes. Seniors struggle to make ends meet, young families are
financially challenged, newer property owners pay extremely high taxes
and everyone pays 12 additional taxes on their bills already.

NO on Measure L.

si Mike Ghiringhelli

si Frank Egger, Mayor of Fairfax
si Lewis E. Tremaine III, Vice-Mayor of Fairfax
si Trudy Totty, Fairfax Volunteer Coordinator
si Susan A. Brandborg, Council Member
si Larry Bragman, Council Member

MEASURE L CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE



21611

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L

Fairfax does not have a money crisis, it has a money management crisis.
Eight years ago our budget was 3 million dollars and today it is almost 5
million dollars. How many Fairfax residents and businesses have had a
60% increase in revenues and expenditures over the same time period?

Currently Fairfax property owners have 12 special taxes on their property
tax bills, more than any other Marin community. Fairfax residents already
pay a “special” paramedic tax, pension tax, Measure K, run-off tax, and a
general services tax.

There are many ways to manage our funds better. We could consolidate
or contract out services with neighboring towns. Our fire department
already has a successful shared service with San Anselmo. Our police
department does not and represents 40% of our town’s budget ($2
million). We could save up to $750,000 if we work with our neighbor. The
difference between the police department and fire department budgets
has doubled to 16% over the years since the fire consolidation. In
contrast, San Anselmo's budget difference between the two departments
is just 2%. There is strength and savings in numbers.

This small Ross Valley commiinity cannot afford two dispatch centers,
two chiefs of police and two police stations. San Anselmo’s Police
Department serves 5000 more residents than Fairfax for only $650,000
more in cost.

This is just one area where we could save. If we had managed our town
better, we could have saved millions of dollars over the years with joint
efforts with other towns, money that could have been used to improve
sidewalks, roads, and infrastructure. Do not believe the scare tactics!

Taxpayers unite and send the council a message to run the town with
the revenues we have. Say NO to Measure L.

si Mike Ghiringhelli, Council Member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L

Nearly all taxpayers in Marin County cities pay about 12 special taxes..
Only five of the special taxes on Fairfax tax bills are collected by the
town. Most were approved by voters and only one has increased since
the voter’s original approval. Recently the town increased some fees to
cover the actual cost of doing business. That doesn’t sound like money
mismanagement to us.

Measure L is a temporary $125 annual tax. It goes into effect in 2005
and automatically ends in 2010.

Opponents say San Anselmo police serve 5000 more residents for only
$650,000 more. They need to read San Anselmo's budget more closely.
They budget differently by not including emergency radio or grant
monies in their police budget.

Using identical budgeting procedures their budget would be closer to
$3,000,000-$1,131,000 more than Fairfax.

The notice that Fairfax residents give up their 24/7 police service is
unacceptable. Police-Town Hall services are currently available 168
hours a week. Under the opponent’s plan, those hours would be
reduced to 38 'A per week. The rest of the time doors would be locked,
our police station closed.

San Anselmo’s Council refuses to even discuss Councilmember
Ghiringhelli’s police consolidation/contract idea.

Do Fairfax residents really want to travel to San Anselmo to conduct
police business or take up police complaints with SAN ANSELMO
Council?

Isn't it worth $10.42/month to keep Fairfax’s police and fire stations open
24/7 and to keep our roads and sidewalks safe? Fairfax is a very
special place!

KEEP OUR FAMILIES SAFE!

YES On Measure L.

si Pamela Meigs
Registered Nurse

si Mary Jo Rice
Executive Director Seaflow

s/EdKeily
Town Treasurer

si Trudy Totty
Fairfax Volunteer Coordinator

si Rudolph (Rudy) A. Contratti
Maintenance Worker I (Parks)

END OF MEASURE L

21612