MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

OLD ADOBE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE B

To keep school libraries open, provide intensive reading

B instruction, offer an enriching music program, maintain
smaller class sizes when possible, promoting excellence in
literacy for our school children; shall the Old Adobe Union
School District be authorized to levy an annual parcel tax of $55 for
four years, beginning July 1,2004, with annual audits by a citizens'
oversight committee, offering exemption to parcels owned and
occupied by persons 65 years of age or more?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The Old Adobe Union School District has called an election on a special tax
measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a
school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $55 per year per parcel for each parcel of
land within the District’s boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1,2004, and would remain in effect for no
more than four years.

Proceeds of the tax could only be used for purposes set out in the measure, which
include preserving small class size, providing intensive reading instruction,
supporting school libraries, and providing an enrichment music program.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Measure B will ensure that the schools of the Old Adobe Union School District can
keep their libraries open and continue to provide an enriching music program,
important to the quality of education we provide our students.

Measure B will also maintain intense reading and literacy programs to help strug-
gling readers with additional support. All of these are shown to improve the general
academic skills of children and prepare them for greater success in the future.

Measure B funds will also support our class size reduction program, which main-
tains classes of smaller sizes in our schools, giving students greater individual
attention and instruction.

Measure B comes with financial safeguards! An independent Citizens Oversight
Committee will conduct regular audits to be sure that Measure B dollars are used
appropriately. None of the money raised by Measure B will be spent on admin-
istrative programs or salaries. Every Measure B dollar will be spent on libraries,
music, reading assistance, and keeping class sizes small.

Senior citizens aged 65 and above are offered an exemption from Measure B.

Please join local classroom teachers, firefighters, police officers, business owners,
retirees, parents, and community leaders in voting Yes on Measure B. Let’s keep
our school libraries open, our excellent music programs, our reading assistance
programs and smaller class sizes. Support excellence in our schools.

Thank you for your vote on behalf of all our children.

s/ Berta J. Curr	si Elaine Boling

Retiree	Former	Board	Member

If the tax is approved, the school board must create a special, separate account to
be established for deposit of the proceeds of the tax. A citizens' oversight
committee shall be appointed by the school board to review the budgeting of the
special tax revenue, and to annually review an audit of the special tax funds and
expenditures. The annual audit shall include a report of the amount received and
expended from the tax for each year, and the status of any projects, and
description of any programs, funded from the proceeds of the tax.

si Karen L. Tribble	si	Angelo	“Paul"	Accornero

Teacher	Police	Officer

si James Kimball
Businessperson

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and
occupied by a person who will be 65 years of age or older on or before May 1 of the
year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemptions based on
ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for this exemption
the first year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps must be
followed to appeal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a refund of the
tax, if appropriate.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Old Adobe Union School District who vote on this
measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied. The
tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes starting with
the 2004-2005 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE

County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

NO REBUTTAL TO
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B
WAS SUBMITTED

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

Wise counsel dictates that when you have dug yourself into a hole—stop digging.
Facing a statewide financial crisis, it is time to stop spending and tighten our belts.
As painful as this can sometimes be, there can be benefits. When we are forced to
live within our means, we will choose to spend on those programs we collectively
deem most valuable and delay programs of lesser value. We make no judgments
about the merits of the programs proposed by the District, although we do suggest
that the case for more spending has not been adequately made and there are no
guarantees the money raised from the parcel tax will be dedicated to the uses the
District has indicated. We urge you to take a good look at your current property tax
bill’s special assessments and add the requested parcel tax. Then, ask yourself, is
this the right time for the District to ask me for more money? We already paid our
share of taxes, but where did the money go? The state’s financial crisis has made it
imperative for all areas of government to rethink how money is spent, especially
education which represents nearly 40 percent of California’s budget. We urge you
to send a strong message to the District’s board and management to rethink how
existing funds will be spent by voting No on this measure.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION

si Spencer Flournoy, President	si	Jack	Atkin,	Treasurer

si John B. Landis, Vice President	si	Jeanne	I.	Levin,	Board	Member

si Fred H. Levin, Executive Director

20

VOTER’S PAMPHLET  MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B  Measure B is a local solution to the statewide crisis in education funding. Every penny of Measure B will stay in Petaluma with our local classrooms.  The Old Adobe Union School District has been tightening its belt over the past 3 years and has made 2 million dollars in cuts. The District is not increasing its operational costs with Measure B dollars. It is simply trying to maintain programs that the community believes are important to the overall educational success of our children, such as class size reduction.  Measure B will allow our schools to keep their libraries open, maintain reading and literacy programs to help struggling readers with additional support, and give our children access to music programs that are so important for children’s education.  An oversight committee is incorporated into Measure B with the express purpose of making sure that these dollars are spent only on the appropriate programs.  Every Measure B dollar will be spent directly on our students.  Senior Citizens have the ability to opt out of Measure B if they wish to.  Is $1.00 per week so much to ask in order to support Excellence through Literacy  in our schools?  We urge you to support Excellence and join our local classroom teachers, parents, business people, senior citizens and community leaders in voting Yes on Measure B.  s/ Berta J. Curr si Elaine Boling Retiree Former Board Member  s/ Karen L. Tribble si Angelo "Paul” Accornero Teacher Police Officer  s/James Kimball Businessperson  FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B  OLD ADOBE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT MAINTAINING EXCELLENCE IN SCHOOLS ACT OF 2004 TAX  This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Old Adobe Union School District Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax” or as “Measure B”.  TERMS OF MAINTAINING EXCELLENCE IN SCHOOLS ACT OF 2004 SPECIAL TAX  Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those votina on this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $55 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no more than four years, commencing July 1, 2004. The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to as the “Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax”. To the extent such funds are available, proceeds of the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall be authorized to provide intensive reading instruction, to keep school libraries open, to maintain smaller class sizes when possible, and to provide an enriching music program.  Senior Citizen ExemDtion. In order to Drovide tax relief to senior citizens in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax upon proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before May 1,2004 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.  ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS  Independent Annual Audit. UDon the lew and collection of the Maintain- ing Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax, the Board of Trustees shall cause an	FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B, CONT.  aiccount to be established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax remain unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District shall cause an independent financial auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of Education and the Community Oversight Committee no later than December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2005, stating (1) the amount of Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or description of any programs funded from proceeds of the tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board of Trustees.  Citizens’ Oversiqht Committee. The Board of Trustees shall aDDOint a Citizens’ Oversight Committee which shall, on an annual basis, review both the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Budget and the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Independent Audit.  SDecific Purooses. All of the Durooses named in the measure shall constitute the specific purposes of the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.  LEVY AND COLLECTION  The Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall be collected by the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall not decrease the funds available from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.  “Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older are exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax as described above.  The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax as described above to the Sonoma County tax collection officials. The Sonoma County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be final and binding for the purposes of the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.  SEVERABILITY  The Board of Trustees hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

21