<impartial> COUNTY OF VENTURA IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL* MEASURE"B"  1 Under this measure, the Ventura County Transportation Commission, a public agency comprised of elected officials representing the cities and the County, plus two public at-large members, is submitting an ordinance, described below, to the voters for approval. The ordinance will become effective and operative only if a two-thirds majority of the voters vote "yes" on the measure.  The ordinance would impose a retail sales and use tax of 0.5 percent throughout Ventura County, which would remain in effect for 30 years. The tax would be in addition to any existing or future state sales tax. Revenues of the tax imposed by this ordinance would be dedicated exclusively for transportation purposes in Ventura County, including acquisition, construction and maintenance of streets, roads, highways and public transit. Revenues of the tax would be used to fund transportation projects and programs set forth in the Ventura County Transportation Commission Expenditure Plan. The Expenditure Plan includes such projects as: reducing congestion, improving safety and widening Highways 101,23,118 and 126; maintaining local streets and County roads, and creating safe access to California State University at Channel Islands; coordinating traffic signals; expanding Metrolink rail services and improving railroad crossings; expanding local bus service and guaranteeing lower fares for senior citizens and persons with disabilities; and constructing truck weigh stations and bicycle paths. The ordinance would allow the Commission to amend the Expenditure Plan annually to account for additional funds, unexpected revenues and unforeseen circumstances.  


The ordinance would require that all revenues of the tax less required State Board of Equalization costs and administrative costs, which the ordinance would cap at 1 percent of the annual revenues, be allocated annually by the Commission based on the following formula: 40 percent to road and highway projects, 20 percent to public transit, bicycle and pedestrian projects and 40 percent returned to the cities and County, on a per capita basis, for local street purposes. The revenues provided by the ordinance are ' ‘ended to supplement, not replace, existing public and private funding for transportation improvements and programs. To that end, the ordinance Would require local jurisdictions to certify that they are spending all local transportation funding for transportation purposes and to spend the revenue that they receive within three years of receipt.  

The ordinance would also authorize the Commission to borrow money to accelerate transportation projects by issuing bonds which would be repaid with future tax revenues. The total principal amount of such debt outstanding at any one time could not exceed $500 million. The ordinance also provides for an annual spending limit of $400 million.  

If the measure is approved, it will become operative upon the initiation of revenue collection, which the Commission anticipates will be April 1,2005.  <impartialend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "B"  Congested highways, unsafe roads, potholes and time stuck in traffic are damaging our quality of life in Ventura County. State budget cuts to transportation funding will make a bad problem today even worse tomorrow.  Voting "YES" on Measure B will reduce traffic congestion, fix local streets, and ensure lower transit fares for seniors and people with disabilities throughout Ventura County.  Voting YES on Measure B will allow improvements on Highway 101 from Thousand Oaks to Santa Barbara to begin within 36 months instead of waiting until 2048.  Voting "YES" on Measure B will start to reduce gridlock on Highway 23 from Thousand Oaks to Moorpark within six months instead of waiting until 2013.  Voting "YES" on Measure B will begin to reduce traffic congestion on Highway 118 in Simi Valley within six months instead of waiting until 2012.  Voting "YES" on Measure B will start to improve Lewis Road, providing safe access to CSU Channel Islands within six months instead of waiting until 2009.  Measure B makes our communities safer. Every city and unincorporated county area will receive money to improve local streets, synchronize traffic signals and fix potholes.  Measure B is environmentally sound. It will decrease smog and increase public transit by expanding Metrolink and local bus services.  Measure B is community friendly. It will provide money for bike paths and sound walls. It will reduce fares and provide better transportation services for seniors and people with disabilities.  Measure B has bipartisan, countywide support. It will add to, not replace, federal and state funding for Ventura County.  All Measure B funds will stay in Ventura County for use on local transportation projects. The state or federal government cannot take Measure B funding away.  Vote "YES" on "B" for a Better Ventura County.  <favorend>






<favorsigs> s/Richard R. Rush President, California State University Channel Islands  s/Thomas V. McKeman President and CEO, Automobile Club of Southern California  s/Hank Lacayo President, Congress of California Seniors  s/Bill Davis Mayor, City of Simi Valley  s/Robert P. Roy President, Ventura County Agricultural Association <favorsigsend>






<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE "B"  Measure B shifts costs from developers to you, the entire sales tax paying public. It won’t stop congestion or reduce traffic growth, like that which ruined the San Fernando Valley.  If Measure B passes, it will help developers get out of their responsibility for building new on and off ramps to handle thousands of cars from unplanned developments. That’s why pro-development interests will fund the campaign for Measure B.  Big developers and their supporters at city hall want you to pay even more taxes for the traffic congestion that their projects create. We already pay a gasoline tax for highways, but now runaway growth advocates want more. They want over one billion dollars in additional sales taxes from your purchases to go for their road projects to make their development dreams a reality.  Your taxes will be wasted on more and bigger developer roads, which inevitably results in greater traffic and congestions, and more urban sprawl. And SOAR doesn’t apply to roads, so voters won’t get a say on roads built through agricultural land and open space.  Measure B also does nothing to restrain excessive highway construction costs, and doesn’t guarantee the $1.5 billion dollars the tax will bring in will actually be spent to reduce traffic and congestion.  We can’t be sure the Ventura County Transportation Commission, which is made up of local politicians, will spend the $1.5 billion efficiently. There’s no separate oversight body to be a fiscal watchdog, just the Commission overseeing itself. This is like the fox guarding the chicken coop. Moreover, the Commission will receive $15 million to administer the tax! Now that’s wasteful right there!  Measure B is really the Politician’s Growth Inducing Tax and Wasteful Spending Plan of 2004. If you vote yes, you’ll pay increased taxes over the next thirty years for this mistake.  <againstend>





<againstsigs> s/Frederick Rosenmund Chairperson  s/Thomas G. Ritch, Jr.  Chair, Citizens for Better Transportation Alternatives  s/Sue Boecker Ventura County Save Open Space Board Member  s/Janis McCormick Secretary, Environmental Coalition of Ventura County  s/Alan Sanders Conservation chair, Sierra Club Los Padres Chapter <againstsigsend>






<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE *B"  Ventura County residents want a healthy, safe and environmentally sound quality of life. It’s what brought us here. It’s why we live here.  Unfortunately, traffic congestion is bad and getting worse. It increases air / pollution, delays emergency vehicles and costs all Ventura County resident valuable time and money.  Ignoring traffic and congestion problems won’t make them go away. We must act now!  Voting "YES on Measure B“ provides all Ventura County with safe local streets and better public transit - now and for the next 30 years.  Measure B does NOT promote growth. Ventura County voters adopted SOAR, measures which prevent unwanted growth. Measure B works with SOAR to enhance our quality of life by improving mobility countywide.  Measure B contains strict oversight provisions to ensure that the money will be used only for Ventura County transportation projects. An annual independent audit will ensure that Measure B funds will be spent on our transportation needs. Measure B revenue does not replace developer fees, or state and federal funding.  The Ventura County Taxpayers Association, the Automobile Club and the presidents of both four-year universities, CSUCI and CLU, say "YES on Measure B!" as do senior, healthcare, agricultural, business, public safety and environmental advocates.  For about the cost of a burger and fries per month, you can have better roads, improved mass transit and lower fares for seniors.  You and your family deserve safe, pothole-free roads and highways, convenient public transit and less traffic congestion. We urge you to vote "YES on B" for a Better Ventura County.  <rebutagainstend>






<rebutagainstsigs> s/Carmen Ramirez Community lawyer  s/Sandy E. Smith Councilman, City of San Buenaventura  s/Yvonne R. Gutierrez | Community Activist v-  s/ Nao Takasugi President, Oxnard Harbor District  s/Luther S. Luedtke President, California Lutheran University <rebutagainstsigsend>







<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "B"

The arguments for Measure B are misleading. They do not tell you that
Measure B shifts the costs for road projects from developers to you, the
entire taxpaying public.

They do not tell you that Measure B will add a tax to your purchases every
time you go to the store, for the next thirty years.

They do not tell you Measure B will raise 1.5 Billion, far more than what’s
required. For example, if 1.5 Billion goes to widening 23 Freeway, 118
Freeway and Lewis Road, there would still be 1.37 Billion left.

They do not tell you we already pay for roads through the gas tax. They do
not tell you the Commission can switch projects it funds. Do you want 1.5
Billion of your taxes to go to an unelected board without knowing all the
projects it will fund?

Sadly, they emphasize mass transit spending in their comments but do not
tell you that mass transit is the lowest priority of Measure B. Originally 30%
of these funds were slated for public transit. However, the greed of road
building advocates got that reduced to 20%.

They tell you this tax will reduce congestion. Los Angeles has a
transportation tax. It hasn’t helped them reduce congestion. Wiping out land
to build roads for cars does not reduce cars, it adds cars, it adds congestion.

Measure B will force you and your children to pay more taxes for a Billion
Dollar Boondoggle. Vote NO on Measure B! <rebutfavorend>





<rebutfavorsigs> s/Fred Rosenmund
Chairperson

Citizens Against Urban Sprawl

s/Thomas G. Ritch, Jr.

Citizens For Better Transportation Alternatives

s/Linda Sue Boecker
Save Open Space Board Member

s/Janis McCormick
Sec., Environmental Coalition of Ventura Co.

'Man Sanders

Jonservation Chair Siena club
Los Padres Chapter <rebutfavorsigsend>







<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE "B"

VENTURA COUNTY TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
"MAINTAIN LOCAL STREETS AND PREVENT WORSE TRAFFIC
CONGESTION" RETAIL TRANSACTION AND USE ORDINANCE

PREAMBLE

Maintenance and repair of existing roadways in Ventura County and
improvements to relieve congestion cannot be accomplished with available
funds. Without additional funds, the system will bog down and pavement will
continue to crumble into permanent disrepair. State highway funds are on
hold again and needed projects are being delayed. Local governments must
either generate revenues to expand our system and maintain our
investments or watch the system collapse and endanger the health, welfare
and safety of Ventura County residents.

The establishment of a one-half percent sales tax for transportation to
supplement traditional revenues and revenues to be generated through
locally-adopted developer fees and assessment districts is the only way we
can be sure the transportation system will serve the current and future travel
needs in Ventura County. This measure is consistent with SOAR and the
General Plans of the cities in Ventura County and is designed to help
maintain our quality of life. It will guarantee reduced fares for seniors and
persons with disabilities and assure the continuation of Metrolink and other
rail and bus services.

The Ventura County Transportation Commission will continue to seek
maximum funding for transportation improvements through State and
Federal programs. The Commission will not provide sales tax revenues to
any city or to the County unless the revenues currently used by that agency
for transportation are continued to be used for transportation purposes.

These funds may only be used for transportation purposes in Ventura
County and cannot be diverted by the State or other governmental agencies
for another purpose.

The Ventura County Transportation Commission ordains as follows:

SECTION 1. SUMMARY. This ordinance shall be known and may be cited
as the Ventura County Maintain Local Streets and Prevent Worse Traffic
Congestion Expenditure Plan. The Project Expenditure Plan is set forth in
Section 6 herein. This ordinance provides for the implementation of the
Ventura County Transportation Commission Maintain Local Streets and
Prevent Worse Traffic Congestion Expenditure Plan. This commitment to
improve the quality of life in Ventura County shall be funded by a one-half of
one percent transactions and use tax established for thirty years. The
revenues shall be deposited in a special fund and used solely for
transportation projects and programs within Ventura County. The specific
projects and programs are identified in the Expenditure Plan, Section 6, of
this ordinance.

SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS.

a.	Expenditure Plan. “The Expenditure Plan" means the Ventura County
Transportation Commission Expenditure Plan shown in Section 6 of this
Ordinance.

b.	"County" means the Ventura County.

c.	"Commission" means the Ventura County Transportation Commission
as set forth in Section 130054.1 of the Public Utilities Code.

SECTION 3. AUTHORITY. This Ordinance is enacted, in part, pursuant to
the provisions of Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code (commencing with
Code Section 180000) of the Public Utilities Code, and Section 7252.16 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code.

SECTION 4. IMPOSITION OF TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX. In addition
to any other taxes authorized by law, there is hereby imposed in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of Ventura, in
accordance with provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and taxation Code which provisions are adopted
by reference and Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code (commencing with
Code Section 180000), a retail transactions and use tax at the rate of
one-half of one percent for thirty years in addition to any existing or future
authorized state or local transactions and use tax.

SECTION 5. PROJECT EXPENDITURE PLAN PURPOSES. These dedicated funds may only be used for transportation purposes in Ventura County
including the administration of Division 25, including legal actions related
thereto, the construction, capital, acquisition, maintenance and operation of
streets, roads, highways, including state highways and_______________

public transit and for related purposes. These purposes include
expenditures for the planning, environmental reviews, engineering, design
and related right-of-way acquisition.

SECTION 6. PROJECT EXPENDITURE PLAN. The revenues received by
the Ventura County Transportation Commission from this ordinance
(estimated to be $50 million per year, or $1.5 billion over thirty years), after
deduction of the required Board of Equalization costs for performing the
functions specified in Section 180204 of the Public Utilities Codes, and for
the administration of the Ventura County Half Cent Sales Tax, in an amount
not to exceed one percent (1 %), shall be used for transportation projects
and programs as set forth in this Expenditure Plan. The Commission shall
allocate annually the remaining Retail Tax Revenues 40% to Road and
Highway projects, 20% to Transit, Rail, Bicycle and Pedestrian projects and
40% returned to the cities and the county, on a per capita basis, for local
street purposes. A summary of the major projects and programs is provided
as follows:

Reduce Congestion, improve safety and widen Highways 101,23,118, and
126.

Maintain local streets, county roads and coordinate traffic signals
countywide.

Expand Metrolink rail services and local bus services.

Guarantee lower fares for senior citizens and persons with disabilities.

Construct needed truck weigh stations and bike paths

Improve railroad crossings countywide and access to California State
University Channel Islands (CSUCI)

Authorize bonds to expedite and finance improvements

Conduct independent yearly audits of the programs.

SECTION 7. PROJECT EXPENDITURE PLAN AMENDMENTS The
Expenditure Plan may be amended annually pursuant to Section 180207 of
the Public Utilities Code to provide for the use of additional federal, state
and local funds, to account for unexpected revenues, or to take into
consideration unforeseen circumstances. Commencing in 2015 and at least
every ten years thereafter, the Commission shall review and, where
necessary, propose revisions to the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 8. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT. It is the intent of the
Commission that revenues provided from this Ordinance be used to
supplement existing revenues being used for transportation improvements
and programs and shall not be used to replace existing revenues.

Local jurisdictions shall be required to certify that they are spending all local
transportation funding for transportation purposes. All eligible local agencies
will be required to spend the revenue that they receive within three years of
receipt. Unexpended funds, upon audit, must be returned to the
Commission for reallocation.

No revenues shall be allocated for any state highway projects until the
Commission has certified that Ventura County is receiving at least its County
Minimum share of highway funds from the state. Part of the certification shall
include a finding that the state has not reduced any state highway
allocations to Ventura County as a result of the addition of any local
revenues as provided herein. This certification shall be made biennially in
the Regional Transportation Improvement Program.

SECTION 9. PRIVATE SECTOR FUNDING. Revenues provided from this
Ordinance shall not be used to replace private developer funding which has
been or will be committed for any project. Nothing in this ordinance shall be
construed to preclude cities or the County from adopting or adjusting
appropriate traffic mitigation fees within their respective jurisdictions.

SECTION 10. BONDING AUTHORITY. In order to accelerate the
construction of needed transportation facility improvements, upon voter
approval of the ordinance, the Commission shall have the authority to sell or
issue, from time to time, on or before the collection of taxes, bonds or the
evidence of indebtedness, including, but not limited to, capital appreciation
bonds, in the aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding of not
to exceed $500 million, and to secure such indebtedness solely by way of
future collection of taxes, for capital outlay expenditure for the purposes set
forth in Section 5 hereof, including to carry out the projects described in the
Expenditure Plan, Section 6. The Commission, in allocating the annual
revenues from the Ordinance, shall meet all debt service requirements prior
to allocating funds for other projects.

SECTION 11. LIMITATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. Revenues
may be expended by the Commission for salaries, wages, benefits,
overhead, auditing and those services including contractual services
necessary to administer the Ordinance; however, in no case shall such
expenditures exceed one percent (1%) of the annual revenues provided by:
the Ordinance. Costs of performing or contracting for project related work \
shall be paid from the revenues allocated to the appropriate purpose as set
forth in Section 6 herein. An annual independent audit shall be conducted to
assure that the revenues expended by the Commission under this section
are necessary and reasonable in carrying out its responsibilities under the
Ordinance.

SECTION 12. ESTABLISHMENT OF SEPARATE ACCOUNTS. Each
agency receiving funds pursuant to Section 5 shall deposit said funds in a
separate Transportation Improvement Account. Interest earned on funds
allocated pursuant to this Ordinance shall be expended only for those
purposes for which the funds were allocated or shall be returned to the
Commission for reallocation. The Commission reserves the right to audit
any such accounts.

SECTION 13. IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCES. Upon approval of this
Ordinance by the voters the Commission shall adopt implementing
ordinances and rules and take such other actions as may be necessary and
appropriate to carry out its responsibilities.

SECTION 14. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Article XIII (B) of the
California Constitution requires the establishment of an annual
appropriations limit for certain governmental entities. The maximum annual
appropriations limit for the Commission has been established as $400
million in order to implement and deliver the program approved by the
voters. The appropriations limit shall be subject to adjustment as provided
by law. All expenditures of the transactions and use tax revenues imposed
in Section 3 are subject to the appropriations limit of the Commission.

SECTION 15. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES. This Ordinance shall
become effective only if a 2/3’s majority of the electors voting on the
Ordinance at the election held on November 2,2004 vote to approve the
Ordinance. If so approved, the provisions of this Ordinance shall become
operative upon the initiation of revenue collection, anticipated to be on Apr'
1,2005.

SECTION 16. REQUEST FOR ELECTION. The Commission hereby
requests the Ventura County Board of Supervisors to place this Ordinance
before the voters for approval on the November 2,2004 ballot.

The proposition to be placed on the ballot shall contain a summary of the
transportation projects and programs and shall read substantially as follows:

Proposition “B", half-cent transportation sales tax.

To maintain streets and prevent worse traffic congestion, improve safety and
air quality and match state and federal transportation grants, this measure
authorizes a one-half cent sales tax to:

Reduce Congestion, improve safety and widen Highways 101,23,118, and
126.

Maintain local streets, county roads and coordinate traffic signals
countywide.

Expand Metrolink rail services and local bus services.

Guarantee lower fares for senior citizens and persons with disabilities.

Construct needed truck weigh stations and bike paths

Improve railroad crossings and access to California State University Channel
Islands (CSUCI)

Authorize bonds to expedite and finance improvements

Conduct independent yearly audits of the programs.

SECTION 17. SEVERABILITY. If any section, part, clause or phrase of this
Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional, the remaining
portions shall not be affected but shall remain in full force and effect. <fullend>
