BD.SUP."84JUL16pw12=88

East Side Union High School District

830 North Capitol Avenue • San Jos6, California 95133-1316 • 408-347-5000

Academic, personal and social success for each and every student.

Esperanza Zendejas, Ed.D., Superintendent

B/S Chair

July 15, 2004

BD of Supv.
Clerk //

Shannon Bushey, Election Supervisor (originals)
Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters
1555 Berger Drive Bldg 2
San Jose, CA 95112

Phyllis Perez-Sorensen (copies)

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
Santa Clara County
70 West Hedding Street, 10th Floor
San Jose, CA 95110

Colleen B. Wilcox (copies)

Santa Clara County Superintendent

of Schools

1290 Ridder Park Dr.

San Jose, CA 95131-2398

RE: East Side Union High School District Parcel Tax Election, November 2, 2004

Enclosed is a resolution of the Board of Trustees of the East Side Union High School
District ordering a parcel tax election for November 2, 2004. This election is being ordered
pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California Government
Code Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. (the “Law”) and requires approval by two-thirds
of the electorate voting on the measure.

In order to comply with the Law, the Board has adopted a full ballot text (Exhibit A), and
an abbreviated form of the measure (Exhibit B). We are requesting that only the abbreviated
text be printed on the ballot and the required text to be published in the San Jose Mercury News.

Our counsel Chick Adams and Courtney Jones at Jones Hall (415-391-5780)

650 California Street, 18th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94108) and our Financial Advisor is Dale
Scott at Dale Scott & Company (415-956-1030) 400 Montgomery Street, Suite 805, San
Francisco, CA 94104.

Yours very truly,

Esperamza ZendejasyEd.D.
Superintendent

cc: Chick Adams, Jones Hall

Dale Scott, Dale Scott & Company

BOARD OF TRUSTEES: J. Manuel Herrera, Craig Mann, Patricia Martinez-Roach, Juanita Ramirez, George Shirakawa.

It is the policy of the East Side Union High School District not to discriminate on the basis of sex, age, religion, race or national origin, sexual
orientation, or handicapping condition in its educational programs and activities or in the recruitment and employment of personnel.

.<rf i/dJ&U /

/ /l /' nh* A s r?v

EAST SIDE UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

Board Meeting of: June 17, 2004
Agenda Item: 9.12
Attachment A

Amended

TO:	Board of Trustees

FROM:	Superintendent

PREPARED BY:	Doug Emerson

SUBJECT:	Adopt Resolution 2003/2004-32 Ordering a Special Election to be

held on Tuesday, November 2, 2004 for the Purpose of Submitting
to the Qualified Electors of the District the Question of Levying a
Qualified Special Tax upon each Parcel in the District for
Educational Purposes and establishing the specification of the
Election Order

The attached resolution will authorize the District to place a parcel tax election on the
November 2, 2004 ballot. The resolution does not state a dollar amount per parcel. The
Board will need to determine the dollar amount to be stated in the resolution. The
resolution also contains language that will give the Superintendent the authority to
rescind the resolution should the County proceed with placing a county wide parcel tax
election on the November 2, 2004 ballot.

FISCAL IMPACT	FUNDING SOURCE

Approx. $7,000,000 per year	N/A

for six years, assuming
a $40.00 per parcel tax

RECCOMEND ATION:

It is recommended that the Board adopt the resolution authorizing a parcel tax election
being placed on the November 2, 2004 ballot.

APPROVED

Board of Trustees

tg|nlM

RESOLUTION NO. 2003/2004-32 Amended

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
EAST SIDE UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL ELECTION TO BE HELD ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2004 FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING
TO THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS OF THE DISTRICT THE QUESTION
OF LEVYING A QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX UPON EACH PARCEL IN
THE DISTRICT FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES AND
ESTABLISHING THE SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees (the “Board”) of the East Side Union High
School District (the “District”) has determined that the present revenues of the District
are inadequate to fund the cost of education within the District, and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California
Government Code Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. (the “Law”) authorize a
school district, upon approval by two-thirds of the electorate voting on the measure, to
levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes following notice and a public hearing;
and

WHEREAS, the Board has on this date held a public hearing which was duly
noticed where all interested persons have been heard on the matter of holding an
election in the District on the matter of levying a qualified special tax on each parcel in
the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees desires at this time to order an election to be
held on November 2, 2004 in the District for the purpose of submitting to the voters in
the District the matter of levying a qualified special tax on each parcel in the District for
educational purposes and to designate the specifications thereof, pursuant to Education
Code Section 5320 et seq.; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE EAST SIDE UNION
HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, ORDER AND DETERMINE AS
FOLLOWS:

Section I. Call for Election. The Board hereby orders an election and submits
to the electors of the District the question of whether a qualified special tax shall be
levied and collected in the District for the purposes as set forth more fully in the ballot
proposition approved below. This Resolution constitutes the order of the District to call
such election and shall constitute the “specifications of the election order” pursuant to
Education Code Section 5322.

Section 2. Election Date. The date of the election shall be November 2, 2004,
and the election shall be held solely within the boundaries of the District.

Section 3. Purpose of Election; Ballot Proposition. The purpose of the
election shall be for the voters in the District to vote on a proposition, a full copy of which
is attached hereto and marked Exhibit “A”, containing the question of whether the District
shall levy a qualified special tax in the District for the purpose stated therein, together
with the accountability requirements of Government Code Section 50075.1. As required
by Elections Code Section 13247, the abbreviated form of the measure to appear on the
ballot is attached hereto and marked as Exhibit “B”. The Superintendent or his designee
is hereby authorized and directed to make any changes to the text of the proposition as
required to conform to any requirements of the Law or the Santa Clara County Registrar
of Voters.

Section 4. Authority for Election. The authority for ordering the election is
contained in Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California
Government Code Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. The authority for the
specification of this election order is contained in Section 5322 of the Education Code.

Section 5. Type of Tax, Rate and Method of Collection. Said qualified
special tax shall in an amount not to exceed $50 per parcel assessed against each
parcel of taxable land in the District. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the
District that receives a separate tax bill from the Santa Clara County Assessor’s Office.
All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt
from the qualified special tax.

Said qualified special tax shall be levied in the first fiscal year following the
election on November 2, 2004, and shall continue in effect for the next succeeding six
(6) fiscal years.

Section 6. Accountability Requirements. The members of the Board, the
Superintendent and officers of the District are hereby requested and directed,
individually and collectively, to provide accountability measures pursuant to Government
Code Section 50075.1 that include, but are not limited, to the following:

(a)	a statement indicating the specific purposes of the special tax,

(b)	a requirement that the proceeds be applied only to the specific
purposes identified,

(c)	the creation of an account into which the proceeds shall be
deposited, and

(d)	an annual report pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.3 as
provided in Section 7.

Such accountability measures shall be set forth on the ballot in the form of
Exhibit A attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

Section 7. Annual Report. As provided in Government Code Section 50075.3,
the Board directs the chief fiscal officer of the District to file a report with the Board no
later than January 1 of each year containing (a) the amount of funds collected and
expended and (b) the status of any project required or authorized to be funded as
identified in Section 6(a) hereof.

Section 8. Filing of this Resolution; No Filing if County Calls Parcel Tax
Election. The Superintendent is hereby directed to file a copy of this Resolution to the
Santa Clara County Superintendent of Schools, the Santa Clara County Registrar of
Voters (the “County Registrar") and the Santa Clara County Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors.

Such filing shall be made not more than 10 days prior to the date which the
County Registrar fixes as the deadline for submission of items to be included on the
November 2, 2004, ballot. If prior to making such filing the Superintendent receives
information that the Board of Supervisors of the County has adopted (or has placed on
its agenda) a resolution calling a parcel tax election on the November 2, 2004, ballot to
provide financing for schools in the County, the Superintendent may choose (a) not to
file a copy of this Resolution as set forth in the preceding paragraph, and (b) cause to be
prepared and presented to the Board of Trustees a resolution rescinding this Resolution.

Section 9. Consolidation of Election. The County Registrar and the Santa
Clara County Board of Supervisors are hereby requested to consolidate the election
ordered hereby with any and all other elections to be held on November 2, 2004, within
the District.

Section 10. Ballot Arguments. Any and all members of this Board are hereby
authorized to act as an author of any ballot argument prepared in connection with the
election, including a rebuttal argument. The Superintendent, President of the Board, or
their designees, are hereby authorized to execute any document and to perform all acts
necessary to place the bond measure on the ballot.

Section 11. Notice of Election. That the Santa Clara County Registrar of
Voters is hereby requested to prepare a formal Notice of Qualified Special Tax Election
in time, form and manner as required by law. The suggested form of notice of the
election is as follows:

EAST SIDE UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ELECTION NOTICE

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the
qualified electors of the East Side Union High
School District (the "District") of Santa Clara
County, that in accordance with law, an election
will be held on Tuesday, November 2, 2004, in the
District, at which election there will be submitted
the question of levying a qualified special tax of
$50 on each non-exempt parcel of land in the
District for the purpose of raising money for the
cost of public education.

Section 12. Reimbursement for Services Performed. The East Side Union
High School District agrees to reimburse Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters for
services performed when work is completed on the election upon presentation of a bill.

Section 13. Election Pursuant to Law. In all particulars not recited in this
Resolution, said election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding
school district elections in the District.

Section 14. Certification by Clerk of the Board That the Clerk of the Board
shall certify to the passage and adoption of and shall make minutes of the passage and
adoption therefore in the records of the proceedings of the Board of Trustees of the
District, in the minutes of the meeting at which the same is passed and adopted.

ADOPTED, SIGNED AND APPROVED this 17,h day of June, 2004.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
EAST SIDE UNION HIGH SCHOOL
DISTRICT

ATTEST:

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

To increase student literacy, provide students training in modern
technology, and improve student safety throughout the District including
Andrew Hill, Evergreen Valley, Foothill, Independence, James Lick, Mt.
Pleasant, Oak Grove, Piedmont Hills, Santa Teresa, Silver Creek,
Overfelt and Yerba Buena High Schools, shall East Side Union High
School District levy an annual tax of $50 per parcel provided spending is
annually reviewed by an independent citizens' oversight committee and
all funds are spent locally and not transferred to the State?

PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the registered voters
voting on the proposition, the District will be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of
$50 per parcel for the specific school projects listed in the Project List described below,
subject to all the accountability requirements specified below.

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this proposition in order
that the voters and taxpayers in the District may be assured that their money will be
spent wisely. As required by the laws of the State of California, the proceeds of the
qualified special tax will be deposited into a special account established by the District
and will be applied only to the specific purposes identified below. The District has
covenanted to have on file with its governing board no later than January 1 of each year
a report stating the amount of the funds collected and expended and the status of any
project authorized to be funded.

PROJECT LIST

The statement shown below is a part of the ballot proposition and must be
reproduced in any official document required to contain the full statement of the
proposition.

The proceeds of the parcel tax will be expended to finance the payment of costs
and expenses of the District which are designed to achieve the following purposes. The
specific purposes of the parcel tax are described as follows:

*	Increase student academic performance through literacy

*	Training of students to use modern technology

*	Increasing student safety

EXHIBIT B

BALLOT MEASURE
ABBREVIATED FORM

To increase student literacy, provide students training in modern
technology, and improve student safety throughout the District including
Andrew Hill, Evergreen Valley, Foothill, Independence, James Lick, Mt.
Pleasant, Oak Grove, Piedmont Hills, Santa Teresa, Silver Creek,
Overfelt and Yerba Buena High Schools, shall East Side Union High
School District levy an annual tax of $50 per parcel provided spending is
annually reviewed by an independent citizens’ oversight committee and
all funds are spent locally and not transferred to the State?