r

County of
San Diego

Sample Ballot & voter information Pamphlet

PRIMARY ELECTION

TUESDAY, MARCH 2,2004

ABSENTEE VOTERS:

✓ Save this pamphlet for voting; another will not be
sent with your ballot

POLL VOTERS:

✓	Check back cover for your polling place. Polls open at
7 a.m. and close at 8 p.m.

✓	Don't wait! Call before Election Day if directions are
needed or check www.sdvote.com

✓	Mark and take this pamphlet with you to the polls

Secretary of State will mail information
about the state propositions.

For election night results go to www.sdvote.com



A Spanish-language Sample Ballot & Voter Information Pamphlet
is available upon request. Call 858-565-5800.

Una Balota de Muestra y un Folleto de lnformaci6n en Espanol
esta disponible si lo solicita. Llame al 858-565-5800.

Call 858-565-5800 to ask about voting
services that are available in Filipino.

Tumawag lang sa 858-565-5800 para sa inyong mga katanungan
ukol sa mga serbisyo ng pagboboto sa wikang filipino.

Sally McPherson, Registrar of Voters
5201 Ruffin Road, Suite I
San Diego, CA 92123
858-565-5800 or 1-800-696-0136

177

COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 112 - CAMPO
Proposition N

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

i ■ Shall an ordinance for funding structural fire protection
I* Hi) W N and emergency medical services within County Service
* 1	11	Area	No. 112 - Campo be approved establishing special

taxes not exceeding the amounts set forth in the ordinance?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds of the voters.

Full text of this proposition follows the arguments/rebuttals.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

You are asked to vote on the adoption of a special benefit tax within the boundaries of County
Service Area No. 112-Campo for purposes of paying for structural fire protection and emergency
medical services. If approved, the tax will be levied on a parcel and class of improvement to
property basis not to exceed the following schedule:

Parcel, Class of Improvement
To Property, Use of Property

Residential

Multi-unit Attached Residential
Commercial, Industrial

Maximum Special Benefit Tax

$100 per single dwelling unit

$100 for the first dwelling unit,
plus $25 per additional dwelling unit,
per building

$100 per building

Institutional	$100 per building

The special benefit tax may be increased every third anniversary date based on the increase for
the San Diego area in the consumer price index. However, the maximum increase for each three-
year review may not exceed $20. No greater increases can be approved without approval of a two-
thirds majority vote of those voting within CSA 112-Campo.

The ordinance imposing the special benefit tax shall become operative within CSA 112- Campo
on July 1,2004, if the special benefit tax is approved by two-thirds of the registered voters voting on
the question of adopting the special benefit tax.

A “yes" vote is a vote in favor of adopting the special benefit tax.
A “no” vote is a vote against adopting the special benefit tax.

N SD 177-048

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION N

Campo Fire and Rescue (CFR) has been underfunded since a $50.00 per household benefit fee
ended in 1995. The oniy source of funding is $16.800.00 from County Properly taxes. In 1998 and
in 2002 new benefit fee propositions failed the required 273 majority by a small margin, leaving CFR
still underfunded. In 1999, Supervisor Diane Jacob, recognizing the dire need appropriated county
funds for a new fire engine. In addition CFR has aggressively procured grants funding the
purchase of improved safety equipment and replacement firefighting gear. These additions have
made It possible for volunteers to respond to emergency calls with confidence in their equipment.
So far this year, CFR had responded to over 200 calls.

In 2002 CFR was successful in reducing Campo's fire insurance rating from "10" to “9" resulting in
potential insurance premium savings to homeowners. Efforts continue to reduce that rating to "8"
or “7", but funds to Improve service are scarce, By supporting this new benefit fee, residents will
assure the continuity of this vital community service by providing funds for continued equipment
upgrades, liability insurance, fuel, maintenance, and repairs.

CFR cannot continue to provide adequate fire protection and emergency medical services without
another source of funds beyond the meager property tax percentage. Remember that Campo's
firefighters and board members are all volunteers. Many of the firefighters drive from San Diego at
their own cost to volunteer, even providing their own meals and bedding. They simply ask that this
community support their efforts by providing sufficient funds to do the job properly. This benefit fee
is an extremely small price to pay to have help available promptly in emergencies.

Please vote “YES” on Proposition N for Service Area 112 - Campo Volunteer Fire and Rescue;
help yourself and your community.

MICHAEL TORTORA	RANDOLPH S.	LENAC

Community Fire Board Member

JANETTE MILLS	JEAN BATES

Community Fire Board Member	Retired

JAMES L. JOHNSON

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION N

Despite claims of Campo Fire (CFR,) their only source of funds is NOT County property taxes.
Each year CFR successfully applies for and receives thousands of dollars of grants from the State,
County, BLM, FEMA and other governmental agencies which pay for turnout gear, tires, radios,
wildland fire equipment, hoses, etc. Fees on new homes go into an account for new equipment. In
addition, community members donate thousands of dollars to CFR each year.

The building of Campo Hills will produce over $50,000 in fees for CFR. New property taxes from
these non-Proposition 13 homes should be substantial.

According to a local agent, the reduction of Campo's ISO fire rating from a “10” to a “9” will not
reduce premiums and any further reduction in that rating would most likely not reduce them
without 7/24 coverage - which this proposition does not provide.

Campo residents will be paying a $70 fee next year to the State for CDF for wildland fire protection.
The Board of Supervisors is considering additional fees for fire-fighting helicopters. Campo’s fee,
if approved, will provide the same service you have now, and it will be a permanent tax.

CFR’s statement"... this benefit is an extremely small price to pay to have help available promptly
in emergencies" is misleading. Fire fighters and EMT’s provide help and this proposition does
nothing to provide additional personnel to respond to emergencies. CFR will remain a volunteer
fire department.

Vote NO on N.

BEVERLY ESRY
Campo Resident

NANCY L. SLAFF
Campo Resident

SHELIA JAMISON
Campo Resident

OTTO BOHNSTEHN
Retired Air Force

MICHAEL C. THOMETZ

N SD 177-049

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION N

This proposition should be defeated. The 2003 fires will generate substantial changes in county fire
protection, rendering this proposition irrelevant and leaving us obligated with new taxes. Our
Department should focus on creating a full-time countywide department, rather than wasting
money on duplicated administrative costs and today's inconsistent service.

1)	The County plans to consolidate more than 60 individual fire departments of varying sizes and
levels of service. This should provide greater protection with 24/7/365 coverage. The cost of
increased service is under review but may be no more than the tax proposed by this Proposition.
We should wait and see how the countywide department will work before approving more taxes.
We have no idea what would happen to this tax money if voters approve a countywide department
next November.

2)	This tax is permanent. There is no sunset provision for terminating it.

3)	The Department has no financial plan for use of these taxes. The Board approved the
Proposition before developing one. Their justification was, “We need the money." Taxes should
only be approved under a well-conceived plan with a defined community benefit.

4)	The Department has not demonstrated good financial management or adequate public
accountability. Repeated public and Board member requests for financial records have been
ignored. Approving a 300% increase before we know how our tax money is spent and how
donations are handled is inappropriate. We're entitled to timely and detailed financial statements.

5)	The County expects this tax to raise $75,000, with Campo Hills Included (more in future years
due to CPI and new home increases), yet there is no increase in protection. For approximately
$100,000 we could adopt a CDF Amador Plan that would provide 24/7 coverage. Do not approve
this tax without a plan for 24/7 service.

MICHAEL C.THOMETZ

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION N

Although the 2003 fires may generate substantial changes in county fire protection, they have not.
Campo Fire & Rescue (CFR) is working with County on consolidation. In the meanwhile CFR must
continue fire and medical protection. Our community cannot afford to '"wait” to see how a
countywide department might work (past history has shown that outlying communities receive the
short end of such deals).

Yes, this is a permanent tax - as long as CFR exists - and would end if a Countywide Department
were formed. However, the planning of a Countywide Department will require the approval of the
individual fire protection districts and the vote of the general public - with a yet undetermined cost.

Yes, CFR has financial plans for these taxes and has always been open as to the needs for these
funds. Funds collected would - buy fuel, tires, gear, electricity, insurance, maintain existing
equipment, etc; all of these items which the existing $16,000 can not provide.

Financial records for the department ARE public and are presented regularly at the Board
meetings, along with annual audits of the books. Argument #4 is blatantly misleading.

Whether this tax raised $35,000 or $75,000 argument #5 is irrelevant. Without passage of this
benefit fee CFR would be at their same $16,000 annual budget - nowhere close to a possible
Amador Plan. Another misleading statement is made regarding coverage - the truth is CDF,
cannot guarantee 24/7 coverage and is not year-round coverage.

Don't be fooled by the misrepresentations in the argument against this proposition.

JANETTE MILLS
Community Fire Board Member

WALTER L. OGLE
President of Fire Board

MITCHEL SANCHEZ
Campo Fire Chief

MICHAEL TORTORA
Community Fire Board Member

N SD 177-050

ORDINANCE NO. 9613 (NEW SERIES)

AN ORDINANCE DETERMINING AND PROPOSING FOR ADOPTION AN ANNUAL SPECIAL BENEFIT TAX FOR
STRUCTURAL FIRE PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES OF COUNTY

SERVICE AREA NO. 112-CAMPO

The Board of Supervisors of the County of San Diego ordains as follows:

Section 1. The Board does hereby determine and propose tor adoption an annual Special
Benefit Tax for structural fire protection services within the boundaries of County Service Area No.
112 of San Diego County, pursuant to Government Code Section 50077, to be levied on a parcel
and class of improvement to property basis In amounts not to exceed the following schedule:

Parcel, Class of Improvement
to Property. Use of Property

Residential

Multi-Unit Attached Residential

Commercial, Industrial
Institutional

Maximum Special Benefit Tax

$100.00 per single dwelling unit
$100.00 for the first dwelling unit,
plus $25.00 per additional dwelling
unit, per building
$100.00 per building
$100.00 per building

For the purposes of Fire Protection Fee, all single-family residences, mobile home units and
trailers shall be considered equal and shall not be subject to separate calculations.

There will also be a review each third anniversary date, and an adjustment made in the
assessment based on the increase in Consumer Price Index for the San Diego area as
determined by the U.S Department of Labor. Maximum increase for each of these reviews will
not exceed $20.00.

Section 2. Such charges shall be charged to any parcel to which fire protection services may be
made available, whether or not such fire protection services are actually used upon such parcel,
except such tax shall not be imposed upon a federal or state governmental agency or another local
agency.

Section 3. Such charges shall be imposed for the purposes of obtaining, furnishing, operating,
and maintaining fire protection equipment and apparatus, and for the purpose of paying salaries,
insurance costs, and benefits to firefighting personnel.

Section 4. Pursuant to Government Code Section 50077, the Special Benefit Tax proposed by
this Ordinance shall be submitted to the voters within the boundaries of County Service Area No.
112 - Campo. The ballot proposition shall be worded as provided in the resolution of the Board of
Supervisors calling the election within the County Service Area.

Section 5. his Ordinance shall become operative within County Service Area No. 112 on July 1,
2004, if the Special Benefit Tax proposed by this Ordinance is approved by two-thirds of the voters
voting on the question of adoption of the Special Benefit Tax.

Section 6. If the proposition is approved, the Board of Supervisors shall establish schedules
varying each of such Special Benefit Taxes according to value of benefits to each parcel and
according to availability of fire suppression equipment, apparatus, and personnel to the affected
parcel and improvement. However, the Special Benefit Tax shall not exceed the maximum charges
set forth in Section 1 hereof.

Section 7. If any portion of this Ordinance be declared unconstitutional, invalid or otherwise
unenforceable, the other provisions of this Ordinance shall remain in full force and effect.

Section 8. Pursuant to Government Code Section 25123, this Ordinance is effective immediately
as an Ordinance relating to an election.

Section 9. Before the expiration of fifteen (15) days after its passage, this Ordinance shall be
published once with names of members voting for and against the same, in the San Diego Daily
Commerce, a newspaper of general circulation published in the County of San Diego.

PASSED and ADOPTED this 3rd day of December, 2003.

GREG COX, CHAIRMAN
Board of Supervisors
County of San Diego, State of California

N SD 177-051