RESOLUTION 04-63

A Resolution of the City Council of the City of West Sacramento
Calling an Election and Requesting the Yolo County Board of Supervisors
To Permit The County Clerk of Yolo County to Render
Specified Services to the City Relating to the Conduct
of a Municipal Election to be held in the City
on November 2,2004 in Consolidation with the General Election

WHEREAS, under provisions of the laws relating to general law cities in the State of California, a Gen-
eral Municipal Election shall be held on November 2, 2004; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State relating to General Law Cities, there
is called and ordered to be held in the City of West Sacramento CA, on Tuesday, November 2, 2004, a Gen-
eral Municipal Election for the purpose of electing two members of the City Council for the full term of four
years, one Mayor for a term of two years, and the Transient Occupancy Tax Measure; and

WHEREAS, the question for the Transient Occupancy Tax Measure shall be worded as follows:

Shall the City of West Sacramento increase the transient occupancy tax paid by hotel
and motel guests from 8% to 12% for general governmental purposes, including but
not limited to, funding for enhancements to the City’s downtown, including expanded
police enforcement, intensive street landscaping, incentives for restaurants, shops,
public areas, and cultural facilities?

WHEREAS, the Clerk of Yolo County has traditionally provided the City of West Sacramento with ser-
vices necessary to conduct municipal elections and the Yolo County Clerk's office has expertise in providing
these services; and

WHEREAS, the Yolo County Board of Supervisors is hereby requested to permit the County Clerk to
render services as specified in Exhibit “A” attached herein; and

WHEREAS, the City has traditionally consolidated its election with the County and requests to consoli-
date with the Statewide General Election on November 2, 2004.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of West Sacramento that the
Yolo County Board of Supervisors is requested to consolidate the Municipal Election with the General Election,
to authorize the County Clerk to provide the services specified in Exhibit “A” and to provide that the County of
Yolo shall be reimbursed for services performed when the work is completed and upon presentation to the City
of a properly prepared bill; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that each candidate is to pay $300 for the publication of the optional
Candidate’s Statement, pursuant to Election Code Section 13307. If the candidate elects to have Spanish
and/or Russian translation of his/her candidate statement, an additional $300 will be charged for each. The
limitation of the number of words that a candidate may use in his/her Candidate Statement is 200 words.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of West Sacramento this 7th day of July, 2004
by the following vote:

AYES:	Kristoff,	Montemayor,	Villegas,	Cabaldon

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Pierson

ATTEST:

EXHIBIT “A” of Resolution 04-63

Services to be rendered by the Yolo County Clerk to the City of West Sacramento for the November 2,
2004 General Municipal Election:

a.	The publication of all required legal notices pertaining to the election and provide copy
of affidavit of publication to City.

b.	Verify nomination signatures.

c.	Provide copies of all precinct maps and additional maps the city requires.

d.	Provide one set of voter lists (precinct/street order) at the close of registration.

e.	Recruiting and training for precinct workers and securing polling places.

f.	Provide printer proof samples of all city ballot material in a timely manner to allow for
any changes prior to the final printing deadline.

g.	Encoding the ballots for computer count, providing a test run, appointing an Accuracy
and Logistics Board to certify computer programming for ballot tabulation, tabulating un-
official election results.

h.	Verification of absent voter ballot application signatures, and processing absent voter
pamphlets.

i.	Labeling of sample ballot pamphlets.

j.	Providing election supplies, including voting booths, tables, chairs, voting devices, flags
and other election-related items.

k.	Provide Statement of Vote pursuant to state law.

l.	Any other services reasonably required to conduct this election.

West Sacramento City Clerk, as the Chief Elections Official for the City of West Sacramento will con-
duct all aspects of election not specified above, including but not limited to:

a.	Issue and file candidates’ nomination papers.

b.	Proof sample/official ballots.

c.	Prepare resolution canvassing votes to be adopted by Council.

d.	Serve as filing officer for all FPPC statements for city candidate and ballot measure
committees.

e.	Other services as required.