VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF SEBASTOPOL
MEASURET

Shall the City increase the Sales Tax by 0.125% with the

T proceeds of the tax to be deposited in the General Fund, to
be used for all general governmental needs of the City
including, but not limited to, capital equipment require-
ments, fire protection, street maintenance, park maintenance,
and police services?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T

Cities may levy retail transactions (“sales”) and use taxes in accordance with the
procedures and requirements of the T ransactions and Use T ax Law (Part 1.6 of Di-
vision 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code). The City of Sebastopol has received
the necessary authorization from the State Legislature to levy a Transactions and
Use Tax in the City of Sebastopol at a rate of one-fourth of one percent (0.25%), for
general revenue purposes (Revenue and Taxation Code section 7286.80).

The ordinance which would be approved by this measure would levy the proposed
sales and use taxes on retail sales, and storage, use or consumption of personal
property, in the City of Sebastopol, as more fully described in the language of the
proposed ordinance. Certain exemptions would apply which are also identified in
the ordinance.

Passage of Measure “T” will repeal the previous tax measure passed by the elec-
torate in 2002, so that the sales and use tax rates in the City of Sebastopol will
henceforth be as stated in the first paragraph of this analysis. If Measure “T” is
not approved, then the current increase in the sales and use tax rates, established
in 2002, of one-eighth of one percent (0.125%), will not be repealed, and will con-
tinue in effect.

This measure must be approved by a majority of the Sebastopol electorate at this
election. If so approved, Measure “T" will become a valid and binding ordinance of
the City, and will be considered as adopted upon the date that the vote is declared
by the City Council.

si Larry McLaughlin
Sebastopol City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

Sebastopol is one of the most desirable places to live in all of California. To con-
tinue the quality of life we must maintain our infrastructure, particularly our streets
and our public safety services. These are valuable assets which belong to, and are
used by, all of us.

Our ability to maintain these public assets has been seriously compromised by the
State’s decision to balance their budget by taking money away from cities and
counties. Since 1993, Sebastopol has lost more than $210,000 per year in property
tax increases to Sacramento's fiscal irresponsibility. In 2004 and 2005 they will
take an additional $100,000 per year.

Simply put, there is not enough money coming in to keep our streets paved and our
police and fire departments adequately staffed. Any property owner knows that to
defer maintenance of a building is a false economy which will cost far more in the
long run for repairs and replacement.

Measure T will repeal the 1/8% sales tax passed by the voters in 2002 and replace
it with a 1/4% increase. Raising our sales tax by an additional one eighth of one
percent will cost the average Sebastopol family less than $1 per month. One eighth
of one percent is the equivalent of an additional penny on an $8 purchase.

The net tax revenue raised by Measure T will generate approximately $150,000
per year to support vital city services. About 80% of this amount will be collected
from people who live outside the City limits but use the City’s streets and services.

Please join us in voting to support our community and to invest in our common
safety and prosperity.

si Larry Robinson	si Ken Jacobs

Sebastopol City Councilmember	Attorney

si Linda Kelley	si Donald E. Fiori

Mayor, Sebastopol	Citizen of the Year

si Kim Caruso
Citizen

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE T

104

9625

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE T
ORDINANCE NO.___________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SEBASTOPOL
IMPOSING A TRANSACTION AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SEBASTOPOL DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

THE CITY OF SEBASTOPOL MUNICIPAL CODE SECTION 3.05 (TRANS-
ACTION AND USE TAX) SHALL BE AMENDED TO READ:

Section 3.05.010 TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of
Sebastopol Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Sebastopol herein-
after shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated
territory of the City, which territory shall be referred to herein as “City.”

Section 3.05.020 OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first
day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adop-
tion of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being set forth below.

Section 3.05.030 PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be inter-
preted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the pro-
visions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes
the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a simple majority of
the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at a
general election.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limita-
tions contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a
tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by
the State Board of Equalization in a mannerthat adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from the existing statutory and admin-
istrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be ad-
ministered in a manner which will be to the greatest degree possible, consistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes and at the same time
minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions of this ordinance.

E.	To repeal that retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Section 7286.8 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

Section 3.05.040 CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date,
the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordi-
nance, provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter fol-
lowing the execution of such a contract.

Section 3.05.050 TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of sell-
ing tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in
the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-fourth of one percent of the
gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in said territory on or after the operative date of this ordinance.

out-of-state destination or a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destina-
tion. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the
State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the re-
tail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 3.05.070 USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on
the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property pur-
chased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for stor-
age, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-fourth of one
percent of the sales price of the property. The sale price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to the state sales or use tax regardless of
the place to which delivery is made.

Section 3.05.080 PROCEEDS OF TAX. The proceeds of the tax shall be
deposited into the general fund to be used for all general government needs of the
City including, but not limited to, capital equipment requirements, police services,
street maintenance, park maintenance, and fire protection.

Section 3.05.090 ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except
as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all
of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Rev-
enue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as
though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.05.100 LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitu-
tion shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Trea-
sury, or the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against the City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections re-
ferring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other con-
sumption remain subject to tax by the State under provisions of Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the
state under said provisions of that code;

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715,6737,6797, or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of
that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 3.05.110 PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an ad-
ditional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 3.05.060 PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance,
all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the
tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an

CONT. NEXT PAGE

105

9625

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE T, CONT.

Section 3.05.120 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or
by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or
use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property other than Fuel or petroleum prod-
ucts to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County
in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside of the City which is shipped to a
point outside of the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point
by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside
the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code), aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code, by registration to an
out-of-City address and by declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to fur-
nish property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the opera-
tive date of this Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the stor-
age, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a trans-
actions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of air-
craft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws
of this state, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in ad-
dition to the exemptions provided in Section 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tan-
gible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the prop-
erty for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursu-
ant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in busi-
ness in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangi-
ble personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City
or participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City orthrough any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	A retailer engaged in business in the City shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (com-
mencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented ves-
sels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who reg-
isters or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the prop-
erty the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3.05.130 AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the ef-
fective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall auto-
matically become a part of this ordinance; provided, however, that no such amend-
ment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 3.05.140 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunc-
tion or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, ac-
tion or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of
the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected.

Section 3.05.150 SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder
of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circum-
stances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 3.05.160 STATUTORY AUTHORITY FOR TAX. This ordinance
is adopted pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.90.

Section 3.05.170 ELECTION REQUIRED. This ordinance shall not be-
come operative unless and until a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at the general election to be held on No-
vember 2,2004.

Section 3.05.180 REPEAL OF PREVIOUS TAX. Upon adoption of this
ordinance, that retail transactions and use tax previously approved by Ordi-
nance No. 968 on November 5,2002, in accordance with the provisions of Section
7286.8 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code at the rate of
one-eighth of one percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail is hereby repealed as of March 31,2005.
However, Ordinance No. 968 would continue to remain in effect if this Ordinance is
not approved by a vote of the populace.

9625