

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE I

The San Juan Bautista City Counci! has placed Measure I on the
March 2,2004 ballot asking voters to adopt an ordinance that would
impose a special transaction and use tax of .75% (three-quarters
of one percent) of the retail sales price to pay for police and fire
protection services, and capital infrastructure projects.

Currently, retail sales in San Juan Bautista are taxed at the rate
of 7.25%, Of this tax, 6% goes to the State, 1% goes to the City,
and .25% goes to the County. The 1% sales tax deposited into
the City’s general fund where it is availabie to fund genera!
governmental services.

A recent change in state law allows cities to impose a transaction
and use tax, which is a form of sales tax. Measure 1, if passed by
voters, would adopt an ordinance that allows the City to impose a
special transaction and use tax at the rate of .75%. The ordinance
specifies that the proceeds from this transaction and use tax may
only be used for police and fire protection services, and for capital
infrastructure projects. If Measure I is passed by the voters, the total
sales tax rate in San Juan Bautista will be 8%.

A "yes" vote is a vote to adopt the ordinance allowing the City to
impose a special transaction and use tax at the rate of ,75%. A "no"
vote is a vote against adopting this ordinance.

Measure I requires a "yes" vote of two-thirds of the voters to pass.

s/ Patrick Whitneli,

City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE I

The City budget is supplemented with revenues from the State.
Economic conditions have caused the State to revise its programs,
which will result in a loss of revenue to the City. Last year Vehicle
License Fee (VLF) collections were $91,092,00 this year the projected
revenue is $24,300,00 based on a study by the League of California
Cities. This reduction is a loss of $71,100.00 to the City. There are
other cuts involving mandated cost, the triple flip of property tax for
sales tax and delays of highway funds.

The City needs these losses to be offset by the estimated $115,000.00
revenue from Measure I. The sales tax is a fair way for visitors and
neighboring county residents to help fund the facilities and services
they use when visiting the City. Thereby allowing vital services for
pubiic safety (Police and Fire) to be maintained at present levels
and provide some needed funding for street, water and sewer
improvements.

Please Vote Yes on Measure I.

s/ Laurence C. Cain,

City Manager

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED
