VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF SANTA ROSA
MEASURE 0

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 0

Vote Yes on Measure 0

SANTA ROSA POLICE, FIRE AND NEIGHBORHOOD

0 SAFETY MEASURE. To 1) improve and expand Santa
Rosa Fire, Police and Paramedic services; 2) combat
gang violence, and 3) expand crime prevention and
after-school youth programs, shall Santa Rosa voters approve a
1/4 cent public safety sales tax, expiring in twenty years, with
annual public reports by a citizen oversight committee assuring
that funds are expended only for these purposes?

CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE 0

Measure 0, if approved by two-thirds of those voting on it, approves a 1/4 cent
sales tax (tax rate .0025) within the City of Santa Rosa, the revenues of which
may only be used for the police and fire purposes and gang prevention and youth
programs specified in City of Santa Rosa Ordinance No. 3680. Ordinance 3680
requires the City Council to appoint a seven member Citizen Oversight Committee
to annually review and publically report upon the expenditures of the tax revenues
to ensure they were made in accordance with the requirements of the ordinance.

Underthe ordinance, 40% of the tax revenues must be used for Police purposes and,
with certain possible exceptions during fiscal years 2004-2007, must be specifically
used for the following: police patrol and traffic control services; gang enforcement,
school resource services, and bicycle patrols; Downtown, Railroad Square and
Prince Greenway police services; and police support services, including facilities
and equipment.

40% of the tax revenues must be used for Fire Department purposes, and, with the
exceptions applicable to Police revenues, must be specifically used for the follow-
ing: hiring additional firefighters; establishment of additional Fire Department para-
medic units; and construction and relocation of fire stations and the purchase of
specialized equipment for Fire Department use.

The remaining 20% of the tax revenues must be used for gang prevention and
youth programs, and, with the exceptions applicable to Police revenues, must be
specifically used for the following: improving in-school gang prevention and
intervention programs; adding new programs in neighborhoods affected by high
levels of gang activity, which emphasize, among other things, community safety;
providing additional after-school and summer programs which, among other
things, stress academic and social success; providing grants to organizations for
youth and parenting programs which, among other things, focus on gang and anti-
violence education. Tax revenues for gang prevention and youth programs may be
used for new focus areas and providing new programs within existing focus areas
under the City’s Neighborhood Revitalization Program.

Because of State revenue reductions to cities, the ordinance authorizes the Council
to use a portion of the tax revenues to fund nine police officer positions and two Fire
Department emergency response companies, but only during the current and next
fiscal year. Should the State fail to reinstate certain lost and borrowed revenues
owed to cities, the Council may also use tax revenues to fund these positions in fiscal
year 2006-2007. The ordinance requires that, during the continuation of the tax, the
City's annual funding of the Police and Fire Departments and gang prevention and
youth programs may not be below the funding of those uses and purposes ap-
proved in the City’s budget, as adopted on June 17,2004, adjusted annually by
changes in the area’s cost of living index, unless a lower level of funding is ap-
proved by the affirmative vote of six Council Members.

The City of Santa Rosa is facing a serious Public Safety crisis. It is a crisis brought
about by the State Legislature's taking away your tax dollars to balance its budget,
by increased demand for fire and emergency services, and by increased criminal
activity.

Auto thefts and domestic violence incidents have increased. Gang incidents have
nearly quadrupled - with three gang related homicides already this year. The Po-
lice Department has been forced to eliminate 18 positions including the Neighbor-
hood and Downtown Enforcement Teams, Career Criminal Apprehension, and
Investigative Support Section which targets gang and narcotics problems.

Medical emergencies are up. Emergency incident calls alone have increased from
an average of 6,000 per year in 1983 to 16,970 in 2003.

Under the current budget the Fire Department has eliminated programs, staff posi-
tions, equipment and supplies, and discontinued fire apparatus replacement. Addi-
tionally, one fire engine company, one ladder truck & rescue company, and nine
firefighter positions are scheduled to be cut.

We are in this crisis because the State Legislature has taken $3,600,000 each year
from Santa Rosa for the last ten years to balance its budget, The effectiveness of
our Police and Fire Departments will dramatically decline, unless we create a reve-
nue source the Legislature cannot raid.

Measure O imposes a Va of a cent sales tax on anyone who spends money in
Santa Rosa over the next 20 years. It can only be used for fire, police and gang-
prevention related programs. Measure O requires a citizens’ oversight committee
to ensure the revenue is not diverted and is spent correctly.

When we tax ourselves the Legislature cannot take it from us. Voting for Measure O
can ensure that we will have adequate police and fire protection now and in the future.

Vote Yes on Measure O

s/Janet Condron
Santa Rosa Councilmember

s/ Edwin F. Flint
Police Chief, Santa Rosa

s/Carol Dean
West Side Neighborhood Advocate

si Bruce H. Varner
Fire Chief, Santa Rosa

si Mark Ihde
Sonoma County Sheriff-Retired

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE O

We see some really big names with impressive titles endorsing this tax increase in-
cluding Police Chief Flint, Fire Chief Varner and a retired Sheriff. There are, how-
ever, some important questions that ought to be asked. Where were they when the
time to object to wasteful government spending was upon us? Why won’t they
stand up for responsible government? Why, once people put themselves on the
government payroll, do they think the answer is always to raise taxes?

Councilwoman Condron has a lot of nerve endorsing this tax considering what she
has done while in office. She is the type that would hand out subsidies until we are
bankrupt. In 2002 she endorsed Proposition 46, a $2 billion state bond issue which
put the state deeper into debt so that people like her could give out more subsidies.

We suggest voters get rid of all incumbent council members who are up for re-
election. The behavior of Mr. Martini has been particularly egregious.

The tax terminates 20 years from its effective date.

Ordinance 3680 should be reviewed for details on the tax, particularly City Code
sections 3-26.120 and 3-26.160.

REDWOOD EMPIRE TAX COMMITTEE
s/ William W. Pisenti, President

si Brien J. Farrell
City Attorney

86

9565

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE 0  Santa Rosa officials want a tax increase but they don’t deserve one.  One thing we should keep in mind is that the sales tax is a regressive tax. It hits the moderate and lower income working people the hardest. To increase it would pro- vide a net benefit to the wealthy among us and would be the poorest of public poli- cies. If anything the sales tax should be lowered to 5% like it was not that long ago.  This is all part of the larger liberal scheme. First, they aggressively increase spend- ing on social programs, entitlements and government subsidies of all kinds. Then, when the money runs out they threaten the public with layoffs of teachers, police and firefighters unless new taxes are approved. We suggest voters not be taken for suckers. Reject this tax and instead get rid of the public officials who waste our money.  There is a lack of accountability in local government and much of what goes on is an affront to common sense. We see government subsidies and/or fee deferrals being provided for everything from apartment buildings to luxury hotels and office buildings. We see taxpayer money given to the Catholic Church so they can baby-sit shiftless drunks in new multimillioin dollar homeless facilities.  One of the most damning disclosures came when the city manager revealed a multi- million dollar Community Development Department subsidy. Permit fees charged developers were set so artificially low that the cost of processing the permits by the department was not recovered. About $5 million in tax dollars including sales tax money was used to make up the deficit incurred. Effectively ordinary taxpayers were subsidizing large development interests. It is precisely this type of behavior that makes these elected officials unworthy of any tax increases.  REDWOOD EMPIRE TAX COMMITTEE sl William W. Pisenti, President  REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE 0  First and foremost our Councilmembers (Sharon Wright, Jane Bender, Noreen Evans, Bob Blanchard, Mike Martini, Janet Condron and Steve Rabinowitsh) are very honorable people. They work hard for Santa Rosa and they believe we must wori< together to solve Santa Rosa’s Public Safety crisis.  This crisis has occurred because the State Legislature has taken 36 million from the City of Santa Rosa in the last ten years to balance its budget.  The Police Department has been forced to eliminate 18 positions including the Neighborhood and Downtown Enforcement Teams, Career Criminal Apprehension, and Investigative Support Section which targets gang and narcotics problems.  Under the current budget the Fire Department has eliminated programs, staff posi- tions, equipment and supplies, and discontinued fire apparatus replacement. Addi- tionally, one fire engine company, one ladder truck/rescue company, and nine firefighter positions are scheduled to be cut.  Measure 0 adds a Va of a cent sales tax to goods purchased in Santa Rosa by any- one over the next 20 years. It can only be used for fire, police and gang-prevention related programs. Measure 0 requires a citizens' oversight committee to ensure the revenue is not diverted and is spent correctly.  The effectiveness of our Police and Fire Departments will dramatically decline, un- less we create a revenue source the Legislature cannot raid.  When we tax ourselves the Legislature cannot take it from us. Voting for Measure 0 can ensure that we will have adequate police and fire protection now and in the future.  Vote Yes on Measure 0  s/Bill Carle s/Donna M. Zapata Santa Rosa School Board Latino Community Leader  s / Rev. James E. Coffee s / Jack Macy, Chair Pastor, Community Leader Santa Rosa Chamber	FULL TEXT OF MEASURE 0  ORDINANCE NO. 3680  AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SANTA ROSA IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BYTHE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION  THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SANTA ROSA DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:  Section 1. Chapter 3-26, entitled, “Transactions and Use Tax,” is added to Title 3 of the Santa Rosa City Code to read as follows:  “Section 3-26.010. TITLE. This chapter shall be known as the “City of Santa Rosa Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.  Section 3-26.015. DEFINITIONS. As used in this chapter, “Citv” means the City of Santa Rosa and “tax” means the transactions and use taxes imposed under the provisions of this ordinance; “tax revenue” and “tax revenues" mean all pro- ceeds of the tax received by the City from the State Board of Equalization.  Section 3-26.020. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date" means the first dav that the tax is imposed and collected. The operative date shall be April 1,2005, un- less a later operative date becomes effective under the provisions of section 3-26.040.  Section 3-26.030. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the fol- lowing, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be inter- preted in order to accomplish those purposes:  (A)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provi- sions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Reve- nue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be effective if a 2/3 majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the impo- sition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.  (B)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provi- sions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of Califor- nia insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxa- tion Code.  (C)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practi- cable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statu- tory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.  (D)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be adminis- tered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.  Section 3-26.040. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordi- nance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter fol- lowing the execution of such a contract.  Section 3-26.050. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the orivileae of sellina tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 0.25 percent (one-quarter of one per- cent) of the gross receipts of any retailerfrom the sale of all tangible personal prop- erty sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.  CONT. NEXT PAGE

9565

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE 0, CONT.

Section 3-26.060. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all
retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tan-
gible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state desti-
nation. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when
such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business
in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which
the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 3-26.070. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for
storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of 0.25 percent
(one-quarter of one percent) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall
include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 3-26.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except
as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all
of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Rev-
enue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as
though fully set forth herein.

Section 3-26.090. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COL-
LECTION OF USE TAXES. Iri adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

(A)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

(1)	The word "State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than
by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the func-
tions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections re-
ferring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the re-
sult of the substitution would be to:

(a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such
sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by
the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Reve-
nue and Taxation Code, or;

(b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be sub-
ject to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(B)	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “re-
tailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition
of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 3-26.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller's permit has been is-
sued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an addi-
tional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 3-26.110. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

(A)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

(B)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum prod-
ucts, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside
the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under
the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such
point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
forshipmentto a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this para-
graph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

(a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject
to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compli-
ance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocu-
mented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by

. the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal
place of residence; and

(b)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that ad-
dress. .

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale
or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obli-
gated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to termi-
nate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exer-
cised.

(C)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the stor-
age, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a trans-
actions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordi-
nance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of air-
craft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively
in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for
hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and ne-
cessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or
any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemp-
tions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code of the State of California.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

88

9565

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE 0, CONT.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this or-
dinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tan-
gible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing pur-
chase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or
power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obli-
gated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to termi-
nate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exer-
cised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business
in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the
property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of
the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the or-
der, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, sub-
sidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any re-
tailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailershall
be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or li-
censes the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

(D)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a dis-
trict imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions fax pursuant to Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.

Section 3-26.120. PERMISSIBLE USES: Expenditure Plan.

(A) The revenues of the tax shall only be used to fund the following uses and
purposes. Funding with tax revenues of all other uses and purposes, except
as provided in paragraphs (C) through (E) of this section, is prohibited.

(1)	POLICE

(a)	Police patrol services:

(b)	Police traffic control services;

(c)	Gang enforcement, school resource services, and bicycle patrol;

(d)	Downtown, Railroad Square, and Prince Greenway police services;

(e)	Police support services, including facilities and equipment and the
financing thereof.

(2)	FIRE

(a)	Construction and relocation (including but not limited to land acqui-
sition, facilities design, and use of temporary facilities) of fire sta-
tions and the financing thereof;

(b)	Hiring of additional Firefighters to staff fire stations;

(3)	GANG PREVENTION AND YOUTH PROGRAMS

(a)	Enhancing and improving in-school gang prevention and interven-
tion curriculum and programs;

(b)	Adding new programs in neighborhoods affected by high levels of
gang activity which emphasize positive role models, problem solv-
ing, and community safety;

(c)	Providing additional after-school and summer programs which
stress academic and social success, recreational activities, sports,
athletic programs, and safe neighborhoods without fear of gangs,
drugs or violence.

(d)	Providing grants to organizations for youth and parenting pro-
grams which focus on gang and anti-violence education, preven-
tion and intervention, community safety, and a comprehensive
array of social services in high need neighborhoods.

(B)	Of the tax revenues received by the City, forty percent (40%) shall be ex-
pended for Police purposes as specified in sections (a) through (e) of sub-
paragraph (A)(1), forty percent (40%) shall be expended for Fire purposes
as specified in sections (a) through (d) of subparagraph (A)(2) and twenty
percent (20%) shall be used to fund the Gang Prevention programs and pur-
poses as specified in sections (a) through (d) of subparagraph (A)(3).

(C)	As a result of increased State revenue reductions to cities in fiscal years
2004-2005 and 2005-2006, the City Council may authorize the use of a por-
tion of the tax revenues to fund the eleven Police Department positions (nine
police officers and two staff positions) and two Fire Department emergency
response companies (Engine-26 and Truck-2) that were not funded in the

2004-	2005 budget, as adopted on June 17, 2004. The tax revenues may
only be used for these purposes during fiscal years 2004-2005 and

2005-	2006.

(D)	The remaining tax revenues in fiscal years 2004-2005 arid 2005-2006 and
tax revenues received in subsequent years shall be used to enhance Police
and Fire uses and purposes and Gang Prevention and Youth Programs as
outlined in paragraph (A) and detailed in the Transactions and Use Tax Im-
plementation Plan. Funding of the implementation plan may not be below
the actual revenues received from the tax nor shall tax revenues be used to
replace previously budgeted funds unless approved by six Council mem-
bers based on a finding of fiscal crisis or catastrophic disaster. Tax reve-
nues will not be used to supplant the general fund obligations to fund
baseline services based upon population and economic conditions.

(E)	If the State of California does not reinstate the Motor Vehicle License fee
back fill revenues and property tax shifts associated with the Governor’s
current budget proposal and/or does not repay its loan from the City for Mo-
tor Vehicle License revenue lost in fiscal years 2003-2004, as currently an-
ticipated, the City Council may, during fiscal year 2006-2007, consider the
use of an amount of the tax revenue equal to the lost revenues and use that
amount to fund the reductions in Police and Fire services identified in para-
graph (C). The City Council shall first consider additional revenue growth re-
ceived by the City.

(F)	The Council, by resolution, shall approve, and may from time to time amend
when approved by six Council members, a Transaction and Use Tax Imple-
mentation Plan which shall outline the uses and purposes and their funding,
as authorized by this section, to which the tax revenues will be applied.

(G)	During the continuation of the tax, annual funding of Police and Fire Depart-
ment purposes and uses that are funded under the City’s 2004-2005 fiscal
year budget, as adopted on June 17,2004, and certain gang prevention and
youth programs, may not be lower than the funding approved in the
2004-2005 budget, adjusted annually, beginning in fiscal year 2005-2006,
by the annual percentage change (April to April) in the Bureau of Labor
Statistics CPI-U (Consumer Price Index - All Urban Consumers) for the

(c)	Establishmentofaddit'onal paramedicunitswithinthe Fire Department;

(d)	Purchase of specialized equipment for Fire Department use;

CONT. NEXT PAGE

89

9565

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE 0, CONT.  San Francisco - Oakland - San Jose, California Area, unless a lower level of funding is first approved by the affirmative vote of six Council members.  (H) The Council, by resolution, shall establish a seven member Citizen Over- sight Committee to annually review expenditures and appropriations of the tax revenues to ensure that all such revenues are spent or appropriated for the purposes and uses set forth in paragraph (A), in accordance with the al- location percentages set forth in paragraph (B), and, as specifically autho- rized, in paragraphs (C), (D) and (E).  Each member of the Council shall appoint one member of the Committee who shall have a term coinciding with the term of the appointing Council member. Each Committee member shall be a resident of the City at the time of appointment and shall remain a resident of the City while serving on the Committee. The Mayor shall appoint the chairperson of the Committee sub- ject to the approval of the majority of the Council. The Committee shall re- ceive the assistance of City staff and shall issue an annual public report on the expenditures and appropriations of the tax revenues. The Committee shall undertake such additional duties as the Council may designate.  Section 3-26.130. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subseauent to the ef- fective date of this ordinance to Part. 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall auto- matically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amend- ment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.  Section 3-26.140. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.  Section 3-26.150. SEVERABILITY. If anv Drovision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circum- stances shall not be affected thereby.  Section 3-26.160. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to lew the taxes im- posed by this ordinance shall extend only through March 31,2025 or at the end of 20 years from the Operative Date if the Operative Date of the tax is later than April 1,2005 as provided in section 3-26.020."  Section 2. This ordinance, following its adoption by at least 5 affirmative of the Council and its publication, shall become effective upon the approval of the tax im- posed hereunder by two-thirds of the voters of the City voting thereon at an election called for that purpose. The “operative date” of the tax imposed hereunder shall be as provided in section 3-26.020.  PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Council of the City of Santa Rosa, State of California, on August 3,2004, by the following vote:  AYES: (5) Mayor Wright; Coundlmembers Blanchard, Condron, Evans, Martini  NOES: (0)  ABSENT: (2) Coundlmembers Bender, Rabinowitsh  si Sharon Wright Mayor, City of Santa Rosa  Attest: si Sue Stoneman  City Clerk, City of Santa Rosa  APPROVED AS TO FORM: si Bruce Leavitt  Assistant City Attorney	\

90

9565