

	CITY OF SACRAMENTO		Fiscal ImDact			
;	MEASUREX		The tax will raise approximately $3.9 million for additional library services during 2007-2008, with slight increases during each of the			
	/ TO maintain children’s programs, homework W centers, increased hours, new book funding, and technology in branch libraries, shall an equivalent parcel tax replace the existing as- sessment in 2007-2008 (single family residences $26.60/year; other properties at proportional amounts) for 10 years, with adjustments not exceed- ing 3% annually or $8.00 total for single family resi- dences during the life of the tax, and requiring City library funding to be maintained or only reduced pro- portionally with other non-safety services?		remaining nine years of the tax.  COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE X Additional Library Services Parcel Tax SECTION 1,  On November 5, 1996, the voters of the City of Sacramento ap- proved an assessment district and annual assessments on all real property within the City of Sacramento for the purpose of funding additional library services including more open hours at neighbor- hood, community, and regional libraries, additional library staff at neighborhood and .community libraries including children’s librari-			
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE X Prepared by Sacramento City Attorney  Effect on Existina Law .  Approval of Measure X would impose an annual parcel tax for addi- tional library services beginning in 2007-2008, as set forth in City Ordinance No. 2004-029. Disapproval of Measure X would mean the parcel tax for additional library services would not be imposed.  The. parcel tax would take effect at the expiration of the existing as- sessment for additional library services, and would be equivalent in amount to the existing assessment, subject to the same annual adjustment.  Ooeration of Measure  The City Council enacted Ordinance 2004-029 to impose an annual parcel tax for additional library services for ten years, beginning in 2007-2008 when the current voter-approved annual assessment expires. The tax may not be collected unless it is approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters of the City of Sacramento voting on the tax in an election. Measure X presents the parcel tax for voter approval or disapproval. ; ^			ans, more books, more technology resources, and other library ser- vices. The assessment was set at $22.00 per year for single family residences and all other properties at specified proportional amounts for 10 years, with adjustments not exceeding 3% annually, and not more than $7.00 total during the life of the assessment for single family residences. The last year of the assessment is 2006-2007. The assessment for a single-family residence for 2004-2005 is $25 96, subject to a maximum annual adjustment of 3% through 2006-2007. The California Constitution no longer per- mits the City of Sacramento to fund additional library services by im- posing assessments. However, the California Constitution and state law permit the City of Sacramento to fund additional library services with a parcel tax if the tax is approved by a two-thirds vote. It is the purpose of this ordinance to impose a parcel tax in the same amount as the existing assessment, subject to the same annual ad- justment, for the ten years following the expiration of the assess- ment, and to place the parcel tax before the voters of the City of Sacramento for approval.  The additional library services to be provided are:  1. Additional open hours per week at all branches with increased staffing.  EXAMPLE:			
The parcel tax would be collected from the owners of all non-exempt properties within the City. The amount of the tax for each land use type is set forth in the full text of the measure. For example, each de- veloped single family residential parcel would be taxed $26.60 for the first year (2007-2008) Of the tax. The tax for each land use type will be adjusted annually to reflect any increase in. the consumer price index, not to exceed three percent (3%) per year. The single family residence tax would rise to not more than $34.60 in the tenth			BRANCH	Base Hours Per Week  (FY 04/05)	# Hours To Be . Increased	Total Hours Per Week  (FY 04/05)
			Belle Cooledge	31	11	42
			Colonial Heights	29	13;	42
year.			Del Paso Heights	23	11	34
l ne aaamonai norary services to oe Tunaeo uy me tax are uescrioeu in the measure. They include additional open hours per week at all			McClatchy	21	13	34
City branch libraries, additional library materials (books,		maga-	McKinley	21	14-	35
zmes, uus, l/vus, online aaiauases, etc.;, ennanceu lecnnoiogy ai branches, including network connections, software and hardware,			Martin Luther King	34	8	42
self-service technology and online access, and'enhanced services to children and teens by trained staff, including after school home- work help programs. The proceeds, less expenses of collection, will be transferred to the Sacramento Public Library Authority to be ex-			North Sacramento/ Hagginwood	27	7	34
			South Natomas	29	13	42
pended only for the purposes set-forth in the measure. The services to be provided are “additional" in that they are in addition to those fupded by the City’s current general fund allocation for library purposes.  The City’s 2004-2005 $7.6 million general fund allocation to the Li- brary will not be replaced by the tax proceeds. With one exception, the -measure prohibits the City from collecting the tax in any year during which the City Council reduces its general fund budget for li- brary purposes to less than the $7.6 million allocation. The excep- tion permits the tax to be collected if the total general fund budget (excluding police and fire budgets and expenditures offset by fees and other non-tax revenues) decreases from its 2004-2005 level and the City Council reduces library funding in proportion to other reductions. . •			Valley Hi/ North Laguna	0	36	36'
			2.	Additional library materials (books, magazines, CD’s, DVD’s, on- line databases, etc.) for all branches, bookmobile and specialized resources.  3.	Enhanced technology at branches, including network connec- tions, software and hardware, self-service technology and online access.  4.	Enhanced services to children and teens by trained staff, includ- ing after school homework help programs and programs for all age groups.			

SECTION 2.

Chapter 3.148 is added to the Sacramento City Code to read as fol-
lows:

Chapter 3.148. PARCEL TAX FOR ADDITIONAL LIBRARY
SERVICES

3.148.010 PARCEL TAX IMPOSED. There is hereby imposed
upon every parcel of real property in the City a parcel tax for addi-
tional library services. Additional library services are library
services over and above the basic library services funded by gen-
eral fund Resources of the city, including, without limitation, chil-
dren’s and teen-age programs such as “homework centers” for
students, additional open hours at branch libraries, additional pro-
fessional library staff at branch libraries including children’s
librarians, acquisition of additional books, magazines,
newspapers, media, and other library materials, and additional
technology at library branches.

3.148.020 TAX RATES. The tax rates for fiscal year 2007-2008
shall be:

RESIDENTIAL

.Single family
Multi-family

Condominiums
Mobile Homes

NON-RES1DENT1AL

Institutional	$119.70 per acre (first 5 acres)

$29.93 per acre (acres, over 5)

$26.60

a.	$19.95 per unit, units 1-4

b.	$13.30 per unit, units 5-15

c.	$6:65 per unit, units over 15
(Add a. plus b. plus c. for total
multi-family tax per parcel)

$19.95 per condominium
$13.30 per mobile home

3.148.050 PARCEL TAX NOT TO REPLACE GENERAL FUND
CONTRIBUTION. The City’s current general fund contribution to
library services may not,be replaced by the parcel tax. If the City
general fund contribution to the Sacramento Public Library
Authority is reduced below $7,635,600, the parcel tax shall not be
levied; provided, however, that if the reduction to the City general
fund contribution is no more than the same proportion of reduction
that is imposed on the City’s net general fund budget for
non-safety departments (which are all operating departments ex-
cept police and fire) in any year during the ten^year period of the
tax, then the tax nonetheless.may be levied. (The City’s net gen-
eral fund budget for non-safety departments is the total general
fund contribution to their operating budgets excluding expendi-
tures that are offset by fees or other non-tax revenues.) Following,
any reduction from the minimum level of $7,635,600 and for the
parcel tax to be levied in any subsequent year, the Library must
receive increases in its City general fund contribution proportional
to the increases in the non-safety departments’ net general fund
budgets up to at least the minimum level of $7,635,600.

3.148.060 VOTER APPROVAL; TEN-YEAR TERM. The tax im-
posed by this chapter shall not be collected unless it is approved
by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters of the City of Sacramento voting
on this tax in an election held on or before March 1,2007. The tax
shall be imposed beginning with the 2007-2008 fiscal year for a
period often years, ending with fiscal year 2016-2017.

3.148.070 LOW-INCOME REBATE. The City Manager shall es-
tablish a program to rebate any tax imposed by this chapter that is
paid with respect to residential property that is the principal
residence of the owner, if the gross household income is 80% or
less of the Sacramento County area median income as published
annually by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
Department.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE X

Professional

Commercial/lndustrial
and Recreational

VACANT

(Misc. vacant, parking
lots, airports, cemeteries
and mortuaries)

EXEMPT USES

Common area, Agriculture,
Utilities, Public Agencies

$79.80 per acre (first 5 acres)
$19.95 per acre (acres over 5)

$39.90 per acre (first 5 acres)
$9.98 per acre (acres over 5)

$9.98 per acre (maximum taxed
area per parcel: 5 acres)

$0

3.148.030 ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT OF TAX RATES. The tax

rates for fiscal year 2007-2008 set forth in Section 3.148.020 shall
be increased annually in proportion to the increase in the Con-
sumer Price Index (CPI), San Francisco Area, all items, most re-
cently available prior to the date of increase, provided, however,
that this increase shall not exceed three percent (3%) in any year.
The maximum increase during the life of the tax for single-family
residences shall be $8.00 and proportionally on other, properties.

Vote YES on Measure X to maintain improved library services in the
City of Sacramento - without raising taxes.

In 1996, Sacramento voters approved a special assessment to ex-
pand hours and services and buy more books in branch libraries.
The result was hundreds of additional hours of service, new home-
work centers, improvements to keep up with technology, thousands'
of new books, and much more.

That special assessment expires in 2006. Because of changes in
state law, Measure X replaces the current assessment with a parcel
tax in the same amount. So, while you won’t pay more, you’ll still get
more!

Vote YES to maintain the extra library hours and services City resi-
dents have enjoyed since 1996 - a 30% increase in hours.

. Branch______________________Library hours per week	now

Belie Cooledge	42

Central	50

Colonial Heights	42

Del Paso Heights	34

3.148.040 COLLECTION BY THE COUNTY. The tax shall be
collected on behalf of the city by the county auditor. The City Clerk
shall file with the county auditor a certified copy of a tax roll with a
request that the taxes be posted to the county roll for general
property taxes. This filing shall occur on or before August 1 of the
fiscal year in which the taxes are to be collected. The tax shall be
collected at the same time and in the same manner and shall be
subject to the same late charges and penalties for delinquency as
general property taxes and all laws providing for the collection and
enforcement of such property taxes shall apply to the collection
and enforcement of the tax. After , deduction of the collection
charges of the county auditor, the net amount of the taxes col-
lected shall be remitted to the City for transfer to the Sacramento
Public Library Authority to be used to provide additional library
services within the City of Sacramento.______'_____'

Ella K. McClatchy	34
McKinley	35
Martin Luther King, Jr.	42
North Natomas	42
North Sacramento/Hagginwood	34
South Natomas	42
Valley Hi/North Laguna	36

Vote YES on Measure X to provide additional library materials and
specialized resources (books, magazines, DVDs, online data-
bases, etc.) for all branch libraries and bookmobiles.

Vote YES on Measure X to enhance technology at city libraries, in-
cluding self-service checkout and online access.

Vote YES on Measure X to improve services to children and teens,
including afterschool homework assistance and programs for all
age groups, through specially trained staff..

Vote YES on Measure X and impose new taxpayer protections.
Measure X limits increases to no more than $8 total per parcel, over
10 years. These funds can only be used for library services.

City of Sacramento residents have always cared about their librar-
ies. To maintain additional hours, books, children’s programs and
more at city branch libraries, VOTE YES on Measure X.

s/ Robert Zambelich, President, Friends of the Sacramento Public
Library

s/ Albert Najera, Chief of Police,' City of Sacramento
si Heather Fargo, Mayor, City of Sacramento
si Fred Teichert, Community Leader

s/ David W. Gordon, Superintendent, Sacramento County Schools

uia|AQOH_________

CITY OF GALT

MEASURE S

Shall Ordinance No. 2004-05, which would en-

Sact a one quarter cent transactions and use tax
for general government purposes, be adopted?

