CITY OF RED BLUFF
CHARTER AMENDMENT MEASURE D

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF RED BLUFF
AMENDING CHAPTER 21 TAXATION

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Red Bluff submitted
Ballot Measure D to the voters on November 2, 2004, asking if
Section 21.21 (A) of the Municipal Code of the City of Red Bluff
should be amended to increase the uniform transient occupancy tax
by two percent 2%; and

WHEREAS, a majority of voters of the City of Red Bluff approved
Measure D to increase the uniform transient occupancy tax.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED AS FOLLOWS:

CHAPTER 21.21 IMPOSITION; AMOUNT; WHERE PAYABLE,
Article A - shall be amended to read as follows:

(A) "For the privilege of occupancy In any hotel, each transient
is subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of 12% of the rent
charged by the operator. The tax constitutes a debt owed by the
transient to the city which is extinguished only by payment to the
operator or to the city".

This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon Its
adoption by the City Council of the City of Red Bluff.

The forgoing ordinance was adopted at a regular meeting of the
Red Bluff City Council on December 7, 2004 by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT OR NOT VOTING:

Mayor

ATTEST:

Gloria Shepherd, City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Richard Crabtree, City Attorney

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE D

Current City ordinance imposes a 10% tax on the users of hotels,
motels and similar commercial facilities within the City. The tax is
imposed on the amount charged by the operator for lodging. Guests
staying less than 30 consecutive days must pay the tax. The tax
is collected by the operator of the facility, and transferred to the
City. Currently, the City spends approximately 20% of the revenue
collected on programs to promote economic development and
tourism. The balance of the revenue goes into the City's General
Fund and is used to provide City services.

Measure D would increase the tax on temporary users of hotels,
motels, etc. to 12%.

si Richard L. Crabtree

is I
Bli
onl
Ta:

tax

14'

wh

the

tra

vis

the

dol
a ti
job

prc

coi

COI

ow

bu:

s / I
s/l

no'

the

$4:

the

on

the

Fre

are

An

am

the

fro

wic

fle

of

am

to

cai

out

to

s/l
si i

52-509

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

This is not a tax on the residents or voters of Red Bluff. This
is not a tax on Red Bluff property owners. This is not a tax on Red
Bluff motels or other businesses. This is not a tax on you. This
only an added $1.20 per night (on the average) Transient Occupancy
Tax on overnight lodging travelers passing through Red Bluff.

These same travelers pay a transient occupancy tax or “motel
tax" of up to 15% in all other cities and counties in California including:
14% in San Francisco, 12% in Sacramento, Napa, and Calistoga,
while several other cities are in the process of raising their rates.

And, like many other communities competing for tourism dollars,
the revenue generated locally from this added tax on overnight lodging
travelers will be used primarily to attract and encourage tourists and
visitors to spend their recreational dollars in Red Bluff and to assist
the City with increased costs of serving the traveling public.

According to the California Department of Tourism the travel
dollars spent in our area total $92.1 million per year and generate
a total annual payroll of over $27.9 million in the 1,580 travel-related
jobs created.

So, should out of town, overnight lodging travelers help us in
promoting our area and keeping our businesses and jobs alive? Of
course they should, just as they do for all other California cities and
counties.

Remember, this is NOT a tax on residents or voters or property
owners of Red Bluffl This is not a tax on Red Bluff motels or
businesses. This is not a tax on YOU!

Vote YES on Measure Dl

s/ Corky Kramer
si Marshall Pike

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Vote “NO" on this tax.

The proponents of this measure want you to believe this tax will
not affect local residents. The Chamber of Commerce gets 16% of
the Motel Tax the City collects. The City of Red Bluff collected
$458,120.00 for the last fiscal year and paid $28,625.00, (16%) to
the Chamber of Commerce. When the Chamber of Commerce puts
on special events all of the overtime costs come directly out of
the City's General Fund. Affecting us dlrectiv!

The proponents of this measure compared Red Bluff with, San
Francisco, Sacramento, Napa and Calistoga because our surrounding
areas only collect 10%, not the 12 to 14% they were looking for.
Anyone who travels and compares rates will decide on costs, locale
and what the area has to offer. The loss of motel tenants also affects
the shops, gas stations and restaurant businesses directly.

The amount quoted, $92.1 million per year did not just come
from Red Bluff, but from “Our area". Which leaves the spectrum
wide open. Red Bluff does not have a $27.9 million annual payroll
generated from travel related lobs. Since this tax affects the City
of Red Bluff, why didn't they stick with Red Bluff only, when quoting
amounts?

Money is tight for almost everyone lets encourage the travelers
to stop and use our motels/hotels because of the lower rates. This
causes a cascading effect, as they will spend additional money at
our restaurants, gas stations and shops.

Vote no on measure D and give all these businesses a chance
to survive.

si Ron Nelson
si Kathy Nelson

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

Vote no, as our hotels and motels usually are only full to capacity
when a special event Is taking place in our area. That leaves the
hotels and motels partially full during the rest of the year. The
prices for our hotels and motels are priced right for this area and
for the way our economy is at this time. Vote no on placing an
extra tax and raising the rates.

si Ron Nelson
si Kathy Nelson

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) was created by a Legislative
Act to assist communities and their hotel/motel industry in the
development of the travel and tourism segment of the economy.
The Legislature acknowledged that additional use by visitors would
put added stress and strain on community resources and so
authorized use of TOT as a means to recover the costs. TOT was
also acknowledged to be a self perpetuating assessment. The use
of TOT to promote more tourism related activity in the form of more
local room nights was specifically designed into the legislation.

The hotel/motel owner does not need to raise his rates to collect
TOT since it is a separate line on most room bills. The Convention
and Visitors Bureau, the Chamber of Commerce and the City of
Red Bluff have collective agreements to use a portion of the TOT
to fund special promotions and support the wide array of community
events that attract tourism. The community benefits by the overall
increase in retail and general economic activity.

This ballot proposal is NOT THE SAME AS MEASURES A AND
B PROPOSED BY TEHAMA COUNTY AUTHORIZING AN INCREASE
IN THE OVERALL SALES TAX. THIS MEASURE DOES NOT
AFFECT RED BLUFF RESIDENTS, PROPERTY OWNERS, OR
BUSINESSES! Please SUPPORT MEASURE D.

si Corky Kramer, President
Red Bluff-Tehama County Chamber of Commerce

si Marshall Pike
Red Bluff-Tehama County Convention and Visitors Bureau

52-510

III llllllllilllllllll l in