<impartial> COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The San Diego Association of Governments (SANDAG) acting as the Regional Transportation
Commission (Commission) has placed this measure on the ballot to extend the San Diego County
Transportation Improvement Program and Expenditure Plan. This proposition would:

1.	Authorize the Commission to continue to impose a transaction and use tax of 'h percent in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of San Diego for a period not to exceed forty
years (commonly referred to as “TransNet”). The forty year term will not commence until the current
tax expires in at the end of March 2008.

2.	Authorize the Commission to issue bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax to accelerate the
construction of transportation facility improvements. Also establish an annual appropriation limit of
$950 million for the Commission.

3.	Require all revenues to be deposited into a special fund and limit the use of such revenues to
improvements of transportation facilities and services and related environmental mitigation. No
more than one percent of the total annual revenues available may be used for administrative
expenses and no more than $250,000 per year will be used for the operation of an Independent
Taxpayer Oversight Committee.

4.	Require that the revenues from TransNet be used to supplement existing public and private
funding for transportation improvements. Further require that the revenues be combined with
federal, state, local and private funding for transportation improvements.

5.	With the exception of certain sections which require a vote of the electors of the County of San
Diego to amend, the TransNet ordinance may only be amended with a favorable vote of at least two-
thirds of the SANDAG Board of Directors using both the one vote per jurisdiction and the population-
based weighted vote procedures.

6.	Require revenues be used to fund specific projects and programs. The revenues will be
allocated among highway, transit, and local street and road improvement projects.

7.	Require establishment of the IndependentTaxpayer Oversight Committee (ITOC). The ITOC will
develop recommendations for improvements to the financial integrity and performance of the
TransNet program.

8.	Require each city and the County to contribute $2,000 in exactions from the private sector, for
each newly constructed residential housing unit (with exemptions for extremely low, very-low, low,
and moderate income households) in that jurisdiction to the Regional Transportation Congestion
Improvement Program as a condition for eligibility to receive TransNet funds for projects within-their
jurisdiction.

If 66 2/3% of all votes cast favor approval of Proposition A, the measure shall become effective on
November 3, 2004. The extension of the TransNet tax authorized by the measure shall be operative
on April 1,2008. Bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax may be Issued at any time prior to, on
or after April 1, 2008. The provisions of the measure relating to the allocation of revenues shall be
operative on July 1,2008. <impartialend>







<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Vote YES on Proposition A to relieve traffic congestion and keep San Diego County moving -
without raising taxesI

Proposition A renews the existing local half-cent sales tax that has helped finance every major
highway, transit Improvement and street repair In San Diego County since 1987.

Vote YES to Improve traffic flow and Interchanges on every freeway in San Diego County -
Interstates 5,8,15, and 805 and State Routes 52,54,56,67; 76,78,94,125, and 905.

Vote YES to help ensure gridlock doesn’t delay police, firefighter and ambulance response to emergencies.

Vote YES to repair potholes and improve roads In every corner of San Diego County. -
Vote YES to provide special transit services for seniors and persons with disabilities.

Vote YES to widen our freeways where possible for carpools and express buses.

Your YES vote on Proposition A safeguards your tax dollars.

•	Accountability... An independent citizen oversight committee will hold elected officials
accountable for spending your transportation tax dollars efficiently find will review financial
audits annually to ensure voter mandates are met.

•	Reliability. .. Government agencies are prohibited from using Proposition A dollars for
anything except local congestion relief and transportation improvements.

•	Efficiency... The revenue will go to roads, not overhead. In fact, no more than 1 % of your
tax dollars will go for administration.

Proposition A guarantees transportation dollars raised In San Diego stay In San Diego.

Without Proposition A, congestion relief will be delayed for decades. We can’t count on state
and federal highway funds any longer. Many projects won’t be built without Proposition A.

The Auto Club (AAA), the San Diego County Taxpayers Association, the League of Women Voters,
San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce, environmentalists, neighborhood groups and
thousands of your neighbors agree: Vote YES on Proposition A.

To see Proposition A improvements in your community, go to www.sdcongestionrelief.com. Vote
YES on Proposition A. <favorend>






<favorsigs> THOMAS McKERNAN	LISA BRIGGS

President & CEO	Executive Director

Automobile Club of Southern California (AAA)	San Diego County Taxpayers Association

GRACE L. ROOS	KEVIN CRAWFORD

Transportation Director	President, San Diego County

League of Women Voters	Fire Chiefs Association

of San Diego County

DANIEL L. SULLIVAN, Ph.D.

Executive Vice President, Qualcomm Incorporated
Chairman, San Diegans for Congestion Relief <favorsigsend>








<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION A

Prop. A is a flawed measure and an expensive 40-year gamble using $14 billion of your tax dollars.
Prop. A is dishonest and deceptive

Supporters claim that their measure will reduce gridlock and improve response time for
emergencies. Regardless of what you are told in slick campaign mailers, the dirty little secret is that
freeway and road projects listed in the measure can be changed or ignored.

Prop. A Is a blank check for bureaucrats

Despite claims by proponents, Proposition A is nothing more than a taxpayer-subsidized blank
check. With few exceptions, everything in the measure can be changed after the election by a vote
of 19 political appointees who meet monthly in a downtown office building.

Millions for operations, not new projects

Of the money that is proposed to be spent on mass transit projects, 72% is to be spent on
operations and not badly-needed capital improvement projects.

So-Called “Independent Oversight Committee”

Despite a voter-friendly name, the proposed “oversight committee” is nothing but an insiders’ club
representing industries that benefit financially from construction projects funded by Proposition A.

With no citizen representation and costs listed as “estimates” you cannot be assured your taxes
will be spent appropriately.

There is a better way

Your Prop. A tax dollars should be spent where the problems exist today - on our roads and
highways - not on operations and pork-barrel projects.

You deserve a much better plan. Vote No on this $14 billion boondoggle!

yote No on Prop. A

www.traffictax.org <rebutfavorend>






<rebutfavorsigs> DIANNE JACOB	PAM SLATER-PRICE

Chairwoman	Vice-Chairwoman

San Diego County Board of Supervisors San Diego County Board of Supervisors

ROGER HEDGECOCK
KOGO Radio Talk Host <rebutfavorsigsend>







<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

REJECT THIS 40-YEAR TAX - A MUCH'BETTER PLAN IS IN THE WORKS

Prop A is a clunker proposal that won’t solve traffic congestion. Look around. Why reward failure?
Why the rush? The current tax doesn't expire until 2008. There's plenty of time to do it right.

VOTE NO ON BILLIONS FOR BOONDOGGLES

Proponents promise congestion relief, smarter growth, better transit and taxpayer safeguards.
You’ve heard this before. Over the past 20 years their plan hasn’t kept up with growth. Traffic has
gotten worse. San Diegans deserve a better plan - and results - not more of the same.

DEVELOPERS SKATE - WHILE CONSUMERS PAY

Prop A is unfair. It asks consumers to pay sales taxes toward ’’our fair share.” But billion-dollar
exemptions for developers are included. Developers will continue to build projects and stick us
' with the traffic. To build an effective transportation system, developers must pay their fair share too!

PROMISES MADE - FINE PRINT GIVES WIGGLE ROOM

Prop A promises what pollsters say you want to hear - not what will be delivered. There are no cost
controls and projects can be changed.

The ‘Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee” consists of special interests only without citizen
representation. The promised environmental protections are weak and unenforceable. Growth will
continue to overwhelm us with traffic.

MISSED OPPORTUNITIES - WASTED TAXPAYER DOLLARS

Over the 40 years you will pay this sales tax, they estimate half-a-billion dollars - or more - can be
diverted away from badly needed projects to pay debt.

BILLIONS SPENT - TRAFFIC GETS WORSE

Say No to more of the same.

Say No to this flawed 40-year tax.

Prop A is opposed by:

San Diego:

-	County Board of Supervisors,

-	City Councilmember Donna Frye,

-	Sierra Club, Audubon, Baykeeper, Surfrider Foundation

GET THE FACTS WWW.TRAFFICTAX.ORG

Vote No on Prop A <againstend>







<againstsigs> CAROLYN CHASE

MARCO A. GONZALEZ
Attorney, Surfrider Foundation

Planning Commissioner
City of San Diego

JERRY HARMON

Traffic Relief Is Possible (TRIP)

RICHARD MILLER

Chapter Chair, San Diego Sierra Club

DIANE COOMBS
Taxpayers for Better Transportation Planning <againstsigsend>







<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

Proposition A opponents really don't want to solve San Diego County's #1 problem - traffic
congestion. Their single-issue political agenda will leave the rest of us sitting In gridlock for
years to come.

These narrow-minded extremists oppose proven wavs to relieve congestion. They want to force
more of us to rely on an unproven system of buses designed by an academic theorist.

Proposition A builds upon 16 years of success in helping make San Diego County a great place
to live - without Increasing taxes.

It's a balanced plan for badly needed transportation improvements. That's why it's endorsed by
the League of Women Voters of San Diego County and the San Diego Regional Economic
Development Corporation.

Proposition A will create a road, highway and transit system that will reduce .congestion and enable
our public safety services to better respond to emergencies. That’s why It’s supported by police
and fire chiefs.

Vote YES to require unprecedented environmental considerations In a transportation
measure, including habitat protection, mitigation of construction impacts, and contributions from
developers.

That’s why environmental groups Including The Nature Conservancy, the Buena Vista
Audubon Society, the Endangered Habitats League. The Trust for Public Land and many
others support Proposition A.

Vote YES to require unprecedented taxpayer protection In a transportation measure, including
regular audits and an independent oversight committee. That’s why the San Diego County
Taxpayers Association and the San Diego County Hispanic Chamber of Commerce support
Proposition A.

Vote YES to spend more time at home with your family, not fuming in stalled traffic. Vote YES on
Proposition A. <rebutagainstend>







<rebutagainstsigs> WILLIAM M. LANSDOWNE
Chief

San Diego Police Department

DAN SILVER, M.D.

Executive Director
Endangered Habitats League

GREG COX

Supervisor

County of San Diego

ANDREW MAURO
Conservation Chair
Buena Vjsta Audubon Society

CECELIA CAZARES
Chair, Legislative Committee
San Diego County Hispanic Chamber of Commerce <rebutagainstsigsend>







<full> TransNet Extension
ORDINANCE AND EXPENDITURE PLAN

Commission Ordinance 04-01

The San Diego County Regional Transportation Commission ordains as follows:

SECTION 1. TITLE: This ordinance shall be known and may be cited as the San Diego
Transportation Improvement Program Ordinance and Expenditure Plan (Commission Ordinance
04-01), hereinafter referred to as the Ordinance. This Ordinance provides for an extension of the
retail transactions and use tax implemented by the initial San Diego Transportation Improvement
Program Ordinance (Commission Ordinance 87-1 - Proposition A, 1987) for a forty year period
commencing on April 1,2008. The Expenditure Plan for this extension is set forth in Sections 2 and
4 herein and is an expansion of the Expenditure Plan-contained in Commission Ordinance 87-1.

SECTION 2. EXPENDITURE PLAN SUMMARY: This Ordinance provides for the implementation
of the San Diego Transportation Improvement Program, which will result in countywide
transportation facility and service improvements for highways, rail transit services, new bus rapid
transit services, local bus services, senior and disabled transportation services, local streets and
roads, bicycle and pedestrian facilities, transportation-related community infrastructure to support
smart growth development, and related environmental mitigation and enhancement projects.
These needed improvements shall be funded by the continuation of the one-half of one percent
transactions and use tax for a period of forty years. The revenues shall be deposited in a special
fund and used solely for the identified improvements. The specific projects and programs to be
funded shall be further described in the document titled ”TransNet Extension Expenditure Plan
Analysis”, which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Any ancillary
proceeds resulting from the implementation of the San Diego Transportation Improvement
Program shall be used for transportation improvement projects in the San Diego region. A
summary of the major projects and programs, including the major highway and transit
improvements depicted on Figure 1, is provided in the following sections. All dollar references in
this Ordinance are in 2002 dollars.

A.	Congestion Relief Program - Major Transportation Corridor Improvements:

1.	Highway and transit capital projects: Of the total funds available, an estimated $5,150
million will be used to match an estimated $4,795 million in federal, state, local and other
revenues to complete the projects listed below (see Figure 1). The total costs include an
estimated $500 million in financing costs related to bonds to be issued to accelerate the
implementation of the major Congestion Relief projects identified in this section. The costs
shown include the total estimated implementation costs of each project net of habitat-
related environmental mitigation costs for those transportation projects, which are funded
under Section 2(D). Three of the highway projects listed below (SR 67, SR 76, and a portion
of SR 94) are described as including environmental enhancements, as further described in
the document titled “Environmental Enhancement Criteria Mitigating Highway 67,76 and 94
Expansion Impacts”, which is hereby incorporated by reference a£ if fully set forth herein.


Highway Capital Improvements (Including managed lane/high-occupancy vehicle

(HOV) lane additions and general purpose lane additions) - $6,760 million.

1.	Interstate 5 South: Add two HOV lanes from 1-8 to SR 905 - $722 million.

2	Interstate 5 Mid-Coast: Add two HOV lanes from 1-8 to 1-805, including funding for
environmental work and preliminary engineering for improvements at the I-5/I-8
Interchange-$192 million.

3	Interstate 5 North: Add four managed lanes from 1-805 to Vandegrift Boulevard In
Oceanside, Including HOV to HOV connectors at the 1-5/1-805 interchange and
freeway connectors at the 1-5/SR 56 and 1-5/SR 78 interchanges - $1,234 million.

4. Interstate 8: Add two general purpose lanes from Second Street to Los Coches
Road - $29 million.

5 Interstate 15: Add four managed lanes from SR 78 to Centre City Parkway In
Escondido and from SR 56 to SR 163 and add two HOV planes from SR 1631 to SR
94, including HOV to HOV connectors at the 1-15/SR 78 and I-I5/SR 94
Interchanges - $882 million.

6.	Interstate 805: Add four managed lanes from 1-5 to SR 54 and two reversible HOV lanes from SR 54 to SR 905, Including HOV to HOV connectors at the i-SOS/SR 52
Interchange and improvements at the 1-805/SR 54 Interchange - $1,371 million.

7 SR 54/SR 125: Add two lanes to provide a continuous facility with three general
purpose lanes and one HOV lane in each direction - $139 million.

8. SR 56: Add one general purpose lane In each direction from 1-5 to 1-15 - $99 million.

9	SR 52: Construct four-lane freeway from SR 125 to SR 67,add two general purpose lanes and two reversible managed lanes from 1-15 to SR 125, and add two HOV lanes from 1-805 to 1-15 - $476 million.

10	SR 67: Expand to a continuous four-lane facility, including environmental
enhancements, from Mapleview Street to Dye Road - $218 million.

11. SR 75/SR 282: Provide matching funds for construction purposes only for a tunnel
from Glorietta Boulevard to Alameda Boulevard - $25 million.

12. SR 76: Add two general purposes lanes from Melrose Drive to 1-15, including
environmental enhancements from Mission Road to 1-15 - $164 million.

13. SR 78: Add two HOV lanes from 1-5 to 1-15 - $495 million.

14. SR 94/SR 125: Add two HOV lanes from 1-5 to 1-8, including freeway connectors at
the SR94/SR125 interchange - $601 million.

15. SR 94: Widen to six lanes from SR 125 to Avocado Boulevard and expand to a
continuous four-lane facility from Avocado Boulevard to Steele Canyon Road
including environmental enhancements from Jamacha Road to Steele Canyon

6.	Mid-Coast Transit Guideway Improvement Project using light rail technology to
provide high-level transit service along the 1-5 corridor from the Old Town area to
the U.C. San Diego/University Towne Center area, would rely in part on federal
funding. Absent federal funding, then bus technology may be considered for the
high level service planned for this corridor - $660 million.

7.	Super Loop providing high quality connections to locations in the greater U. C. San
Diego/University Towne Center area, including arterial improvements with bus
priority treatments, stations and vehicles - $30 million.

8.	North 1-5 Corridor Coaster/BRT service providing high quality north-south transit
service improvements by upgrading the Coaster commuter rail tracks and stations,
providing BRT service in the El Camino Real corridor, or a combination of the two -
$376 million.

9.	Orange Line Light Rail Transit Improvements including station enhancements,
signal upgrades and conversion to low-floor vehicles - $69 million.

10.	SR 78 Corridor Sprinter/BRT service providing high-quality east-west transit service
improvements by upgrading and extending the Sprinter rail line, providing BRT
service along the Palomar Airport Road corridor, or a combination of the two - $197
million.

11.	BRT service from San Diego State University to Downtown San Diego along the El
Cajon Boulevard/Park Boulevard corridor with arterial improvements with bus
priority treatments, stations and vehicles - $89 million.

2.	Operating Support for the BRT and Rail Transit Capital Improvements: Of the total funds
available, an estimated $1,100 million will be used to operate and maintain the services
described under Section 2(A)(1)(b).

3. Environmental Mitigation: An estimated $600 million, including $450 million for direct
mitigation costs and $150 million for economic benefit, will be used to fund the habitat-
related mitigation costs of the major highway and transit projects identified in the Regional
Transportation Plan as part of the Environmental Mitigation Program described in Section
2(D).

B.	Congestion Relief Program - Transit System Service Improvements and Related Programs:

An estimated $2,240 million will be used to provide ongoing support for the reduced-price
monthly transit programs for seniors, persons with disabilities, and students and for the
continuation and expansion of rail, express bus, local bus, community shuttles, and dial-a-ride
services, including specialized services for seniors and persons with disabilities, and related
capital improvements.

C.	Congestion Relief Program - Local System Improvements and Related Programs:

An estimated total of $4,480 million will be allocated to local programs in the following three
categories:

1.	Local Street and Road Program: An estimated $3,950 million will be allocated on a fair and
equitable basis, using the formula specified in Section 4(D)(1), to each city and the County
of San Diego (hereinafter referred to as local agencies) to supplement other revenues
available for local street and road improvements. In developing the biennial list of projects to
be funded with these revenues as required under Section 5(A), local agencies shall give
high priority in the use of these funds to improvements to regional arterials, grade
separation projects, and related facilities contributing to congestion relief. At least 70% of
the revenues provided for local street and road purposes should be used to fund direct
expenditures for construction of new or expanded facilities, major rehabilitation and
reconstruction of roadways, traffic signal coordination and related traffic operations
improvements, transportation-related community infrastructure improvements to support
smart growth development, capital improvements needed to facilitate transit services and
facilities, and operating support for local shuttle and circulator routes and other services. No
more than 30% of these funds should be used for local street and road maintenance
purposes. A local agency desiring to spend more than 30% of its annual revenues on local
street and road maintenance-related projects shall provide justification to the Commission
as part of its biennial project list submittal. The Commission shall review each local
agency’s biennial project list submittal and make a finding of consistency with the provisions of this Ordinance and with the Regional Transportation Plan prior to approving
the local agency’s project list for funding. The Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee
shall also review the proposed project lists and make recommendations to the Commission.

2.	Environmental Mitigation: An estimated $250 million, including $200 million for direct
mitigation costs and $50 million for economic benefit, will be used to fund the habitat-
related mitigation costs of local transportation projects consistent with the Regional
Transportation Plan as part of the Environmental Mitigation Program described in Section
2(D).

3.	Smart Growth Incentive Program: An estimated $280 million will be allocated to the Smart
Growth Incentive Program to provide funding for a broad array of transportation-related
Infrastructure Improvements that will assist local agencies in better integrating
transportation and land use, such as enhancements to streets and public places, funding of
infrastructure needed to support development in smart growth opportunity areas consistent
with the Regional Comprehensive Plan, and community planning efforts related to smart
growth and Improved land use/transportatlon coordination. These funds shall be allocated
on a regional competitive grant basis. It is intended that these funds be used to match
federal, state, local, and private funding to maximize the number of improvements to be
implemented. The Commission shall establish specific project eligibility criteria for this
program.

D.	Transportation Project Environmental Mitigation:

An estimated $850 million will be used to fund habitat-related environmental mitigation
activities required In the Implementation of the major highway, transit and regional arterial and
local street and road improvements identified In the Regional Transportation Plan. Of this total,
an estimated $250 million is related to mitigation requirements for local transportation projects
and an estimated $600 million is related to mitigation requirements for the major highway and
transit projects Identified in the Regional Transportation Plan. The intent is to establish a
program to provide for large-scale acquisition and management of critical habitat areas and to
create a reliable approach for funding required mitigation for future transportation
improvements thereby reducing future costs and accelerating project delivery. This approach
would be Implemented by obtaining coverage for transportation projects through existing and
proposed multiple species conservation plans. If this approach cannot be fully implemented,
then these funds shall be used for environmental mitigation purposes on a project by project
basis, Additional detail regarding this program Is described In the documents titled “TransNet
Extension Environmental Mitigation Program Principles" and "Environmental Enhancement
Criteria Mitigating Highway 67,76, and 94 Expansion Impacts'’, which are hereby incorporated
by reference as if fully set forth herein.

E.	Bicycle, Pedestrian and Neighborhood Safety Program:

A total of two percent of the total annual revenues available (an estimated $280 million) will be
allocated to the Bicycle, Pedestrian and Neighborhood Safety Program to provide funding for
bikeway facilities and connectivity Improvements, pedestrian and walkable community
projects, bicycle and pedestrian safety projects and programs, and traffic calming projects.
These funds shall be allocated on a regional competitive grant basis, It is intended that these
funds be used to match federal, state, local, and private funding to maximize the number of
Improvements to be Implemented. The Commission shall establish specific project eligibility
criteria for this program.

F.	Administration and Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee:

Up to one percent of the total annual revenues available will be used for administrative
expenses and up to $250,000 per year will be used for the operation of an Independent
Taxpayer Oversight Committee.

SECTION 3. IMPOSITION OF TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX: In addition to any other taxes
authorized by law, there Is hereby Imposed In the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the
County of San Diego, In accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section
7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Division 12.7 of the Public Utilities Code
commencing with Code Section 132000, an extension of the existing transactions and use tax at
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2%) commencing April 1,2008, for a period of forty years, In
addition to any existing or future authorized state or local transactions and use tax. If, during this
time period, additional state or federal funds become available which would fund the projects and
services contained in the Regional Transportation Plan, then the tax may be reduced by action of
the Commission.


SECTION 4. EXPENDITURE PLAN PURPOSES: The revenues received by the Commission from
the existing measure as extended by this measure, after deduction of required Board of
Equalization costs for performing the functions specified in Section 132304(b) of the Public Utilities
Code, shall be used to Improve transportation facilities and services countywide as set forth in the
Expenditure Plan and In a manner consistent with the long-range Regional Transportation Plan
and the short-range, multi-year Regional Transportation Improvement Program, and for the
administration of the San Diego County Regional Transportation Commission Act (hereinafter
referred to as the “Act") commencing with Public Utilities Code Section 132000. Commencing July
1, 2008, after the deduction of administrative expenses, Independent Taxpayer Oversight
Committee expenses, and funding for the Bicycle, Pedestrian and Neighborhood Safety Program
as described in Sections 2(E), 2(F), 11 and 12, the remaining annual revenues shall be allocated as
follows:

A.	Forty-two and four-tenths percent for the major highway and transit Congestion Relief projects
specified in Section 2(A)(1), Including four and four-tenths percent for the habitat-related
mitigation costs of the major highway and transit projects as described in Section 2(A)(3) to be
-used to fund a portion of the Environmental Mitigation Program described In Section 2(D).

B.	Eight and one-tenth percent for operation of the specific transit Congestion Relief projects as
described in Section 2(A) (2). This funding is for the operation of new or expanded services only
and is not available for the operation of services in existence prior to the effective date of this
Ordinance.

C.	Sixteen and one-half percent for the transit programs described in Section 2(B). The revenues
made available annually for transit purposes shall be allocated and expended pursuant to the
following distribution formula and priorities:

1.	Two and one-half percent of the funds made available under Section 4(C) shall be used to
support improved transportation services for seniors and disabled persons. These funds
shall be used to support specialized paratransit services required by the federal Americans
with Disabilities Act (ADA).

2.	Three and one-fourth percent of the funds made available under Section 4(C) shall be used
to support a competitive grant program for nonprofit organizations and local agencies. The
funds shall be used to provide specialized transportation services for seniors focusing on
innovative and cost-effective approaches to providing improved senior transportation,
including, but not limited to, shared group services, special shuttle services using volunteer
forces, and brokerage of multi-jurisdictional transportation services.

3.	From the remaining revenues, there shall be expended such sums as necessary to
guarantee in the North San Diego County Transit Development Board and Metropolitan
Transit Development Board areas of jurisdiction for the duration of the measure (1) a, monthly regional transit pass for senior (60 years or older) and disabled riders priced at not

more than 25 percent of the cost of the regular regional monthly transit pass, and (2) a
monthly regional youth transit pass for students (18 years or under) priced at not more than
50 percent of the cost of the regular regional monthly transit pass.

4.	Remaining revenues shall be allocated for transit service improvements, including
operations and supporting capital improvements. The revenues shall be allocated through
the annual transit operator budget process and the improvements to be funded shall be
consistent with the Short Range Transit Plan.

5.	To maintain eligibility for the receipt of funds under Section 4(C), a transit operator must limit
the increase in its total operating cost per revenue vehicle hour for bus services or the
increase in its total operating cost per revenue vehicle mile for rail services from one fiscal
year to the next to no more than the increase in the Consumer Price Index for San Diego
County over the same period. If the requirement is not achieved, the operator may not
receive any additional funding under Section 4(C) in the following year above the amount
received in the previous fiscal year adjusted for any increase in the Consumer Price Index
for San Diego County. If there were unusual circumstances in a given fiscal year, the
operator may request the approval of the Commission to calculate the requirement as an
average over the previous three fiscal years. The operator may also request the approval of
the Commission to exclude from the calculation certain cost increases that were due to
external events entirely beyond the operator's control, including, but not limited to,
increases in the costs for fuel, insurance premiums, or new state or federal mandates.


D.	Thirty-three percent for the Local Programs described in Section 2(C) in the following three
categories:

1.	Twenty-nine and one-tenth percent for the local street and road program described in
Section 2(C)(1), The revenues available for the local street and road program shall be
allocated and expended pursuant to the following distribution formula:

a.	Each local agency shall receive an annual base sum of $50,000.

b.	The remaining revenues after the base sum distribution shall be distributed to each local

agency on the following basis:	'

1.	Two-thirds based on total population using the most recent Department of Finance
population estimates.

2.	One-third based on maintained street and road mileage.

c.	For the purposes of Section 4D(1)(a) and (b), any new Incorporations or annexations
which take place after July 1 of any fiscal year shall be incorporated into the formula
beginning with the subsequent fiscal year. The San Diego Association of Governments
population estimates of such new Incorporations or annexations shall be used until such
time as Department of Finance population estimates are available.

2.	One and eight-tenths percent for the habitat-related mitigation costs of local transportation
projects described in Section 2(C)(2) to be used to fund a portion of the Environmental
Mitigation Program described in Section 2(D).

3.	Two and one-tenth percent for the Smart Growth Incentive Program described in Section
2(C)(3).

E.	General Provisions:

1.	In implementing the projects funded under Section 4(A), priority shall be given to projects
Included In the Expenditure Plan for Proposition A as passed by the voters in 1987 that
remain uncompleted, such as the eastern ends of the SR 52 and SR 76 highway
Improvement projects and the Mid-Coast light rail transit project. The Commission shall
ensure that sufficient funding or bonding capacity remain available to Implement such
projects as expeditiously as possible once the environmental clearance for these projects is
obtained and needed state and federal matching funds are committed.

2.	Once any state highway facility or usable portion thereof is constructed to at least minimum
acceptable state standards, the state shall be responsible for the maintenance and
operation thereof.

3.	All hew projects, or major reconstruction projects, funded by revenues provided under this
Ordinance shall accommodate travel by pedestrians and bicyclists, except where
pedestrians and bicyclists are prohibited by law from using a given facility or where the
costs of Including bikeways and walkways would be excessively disproportionate to the
need or probable use. Such facilities for pedestrian and bicycle use shall be designed to the
best currently available standards and guidelines.

4.	All state highway Improvements to be funded with revenues as provided in this measure,
including project development and overall project management, shall be a joint
responsibility of Caltrans and the Commission. All major project approval actions including
the project concept, the project location, and any subsequent change in project scope shall
be jointly agreed upon by Caltrans and the Commission and, where appropriate, by the
Federal Highway Administration and/or the California Transportation Commission.

SECTION 5. EXPENDITURE PLAN PROCEDURES:

A.	Each local agency shall biennially develop a five-year list of projects to be funded with revenues
made available for local street and road improvements under Section 4(D). A local public
hearing on the proposed list of projects shall be held by each local agency prior to submitting
its project list to the Commission for approval pursuant to Section 6.

B.	All projects to be funded with revenues made available under Section 4 must be consistent with
the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP). Project priorities or phasing shall also be consistent
with the RTP. The Expenditure Plan shall be reviewed for consistency with RTP following each
major update of the RTP as required by state or federal law. The Expenditure Plan shall be'
amended as necessary to maintain consistency with the Regional Transportation Plan. If funds become available in excess of the amount allocated in the Expenditure Plan, additional projects
shall be added to the Expenditure Plan consistent with the priorities in the Regional
Transportation Plan. Any amendments to the Expenditure Plan shall be made in accordance
with the procedures for amending this ordinance as provided for in Section 16.

C.	In the allocation of all revenues made available under Section 4, the Commission shall make
every effort to maximize state and federal transportation funding to the region. The Commission
may amend the Expenditure Plan, in accordance with Section 16, as needed to maximize the
transportation funding to the San Diego region.

SECTION 6. PROJECT PROGRAMMING APPROVAL: The Commission shall biennially approve
a five-year project list and a biennial program of projects to be funded during the succeeding two
fiscal years with the revenues made available under Section 4 herein. The program of projects will
be prepared as a part of the Regional Transportation Improvement Program (RTIP) process as
required by state and federal law. A public hearing will be held prior to approval of the program of
projects. The Commission may amend the program of projects as necessary In accordance with
the RTIP amendment procedures. Projects shall not be funded with the revenues made available
under Section 4 unless the projects are in the approved program of projects.

SECTION 7. COOPERATIVE FUND AGREEMENTS: Except as provided for herein, the
distribution of funds as set forth in Section 4 shall be met over the duration of the measure. To
maximize the effective use of funds, revenues may be transferred or exchanged under the
following circumstances:

A.	The Commission, or agencies receiving funds by annual or multi-year agreement, may
exchange or loan funds provided that the percentage of funds allocated for each purpose as provided in Section 4 is maintained over the duration of the measure and reviewed as part each
10-year comprehensive program review as described in Section 17. All proposed exchanges,
including agreements between agencies to exchange or loan funds, must include detailed fund
repayment provisions, including appropriate Interest earnings such that the Commission
suffers no loss of funds as a result of the exchange or loan. All exchanges must be approved by
the Commission and shall be consistent with any and all rules approved by the Commission
relating thereto.

B.	The Commission may exchange revenues for federal, state, or other local funds allocated or
granted to any public agency within or outside the area of jurisdiction of the Commission to
maximize effectiveness in the use of revenues. Such federal, state, or focal funds shall be
distributed in the same manner as the revenues from the measure.

SECTION 8. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT: It is the intent of the Legislature, as stated in the Act,
and the Commission that revenues provided from this measure be used to augment, not supplant
existing local revenues being used for the purposes set forth in Section 4 herein. Each local
agency receiving revenues pursuant to Section 4(D) shall annually maintain as a minimum the
same level of local discretionary funds expended for street and road purposes on average over the
last three fiscal years completed prior to the operative date of this Ordinance (Fiscal Years
2000-01, 2001-02, 2002-03), as was reported in the State Controller’s Annual Report of Financial
Transactions for Streets and Roads and as verified by an independent auditor. The maintenance of
effort level as determined through this process shall be subject to adjustment every three years
based on the Construction Cost Index developed by Caltrans. Any increase in the maintenance of
effort level based on this adjustment shall not exceed the growth rate in the local jurisdiction’s
General Fund revenues over the same time period. The Commission shall not allocate any
revenues pursuant to Section 4(D) to any eligible local agency in any fiscal year until that local
agency has certified to the Commission that it will include in its budget for that fiscal year an
amount of local discretionary funding for streets and roads purposes at least equal to the minimum
maintenance of effort requirement. An annual independent audit shall be conducted to verify that
the maintenance of effort requirement for each agency was met. Any local agency which does not
meet its maintenance of effort requirement in any given year shall have its funding under Section
4(D)(1) reduced in the following year by the amount by which the agency did not meet its required
maintenance of effort level. In the event that special circumstances prevent a local agency from
meeting its maintenance of effort requirement, the local agency may request up to three additional
fiscal years to fulfill its requirement. Such a request must be approved by the Commission. The
Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee shall also review such requests and make
recommendations to the Commission. Any local street and road revenues not allocated pursuant
to the maintenance of effort requirement shall be redistributed to the remaining eligible agencies according to the formula described in Section 4(D)(1). The maintenance of effort requirement also
shall apply to any local agency discretionary funds being used for the other purposes specified
under Section 4. In addition, revenues provided from this Ordinance shall not be used to replace
other private developer funding that has been or will be committed for any project.

SECTION 9. REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION CONGESTION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
(RTCIP):

A.	New Development Exactions

Starting on July 1, 2008, each local agency in the San Diego region shall contribute $2,000 in
exactions from the private sector, for each newly constructed residential housing unit in that
jurisdiction to the RTCIP. These exactions shall ensure future development contributes its
i proportional share of the funding needed to pay for the Regional Arterial System and related
regional transportation facility improvements, as defined in San Diego Association of
Governments’ (SANDAG’s) most recent, adopted Regional Transportation Plan. New residential
housing units constructed for extremely low, very-low, low, and moderate income households, as
defined in California Health and Safety Code Sections 50105, 50106, 50079.5 and 50093, will be
exempted from the $2,000 per unit contribution requirement. The amount of contribution shall be
increased annually, in an amount not to exceed the percentage increase set forth in the
■ Engineering Construction Cost Index published by the Engineering News Record or similar cost of
construction index. Each local agency shall establish an Impact fee or other-revenue Funding
Program by which it collects and funds its contribution to the RTCIP. Each local agency shall be
responsible for establishing a procedure for providing its monetary contribution to the RTCIP. The
RTCIP revenue will be used to construct improvements on the Regional Arterial System such as
new or widened arterials, traffic signal coordination and other traffic improvements, freeway
interchange and related freeway improvements, railroad grade separations, and improvements
required for regional express bus and rail transit. This action is predicated on the desire to
establish a uniform mitigation program that will mitigate the regional transportation Impacts of new
development on the Arterial system. While the RTCIP cannot and should not fund all necessary
regional transportation network components and improvements, the RTCIP will establish a new
revenue source that ensures future development will contribute its pro rata share towards
addressing the impacts of new growth on regional transportation infrastructure.

B.	Oversight, Audit and Funding Allocations

The Regional Transportation Congestion Improvement Program (RTCIP) shall be overseen by
SANDAG and implemented by each local agency, with the objective of developing a consolidated
mitigation program for the San Diego region as a funding source for the Regional Arterial System.
The RTCIP and each local agency’s Funding Program shall be subject to an annual review and
audit to be carried out by the SANDAG and the Independent Taxpayers Oversight Committee, as
defined in Section 11 of this Ordinance. Any local agency that does not provide its full monetary
contribution required by Section 9(A) in a given fiscal year will not be eligible to receive funding for
local streets and roads under section 4(D)(1) of the TransNet Ordinance for the immediately
following fiscal year. Any funding not allocated under 4(D)(1) as a result of this requirement shall
be reallocated to the remaining local agencies that are in compliance with this Section.

C. Implementation of the Regional Transportation Improvement Program (RTCIP)

Provisions for implementation of the RTCIP are described in the document titled “TransNet
Extension Regional Transportation Congestion Improvement Program," which is hereby
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

SECTION 10. BONDING AUTHORITY: Upon voter approval of the ballot proposition to approve
the extension of the tax' and the issuance of bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax, bonds
may be issued by the Commission pursuant to Division 12.7 of the Public Utilities Code, at any
time, and from time to time, payable from the proceeds of the existing tax and its extension and
secured by a pledge of revenues from the proceeds of the tax, in order to finance and refinance
improvements authorized by Ordinance 87-1 and this Ordinance. The Commission, in allocating
the annual revenues from the measure, shall meet all debt service requirements prior to allocating
funds for other projects.

SECTION 11. INDEPENDENT TAXPAYER OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE: An Independent Taxpayer
Oversight Committee (ITOC) shall be established to provide an enhanced level of accountability
for expenditure made under the Expenditure Plan. The ITOC will help to ensure that all voter
mandates are carried out as required and will develop recommendations for improvements to the financial integrity and performance of the program. The roles and responsibilities of the HOC, the
selection process for HOC members, and related administrative procedures shall be carried out in
substantially the same manner as further described in the document titled “Statement of
Understanding Regarding the Implementation of the Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee
for the TransNet Program,” which is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Up
to $250,000 per year, with adjustments for inflation based on the Consumer Price Index for San
Diego County, may be expended for activities related to the ITOC.

SECTION 12. ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES: Revenues may be expended by the Commission
for staff salaries, wages, benefits, and overhead and for those services, including contractual
services, necessary to administer the Act; however, in no case shall such expenditures exceed one
percent of the annual revenues provided by the measure. Any funds not utilized in a given fiscal
year shall remain available for expenditure in subsequent fiscal years. Costs of performing or
contracting for project related work shall be paid from the revenues allocated to the appropriate
purpose as set forth in Section 4 herein. An annual independent audit shall be conducted through
the Independent Taxpayers Oversight Committee to assure that the revenues expended by the
Commission under this section are necessary and reasonable in carrying out its responsibilities
under the Act.

SECTION 13. ESTABLISHMENT OF SEPARATE ACCOUNTS: Each agency receiving funds
pursuant to Section 4 shall have its funds deposited in a separate Transportation Improvement
Account. Interest earned on funds allocated pursuant to this Ordinance shall be expended only for
those purposes for which the funds were allocated.

SECTION 14. IMPLEMENTING ORDINANCES: Upon approval of this measure by the voters, the
Commission shall, in addition to the local rules required to be provided pursuant to this ordinance,
adopt implementing ordinances, rules, and policies and take such other actions as may be
necessary and appropriate to carry out its responsibilities.

SECTION 15. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES: This Ordinance shall be effective on
November 3,2004, if one of the following events occurs: 1) two-thirds of the electors voting on the
ballot proposition approving the ordinance vote to approve the ballot proposition on November 2,
2004; or 2) a law is passed on or before November 2,2004 that lowers the voter approval threshold
applicable to this Ordinance and the number of electors voting in favor of this Ordinance meets
that threshold. The extension of the tax authorized by Section 3 of this Ordinance shall be operative
on April 1,2008. Bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax may be issued at anytime prior to, on
or after April 1,2008. The provisions of Section 4 of this Ordinance, relating to the allocation of
revenues, shall be operative on July 1,2008.

SECTION 16. AMENDMENTS: With the exception of.Sections 2(D), 3,4(E)(1), 8,9, and 11 which
require a vote of the electors of the County of San Diego to amend, this ordinance may be
amended to further its purposes by ordinance, passed by roll call vote entered in the minutes, with
two-thirds of the Commission concurring consistent with the Commission’s standard voting
mechanism. Separate documents incorporated by reference in the Ordinance in Sections 2,9, and
11 also may be amended with a two-thirds vote of the Commission.

SECTION 17. TEN-YEAR COMPREHENSIVE PROGRAM REVIEW: The Commission shall
conduct a comprehensive review of all projects and programs implemented under the Expenditure
Plan to evaluate the performance of the overall program over the previous ten years and to make
revisions to the Expenditure Plan to improve its performance over the subsequent ten years. Such
comprehensive program reviews shall be conducted In Fiscal Years 2019, 2029 and 2039.
Revisions to the Ordinance and Expenditure Plan required as a result of the ten-year review shall
be subject to the amendment process in Section 16.

SECTION 18. DESIGNATION OF FACILITIES: Each project or program in excess of $250,000
funded in whole or in part by revenues from this Ordinance shall be clearly designated during its
construction or implementation as being provided by revenues from this Ordinance.

SECTION 19. SEVERABILITY: If any section, subsection, part, clause or phrase of this Ordinance
is for any reason held unenforceable or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, that
holding shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining funds or provisions of this
Ordinance, and the Commission declares that it would have passed each part of this Ordinance
irrespective of the validity of any other part. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any part, clause, or
phrase of Section 9(A) of the Ordinance is for any reason held unenforceable or unconstitutional,
the remaining portions of Section 9 shall be deemed invalid.


SECTION 20. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT: Article XIII(B) of the California Constitution
requires the establishment of an annual appropriations limit for certain governmental entities. The
maximum annual appropriations limit for the Commission shall be established as $950 million for
the 2004-05 fiscal year. The appropriations limit shall be subject to adjustment as provided by law.
All expenditures of the transactions and use tax revenues imposed in Section 3 are subject to the
appropriations limit of the Commission.

SECTION 21. DEFINITIONS:

A.	Commission. Means the San Diego County Regional Transportation Commission created by
Chapter 1576 of the Statutes of 1985 (Division 12.7 of the Public Utilities Code, commencing
with Section 132000).

B.	Transit. Means all purposes necessary and convenient to the construction, operation and
maintenance of public transportation services and facilities including the acquisition of vehicles
and right-of-way. Public transportation services include, but are not limited to, local and
express bus, bus rapid transit (BRT), paratransit (dial-a-ride), fixed guideway, light rail (trolley)
and commuter rail services and facilities.

C.	Local Streets and Roads. Means all purposes necessary and convenient for the purposes as
described in Section 2(C)(1).

D.	Highways. Means all purposes necessary and convenient to the design, right-of-way
acquisition, and construction of highway facilities, including all state highway routes and any
other facilities so designated in the Expenditure Plan.

E.	Bicycle and Pedestrian Facilities. Means all purposes necessary and convenient to the design,
right-of-way acquisition, and construction of facilities intended for use by bicycles and
pedestrians. Bicycle and pedestrian facilities shall also mean facilities and programs that help
to encourage walking and the use of bicycles, such as secure bicycle parking facilities and
bicycle and pedestrian promotion and safety education programs.

F.	Bonds. Means indebtedness and securities of any kind or class, including but not limited to
bonds, notes, bond anticipation notes, and commercial paper.

G.	Expenditure Plan. Means the expenditure plan required by Section 132302 of the Public Utilities
Code to be included in the transactions and use tax ordinance to be approved by the
Commission. The expenditure plan includes the allocation of revenues for each authorized
purpose.

H.	Regional Transportation Plan. Means the long-range transportation plan for the San Diego
region required by Section 65080 of the Government Code to be prepared by the San Diego
Association of Governments as the designated Regional Transportation Planning Agency.

I.	Regional Transportation Improvement Program. Means the five-year programming document
required by Section 65080 of the Government Code to be prepared by the San Diego
Association of Governments as the designated Regional Transportation Planning Agency.

J.	Transit Operator. Means any transit district, included transit district, municipal operator,
included municipal operator, or transit development board as defined in Public Utilities Code
Section 99210.

K.	Regional Comprehensive Plan. Means the document integrating land use, transportation
systems, infrastructure needs, and public investment strategies within a regional framework to
be prepared by the San Diego Association of Governments as required by Section 132360 of
the Public Utilities Code.

SECTION 22. EFFECT ON COMMISSION ORDINANCE 87-1: This Ordinance is intended to
extend and expand the provisions of Commission Ordinance 87-1, and shall not be read to
supercede Commission Ordinance 87-1. If this Ordinance is not approved by the voters of San
Diego County, the provisions of Commission Ordinance 87-1 and all powers, duties, and actions
taken thereunder shall remain in full force and effect.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the San Diego County Regional Transportation Commission, the
28th day of May, 2004 by the following vote:

AYES: Commissioners Hall, Padilla, Monroe, Crawford, Lewis, Guerin, Holt Pfeiler, McCoy,
Jantz, Sessom, Morrison, Feller, Cafagna, Murphy, Smith, Dale, Powell, Vance,

NOES: Commissioner Jacob

Ron Morrison
Chairman

STATE OF CALIFORNIA 

COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO)

I, Gary L. Gallegos, the Secretary of the San Diego County Regional Transportation
Commission, do hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of an Ordinance adopted by the
San Diego County Regional Transportation Commission on May 28, 2004 at the time and by the
vote stated above, which said Ordinance is on file in the office of the San Diego County Regional
Transportation Commission.

DATED: May 28, 2004

Gary L. Gallegos
Secretary <fullend>

