Measure Q: Transaction Use Tax, City of Richmond

Shall the ordinance imposing a transaction sales and use tax of one-half of one percent (1/2%) in order to provide additional funds for general governmental purposes of the City, such as police, fire, emergency medical, library, recreation, local street maintenance and other general governmental services, be adopted?

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney
Based on a resolution adopted by a two-thirds vote of the City Council, an ordinance is proposed to impose a retail transactions and use tax of one-half of one percent (1/2%) in order to provide additional funds for general governmental purposes of the City, such as police, fire, emergency medical, library, recreation, local street maintenance, and other governmental purposes as determined from time to time by the City Council. The proposed tax will increase the local sales tax rate in Richmond from the current 8.25% to 8.75%. Local sales taxes contain certain exemptions and exclusions, such as fixed price contracts and leases of tangible personal property which will not be affected by the ordinance. The proposed additional sales tax will be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization. A separate impartial analysis of the financial impact upon the City will be provided by the City's Financial Director.
Wayne S. Nishioka, Assistant City Attorney

Arguments For Measure Q
Due to State tax grabs and a slow economy, Richmond closed fire stations and libraries and cut 25% of its police force. Parks, recreation, street cleanup, anti-blight and senior programs were cut by about 1/2.
Bring back these basic vital services. Vote yes on Measure Q, the 0.5% sales tax increase.
Like you, we don't like paying taxes. Businesses, out of town shoppers, etc. (not average Richmond residents) pay most of it.
Like you, we don't support taxes making government bigger. But Measure Q merely restores some of the services lost due to state takeaways.
And the sad truth is that we don't really have a choice. The State's not going to return millions it's stolen from us. Richmond laid off about half its administrators and cut the Council's budget. Due to massive deficits, Richmond (like other California cities) has not only cut the fat, but has cut the muscle. Employees have offered to reduce their pay, and are "busting their butts" to provide services in spite of massive layoffs. But, Richmond needs new revenue to bring back laid off employees to provide basic vital services.
You get what you pay for.
It's your choice: pennies a day for the sales tax, or:
	•	firefighters arriving too late because your local fire station's closed 
	•	25% less protection from crime because of 25% less police Officers
	•	senior centers, parks and recreation programs like the Richmond Plunge cancelled or severely cut back 
	•	trash piling up on the streets next to unchecked blighted properties, and graffiti 
	•	closed neighborhood libraries and a second rate Main Library 
Our parents' generation didn't disrespect us by permitting closed libraries, inadequate parks/recreation programs and decimated police and fire services.
Let's not be the generation that gave up on our kids... and ourselves.
Vote yes on Measure Q.
Jim Rogers, Councilmember, City of Richmond
Mike Gormley, President, Richmond Police Officers Association
Jim Russey, President, Richmond Firefighters
Linda Jackson-Whitmore, President, Santa Fe Neighborhood Council

(No argument against Measure Q was submitted.)

Full Text of Measure Q