1

1 I I

JUL 1 2 2004

p.	ENCLOSURE	NO.

EVERGREEN SCHOOL DISTRICT AG"NDA IT£M—IU

San Jose, California	^A££—----Z-8-04

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
COUNTY OF SANTA

By-

CLARFC^
:JljL Deputy

RESOLUTION # 02-04/05

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF EVERGREEN SCHOOL
DISTRICT CALLING AN ELECTION, ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS FOR
THE ELECTION ORDER AND REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH OTHER
ELECTIONS OCCURRING NOVEMBER 2,2004

WHEREAS, Evergreen School District ("District") is committed to offering a
high-quality educational program to all students in the District and due to inadequate
State funding, increased local revenues are necessary to meet this goal; and

WHEREAS, California Constitution, Article XIIIA, Section 4 and Government
Code Sections 50075 et. seq. authorize school districts, upon approval of two-thirds of
the electorate, to levy qualified special taxes on property in the District for the purposes
of providing quality educational programs in the District and other lawful purposes of
the District; and

WHEREAS, a special tax of NINETY-FOUR DOLLARS ($94) per parcel will meet
the stated goals of the special tax and the Board has studied the matter and determined
to seek voter approval for a new parcel tax for four years; and

WHEREAS, an adequately funded and well-developed public education
program provides numerous benefits and advantages to all of the residents of the
community; and

WHEREAS, in the judgment of this Board, following public hearing and
comment, it is advisable to request the Santa Clara County Registrar of Voters to call an
election and submit to the voters of the District the question whether the District shall
levy a special tax within the District for the purpose of raising additional revenue for
the District; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to Education Code Section 5342 and Elections Code
Sections 10400,10402 and 10403, such election may be completely or partially
consolidated with any other election held on the same day and in the same territory or
territory that is in part the same.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Resolution Constitutes Order of Election That this resolution shall
constitute an Order of Election pursuant to Education Code Section 5320 et. seq.

Section 2. Date and Purpose of Measure That pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA
of the California Constitution and Government Code Section 50077, a special election
shall be held within the boundaries of the District on Tuesday, November 2,2004, for
the purpose of voting on a proposition, a copy of which is attached hereto and marked
Exhibit A, containing the question of whether the District shall impose a parcel tax for
the purposes stated therein. In addition, the full text of the ballot proposition (the "Full
Ballot Text") attached hereto and marked Exhibit B, shall appear in the ballot pamphlet.

The amount of the special tax shall be Ninety-Four Dollars ($94) per year
per parcel. A "parcel" shall be defined as any parcel of land, developed or
undeveloped, wholly or partially located within the District, for which the Assessor of
the County (the "County Assessor") has assigned an assessor's identification number.
However, any such parcels that are contiguous, used solely for owner-occupied single-
family residential purposes and held under identical ownership, may, upon approval of
an application of the owners of such parcel, be treated as a single parcel for purposes of
this special tax.

Section 3. Senior Exemption from Special Tax An exemption from payment of the
special tax may be granted annually on any parcel owned by one or more persons 65
years of age or over who occupies said parcel as a principal residence, upon annual
application for exemption. The District shall annually provide to the Santa Clara
County tax collection officials a list of parcels that the District has approved for a Senior
Citizen Exemption.

Section 4. Collection of the Tax The special tax shall be collected by the Santa Clara
County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time, in the same manner, and subject to
the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector.
Unpaid special taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem
property taxes until paid.

Section 5. Authority for Ordering Election That the authority for ordering the
election is contained in Section 50075 et. seq. of the Government Code and Section 4 of
Article XIIIA of the California Constitution.

JUL 1 2 2004

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA

Deputy

By.

Section 6. Authority for Specification That the authority for the specification of
this election order is contained in Section 5322 of the Education Code.

Section 7. Resolution to County Registrar and Clerk That the Clerk of the Board is
hereby directed to send a copy of this Resolution to the Santa Clara County Registrar of
Voters (the "County Registrar"), as the officer conducting the election, and a copy of
this Resolution to the Santa Clara County Clerk of the Board of Supervisors (the
"County Clerk").

Section 8. Formal Notice The Santa Clara County Superintendent of Schools is
hereby requested to prepare and execute a formal notice of Parcel Tax Election and
consolidation and to call the election by causing notice to be posted in accordance with
Section 5362 of the Education Code no later than August 4, 2004, or otherwise cause the
notice to be published as permitted by law.

Section 9. Conduct of Election Pursuant to Section 5303 of the Education Code, the
Board requests that the County Registrar of Voters take all steps to hold the election in
accordance with law on November 2, 2004.

Section 10. Consolidation That the County Registrar of Voters and the Santa Clara
County Board of Supervisors are hereby requested to consolidate the election ordered
hereby with any and all other elections to be held on November 2,2004 within the
District.

Section 11. Full Ballot Text That the Board hereby determines to include within the
ballot pamphlet the Full Ballot Text attached hereto as Exhibit B, which is hereby
approved and adopted by the Board, and the Registrar of Voters is hereby directed to
include the Full Ballot Text in the ballot pamphlet.

Section 12. Ballot Arguments That the President of this Board and/or designees are
hereby authorized to prepare and file with the Registrar of Voters any ballot argument
prepared in connection with the election, including a rebuttal argument, each within the
time established by the Registrar of Voters, which shall be considered the official ballot
arguments of the Board of Trustees as sponsor of the measure.

Section 13. Official Actions That the Superintendent, President of the Board or their
designees are hereby authorized to execute any other document and to perform all acts
necessary to place the tax measure on the ballot including making alterations in the
ballot language stated in Exhibits A and B hereto to comply with requiremeaits of Jaw

and election officials.



II

JUL 1 2

2004



REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
COUNTY OF SANT^^TARA

By--------—}j Deputy

ADOPTED, SIGNED AND APPROVED by the Board of Trustees of the
Evergreen School District at a regular meeting this 8th day of July 2004.

AYES:	5

NOES:	0

ABSENT:	_a



President of the Governing Board
of Evergreen School District

Attested to:

Clerk of the Governing Board
of Evergreen School District

rp

3

I

JUL 1 2 2004

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
COUNTY OF SANT^tAR

Deputy

By,

EXHIBIT A

SXJT'

ABBREVIATED TEXT OF MEASURE

To ensure funding for local Evergreen schools that cannot be taken away by the State
and that will be used to continue K-3 class-size reduction; keep school libraries open;
support technology in every school; and provide a textbook for every child: shall the
Evergreen Elementary Sch6ol District be authorized to levy a tax of Ninety- Four-
($94) per parcel per year for a period of only four years with an exemption for- persons-
65 or older?

^ '

*/



/*

7C

JUL 1 2 2004

REGISTRAR OF VOTERS
COUNTY OF SANTA

By_____________________DePuty

EXHIBIT B



FULL BALLOT TEXT

The following is the full ballot text of the proposition to be presented to the voters by
the Evergreen School District in the ballot pamphlet:

Shall the Evergreen Elementary School District be authorized to levy a tax of Ninety-
Four Dollars ($94) per parcel per year for a period of only four years?

The purpose of the special tax is to provide funding for local Evergreen schools that
cannot be taken away by the State and to improve the quality of education in the
District by taking actions including:

1.	Continuing K-3 class-size reduction

2.	Keeping school libraries open

3.	Providing a textbook for every child

4.	Supporting technology in every school

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL ANY OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE TAX BE
USED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE SALARIES.

The term "parcel" shall mean any parcel of land, developed or undeveloped, wholly or
partially located within the District, for which the County Assessor has assigned an
assessor's identification number.

An exemption shall be granted annually on any parcel owned by one or more persons,
65 years or over, occupying said parcel as a principal residence, upon annual
application for exemption. In addition, exemptions may be granted annually for
owners of multiple parcels that are contiguous and constitute one economic unit,
meaning they have the same primary purpose as the principal parcel and are not
separate and distinct properties that can be independently developed or sold and for
property owners whose properties are extensively damaged by a natural disaster.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB and applicable laws, during the four-
year period of this special tax, the appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted
periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax.

The proceeds of this special tax shall be applied only to the specific purposes identified
above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into a fund that shall be kept

separate and apart from other funds of the District. No later than January 1 of each year
while the tax is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board of Trustees a
report detailing the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any
project authorized to be funded by this measure.