<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE L-04

SECTION I: That Chapter 3.21 shall be added to the County Code, subject to
approval of two-thirds of the qualified voters voting on the measure at the
general election to be held on November 2, 2004; said Chapter 3.21 to read as
follows:

Chapter 3.21

Save Our Public Libraries Transactions And Use Tax

Sections:  3.21.010.	Title.
3.21.020.	Operative Date.
3.21.030.	Purpose.
3.21.040	Contract with State.
3.21.050	Transactions Tax Rate.
3.21.060	Place of Sale.
3.21.070	Use Tax Rate.
3.21.080	Adoption of Provisions of State Law.
3.21.090	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.
3.21.100	Permit Not Required.
3.21.110	Exemptions and Exclusions.
3.21.120.	Amendments.
3.21.130.	Enjoining Collection Forbidden.
3.21.140.	Severability.
3.21.150.	Effective Date.
3.21.160.	Termination Date.
3.21.170.	Use of the Taxes.
3.21.180.	Expenditure Plan.

3.21.010 Title. This ordinance shall be known as the “Save Our Public
Libraries Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance." The County of San Luis
Obispo hereinafter shall be called “County.” This ordinance shall be applicable
in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County (hereinafter
referred to as “District”).

3.21.020 Operative Date. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this
ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

3.21.030 Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and its provisions should be interpreted to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7286.59 of Part 1.7 of Division 2
which authorizes the County to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be
operative if a two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation

Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax
and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the
State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes,
and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons
subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.21.040 Contract with State. Prior to the operative date, the County shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to
the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance;
provided, that if the County shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

3.21.050 Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the District at the rate of 0.25
percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

3-21.060 Place of Sale. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under
rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

3.21.070 Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use
or other consumption in the District of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage,
use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of 0.25 percent of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

3.21.080	Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this
ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.21.090	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use
Taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this County shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by
or against this County or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by
or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident
to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of
the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax white such sales, storage, use or
other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of
Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible persona) property which would not be subject to
tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711,6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “District” shall be substituted for the word “State" in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.21.100 Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.21.110	Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the
use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-
Bums Uniform Local Sates and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
lax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped
to a point outside the District, pursuant to the contract of sate, by delivery to
such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
tor shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the District shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code
by registration to an out-of-District address and by a declaration under penalty
of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact his or her
principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-District and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of
such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the
We or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or tease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or tease
upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, (he
storage, use or other consumption in this District of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of
aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common earners of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.
This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a tease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a tease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or
power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or tease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or tease
upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subsection (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the District shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the
property into the District or participates within the District in making the sate of
the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the District or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
the District under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the District" shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be
required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the District.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that
tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of
the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the
use tax.

3.21.120 Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of
this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating
to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part

1.6	and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall
automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such
amendment shad operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
ordinance.

3.21.130 Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate
or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding
in any court against the State or the County, or against any officer of the State
or the County, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part

1.6	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount
of tax required to be collected.

3.21.140 Severability. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the
ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

3.21.150 Effective and Operative Dates. This ordinance will take effect as
provided by law. This ordinance will become operative according to law only if at
least two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure at the November 2,2004
election approve the enactment of the ordinance. If approved, the provisions of
this ordinance authorizing the levy of the 0.25% transactions and use tax wilt
become operative on April 1,2005.

3.21.160 Termination Date. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
ordinance shall expire on March 31,2010.

3.21.170 Use of the Taxes.

A.	All transactions and use tax revenue received from the State Board of
Equalization pursuant to the operation of this ordinance shall be used
exclusively for countywide library programs and operations.

B.	The percentage of the total transactions and use taxes collected
countywide less any State Board of Equalization administrative fees which shall
be allocated to the City of Paso Robles (Paso Robles Public Library) shall be
the sales tax generated in the incorporated area of the City of Paso Robles for
the prior fiscal year as a percentage of the total sales tax generated in the
District for that fiscal year as set out in the most current edition of the State
Board of Equalization’s published document entitled “Taxable Sales in
California: Sales and Use Tax Annual Report.”

C.	The balance of the total amount of the transactions and use taxes
collected countywide less any State Board of Equalization administrative fees
each fiscal year shall be allocated to the County of San Luis Obispo (San Luis
Obispo City-County Library) for use for library operations and services within all
areas of the County of San Luis Obispo except the incorporated area of the City
of Paso Robles.

3.21.180 Expenditure Plan. The expenditure plan is designed to accomplish
the specific projects listed below with the revenues from the transactions and
use tax for only as long as that tax is in effect. The expenditure plan provides
for preserving existing libraries, reversing the deterioration in services at
existing libraries, upgrading of facilities, services and collections, and extending
branch library services to the served, underserved and unserved areas of the
county. The revenues from the transactions and use tax will supplement, and
not replace, existing funding for public libraries.

This expenditure plan is intended to provide residents of San Luis Obispo
County services that are similar to libraries operated in other areas of California
where local voters have approved the restoration and protection of their public
library services.

It is the intent of this ordinance and expenditure plan that the specific purposes
for which the revenues from the transactions and use tax may be expended will
be the following:

A.	Repairing, maintaining and upgrading public library facilities and
equipment in San Miguel, Shandon, Simmler, Atascadero, Creston, Santa
Margarita, Cambria, Cayucos, Morro Bay, Los Osos, San Luis Obispo, Shell
Beach, Arroyo Grande, Nipomo and Paso Robles. San Luis Obispo City-
County Library staff will meet with library customers and supporters in every
community served by one of its branch libraries listed above to discuss what
should be the priority of maintenance and repair projects.

B.	Restoring and protecting funding to the book and materials budgets at the
San Luis Obispo City-County Library and at the Paso Robles Public Library.
For the San Luis Obispo City-County Library, the currency of materials in critical
areas such as consumer health, consumer law, and computer technology will
increase 100%. Book and material collections will be refreshed and enhanced
in every San Luis Obispo City-County branch library.

C.	Restoring and enhancing open hours at San Luis Obispo City-County
Library branches and at the Paso Robles Public Library. Specific goals at San
Luis Obispo City-County Library branches are at a minimum the following
percentage increases for weekly open hours: Arroyo Grande, 40%; Atascadero,
40%; Cambria, 60%; Cayucos, 70%; Creston, 40%; Los Osos, 33%; Morro Bay,
33%; Nipomo, 60%; San Luis Obispo, 40%; San Miguel, 20%; Santa Margarita,
30%; Shandon, 40%; Shell Beach, 70%; Simmler, 20%; and toe Bookmobile,
25%.

D.	Restoring, protecting, and enhancing library services and programs for
older adults, such as service for the homebound, books by mail, large print
books, books on tape, books for the visually-impaired, and outreach to senior
living communities.

E.	Restoring, protecting, and enhancing library services and programs for
children and young adults.

SECTION II:	This	ordinance	shall	take	effect	after	approval	by the Board of

Supervisors and two-thirds of the voters voting on this ordinance at the
November 2, 2004, General Election. It will be submitted to the voters of the
County of San Luis Obispo on November 2,2004, and if two-thirds of the voters
voting on the ordinance approve it, the operative date for the ordinance will be
April 1, 2005. After passage of this ordinance by the Board of Supervisors and
before the expiration of fifteen (15) days after passage, it shall be published
once with the names of toe members of the Board of Supervisors voting for and
against the ordinance in a newspaper of general circulation published in the
County of San Luis Obispo, State of California. <fullend>








<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L-04

This measure will determine whether an ordinance adopted by the Board of
Supervisors of San Luis Obispo County (“the Board") shall be approved, which
increases the county-wide sales tax by one-quarter percent (0.25%) as a
transactions and use tax for the purpose of providing funding for public library
building maintenance and repairs, operations, programs, and for the acquisition
of books and other library materials for the benefit of the public.

In fiscal year 1992/1993, the State of California began reducing local
government’s share of property tax dollars. That same year, the State
eliminated the Special District Augmentation Fund which had specifically funded
public libraries. The Board has determined that this loss of funding, together
with other State-imposed revenue reductions, has resulted in the permanent
loss of over $1 million annually of ongoing revenues for public libraries in the
County. The Board has also determined that this loss has reduced library
building repairs and maintenance, resulted in fewer purchases of new books
and other library materials, and has decreased the hours that the library is open
to the public. Despite these reductions, the public’s use of public library
facilities has increased during this eleven-year period.

In order to restore and protect public library services within the County, the
Board has decided to submit to fire voters of the County the question of whether
an ordinance shall be adopted imposing a retail transactions and use tax in
accordance with provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code section 7286.59,
which authorizes the County to adopt this tax ordinance;" The tax would
increase the countywide sales tax by 0.25% for a period of five years. The
revenue generated by the tax would be used only for the following purposes: (1)
repairing, maintaining and upgrading public library facilities and equipment; (2)
restoring and protecting funding to the book and material budgets at the San
Luis Obispo City-County Library and the Paso Robles Public Library; (3)
restoring and enhancing open hours at San Luis Obispo City-County Library
branches and at the Paso Robles Public Library; (4) restoring, protecting, and
enhancing library services and programs for older adults; and (5) restoring,
protecting, and enhancing library services and programs for children and young
adults. The special tax authorized by this Measure will be imposed only in the
event that two-thirds (2/3) of the qualified voters voting on the Measure approve
it.

A “yes" vote on this Measure is a vote in favor of imposing a transactions and
use tax in the amount of 0.25% for the purpose of providing funding for public
library building maintenance and repairs, operations, programs, and acquisitions
of books and other library materials for the benefit of the public.

A "no" vote on this Measure is a vote against imposing a transactions and use
tax in the amount of 0.25% for the purpose of providing funding for public library
building maintenance and repairs, operations, programs, and acquisitions of
books and other library materials for the benefit of the public. <impartialend>









<impartialsigs> s/ James B. Lindholm, Jr. County Counsel <impartialsigsend>










<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L-04

Vote “Yes" on Measure L on Tuesday, November 2 to Save Our Public
Libraries.

There are more than 100,000 library cardholders and over 1 million visits are
made yearly to San Luis Obispo City-County and Paso Robles branch libraries.

UNFORTUNATELY, OUR LIBRARY BUILDINGS ME IN DISREPAIR, OPEN
HOURS HAVE BEEN REDUCED, AND LIBRARY BOOKS ARE BOTH TOO
FEW AND TOO OLD.

Our local libraries lose over $1 million per year due to State budget cuts. To
date, Sacramento has slashed funding for our public libraries by more than
2/3rds - and even more budget cuts are likely!

MEASURE L will add one-quarter of one cent to the County’s sales tax to only
5 years to:

•	Repair, renovate and modernize library buildings so they are functional,
accessible and attractive;

•	Keep libraries open longer hours, especially on evenings and
weekends.. .the only time most young people and working families can
visit;

•	Provide new books and other materials that are currently outdated and
scarce.

MEASURE L IS written so that the one-quarter of one cent sales tax for public
libraries expires in five years.

UNDER MEASURE L, funds raised for libraries will be monitored by an
Independent Oversight Committee, so the money can only go to the specific
library improvements listed in the measure.

MEASURE L ensures that the Library Director must meet with every community
and ask where and how they want the library money spent.

Join librarians, community leaders, and hundreds of your neighbors and friends
who are voting “Yes* on MEASURE L to repair old libraries, keep libraries open
longer, and buy new books.

Vote “Yes” on Measure L on Tuesday, November 2 to save our public libraries. <favorend> 









<favorsigs> s/ Grace N. Mitchell (Berg), Co-Chair, Committee to Save our Public Libraries
s/ Ruth E. Brackett, Co-Chair, Committee to Save our Public Libraries
s/ James W. Brabeck, Business President & CEO
s/ Harry Yasumoto, Retired Banker
s/ Bema Dallons, Retired Educator <favorsigsend> 









NO REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L-04 WAS

FILED
