
CITY OF KING RESOLUTION NO. 4051
UTILITY USER TAX RATE
MEASURE G

SUMMARY OF ORDINANCE NO. 654

Ordinance No. 654 would amend six sections of the City’s Municipal
Code by increasing the tax rate applicable to telephone, electricity,
gas, gas used for cogeneration plant, water, and cable television
services in the City from 2% to 4% for a period of two years. All
revenue derived from the tax would remain dedicated solely to public
safety services in the City and the tax increase, which is intended
to offset a like amount of revenue to be lost by virtue of a reduction
in City revenues from the State of California, would only remain in
effect for a period of two years, and shall at the end of those two
years revert to the rate of 2%. The ordinance would only take effect
if approved by at least two thirds of the voters voting in the consolidated
general election to be held on November 2, 2004.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE G

King City currently imposes a two percent (2%) tax upon charges
for telephone, electricity, gas, gas used for cogeneration plant, water,
and cable television services in the City. This tax is commonly referred
to as a utility users’ tax. The tax was first implemented in 1993 and,
until 2002, the revenues raised by the tax went into the City’s general
fund used to provide many general City services such as public
works, recreation, and general administration. In 2002, the voters
of King City voted to require the City to use all revenue from the
utility users’ tax solely for the purpose of funding public safety,
including police and fire protection, in the City. The utility users’tax
currently raises approximately $220,000 per year, all of which goes
to help fund police, fire, and other public safety functions in the City.

Measure G, which has qualified for the November 2, 2004 ballot
for consideration by the voters of King City, is one of three measures
on the ballot proposing to amend and update the City’s utility users'
tax ordinance. Measure G would amend the City Code by increasing
the tax rate to be applied to charges for telephone, electricity, gas,
gas used for cogeneration plant, water, and cable television services
in the City from the present two percent rate to tour percent for a
period of two years. At the end of those two years the increased
rate would sunset and automatically revert to the present two percent
which has been in effect since 1993.

The increased rate, if approved by voters, is anticipated to raise
an additional $220,000 per year, all of which would be required to
be allocated and used exclusively to help fund police and fire
protection in the City. This sum is equal to approximately 60% of
the revenue which the City is projected to lose in vehicle license
fees and state sales tax under the State Budget compromise in each
of the next two years.

Measure G will only take effect if approved by at least two-thirds
of the voters voting in the consolidated general election to be held
on November 2, 2004. If less than two-thirds of the voters vote in
favor of the measure, the City will continue to impose and collect
the tax at the two-percent rate. Whether the Measure passes or not,
all revenue from the utility users’ tax would continue to be dedicated
solely to support public safety services in the City.

Respectfully submitted,
si Michael R. Jencks
City Attorney, City of King

ARGUMENT FOLLOWS
ON NEXT PAGE

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED "AS SUBMITTED" AND
PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.

27-518

27518

27SB47

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Measure G deserves the support of all King City residences and
businesses. The measure increases the utility user tax from 2% to
4% for a period of two years.

Due to State budget negotiations, King City is anticipated to lose
approximately $279,000 in sales tax and $96,000 in vehicle license
fees this coming year. Even though the State is supposed to repay
the sales tax over a period of years, the result to the City is an
immediate reduction of approximately $375,000.

Our utility tax rate has never been increased and is one of the
lowest in the State. In 2002, the voters approved the dedication of
ALL the revenues from this tax to PUBLIC SAFETY so the tax can
only be used to support police and fire services in King City.

Our police and fire departments can’t afford further cuts! As
citizens of King City we need to respond to this immediate need to
keep our community safe. Remember, this increase is only for two
years.

Respectfully,
si John J. Buttgereit, King City resident,

businessman, former mayor and councilman

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

