MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

WILMAR UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE E

To keep school libraries open, maintain reading programs,

E computer and technology programs, smaller class sizes',
music and art programs, and provide for necessary edu-
cational programs and materials, to the extent such funds
are available, shall the Wilmar Union School District be authorized
to levy an annual parcel tax of $45 for four years, beginning July 1,
2004, with annual citizens' oversight committee audits, exempting
parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or more?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

The Wilmar Union School District has called an election on a special tax measure
to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a school
district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $45 per year per parcel for each parcel of
land within the District's boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1,2004, and would remain in effect for no
more than four years.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Measure E will allow the Wilmar Union School District to maintain important edu-
cational programs that are essential to our students' educational success. Se-
vere state cuts to our local school district are affecting our neighborhood school.
Measure E is a local plan for our local school. Every penny from Measure E will
stay here, in our local classrooms.

Measure E will ensure that our children have access to intensive reading and
literacy programs. Measure E will also allow us to keep our school library open and
retain the music programs that enrich the quality of education our students receive.

Measure E will allow Wilson School in the Wilmar Union School District to “avoid”
class-size increase—giving the attention and quality instruction students deserve.

It will ensure that students maintain access to the computer and technology
programs that are important for students to succeed.

There are taxpayer safeguards within Measure E. An independent Citizens
Oversight Committee will conduct annual audits to ensure Measure E funds are
used wisely. Every Measure E dollar will be spent on students, not on admin-
istration or salaries.

Senior citizens aged 65 and above are offered an exemption from Measure E.

Please join local teachers, firefighters, police officers, students, faculty, business
owners, retirees and community leaders on voting “Yes” on Measure E.

Proceeds of the tax could only be used for purposes set out in the measure, which
include keeping school libraries open, reducing class size, maintaining reading
and computer and technology programs, maintaining or restoring art and music
programs, providing child counseling services, and providing other educational
programs and materials.

If the tax is approved, the school board must create a special, separate account to
be established for deposit of the proceeds of the tax. A citizens' oversight
committee shall be appointed by the school board to review the budgeting of the
special tax revenue, and to annually review an audit of the special tax funds and
expenditures. The annual audit shall include a report of the amount received and
expended from the tax for each year, and the status of any projects, and
description of any programs, funded from the proceeds of the tax.

Let us give the children of Wilson School the quality programs they need to suc-
ceed in life.

si Rachel Farrara
Music Teacher

s/Jerry Schwartz, Former Owner
Jerome’s Mesquite BBQ

s/ Jim Eckhoff, Captain
Santa Rosa Fire Department

s/ Paul Lounibos
Certified Public Accountant

NO REBUTTAL TO
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E
WAS SUBMITTED

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and
occupied by a person who will be 65 years of age or older on or before May 1 of the
year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemptions based on
ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for this exemption
the first year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps must be
followed to appeal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a refund of the
tax, if appropriate.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Wilmar Union School District who vote on this
measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied. The
tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes starting with
the 2004-2005 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE

County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

Wise counsel dictates that when you have dug yourself into a hole—stop digging.
Facing a statewide financial crisis, it is time to stop spending and tighten our belts.
As painful as this can sometimes be, there can be benefits. When we are forced to
live within our means, we will choose to spend on those programs we collectively
deem most valuable and delay programs of lesser value. We make no judgments
about the merits of the programs proposed by the District, although we do suggest
that the case for more spending has not been adequately made and there are no
guarantees the money raised from the parcel tax will be dedicated to the uses the
District has indicated. We urge you to take a good look at your current property tax
bill’s special assessments and add the requested parcel tax. Then, ask yourself, is
this the right time for the District to ask me for more money? We already paid our
share of taxes, but where did the money go? The state’s financial crisis has made it
imperative for all areas of government to rethink how money is spent, especially
education which represents nearly 40 percent of California’s budget. We urge you
to send a strong message to the District's board and management to rethink how
existing funds will be spent by voting No on this measure.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION

si Spencer Flournoy, President	s/Jack Atkin, Treasurer

si John B. Landis, Vice President	si Jeanne I. Levin, Board Member

si Fred H. Levin, Executive Director

29

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

Measure E is a local solution to the statewide crisis in education funding. Every
penny of Measure E will stay here, in our local classrooms.

The Wilmar Union School District has undergone tremendous budget cuts. The
belt has been tightened and there is no more “fat” to trim — we are now forced to
eliminate the “basics”.

Core reading and computer and technology programs are on the cutting board and
many more will be threatened unless we find a local answer to our education-
funding problem.

Measure E will allow our school to keep the library open, restore intensive reading
and literacy programs and give our children access to music and art programs that
are so important to an early education.

None of Measure E funds will be used for administrative salaries—all funds will go
directly into our classrooms. A Citizens Oversight Committee will conduct annual
audits to ensure Measure E funds are used wisely.

In addition, our senior citizens age 65 or above, can apply for an exemption to
Measure E.

Our Community is a terrific place to live and to raise a family. Slashing elementary
school programs will put that at risk.

Please join our local classroom teachers, parents, businesspeople, senior citizens
and community leaders in voting Yes on Measure E.

s/ Albert Evenich	s/ Rachel D. Farrara

Retiree, District Trustee	Music Teacher

s/ Jerome Schwartz	s/ James Eckhoff, Captain

Businessman	Santa Rosa Fire Department

s/ Paul A. Lounibos
Resident/Homeowner

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E

WILMAR UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MAINTAINING EXCELLENCE IN SCHOOLS ACT OF 2004 TAX

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Wilmar Union
School District Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax” or as
“Measure E”.

TERMS OF MAINTAINING
EXCELLENCE IN SCHOOLS ACT OF 2004 SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this
measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $45 per
year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no more than four
years, commencing July 1, 2004. The qualified special tax shall be known and
referred to as the “Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax”. To the
extent such funds are available, proceeds of the Maintaining Excellence in
Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall be authorized to keep school libraries open,
maintain computer and technology programs, maintain reading programs, for
smaller class sizes, music and art programs, and child counseling services, and to
provide for necessary educational programs and materials.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in
the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or
older shall be exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax
upon proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption must apply
to the District on or before May 1,2004 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment
year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for
the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant
continues to qualify for the exemption.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E, CONT.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Maintaining
Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax, the Board of Trustees shall cause an account to
be established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the Maintaining
Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax remain unexpended, the Superintendent or
chief financial officer of the District shall cause an independent financial auditor to
prepare a report to be filed with the Board of Education and the Community
Oversight Committee no later than December 31 of each year, commencing
December 31,2005, stating (1) the amount of Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act
of 2004 Tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects
or description of any programs funded from proceeds of the tax. The report may
relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the
Superintendent shall determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the
annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board of Trustees.

Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Board of Trustees shall appoint a
Citizens’ Oversight Committee which shall, on an annual basis, review both the
Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Budget and Maintaining Excellence
in Schools Act of 2004 Independent Audit.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of
2004 Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall be collected
by the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and
shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by
the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as
the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the
Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall not decrease the funds
available from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date
hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property
in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from
the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All property which is
otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any
year shall also be exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004
Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older
are exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax as
described above.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has
approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from Maintaining Excellence in Schools
Act of 2004 Tax as described above to the Sonoma County tax collection officials.
The Sonoma County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any
reason other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be final
and binding for the purposes of the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004
Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must
do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant
to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable
procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act
of 2004 Tax paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds
pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent
value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in
full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.