November 2, 2004 General Election

Total Yes Votes: 561 58.7%

Total No Votes: 394 41.3%

CITY OF WOODLAKE

(required to pass: majority of votes cast)

Measure X

Shall Woodlake voters enact a one-half cent sales and use tax, for a
period of 10 years?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE CITY ATTORNEY

MEASURE X

The City of Woodlake proposes Measure X to raise revenue by
authorizing a one half cent sales tax increase within the City of
Woodlake. The tax would be paid in addition to the existing state and
local sales tax and would be collected in the same manner and at the
same time as the existing tax.

California Government Code section 53723 and California
Constitution Article XI 1C 2(b) allows for the imposition of a sales tax if
approved by a majority of the voters within the City of Woodlake. If
approved by the voters, the sales tax would become effective no
sooner than January 1, 2005.

The revenue raised from the sales tax will be used to provide for
general government services.

s/ Thomas T. Watson

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE X

Over the past several months the Woodlake City Council has debated
on how continue to provide City services at the level our citizens
expect and at the same time minimize the impact to our citizens.
While the State continues to raid our revenues sources, and at the

same time refuses to pay for programs they mandate, Cities are left
to fend for themselves.

Why a sales tax increase?

We thought long and hard before asking the voters to approve this
measure. It wasn’t an easy decision but we feel voters know what is
best for their City. Both Proposition 218, and the City Charter require
voter approval before any local tax may be increased. This measure
would provide for a temporary 10-year sales tax increase in the
amount of 14 of 1% of taxable sales. For example, for every $100 of
taxable sales that are purchased here in Woodlake, the additional tax
to be paid would be 50 cents. We are asking voters to approve a
sales tax measure because sales taxes are only paid when sales are
made. Although sales taxes tend to be paid more frequently, the
amounts tend to be smaller. We estimate this would generate the
equivalent of $11 per capita per year, or about 3 cents per day per
person.

If approved, this tax would take effect on July 1, 2005 and continue
for a period of 10 years. In 10 years, unless Woodlake voters take
subsequent action, this tax will expire.

We ask your support on this needed measure.

s/ Jack M. Ritchie, Mayor
s/ Chuck Ray, Vic. Mayor
s/ Raul Gonzales Jr., Councilman
s/ Paul Gomez, Councilman
s/ Frances Ortiz, Councilwoman

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED