MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

PETALUMA CITY (ELEMENTARY) SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE C

To keep school libraries open, restore music and art

C programs, restore smaller class sizes grades 4-6, rehire
reading specialists, maintain computer and technology
programs, and provide necessary educational programs
and materials to the extent funds are available, shall the Petaluma
City (Elementary) School District be authorized to levy a $75 annual
parcel tax for four years, beginning July 1,2004, with annual citizens’
oversight committee audits, exempting parcels owned and occupied
by persons 65 years of age or over?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

The Petaluma City (Elementary) School District has called an election on a special
tax measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval
before a school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $75 per year per parcel for each parcel of
land within the District's boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1,2004, and would remain in effect for no
more than four years.

Proceeds of the tax could only be used for purposes set out in the measure, which
include keeping school libraries open, restoring smaller class sizes to grades four
six, rehiring reading specialists, maintaining computer and technology programs,
and providing-other educational programs and materials.

If the tax is approved, the school board must create a special, separate account to
be established for deposit of the proceeds of the tax. A citizens’ oversight
committee shall be appointed by the school board to review the budgeting of the
special tax revenue, and to annually review an audit of the special tax funds and
expenditures. The annual audit shall include a report of the amount received and
expended from the tax for each year, and the status of any projects, and
description of any programs, funded from the proceeds of the tax.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and
occupied by a person who will be 65 years of age or older on or before May 1 of the
year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemptions based on
ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for this exemption
the first year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps must be
followed to appeal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a refund of the
tax, if appropriate.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Petaluma City (Elementary) School District who
vote on this measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be
levied. The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes
starting with the 2004-2005 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Measure C is a local solution to the statewide problem of education funding.
Measure C will maintain excellence in Petaluma’s elementary schools and give
our children the education they need to succeed.

As we all know, the State has drastically cut funding to all school districts. Our local
schools are left with two options: cut basic programs that we offer to our students
or come up with a local plan to solve our funding problem.

Measure C is exactly that — a local plan to maintain excellence in Petaluma’s
schools.

Measure C will allow schools of the Petaluma Elementary School District to keep
their libraries open and to restore music and art programs that have been cut over
the past year.

Measure C will allow Petaluma’s elementary schools to restore smaller class sizes
in grades 4-6, restore reading specialists in the classroom, and maintain computer
and technology programs that our kids need to excel in high school and college.

There are taxpayer safeguards within Measure C. An independent Citizens Over-
sight Committee will conduct annual audits to ensure Measure C funds are used
wisely. Not one penny of Measure C will be used for administrative salaries.

And, senior citizens over the age of 65 can apply for an exemption to Measure C.

Please join local teachers, parents, nurses, business people, retirees and com-
munity leaders in voting Yes on Measure C.

Measure C is a local solution that will maintain excellence in Petaluma’s elemen-
tary schools.

s/William M. Hammerman	si Michael Munroe

Retiree	Parent

s/ Pamela Klarkowski	si Elizabeth Marquardt

Nurse	Certified Public Accountant

si Susan E. Cohen
3rd Grade Classroom Teacher

NO REBUTTAL TO
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C
WAS SUBMITTED

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Wise counsel dictates that when you have dug yourself into a hole—stop digging.
Facing a statewide financial crisis, it is time to stop spending and tighten our belts.
As painful as this can sometimes be, there can be benefits. When we are forced to
live within our means, we will choose to spend on those programs we collectively
deem most valuable and delay programs of lesser value. We make no judgments
about the merits of the programs proposed by the District, although we do suggest
that the case for more spending has not been adequately made and there are no
guarantees the money raised from the parcel tax will be dedicated to the uses the
District has indicated. We urge you to take a good look at your current property tax
bill’s special assessments and add the requested parcel tax. Then, ask yourself, is
this the right time for the District to ask me for more money? We already paid our
share of taxes, but where did the money go? The state’s financial crisis has made it
imperative for all areas of government to rethink how money is spent, especially
education which represents nearly 40 percent of California’s budget. We urge you
to send a strong message to the District’s board and management to rethink how
existing funds will be spent by voting No on this measure.

. SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION
si Spencer Flournoy, President	si	Jack Atkin, Treasurer

si John B. Landis, Vice President	si	Jeanne I. Levin, Board Member

si Fred H. Levin, Executive Director

22

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C

Measure C is a local solution to the statewide crisis in education funding. Every
penny of Measure C will stay here in Petaluma—it will not be sent to Sacramento.

Petaluma's elementary schools have undergone tremendous budget cuts. There
is no ''fat’’ — we are now eliminating the "basics”.

Many core programs have been cut and many more are threatened if we do not
find a local answer to our education-funding problem.

Measure C will allow our schools to keep their libraries open, restore reading
specialists in the classrooms and give our children access to music and art
programs that are so important to an early education.

Not one penny of Measure C will be used for administrative salaries — it will all go
directly into our elementary schools.

And, our senior citizens can apply for an exemption to Measure C.

Petaluma is a terrific place to live and to raise a family. Slashing elementary school
programs will put that at risk.

Please join our local classroom teachers, parents, businesspeople, senior citizens
and community leaders in voting Yes on Measure C.

si William M. Hammerman	si	Michael	Munroe

Retiree	Parent

si Pamela Klarkowski	si	Elizabeth	Marquardt

Nurse	Certified Public Accountant

si Susan E. Cohen
3rd Grade Classroom Teacher

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

PETALUMA CITY (ELEMENTARY) SCHOOL DISTRICT
MAINTAINING EXCELLENCE IN SCHOOLS ACT OF 2004 TAX

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Petaluma City
(Elementary) School District Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004
Tax” or as “Measure C

TERMS OF MAINTAINING
EXCELLENCE IN SCHOOLS ACT OF 2004 SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this
measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $75 per
year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no more than four
years, commencing July 1, 2004. The qualified special tax shall be known and
referred to as the “Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax”. To the
extent such funds are available, proceeds of the Maintaining Excellence in
Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall be authorized to keep school libraries open, restore
music and art programs, restore smaller class sizes grades 4-6, rehire reading
specialists, maintain computer and technology programs, and provide necessary
educational programs and materials.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in
the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or
older shall be exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax
upon proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption must apply
to the District on or before May 1,2004 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment
year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for
the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant
continues to qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Maintain-
ing Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax, the Board of Education shall cause an
account to be established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds
of the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax remain unexpended, the

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C, CONT.

Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District shall cause an independent
financial auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of Education and
the Community Oversight Committee no later than December 31 of each year,
commencing December 31,2005, stating (1) the amount of Maintaining Excellence
in Schools Act of 2004 Tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the status
of any projects or description of any programs funded from proceeds of the tax.
The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual
period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and may be incorporated into or
filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board
of Education.

Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Board of Education shall appoint a
Citizens' Oversight Committee which shall, on an annual basis, review both the
Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Budget and the Maintaining
Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Independent Audit.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of
2004 Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall be collected
by the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and
shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by
the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as
the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the
Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall not decrease the funds
available from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date
hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property
in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from
the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All property which is
otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any
year shall also be exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004
Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older
are exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of 2004 Tax as
described above.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has
approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Maintaining Excellence in
Schools Act of 2004 Tax as described above to the Sonoma County tax collection
officials. The Sonoma County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for
any reason other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be
final and binding for the purposes of the Maintaining Excellence in Schools Act of
2004 Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination
must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property
pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other
applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Maintaining Excellence in
Schools Act of 2004 Tax paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax
refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent
value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this
measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in
full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.