

SANTEE SCHOOL DISTRICT
Proposition Y

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

.... SPECIAL PARCEL ASSESSMENT FOR ELEMEN-

rnUr Y TARY educational programs and services.

I Mvl I To maintain quality education, partially offset State fund-
ing cuts, and retain our best teachers by: Ensuring adequate textbooks,
Restoring reading specialists at all schools, Ensuring safe schools, Restoring
school library access, and Reinstating music programs, shall Santee School
District levy $60 per residential parcel and $400 per nonresidential parcel
annually for 5 years, with seniors’ exemptions, no proceeds for administrator
salaries, a citizen's oversight committee, annual audits, and all funds remain-
ing in Santee to benefit local schools?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds of the voters.

Full text of this proposition
follows the argument.

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The Board of Education of the Santee School District has ordered a special election to submit to
the voters of the School District a measure to authorize the School District to levy a special tax for
a period of only five years beginning July 1,2005. The measure must be approved by a vote of two-
thirds of the voters voting on the measure in order to pass.

The Board of Education has pledged that the additional revenue raised by the special
assessment is to be used to maintain quality education, partially offset the impact of both
unprecedented state and School District budget reductions, retain qualified and experienced
teachers, minimize further reduction in educational programs, ensure adequate textbooks and
instructional materials, reinstate reading specialists at each school, ensure safe schools, restore
access to school libraries during school hours and reinstate the music program. The Board of
Education has further pledged that there will be both annual audits of the funds and annual
oversight by a citizens committee.

For the limited 5 year period, the special tax will be Imposed at the rate of $60.00 per year for
each assessor's residential parcel of land and at the rate of $400.00 per year for each assessor’s
commercial, Industrial or other non-residential use parcel located wholly or partially within the
School District. Any residential parcel whose beneficial owner has attained the age of 65 on or
before July 1 of any tax year and who uses the parcel as his or her principal residence Is exempt
from the special tax.

Local school districts are authorized by state law to impose qualified special taxes on real
property within their respective districts upon approval by a two-thirds vote of the voters voting
upon the special tax measure. The qualified special tax must apply uniformly to all taxpayers or all
real property within the school district and may not be an ad valorem tax on real property, a
transaction tax, or a sales tax on the sale of real property. The special parcel tax will be collected
and administered in the same manner as ad valorem real property taxes are calculated and
collected under provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

A “yes" vote is a vote to authorize the special tax.

A “no” vote is a vote against authorizing the special tax.

PR-1339-1

NSD 383-055

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION Y

Our neighborhood school programs have been seriously decimated by ongoing State budget
cuts. After slashing over $16 million in the past five years, the kindergarten through eighth grade
schools in the Santee School District have lost library time, custodial services, music teachers, and
vital reading specialist assistance. Future cuts continue to threaten smaller classes, teacher
staffing and additional educational programs.

Proposition Y, a TEMPORARY school assessment, will provide funds to limit these drastic
reductions. Specifically, Proposition Y will provide money to minimize further reduction in
educational programsand enhance student achievement, by:

•	Ensuring adequate textbook and instructional materials,

•	Reinstating full district funded reading specialists at each school site,

•	Supporting programs which ensure a safe school environment,

•	Restoring access to libraries during school hours, and

•	Reinstating the music program.

The $5 per month each homeowner will pay under Proposition Y is deductible on state and federal
taxes. Seniors are eligible for an exemption: Proposition Y is limited to 5 years and cannot be
extended without voter approval. A citizens’ oversight committee will be established to monitor
spending and insure Proposition Y funds are properly spent. ALL Proposition Y monies will remain
in our community to benefit our local school children. No funds can be taken by the State.

Our school children deserve the best. Good schools help keep our property values high and
maintain the quality of life in our community. That’s why we support Proposition Y. Help preserve
the excellent educational tradition of Santee and the future of the children who live here.

PLEASE VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION Y.

KAREN R. FLECK	LYNDA A. HARLAN

Parent	Community Business Owner

Tierra Del Sol Council PTA President

JAMES L. WILLIAMS
Teacher, Santee School District and Community Member

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION Y

No argument against the proposition was filed
in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-1339-2

N SD 383-056

FULL TEXT

PARCEL ASSESSMENT FOR ELEMENTARY EDUCATIONAL
PROGRAMS AND SERVICES

To maintain quality education, partially offset the impact of unprecedented district/state budget
reductions and declining enrollment, retain qualified and experienced teachers, minimize further
reduction in educational programs and enhance student achievement, by:

•	Ensuring adequate textbook and instructional materials,

•	Reinstating full district funded reading specialists at each school site,

•	Supporting programs which ensure a safe school environment,

•	Restoring access to libraries during school hours, and

•	Reinstating the music program

shall Santee School District be authorized to levy and collect an annual special assessment for five
years only, beginning July 1,2005, at the rate of $60 per year for each residential parcel within the
School District and $400 per year for each commercial, industrial, or other non-residential use
parcel within the School District, with an exemption for any parcel whose beneficial owner has
attained the age of 65 on or before July 1 of any assessment year and who uses that parcel as his
or her principal place of residence, with no proceeds going to the State or administrator salaries,
with all funds staying in Santee to benefit local schools, with annual oversight of funds by a
citizen’s committee and annual audits, and shall the Santee School District Implement
accountability measures in connection with the special assessment?

The parcel assessment will be imposed at the rates shown above on all Assessor’s parcels of
real property within the School District not otherwise exempt from ad valorem property taxes, and
shall include those Assessor’s parcels presently existing and those hereafter created. An
exemption from the assessment will be made available for each parcel whose beneficial owner will
attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the assessment year, and who uses that parcel as his or her
principal place of residence, and who applies to the School District on or before July 1, 2005, or
July 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any one approved application from a qualified
applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long
as such applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her principal residence.

PR-1339-3

N SD 383-057