Exhibit A

J

ORDINANCE NO. 04-10

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BENICIA AMENDING CHAPTER 5.06
(BUSINESS LICENSE TAX RATES) OF TITLE 5 (BUSINESS TAXES,
LICENSES AND REGULATIONS) OF THE MUNICIPAL CODE TO REVISE
AND INCREASE THE BUSINESS LICENSE TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF BENICIA DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1.

Chapter 5.06 of the	Municipal Code is hereby amended to read as follows: CHAPTER 5.06 BUSINESS LICENSE TAX RATES
Sections:	
5.06.010	Definitions.
5.06.020	Total Tax Due.
5.06.030	Personnel Tax.
5.06.040	Multifamily Residential Rental Tax.
5.06.050	Gross Receipts Tax.
5.06.060	Alternate License Tax for Solicitors, Farmer’s Market Vendors and Street Fair Participants.
5.06.070	Inflation Adjustment.
5.06.010.	Definitions. Except where indicated to contrary or where the
context clearly requires to the contrary, all terms used in this Chapter shall have the	
meanings given in Chapter 5.04.	
5.06.020.	Total Tax Due. Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.06.060,
the license tax due	pursuant to Section 5.04.030 with respect to any business shall be
the sum of:	
(i)	the personnel tax imposed by Section 5.06.030;
(ii)	the multifamily residential rental tax imposed by Section 5.06.040; and
(ii)	the gross receipts tax imposed by Sections 5.08.050.

The requirements of this Chapter shall apply only to persons required to pay a
license tax pursuant to Section 5.04.030.

5.06.030. Personnel Tax.

A.	Each person who employs or compensates another shall pay an annual
personnel tax of $7.50 for each person he or she employs or compensates.

B.	For purposes of this Section, persons deemed to be employed or
compensated by a person subject to the license tax include:

(1)	employees to whom the person subject to the license tax pays
wages reportable on Internal Revenue Service Form W-2 or its
successor; and,

(2)	other persons to whom the person subject to the license tax pays
compensation, but only if (a) the person subject to the license tax is
obligated to report such compensation in Box 7 of Internal Revenue
Service Form 1099-MISC, as that form existed in November 2004
and (b) the person receiving compensation had not been issued a
business license tax certificate by the City valid during the period
for which compensation was paid.

C.	If a person subject to the personnel tax imposed under this Section
employed or compensated one or more persons for fewer than 2,000 hours of services
in the calendar year prior to the year in which the tax is due, then that taxpayer shall
pay the tax due under this Section with respect to that person or those persons in the
amount of $7.50 multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of hours
of services performed by all such persons in the calendar year prior to year in which the
tax is due, and the denominator of which is 2,000 hours.

5.06.040. Multifamilv Residential Rental Tax.

A.	This Section shall apply to persons engaging in the business of renting or
leasing multifamily property in the City for residential tenancies of thirty or more days.
Persons engaging in this type of business are not subject to a gross receipts calculation
pursuant to Section 5.06.060 or a personnel tax pursuant to Section 5.06.030.The
record owner of a property that is rented or leased for such tenancies shall be
presumed to be the person renting or leasing the property and liable for the tax due
under this Section unless that record owner demonstrates to the satisfaction of the
Administrator that some other person is engaged in the business of renting or leasing a
particular property, in which case that other person shall be liable for the tax due under
this Section as to that property.

B.	Each person subject to this Section shall pay a multifamily residential
rental tax of $36 for each rental unit for which that person receives any rent during the
calendar year prior to the year in which the tax is due.

C.	Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph B, no multifamily residential
rental tax shall be due with respect to any rental unit that the person subject to this
Section can establish, in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator:

(i)	to be a rental unit located in a building containing three or fewer other
such rental units; or,

(ii)	to have been occupied for at least half of the period during which it was
rented to any tenant in the calendar year prior to the year in which the tax is due by:

(a)	a head of household who is sixty-five years of age or older; or,

(b)	a “lower income household” as that term is defined in Section
50075.9 of the California Health & Safety Code, as it now exists or may hereafter be
amended.

D.	A person who is subject to the multifamily Residential Rental Tax shall not
be subject to the gross receipts tax imposed pursuant to Section 5.08.050 with respect
to gross receipts derived from the rental or leasing of residential rental units in the City.

5.06.050. Gross Receipts Tax.

A.	Any person who engages in the business of providing professional
services shall pay a gross receipts tax of 75 cents per $1,000 of gross receipts received
in the calendar year prior to the year in which the tax is due, but not less than $75.00
per year.

B.	Any person who engages in the business of retailing, operating a hotel or
motel, or providing services (other than professional services) to the general public shall
pay a gross receipts tax of 65 cents per $1,000 of gross receipts received in the
calendar year prior to the year in which the tax is due, but not less than $65.00 per
year.

C.	Any person who engages in any business other than a business specified
in Paragraphs A and B shall pay a gross receipts tax of 55 cents per $1,000 of gross
receipts received in the calendar year prior to the year in which the tax is due, but not
less than $55.00 per year.

D.	The maximum gross receipts tax that any person shall be required to pay
pursuant to this Section with respect to any year shall be $450.00.

5.06.060. Alternate License Tax for Solicitors. Farmer’s Market Vendors and
Street Fair Participants.

A.	The license tax due pursuant to Section 5.06.020 with respect to a person
engaged in the business of soliciting in the City shall be $15 for each day that the
person engages in soliciting and shall be payable monthly beginning on the first date in
each calendar year in which that person conducts business in the City.

B.	The license tax due pursuant to Section 5.06.020 with respect to a person
engaged in the business of vending at a farmer’s market in the City shall be $15 per
year and shall be payable five days before the beginning of business and shall be
remitted on behalf of the licensee by the sponsor of the farmer’s market.

C.	The license tax due pursuant to Section 5.06.020 with respect to a person
engaged in the business of participating in a street or community fair shall be $15 per
street or community fair and shall be payable before the commencement of business
and shall be remitted on behalf of the licensee by the sponsor of the street or
community fair. If a street or community fair lasts for more than three consecutive days,
the tax shall be due for each whole or partial three-consecutive-day period during which
a person engages in business in the City.

5.06.070. inflation Adjustment.

A.	By November 30th of each year, beginning in 2005, the Administrator shall
adjust in the manner required by this Section each of the following tax rates or
amounts, and those adjusted rates or amounts shall be used in calculating taxes due in
the following calendar year:

(i)	the rate of the personnel tax set forth in Section 5.06.030;

(ii)	the rate of the residential rental tax set forth in Section
5.06.040;

(iii)	the maximum gross receipts tax amount set forth in Section
5.06.050(D); and

(iv)	each of the license tax rates and amounts set forth in
Section 5.06.060.

B.	Each rate or amount shall be adjusted for inflation by multiplying the then-
effective rate by the lower of:

(i)	the annual increase in the Consumer Price Index for All
Urban Consumers, San Francisco Bay Area (or any
successor to that index) for the most recent 12 months for
which data have been published when the adjustment is
calculated; or

(ii)	the average annual increase in the Consumer Price Index
for All Urban Consumers, San Francisco Bay Area (or any
successor to that index) over the five most recent twelve
month periods for which data have been published when this
calculation is made.

C.	The Administrator shall publish the adjusted rates and amounts by
December 15th of each year, beginning in 2005, in the manner required for publication
of ordinances of the City.

D.	The City Council may, by resolution, suspend the effectiveness of all or
part of one or more such adjustments for such period or periods as it may determine.
However, such suspension shall not be taken into account by the Administrator when
making the calculations required by this Section. The expiration or termination of any
such suspension shall not require voter approval, provided that the tax is not imposed
on any person in an amount in excess of the inflation-adjusted rates or amounts
authorized by this Ordinance.

Section 2.

Amendment or Repeal. The City Council may repeal Chapter 5.06 of the Benicia
Municipal Code or amend that Chapter without a vote of the people except that any
amendment to Chapter 5.06 that increases the amount or rate of tax due from any

person beyond the inflation-adjusted amounts and rates authorized by this Ordinance
may not take effect unless approved by a vote of the people.

Section 3.

Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective on January 1,2005.

Section 4.

Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full
force and effect. The people hereby declare that they would have adopted each
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective
of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or
portions of this Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable.

Section 5.

Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this Ordinance
by the voters of the City by signing where indicated below.

*****

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED and
ADOPTED by the people of the City of Benicia voting on the 2nd day of November 2004.

Steve Messina
Mayor

ATTEST:

Lisa Wolfe
City Clerk

MEMORANDUM

To:	City Clerk

From:	City Attorney

Subject:	Impartial Analysis of Measure R

Date:	July 23, 2004

Attached please find a copy of my impartial analysis of Measure R. I will also transmit an
electronic copy of the analysis to you so that you may forward it to the County Registrar.

Please let me know if you have any questions.

City Attorney’s Impartial Analysis of Measure R

Background. The City of Benicia has levied a business license tax since 1972. Each person
conducting a business, trade, or profession in the City must pay this tax. Taxes are due annually
from most businesses and the tax is based on either the gross receipts of a business or the number
of people employed by the business. In most cases, the maximum tax owed by a business is
$150 per year. The rates and maximum tax amounts have not been increased since the tax was
first levied and the proceeds of the tax provide far less real revenue to the City than was true in
1972 due to inflation.

The Measure. Measure R would simplify the current tax rate structure and update tax rates that
have not been increased since 1972. If Measure R is adopted, most businesses will pay an
annual business license tax of $7.50 for each employee or independent contractor and, depending
on the type of business, between 55 cents and 75 cents per $1,000 of gross receipts received by
the business. The gross receipts portion of the tax will be capped at $450 per year for any
business.

Certain businesses would be taxed differently. Landlords who lease more than three residential
units in the City will pay an annual tax of $36.00 for each 1 unit (excluding units occupied by
senior citizens and low-income tenants), plus the tax for employees and contractors. Solicitors,
farmer’s market vendors, and operators of street and community fair booths will pay a tax of
$15.00 per event.

If Measure R is adopted, the revised tax amounts will be adjusted for inflation in future years
according to changes in the Consumer Price Index for the San Francisco Bay Area, but such
increases will be capped by the average increase in that index over the previous five years in
order to prevent sharp increases. The City Council is authorized to suspend all or part of an
annual inflation adjustment.

The City Council is also authorized to amend the tax ordinance in any manner that does not
increase the tax amounts due. Any increase in the tax will require voter approval.

Copy of Ordinance. The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure R. If you desire a
copy of the measure, please call the City Clerk’s office at 746-4200 and a copy will be mailed at
no cost to you.

Heather C. Me Laugfilln (date)
City Attorney
City of Benicia

State and Federal budget deficits continue to negatively impact our local
government. To protect Benicia’s quality of life we must look at ways to both reduce City
costs and increase City revenues.

City staff continues to make budget cuts and review all its fee schedules to
compensate for property tax and vehicle license revenue taken away from cities by the
state. One such fee is the cost of maintaining a business license in Benicia, which has not
changed in 32 years. Representatives of the business community and Benicia Industrial
Park joined with city leaders to update the Business License Tax (BLT) in the fairest,
simplest manner possible.

Measure R will increase the tax to an annual maximum of $450 plus $7.50 per
employee, bringing it in line with other cities’ BLTs. Small businesses will pay as little at
$75, while the largest businesses in town will pay $1,000 or more depending on the
number of employees. To prevent the BLT from becoming outdated again, Measure R
includes annual adjustments based on the average Consumer Price Index change over the
prior five years.

Once again, this solution was developed jointly by City leaders, Benicia Industrial
Park Association and Benicia Chamber of Commerce. It will add $300,000 annually to
the $150,000 in city revenue generated by the current BLT. The rest of the projected
budget deficit is being made up by other means. The local business community
understands the city’s situation and wants to do its part to help maintain city services and
facilities. Measure R will do just that.

[71	H (1 1	11 W E	r	
t	'  AUG 1	3 2004		
%	CITY CLERK'S OFFICE CITY OF BENICIA			

oe,IL CA U g • 13 • 2004^1 2 : 40PMBr'y enters; tot rati b/Bl;	Aug-13-04	12:21fNo-3348	P-	2:	2/3

SIGNATURE STATEMEIfrj
All arguments/rebuttal arguments concerning measures shall he accompanied by this Fc

each author(s). Author(s) names and titles listed will be printed Jnj*“- ---

order provided below and will appear as indicated below.	•

The undersigned author(s) of the (select one of the following)

*k

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR |

(3on WORDS)

ARGUMENT AGAINST □

poo WORDS)

ie Voter's Informatio i

«ifll

m

n,.

:<$ Da'sng’ntfu Uy

rpphlet in the

AUG I 3

CITY CLERK'S OFFICE
_______CITY	OF	BENICIA

REBUTT; ,l| TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR □

(25o

REBUTTAlj TO ARGUMENT AGAINST □

(250 WpkDS)

U

ballot

the

measure £	at	the	MMuA*	2,K=%\

Losor	home	oi	thuton	-I	7	1	-----

{AinsclfiLunj “*

lection for

being Hplp on /%/	£___________ 20	&	'Y

"	**	UBlt	Cl	cJcdivn	'

hereby r-tat& that such argument is tnue and corrupt to the best of his/her/jneir knowledge and belief.

^iflnaitra Irwlividuar cliyil/te io vote

t>£Oh Smlih



%s...

^■>icIFnce address

" Wint Mime to *ppoar in vftiBftt vpiripiiM"

,	,	Cl’r^j	CoO/vvty	rjy	&r'b&'T'

AFETjnrsraropKrt n

Coos\ci,ltyp£sno£'D ft

0M

(UjKK>IWlj^Tirlt Titifc la Appear below WaVnie "

Vigruiturt ihni'viQu^l vai^r eligible to vb(b"
Print Name in appear in voter11 p*mpni?t“

___ If Yes. Compjfe e Page 2

KcEicJence adflre«tT( 5 verthcaUon purposes cxyiyf

(UpTlifnai] KfihL /IU> to appear UeJow name

tUItVOUSIUNWOl fj BHHRErOT Xs'simmOfTOKLUVgMNlNU BOARD?	D *•<*

HU No

If Yes, Complete Page 2

&i^n*Uire inaividuai voter oligiDle to
PniUName is ftppMC in voter's pamphlet

_(Qpli?n*lj Print" i itic Id appaar b»I6w n«me

5igjiaLure individual vpt»r eligible to vot&
knnt Nwne to appaar in voter's pamphlnr

kasioance todne&s ( ptv»rttlcaLion purport ©my?

mrrnmzmimiff

□

If Yes, Comfie

“TtJpGSnal) Pnrjrmt ($ «pi)»Msr b*km~nanwj

dip nature inaiviau&i voter eligible to v©l9
“Prim tv Sppear in vpTwPc'pampKJcr"

(Optional) ^rtRlTllid lOtfpp&at OclurvY iHjntc

CONTACT PERSON: '~TV, r>

....... .	_	  .	r	i"	V-I

r-VOt

MAILING ADDRESS:	'	 e-mail	j

SzSjjPii -----

^rrv-Yv~irV. .-> A v| CoP r, c-\ • C.OTQt-

™/FKNlNG BOARD OR BONA FIDE ASsribkllON OF CITIZENS YOU MUST COMPLETE PAGE 2

IF signing ON BEHALF OP A govl^	SIGNATURE	PAGeP	*>

Mp±

>n purposes.oniyj '	’Dais

HEHAITTII- ESSUOAflON OR'GOVfcHNINU UUaRD? Dv“

i ^Ai.fTii^ASS'ijaAVrtsKniircnoFirNrNtrNo^n? U y«

i:e Page 2

~nsc“

“Dair

Kmidence aaaraB^ { o verji^«uon pjrpoe«& ontyj-

-DaTT"

' AUfc VSU UIUKINU i n dtUAU LIF AsMocuilLW Uli LUVLPtWJNt, UiSXRD? Dv«
HU No

If Yes, Compkle Page 2

Wcijnon&A twirirAW [ ch verrticatJon annty)*

~T*w~

AKh YOU aiGBMgqntjUiAU- OF AlaLULUll IUN~Uk UUtlLKBWSTIgAKD?	D Y“

□ No

If Yes, Compje
Phone!

e Page 2

W:T--//->:^:~T(pFax CI-2'K~

I of 2

SIGNATURE STATEMENT	r“'\

All arguments/rebuttal arguments concerning measures shall be accompanied by this Form L E
each author(s). Author(s) names and titles listed will be printed in the Voter's Information Parnp
order provided below and will appear as indicated below.

mnn

|)e signed by

phlet in the

AUG I 3 m

The undersigned author(s) of the (select one of the following)

CITY CLERK'S OFFICE
CITY OF BENICIA

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR |

(300 WORDS)

RE3UTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR □

(250 WORDS)

ARGUMENT AGAINST □

(300 WORDS)

ballot measure

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST □

(250 WORDS)

^	at	the	A/Ov'Cfa&d	2,	20°	y

Name oi election	L--------------u

the

*

lection for

✓v.

being held on /Wh/ z	;2o

(jensdpuon)	Dale o 1	election

h^heby state that such argument is true and correct to the best of his/her/their knowledge and belief.

. / vll/i/iw/i

signature individual voter uiigiole to vote
Print Name to appear in voter's pamphlet

Kesiaence aaaress (tor verification purposes only)



ffuu OlbNlNU ON UcKA'Lt- 01- ASSOCIAIlON OK bOVcKNlNb BOARD?	n Yes

o

It Yes, Complete Page 2

Signature individual voter eligible to vote

5C>[ CftMhPPOt ifc

Residence adaress (tor vermcauon purposes only)

S-'b-oi

Msdm 67a/E M£$smA

Print Name to'appearin voter's pamphlet
"(Optional) Print Title to appear I

3 appear oelow name

AHh YOU SIG'NiNU ON HhHAU-Di- ASSOCIATION'OK OUVhKNINO BOARD? Q Yes

'SJno

If Yes, Complete Page 2

3

Signature individual voter eligible’to vote

Print Name to appear in voter's pamphlet

(Optional) Print 1 itle to appear below name

Kesiaence address (lor veritication purposes only)	Date

AHh YOU SIGNING ON UhHALi- OKASSOCIAIION UK bUVtKJMiiMU BOARD? CHYes

□

If Yes, Complete Page 2

Signature individual voter eiigiDle to vole
Print Name to appear m voters pampniet

Date

(Optional) Print iitie to appear oelow name

Signature individual voter eugioie to vote
Print Name to appear in voter's pampniet

(Optional) Print 1 itle to appear below name

CONTACT PERSON: "L>6jTY

kesiaence aadress (tor veritication purposes only)

’AHh YOU SIGNING ON bgrlALh Oh ASSOOiAnON UK UoveKNiNu puARD? □ ~(es
D No

If Yes, Complete Page 2

Date

MAILING ADDRESS:	^	M.	V	\	c	1

: c r C,—N (Q\_

kesiaence address (ior veritication purposes only;

AHh YOU SIGNING ON UchALi- Oh AahUuTCTPlTDK GuvtKKrrerBOARD? □ Yos

n no

If Yes, Complete Page 2

_______Phone	Fax3^S- ~3>V

e-mail 'GPPtAcx f\A O'

IF SIGNING ON BEHALF OF A GOVERNING BOARD OR BONA FIDE ASSOCIATION OF CITIZENS YOU MUST v.OM

SIGNATURE PAGE - 1 of 2

State and Federal budget deficits continue to negatively impact our local
government. To protect Benicia’s quality of life we must look at ways to both reduce City
costs and increase City revenues.

City staff continues to make budget cuts and review all its fee schedules to
compensate for property tax and vehicle license revenue taken away from cities by the
state. One such fee is the cost of maintaining a business license in Benicia, which has not
changed in 32 years. Representatives of the business community and Benicia Industrial
Park joined with city leaders to update the Business License Tax (BLT) in the fairest,
simplest manner possible.

Measure R will increase the tax to an annual maximum of $450 plus $7.50 per
employee, bringing it in line with other cities’ BLTs. Small businesses will pay as little at
$75, while the largest businesses in town will pay $1,000 or more depending on the
number of employees. To prevent the BLT from becoming outdated again, Measure R
includes annual adjustments based on the average Consumer Price Index change over the
prior five years.

Once again, this solution was developed jointly by City leaders, Benicia Industrial
Park Association and Benicia Chamber of Commerce. It will add $300,000 annually to
the $150,000 in city revenue generated by the current BLT. The rest of the projected
budget deficit is being made up by other means. The local business community
understands the city’s situation and wants to do its part to help maintain city services and
facilities. Measure R will do just that.

[7j	g e s i v s	Ci
	AUS 1 3 2004	I  LJ

CITY CLERK'S OFFICE
CITY OF BENICIA