Sample Ballot

OFFICIAL BALLOT

Consolidated General Election
Riverside County

November 2, 2004

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter

SCHOOL

DESERT COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT

Governing Board Member

Trustee Area 2__________

CHARLES CHUCK"HAYOEN

Incumbent_______________

ETaLLEN KEENEY

Retired Scientist / Businessmai

Vote lor One

C=)

Governing Board I
Trustee Area 3
MERLE C -BU0" MILLER

Retired University Professor
SONJA S MARCHAND
Retired Academic Administrate!
ANNETTE 0 HARVEY
Conctarge______________________

Vote for One

MEASURE(S) SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

PALM SPRINGS UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

To renovate and repair so
j relieve student overcrowd

Is ,n me District. |^ia

by building and)------+- •

acguifing new schools and classrooms and I80"*** ,—,

Become eligible tor State matching fends shall U!?. ,____

the Palm Springs Unified Scnod Dtstncl issue $122 000 000 |
m bonds at interest rates below legal limits provided spend-
ing is annually reviewed ana audited by an independent I
Citizens Overs*gnt Committee no money is used tor admin- j
strative salaries and no money is transferred to the State ol I '
Cal'fom^a',

CITY

CITY OF PALM SPRINGS

Shall Resolution 20666 approving amend-
[J ments to the General Plan Use and Circulator
Plan for Section 14 be adopted*	No

Yes

V m™

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

:

33-D129

TURN CARD OVER

D

This page was intentionally left blank.
Examine both sides of each card for
voting opportunities.

;

39-N999

N

33-SB088

[IlllJlIillilJI

Riverside

Sample Ballot

MEASURE "V”

ATTACHMENT"A"

TEXT OF ORDINANCE - UTILITY TAX MEASURE

SECTION 1. Chapter 3.32 of the Palm Springs Municipal Code is
hereby amended to add a new section 3.32.061, to read as follows:

"Section 3.32.061 Temporary Increase

(a)	Notwithstanding subsection (a) of Sections 3.32.030, 3.32.040.

3.32.050,	and 3.32.060, the tax rate for intrastate telephone
services, electrical energy, gas, and congenerated electrical
energy, may be increased by up to an additional three percent
(3%), by ordinance of the City Council adopted pursuant hereto.

(b)	The authority granted herein shall expire on January 1, 2008.

(c)	The collection of the additional taxes authorized by this section
shall be in the same manner as all other taxes collected pursu-
ant to this chapter."

SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase, or portion of this Ordinance is, for any reason, held to be invalid
or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
measure. This measure would have been adopted, including each
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions thereof may be declared invalid
or unconstitutional.

SECTION 3. Effective Date. If passed by the voters at the November
2004 election, this measure shall take effect on January 1,2005.

________________________

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE "V"

This Municipal Code amendment, if passed, would change the City’s
Utility User’s Tax by permitting the City Council to increase the existing
tax by up to three percent (3%) for a period of up to three (3) years.

On July 21, 2004, the Palm Springs City Council unanimously
adopted a resolution declaring an emergency as a result of State actions
to balance the State budget in part with funds which would otherwise
have gone to cities and other public agencies. The State, to compensate
for its own unprecedented budget deficit, has enacted legislation which
would divert $4.1 million dollars this year and next from the City of Palm
Springs. This diversion, along with other factors, will leave the City of
Palm Springs with an approximate $4.2 million budget deficit.

Many cities in California impose a tax on utility consumers based on
usage. From 1986-1988 and since 1993, the City of Palm Springs has
imposed a tax or surcharge on utilities. The utility tax was approved by
the voters by advisory measures in 1994,1997 and 1999 and was finally
set at 5%. The surcharge is added to consumer’s bills for intrastate
telephone services, electrical energy and gas. In addition, thosgwho use
co-generated electrical energy (i.e.. those who use electricity to create
additional electricity for private use) pay the same surcharge based on
the total value of electricity used.

This measure, if approved by a majority of the voters, would result in
the imposition of an additional three percent (3%), for a total of eight
percent (8%) surcharge on such services. All funds received by the City
would be allocated to the City’s general fund, which is used for general
operating expenses, including police, fire, library, parks and recreation,
roadway improvements, and other similar expenses. The increase in
utility user’s tax was limited by the City Council to only three (3) years in
the expectation that the budget picture would improve.

The City's utility user’s tax currently generates a total of $5.8 million,
which is approximately thirteen percent (13%) of the City's total general
fund budget. According to estimates from the City’s Finance Director, this
measure would generate an additional $3.5 million in revenue per year.

If adopted by the voters, this measure would take effect January 1,
2005. It is anticipated that utility customers would begin paying the
additional tax on their February, 2005 bills.

By:	City	Attorney

City of Palm Springs

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF ...cASURE "V"

Measure “V" will allow the City of Palm Springs to protect those services
most essential to our community - police, fire and emergency response,

Like many, if not most cities in California, Palm Springs is facing an
ongoing budget shortfall. This shortfall has three basic causes: continu-
ing State raids on local funding; increases in employee retirement and
health insurance costs; and the overall slow economy.

This fiscal year, the City faced a budget shortfall of $4.2 million. Although
the City Council was able to make a number of budget cuts and other
adjustments to balance our budget and maintain city services, the under-
lying structural problem plaguing our budget still remains—expenditures
are increasing faster than revenues. If things remain the same, the City is
forecasting a budget shortfall of $2.8 million next year and $2,6 million
the following year. While additional cutbacks are still being investigated,
the fact is, without new revenues, the City can no longer protect essential
public safety services from potential service reductions.

As residents, you know that the quality of life we enjoy is derived in part
from the high level of services the City provides. To help protect these
essential services and our quality of life, the City Council is asking voters
to approve a 3% increase in the UUT. This increase, which automatically
expires in three years, will cost the average household an additional
$6.00 per month.

This is a difficult time for Palm Springs and many other cities. The public
should be assured that the City Council has approached this problem
intelligently and would not be asking for this increase unless it was
absolutely necessary to maintain the level of services the community

enjoys.

Protect our qualify of life by voting YES on Measure “V."

By:	Ron	Oden,	Mayor,

City of Palm Springs

REBUTTAL TO wfGUMENT IN FAVOR OP MEASURE ,!V"

Vote NO on the increase to your utility taxes! We are offered excuses,
not solutions. Real estate values are increasing and that means more
tax dollars to the City. Where do these tax dollars go?

Increased retirement benefits at no cost to the employees,

A variety of premium health programs at little or no cast to the
employees.

The examples go on, but the point is the same: The Palm Springs City
Council continues to authorize these actions, and more, with little thought
to the financial impact on the budget. Supporting the tax increase is
sustaining the Council's authorized uncontrolled spending addictions.
They want the local taxpayers to increase utility taxes by 60% to continue
to support their outrageous actions. The proposed 60% increase
certainly relates to more than a $6.00 increase, just take your electric bill
and increase the Palm Springs tax by 60%, then do the same for all your
other utility bills. Surprised?

This is about more than quality of life issues. It is about responsibility,
which requires our elected officials to look for alternative solutions to our
budget issues. There are alternatives to our financial problems and many
were recommended by the Budget Task Force and ignored by the City
Council. Why did they ignore the recommendations? Because solutions
require tough choices and the majority of the Council is not willing to
make tough decisions. They would rather raise your taxes.

Demand fiscal responsibility by the Palm Springs City Council.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE "V"

By:	James	D, Jones (Jim)

John D. Stiles, Chair 2003-2004 Budget Task Force
Sharon I. Lock, Budget Task Force Member 2003-2004

33-124

Ifliiiiil'l'Ii

1 - . - . . - - ■ -
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE "V"

We urge you to vote NO on this measure, which will increase your utility
tax from 5% to 8% that is a 60% increase on our utilities (electricity,
telephone, gas, TV, among others). Why is the City Council asking for
this increase? Because they are not willing to consider other means that
are available to balance the city budget. It is easier to impose a tax
increase then make hard choices. YOU will pay tax increase. So what will
this 60% tax increase support?

Consider the following facts:

•	Over 29 employees earn more than $115,000 per year salary
and benefits.

•	Employees with 30 years on the job can retire at 90% of their
salary; the employees contribute nothing toward this lucrative
retirement plan.

•	City employees are offered a choice of more than 6 health insur-
ance plans, with excellent benefits, at little or no cost to the
employee.

•	Police officers use their patrol cars to travel to and from work
regardless of whether they commute to Banning, Twenty-Nine
Palms, or Yucaipa.

•	A tax increase does not put more police and firefighters on the
street it just supports continued bureaucracy.

More importantly, in 2003, the City Council appointed a Budget Task
Force, which Spent more than a year studying ways to resolve the budget
crisis, Sound recommendations were made to the City Council, but the
majority of the council ignored these suggestions. Instead, they want to
increase your taxes.

Supporting the tax increase is supporting the Council authorized uncon-
trolled spending. Send a message to the Palm Springs City Council that
you, as a taxpayer, want the City to manage their finances like the
average citizen. Don’t spend more than you make. Vote No on the Utility
Tax Increase.

By:	James	D. Jones (Jim)

John D. Stiles
Sharon I. Lock

-------------------------- jt	--------

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE "V"

Measure "V" is NOT A NEW TAX. It is a modest, TEMPORARY
INCREASE in the City’s Utility Users Tax.

The opposition claims that Measure "V" will increase utility costs by 60%.

FACT: Measure “V" WILL NOT increase utility costs which are driven by
market forces beyond the City’s control or influence.

The opposition implies that the City's deficit is the result of uncontrolled
spending.

FACT: The Budget Task Force determined that the City's budget deficit
was the result of several factors including the state’s budget problems,
rising employee retirement and healthcare costs and the faltering
economy.

The opposition argues that the City Council is unwilling to make hard
choices to balance the budget.

FACT: The City Council has made tough choices, CUTTING MORE
THAN $2 MILLION FROM THE BUDGET. The City also laid off 17
employees last year and an additional 3.5 employees this year to reduce
costs.

Opponents say that Measure "V" is unnecessary and that the City
Council should find other ways to balance the budget.

FACT: The City’s budget problems can not be solved by cuts alone.
Without additional revenues the City will have to make deep cuts in
essential services. This includes the elimination of police and firefighter
positions, reduced library hours, and cuts in financial support for senior
and youth programs.

Measure "V” is fair and sensible since everyone pays a little - not just
residents.

LET’S KEEP ESSENTIAL SERVICES INTACT SO PALM SPRINGS
CAN REMAIN A SAFE AND HEALTHY COMMUNITY. VOTE YES ON
MEASURE "V.”

By:	Ron Oden. Mayor,

City of Palm Springs