9/21/2015

Measure H: Parcel Tax Extension - Santa Clara County, CA

This is an archive of a past election.

See http://www.smartvoter.org/ca/scl/ for current information.

League of Women Voters of California Education Fund

Santa Clara County, CA	March	2,	2004	Election

Measure H

Parcel Tax Extension
Cambrian School District

Majority Approval Required

5,075 / 74.06% Yes votes  1,778 / 25.94% No votes

See Also: Index of all Measures

Results as of March 26 4:29pm, 100.00%% of Precincts Reporting (23/23)

Information shown below:

"In order to maintain improved instructional quality for children
by providing training for teachers, retention of quality teachers,
continuation of art, science, music, technology, physical
education programs, and reduced class sizes shall the Gann
Appropriation Limit increase approved by 69 percent of the voters
in 2001 be continued (commencing June 30, 2005), thus allowing
the Cambrian School District to continue to expend the funds
generated by Measure A with no increase in property taxes? "

YES

NO

Official Information

Ballot Pamphlet Information

currently only in .pdf format

News and Analysis

San Jose Mercury News

• Education Revenue Measures
on March 2 Ballot
-Feb. 18,2004

Partisan Information

Opponents

•	Vote No on Measure H

- Libertarian Party of Santa
Clara Co.

Proponents

•	No proponent webpages have
been suggested.

Suggest a link related to
Measure H

Links to sources outside of Smart Voter
are provided for information only and
do not imply endorsement.

http://www.smartvoter.Org/2004/03/02/ca/scl/meas/H/

1/2

Certificate of Election Results

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

) ss.

COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA )

I,	Jesse Durazo, Registrar of Voters of the County of Santa Clara, State of
California, hereby declare that a Presidential Primary Election was held in the
County of Santa Clara, in the CAMBRIAN SCHOOL DISTRICT on March 2, 2004 for
the purpose of submitting Measure H to the voters of said District.

H “In order to maintain improved instructional quality for children by
providing training for teachers, retention of quality teachers,
continuation of art, science, music, technology, physical education
programs, and reduced class sizes shall the Gann Appropriation Limit
increase approved by 69 percent of the voters in 2001 be continued
(commencing June 30, 2005), thus allowing the Cambrian School
District to continue to expend the funds generated by Measure A with
no increase in property taxes?”

The official canvass of the returns of said election was conducted by the Office of
the Registrar of Voters in accordance with the appropriate provisions of the Elections
Code of the State of California; and

The Statement of Votes Cast shows the whole number of votes cast for
Measure H in each of the precincts and the total shown for said Measure is true and
correct.

WITNESS my hand and Official Seal this 30th day of March 2004.