PETALUMAJOINT UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE K

To keep school libraries open, restore smaller class sizes

K grades 7-12, restore and maintain computer and
technology programs, maintain music and fine art
programs, and provide necessary educational programs
and materials to the extent funds are available, shall the Petaluma
Joint Union High School District be authorized to levy a $50
annual parcel tax for four years, beginning July 1, 2005 with
annual citizens’ oversight committee, exempting parcels owned
and occupied by persons 65 years of age or over?

COUNTY COUNSELS’ IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

The Petaluma Joint Union High School District has called an election on a special
tax measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval be-
fore a school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $50 per year per parcel for each parcel of
land within the District's boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of us-
ing the parcel, would begin on July 1,2005, and would remain in effect for no more
than four years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
purposes set out in the measure, which include keeping school libraries open, re-
storing smaller class sizes to grades 7 through 12, restoring and maintaining com-
puter and technology programs, maintaining music and fine art programs, and
providing necessary educational programs and materials. Each year, beginning
with the year ending December 31,2005, the measure calls for preparation of a re-
port by an independent financial auditor, stating the amount received and ex-
pended from the tax for that year, and the status of any projects, and description of
any programs, funded from the proceeds of the tax. In addition, the District Board is
required to appoint a Citizens' Oversight Committee which each year will review
both the budget for use of the tax proceeds and the annual independent audit.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and occupied
by a person who will be 65 years of age or older. Persons claiming exemptions
based on ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District on or be-
fore May 1, 2005, or May 1 of the first year the exemption applies to them. The
measure describes what process must be followed to appeal any decision regard-
ing applicability of the tax, or to apply for a refund if appropriate.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Petaluma Joint Union High School District who
vote on this measure vote “yes," the measure will pass and the special tax will be
levied. The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes
starting with the 2005-2006 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE	s/ Patrick K. Faulkner

Sonoma County Counsel	Marin	County Counsel

By: sl Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

Measure K is a local solution to the statewide problem of education funding. Mea-
sure K will maintain excellence in Petaluma’s junior high and high schools and give
our children the education they need to succeed.

As we all know, the State has drastically cut funding to all school districts. Our local
schools are left with two options: cut basic programs that we offer to our students or
come up with a local plan to solve our funding problem. Measure K is exactly that -
a local plan to maintain excellence in Petaluma's schools.

Measure K will allow schools of the Petaluma Joint Union High School District to
keep their libraries open and to maintain music and fine art programs that have
been jeopardized over the past year.

Measure K will allow Petaluma’s junior high and high schools to reduce class size
and restore and maintain computer and technology programs that our students
need to excel in college or in their careers.

There are taxpayer safeguards within Measure K. An independent Citizens Over-
sight Committee will conduct annual reviews to ensure Measure K funds are used
as promised. Not one penny of Measure K will be used for administrative salaries.
And, senior citizens 65 years of age or older may apply for an exemption to Mea-
sure K for parcels that they own and occupy.

Please join local teachers, parents, business owners, retirees and community
leaders in voting Yes on Measure K. Measure K is a local solution that will maintain
excellence in Petaluma’s junior high and high schools.

si Gay Robbins	si	William Hammerman

High School Teacher	Retiree

si Karen Nemrow	si	Elizabeth Marquardt

Parent	Certified Public Accountant

si Vanna McWhinnie
Registered Nurse

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

Wise counsel dictates that when you have dug yourself into a hole—stop digging.
Facing a statewide financial crisis, it is time to stop spending and rethink our pri-
orities. As painful as this can sometimes be, there can be benefits. When we are
forced to live within our means, we will choose to spend on those programs we
collectively deem most valuable to our students and delay programs of lesser
value.

The state’s funding to local school districts has decreased from the high levels of
the late 1990s. Although the state spends more than $9,600 per pupil, we are still
considerably below the national average in student achievement.

Providing more tax dollars does not always solve the problem. Better allocation of
existing resources is called for. We urge you to send a strong message to the Dis-
trict's trustees and management to rethink how existing funds can be re-prioritized.
Vote No on Measure K.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS' ASSOCIATION

sl Jack Atkin, President	si	John	B.	Landis,	Vice	President

si Jack Abercrombie, Treasurer	sl Jeanne Levin,	Secretary

sl Fred Levin, Executive Director

64

9370

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

In terms of the coming year's budget, it may well be true that funds for the pro-
grams named in the ballot measure are limited. However, let's be clear how
the District arrived at this point. During a number of recent years, the State
had pumped increasing revenues to school districts. These revenues were
then committed by the school districts to higher teachers’ salaries and were
locked in by union contracts. Now that the gravy train from the State has
slowed, the District finds itself with little discretionary revenue, because they
failed to plan for leaner times. Taxpayers should be able to count on school trust-
ees to manage for the future, not just the present.

We urge you to take a good look at your current property tax bill’s special assess-
ments and add the requested parcel tax. Then, ask yourself, is this the right time
for the District to ask me for more money? We already paid our share of taxes.
Additionally, ask yourself whether or not the District is prudently managing its fi-
nancial affairs. If not, how can you reward the District with higher taxes?

We urge you to send a strong message to the District’s trustees and manage-
ment to rethink how existing funds can be re-prioritized. Vote No on Measure K.

SONOMA COUNTY TAXPAYERS’ ASSOCIATION

s/ Jack Atkin, President	si John B. Landis, Vice President

s/ Jack Abercrombie, Treasurer	si Jeanne Levin, Secretary

si Fred Levin, Executive Director

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

Measure K is a local solution to the statewide problem of education funding. Every
penny of Measure K will stay here in Petaluma—it will not be sent to Sacramento.

Petaluma’s schools have undergone tremendous budget cuts. There is no “faf-
we have eliminated many things that are considered the “basics”.

Many core programs have been cut and more are threatened if we do not find a lo-
cal answer to our education-funding problem.

Measure K will allow schools of the Petaluma Joint Union High School District to
keep their libraries open and to maintain music and fine arts programs that have
been jeopardized over the past year.

Measure K will allow Petaluma’s junior high and high schools to reduce class size
and restore and maintain computer and technology programs that our students
need to excel in college or in their careers.

Not one penny of Measure K will be used for administrative salaries - it will all go
directly into our junior high and high schools.

And, our senior citizens can apply for an exemption to Measure K for parcels that
they own and occupy.

Petaluma is a terrific place to live and to raise a family. Slashing essential school
programs will put that at risk.

Please join our local classroom teachers, parents, businesspeople, senior citizens
and community leaders in voting Yes on Measure K.

si Gay Robbins	si William M. Hammerman

High School Teacher	Retiree

si Karen Nemrow	si Elizabeth Marquardt

Parent	Certified Public Accountant

si Vanna McWhinnie
Registered Nurse

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K'

PETALUMA JOINT UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
MAINTAINING EXCELLENCE IN JR. HIGH AND HIGH SCHOOLS ACT OF 2004 TAX

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Petaluma Joint High
School District Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004
Tax” or as “Measure K.”

TERMS OF MAINTAINING EXCELLENCE IN JR. HIGH AND
HIGH SCHOOLS ACT OF 2004 SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this mea-
sure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $50 per year
on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no more than four years,
commencing July 1,2005. The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to
as the “Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax.” To
the extent such funds are available, proceeds of the Maintaining Excellence in Jr.
High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall be authorized to keep school libraries
open, restore smaller class sizes grades 7-12, restore and maintain computer and
technology programs, maintain music and fine art programs, and provide neces-
sary educational programs and materials.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the
community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older
shall be exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act
of 2004 Tax upon proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption
must apply to the District on or before May 1,2005 or May 1 of any succeeding as-
sessment year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an ex-
emption for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such
applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit Upon the levy and collection of the Maintaining Ex-
cellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax, the Board of Education shall
cause an account to be established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any
proceeds of the Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004
Tax remain unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District
shall cause an independent financial auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the
Board of Education and the Citizens' Oversight Committee no later than December
31 of each year, commencing December 31,2005, stating (1) the amount of Main-
taining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax received and ex-
pended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or description of any
programs funded from proceeds of the tax. The report may relate to the calendar
year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall
determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or
other appropriate routine report to the Board of Education.

Citizens' Oversight Committee. The Board of Education shall appoint a Citi-
zens’ Oversight Committee which shall, on an annual basis, review both the Main-
taining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Budget and the Main-
taining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Independent Audit.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall constitute
the specific purposes of the Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools
Act of2004 Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall
be collected by the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector and the Marin County
Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be subject to the
same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Col-'
lector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad
valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the Maintaining Excellence in
Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall not decrease the funds available
from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

CONT. NEXT PAGE

9370

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K, CONT.  “Parcel of taxable real property" shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office or the Marin County Trea- surer-Tax Collector's Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older are exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax as described above.  The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has ap- proved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax as described above to the Sonoma and Marin County tax collection officials. The Sonoma County or Marin County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason other than the Senior Exemp- tion of any parcel from taxation shall be final and binding for the purposes of the Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable proce- dures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.  SEVERABILITY  The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each provi- sion hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this mea- sure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and ef- fect to the fullest extent allowed by law.					—‘ ' ' M7n

66