ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

Consolidation of Fire Protection and Emergency Medical Services in the
Unincorporated Area

The October 2003 wildfires once again demonstrated the need to enhance and better coordinate
the region’s fire protection resources.

While our region’s firefighters tirelessly perform outstanding work, San Diego County needs to
bring together our fragmented system of providing fire protection.

Proposition C is an advisory measure to gauge public support for the consolidation of the 35 fire
protection and emergency medical service agencies in San Diego County’s unincorporated area.

Need for Change

San Diego County’s unincorporated area has 3,572 square miles of land that is served by 35 fire
protection agencies that vary in size, service level, training and funding.

The County's unincorporated area is also one of the most fire prone regions in the nation,
containing hazardous vegetation that can fuel another devastating wildland fire.

Not only is there a disparity in funding levels among the unincorporated area fire agencies, many
are severely underfunded and understaffed.

Fighting Fire in the Future

An opportunity exists to remove jurisdiction lines and develop a fire protection agency that has
better coordination, training, purchasing power, communication and funding opportunities.

Under a consolidation plan, unincorporated communities will be able to achieve greater
efficiencies and enhance services to residents.

Under a consolidation plan, your fire station will stay open.

Under a consolidation plan, additional funding should come from existing taxpayer dollars, not
new taxes. Adequate stable funding must be a top priority!

Vote Yes on C

A yes vote means that you support changing the current fragmented system.

A yes vote means that you want to see an improvement in the region’s fire protection system.
Please join us in voting YES on C.

DIANNE JACOB
Chairwoman

San Diego County Board of Supervisors

KEVIN CRAWFORD
President

San Diego County Fire Chiefs’ Association

BILL HORN

San Diego County Supervisor
District 5

LISA BRIGGS
Executive Director

San Diego County Taxpayers Association

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION C

No argument against the proposition was filed
in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-09Y0-2

N SD 431-056

BORREGO SPRINGS FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
Proposition Z

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

a	mm	To provide protection and suppression services and

DUMD / emergency medical services to the community of Bor-
* 1 * wl mm reg0 Sprigs, shall the Borrego Springs Fire Protection
District be authorized to levy annual special taxes per Assessor's Parcel per
unit as set forth in Resolution No. 277?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds of the voters.

Full text of this proposition
follows the argument.

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Pursuant to authority granted by statute, the Borrego Springs Fire Protection District (“District”)
Is asking registered voters of the District to vote on a ballot measure proposing the adoption of an
annual special tax. Revenue raised by the special tax may only be used to pay for the costs of fire
protection and suppression services and emergency medical services within the District.

Specifically, the measure requests voter approval of special taxes levied annually on a parcel,
class of improvement to property and use of property basis as set forth in Resolution No. 227 of the
District.

Approval by two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure is required to adopt the special
taxes. The District may not levy more than, the taxes set forth in the resolution without again
obtaining two-thirds voter approval.

A “yes” vote means that you are in favor of adoption of annual special taxes for providing fire
protection and suppression services and emergency medical services.

A “no” vote means that you are opposed to adoption of annual special taxes for providing fire
protection and suppression services and emergency medical services.

PR-19C0-1

N SD 431-057

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION Z

Dear Borrego .Springs Neighbor:

Please join us in voting YES on Z to preserve and improve Borrego Springs Firefighting and
Emergency Medical Services.

The Firefighters and Directors of the Borrego Springs Fire Protection District have used our tax
dollars carefully and efficiently. The Fire District established In 1961 enabled Borrego Springs to
receive a portion of property taxes to provide fire protection services. Until 1992 there was enough
money to include ambulance services. Since 1992, the State of California has taken a portion of
this money away each year, reducing property tax income annually. Since 1992 they have taken
1,631,291. In November of 1996 voters approved a benefit assessment to maintain fire
suppression and ambulance service. The assessment fees were $75.00 per year for single family
residents, $60 for mobil homes, commercial property was a bit higher and vacant land a bit lower.

In August 2000 through private donations the Fire District was able to upgrade Emergency Medical
Services to include Paramedics. With the continued growth In the community the Emergency
Medical calls have been on a steady incline. By providing paramedic care the District has saved
the community thousands of dollars In air transport fees.

The Board of Directors is asking for a Special Tax to be passed by voters on November 2, 2004.
The fee schedule will remain the same as passed in 1996 there is NO proposed increase.
Proposition Z needs our votes to be successful. If two-thirds of votes cast in the election are "YES”
Life-saving services will be maintained and improved in the Community.

Our community needs the best fire and ambulance services possible. Passing the Special Tax
insures the continuation of critically needed emergency services. Please Vote "YES” on Z.

BOB MOORE	JOE	DEL	BONO

Director, Borrego Springs Fire District	Firefighters	Association

JACQUELINE N. HINE

*

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION Z

No argument against the proposition was filed
in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-19C0-2

N SD 431-058

EXHIBIT A

RESOLUTION NO. 277
PROVISIONS FOR LEVY OF SPECIAL TAX

$ 75.00 per single family residence

$ 60.00 per mobile home in an established mobile home park
$ 50.00 per apartment unit, condominium unit and duplex unit
$ 15.00 per unit plus $15.00 per acre for hotels, motels and resorts
$ 65.00 per acre for shopping centers/malls
$ 150.00 per parcel for commercial and industrial

$ 100.00 per parcel for institutional (includes schools, youth and senior centers)

$ 100.00 per church

$ 25.00 per parcel for misc. recreational

$	2.50	per	acre and/or portion of acre, up to 15 acres per parcel, for vacant land

$	5.00	per	acre and/or portion of acre, up to 10 acres per parcel, for irrigated acreage and golf

courses

N SD 431-059