SECTION 3. DESIGNATION OF PARCEL TO PRIOR USES

A.	Amendments to County General Plan.

Upon the effective date of this initiative, the land use element of the County General Plan and all
sub-regional and community plans which apply to the Gregory Canyon site and any related maps
shall be amended to designate the Gregory Canyon site as: "(18) Multiple Rural Use.”

B.	Amendments to County Zoning Ordinance.

Upon the effective date of this initiative, the County Zoning Ordinance shall be amended to
amend the zoning classification for the Gregory Canyon site, currently designated Solid Waste
Facility (“SWF”) to: “A-70-Limited Agricultural Zone."

C.	Amendments to Other County Ordinances and Policies.

All other County ordinances, rules and regulations which constitute legislative acts shall be
amended as necessary to implement this initiative.

D.	For the purpose of this measure, the term “Gregory Canyon site” shall mean the
approximately 1683 acres of land located off State Route 76 approximately 3 1/3 miles east of the
intersection of Interstate 15 and State Route 76 occupying portions of Sections 4 and 5 of Township
10 South and Sections 32 and 33 of Township-5 South Range 2 West of the San Bernardino Principle
Meridian.

SECTION 4. AUTHORITY TO AMEND LAND USE DESIGNATION IN THE PUBLIC INTEREST.

This measure may only be amended by a majority vote of the Board of Supervisors to further
public purposes and in compliance with all applicable federal, state and-local law, or by an initiative
measure approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure.

SECTION 5. SEVERABILITY

If any term or provision of this measure or the applicability of any term or provision of this
measure to any person or circumstance is found to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect the remaining provisions and applications of this measure and to that end,
the voters, in adopting this measure, declare and intend that those provisions and applications are
severable.

N SD 211-052

CITY OF DEL MAR
Proposition N

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

Shall the Charter of the City of Del Mar be amended to
DDAD M the City to impose a real property transfer tax by an
rnUr ll amount not to excepd $6 per $1,000 of value on sales
and eligible transfers of real, property?

This proposition requires approval by a majority (over 50%) of the voters.

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The City of Del Mar is currently authorized by state law to share with the County of San Diego the
proceeds of a documentary transfer tax on the value of certain real property exchanges. A majority
vote of approval for this proposition would 1) amend the City's Charter to permit the direct
imposition of such a tax by the City of Del Mar, as part of its municipal affairs, and 2) permit the
imposition of the tax in an amount not to exceed $6 per $1,000 of property value.

PR-09D0-1

N SD 211-053

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION N

Vote Yes on N - Preserve quality city services for all Del Mar Residents.

Del Mar is facing a budget crisis. Over the last ten years the state has taken away $5 million dollars
from the City to solve Sacramento's budget problems. Last year alone the state took $828,000
(11%) from the City’s budget.

These raids on local revenues have severely impacted Del Mar’s ability to fund important local
programs such as police and fire service, pedestrian improvements, and downtown revitalization.
Additionally, the state has mandated the City implement new programs without providing any
funding. To balance our budget for this fiscal year, the City has reduced expenses, cancelled
important capital projects and left positions unfilled. Any further cuts will degrade essential
services.

To resolve Dei Mar’s fiscal crisis, a volunteer citizen's committee recommends that the City Charter
be amended to allow an increase in the real property transfer tax {of up to $6.00 per $1,000 of a
property’s sale price). This transfer tax would only be paid when a property is sold. As an example,
a home or commercial property selling for $1,000,000 would generate a one-time additional tax of
$6,000.

Transfers/gifts of property in or out of a trust or between family members would not trigger the real
property transfer tax.

We support this measure because the new revenues stay in Del Mar. The money cannot be taken
by Sacramento. This money helps to replace revenues the state has taken away. In the future
should economic conditions improve, the measure would also allow the City Council to reduce this
tax. Current City Council members unanimously support this proposition.

Protect Del Mar's future. Preserve quality services for Del Mar. Please Vote Yes on N.

YES ON “N”

RICHARD L. EARNEST
Mayor'

City of Del Mar

JOSEPH E. SULLIVAN

Treasurer

Yes on N

DONN BLEAU
Former Chair

Del Mar Finance Committee

PATRICK GIANNETTO
President

Del Mar Firefighters
IAFF LOC 4163

JERRY FINNELL
Deputy Mayor
City of Del Mar

N SD 211-054

Rebuttal to the argument in favor of proposition n

Vote NO on N - Demand Fiscal Responsibility from the Del Mar City Councill

Del Mar's budget crisis is not merely a result of state government raids on local revenues. Rather,
it is a symptom of chronic waste and mismanagement of local government.

Local officials have had to deal with state appropriations from the city budget for over a decade,
yet, despite the City’s stable population, have done little to restrict City spending.

During the same period, they increased the number of city employees by almost 50%, engaged
in failed taxpayer-funded lawsuits, and squandered potential revenue from the Fairgrounds.

Now, to cover their fiscal failures, they seek to levy a new, unjust tax of up to $6,000 to $100,000
on every taxpaying property owner selling their property in the City of Del Mar.

This new tax violates the spirit of the Jarvis-Gann Initiative, Proposition 13, and may create a lien
on your property!

It will neither improve essential services nor solve our budget crisis. Mofe likely, it will
discourage new businesses and homeowners from establishing residence in an otherwise
commercially viable and taxpayer-friendly city.

The City Council claims this new tax is reversible “should economic conditions improve," but they
make no guarantees!

Hold local government accountable!

Insist upon fiscal responsibility!

Demand the right way, and not the easy way!

The Council's fiscal failure should not become the residents’ economic burden.

We ask residents of Del Mar to vote against this new tax burden.

Vote NO on Proposition N.

JON COUPAL
President

Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association

LEWIS K. UHLER
President

National Tax Limitation Committee

HON. ANDY SCHOOLER
Former Mayor
City of Del Mar

TENSIA MORIEL TREJO

Past President

Del Mar Historical Society

KEVIN M. BURKE
Founder

Del Mar Citizens United Against the Property Tax

PR-09D0-3

N SD 211-055

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION N

The Del Mar City Council want to effectively put a lien of $6,000 to $100,000 on every single
property in Del Mar with the average lien being $10,500. Instead of learning to work within their
budget, they instead choose to look for additional means to support the current staff of 52
employees. We did just fine with 30 city employees a decade or two ago. Our population has not
increased. Let's demand a staff cut to 40 or less which will solve their perceived problem.

To collect this new tax, the City of Del Mar has to return the approximately $150,000 of existing
transfer tax they currently receive. If this tax passes, the City of Del Mar will set a precedent that wi II
likely spread to every other city in San Diego County just like it did in Los Angeles County. This is a
lien on private property!

Del Mar has wasted taxpayer money on numerous lawsuits as well as losing the revenue we once
had from the Fairgrounds. We need to cut spending rather than adding or increasing taxes.

Instead of directing the Advisory Committee to examine ways of reducing City expenses, they were
advised "... to consider proposals which would provide funds...” or additional ways to increase
revenue.

We ask the residents of Del Mar tp revolt against this new tax lien. There is no question that it
circumvents the intent of the Jarvis-Gann Initiative Proposition 13.

Please Vote No on Proposition N.

DEL MAR CITIZENS UNITED AGAINST PROPERTY TAX

KEVIN M. BURKE	MARIE	E.	KOHN

MELINDA H. BEDELL	DEREK	H.	BEDELL

CHRIS VILLASENOR

PR-09D0-4

NSD 211-056

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION N

The arguments against Proposition N are misleading and untrue.

It is simply not true that firing people will solve the City’s financial problems. Cutting employees
would impact services like public safety. The transfer tax would generate revenue to maintain
quality services. It’s not a lien and is only paid when property is sold.

The City has managed its resources well and has acted aggressively to save your tax dollars. For
example, the recent decision to share a Fire Chief with the City of Solana Beach produced the
savings that helped balance this year’s budget. A "pay as you go” philosophy has given Del Mar
fhe highest possible bond rating for a City of its size. The City has always balanced its budget.

That is why even the San Diego County Taxpayer’s Association (an independent taxpayer
watchdog group) has endorsed Prop. N. The Taxpayer's association did a thorough examination
of Del Mar’s finances before reaching its decision.

The City had 48 employees fifteen years ago and it has 53 today. Additional employees have been
required to meet federal and state un-funded mandates. Del Mar is in many ways a better place
than it was 15 years ago. Passage of Prop N is essential to continuing necessary capital
improvements and will protect us from future State raids.

No one wants more taxes- but we are convinced that a failure to act now will threaten the ability of
the city to deliver fundamental services. '

Vote Yes on N - Protect Del Mar’s future.

RICHARD EARNEST
Mayor

City of Del Mar

JIM KENNEDY
Chairman

Del Mar Finance Committee

GERALD E. FINNELL
Deputy Mayor
City of Del Mar

LISA BRIGGS
Executive Director

San Diego County Taxpayers Association

CHIQUITA ABBOTT
Chiquita Abbott, Realtors








RESOLUTION NO. 2004-76

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OF DEL MAR, CALIFORNIA, RECITING THE
FACT OF THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
HELD ON NOVEMBER 2, 2004, DECLARING THE
RESULT AND SUCH OTHER MATTERS AS
PROVIDED BY LAW.

WHEREAS, a General Municipal Election was held and conducted
in the City of Del Mar, California, on Tuesday, November 2, 2004, as required by
law; and,

WHEREAS, notice of the election was given in time, form and
manner as provided by law; that voting precincts were properly established; that
election officers were appointed and that in all respects the election was held
and conducted and the votes were cast, received, and canvassed and the
returns made and declared in time, form and manner as required by the
provisions of the Elections Code of the State of California for the holding of
elections in general law cities; and,

WHEREAS, pursuant to Resolution No. 2004-27, adopted June 21
2004, the Registrar of Voters of the County of San Diego canvassed the returns
of the election and has certified the results to this City Council, the results are
received, attached and made a part hereof as “Exhibit A".

NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Del Mar,
California, does resolve, declare, determine and order as follows:

SECTION 1. That the whole number of ballots cast in the City
except absentee voter ballots was 1,878; and

That the whole number of absentee voter ballots cast in the City
was 956, making a total of 2,834 ballots cast in the City.

SECTION 2. That the names of persons voted for at the election
for Members of the City Council are as follows:

Carl Hilliard
Dave Druker
Terry Sinnott
Michael Winn
Henry Abarbanel
Kevin M. Burke

RESOLUTION NO. 2004-76
PAGE 2

SECTION 3. That the measure, known as Proposition N, voted
upon at the election is as follows:

'Shall the Charter of the City of Del Mar be amended	YES
to allow the City to impose a real property transfer tax	
by an amount not to exceed $6 per $1,000 of value	
on sales and eligible transfers of real property?	NO 	

SECTION 4. That the number of votes given at each precinct and
the number of votes given in the City to each of the persons above named for
the respective office for which the persons were candidates and for and against
the measure are listed in “Exhibit A", attached.

SECTION 5. The City Council does declare and determine that:

Henry Abarbanel was elected as Member of the City Council for the
full term of four years; and,

Dave Druker was elected as Member of the City Council for the full
term of four years; and,

Carl Hilliard was elected as Member of the City Council for the full
term of four years; and

That as a result of the election, a majority of the voters voting on
the measure, Proposition N, relating to Real Property Transfer Tax, did not vote
in favor of it, and that the measure was not carried, and shall not be deemed
adopted and ratified.

SECTION 6. That the City Clerk shall enter on the records of the
City Council of the City of Del Mar, a statement of the results of the election,
showing: (1) The whole number of ballots cast in the City; (2) The names of the
persons voted for; (3) The measure voted upon; (4) For what office each person
was voted for; (5) The number of votes given at each precinct to each person,
and for and against each measure; (6) The total number of votes given to each
person, and for and against each measure.

SECTION 7. That the City Clerk shall immediately make and
deliver to each of the persons so elected a Certificate of Election signed by the
City Clerk and authenticated; that the City Clerk shall also administer to each
person elected the Oath of Office prescribed in the Constitution of the State of
California and shall have them subscribe to it and file it in the office of the City

RESOLUTION NO. 2004-76
PAGE 3

Clerk. Each and all of the persons so elected shall then be inducted into the
respective office to which they have been elected.

SECTION 8. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and
adoption of this resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED at a Special Meeting of the
City Council of the City of Del Mar, California, this 7th day of December 2004.

ATTEST:

MERCEDES MARTIN, City Clerk

STATE OF CALIFORNIA)
COUNTY OF SAN DIEGO )
CITY OF DEL MAR )

I, MERCEDES MARTIN, City Clerk of the City of Del Mar, California, DO

HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution No. 2004-76 adopted by the City Council of the City of Del Mar, this 7th day of December, 2004, by the following vote:	
AYES:	Councilmembers Crawford, Druker, Finnell; Mayor Earnest
NOES:	None
ABSENT:	Councilmember Abarbanel
ABSTAIN:	None  MERCEDES MARTIN, City Clerk

