ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION C

Consolidation of Fire Protection and Emergency Medical Services in the
Unincorporated Area

The October 2003 wildfires once again demonstrated the need to enhance and better coordinate
the region's fire protection resources.

While our region's firefighters tirelessly perform outstanding work, San Diego County needs to
bring together our fragmented system of providing fire protection.

Proposition C is an advisory measure to gauge public support for the consolidation of the 35 fire
protection and emergency medical service agencies in San Diego County's unincorporated area.

Need for Change

San Diego County’s unincorporated area has 3,572 square miles of land that is served by 35 fire
protection agencies that vary in size, service level, training and funding.

The County's unincorporated area is also one of the most fire prone regions in the nation,
containing hazardous vegetation that can fuel another devastating wildland fire.

Not only is there a disparity in funding levels among the unincorporated area fire agencies, many
are severely underfunded and understaffed.

Fighting Fire in the Future

An opportunity exists to remove jurisdiction lines and develop a fire protection agency that has
better coordination, training, purchasing power, communication and funding opportunities.

Under a consolidation plan, unincorporated communities will be able to achieve greater
efficiencies and enhance services to residents.

Under a consolidation plan, your fire station will stay open.

Under a consolidation plan, additional funding should come from existing taxpayer dollars, not
new taxes. Adequate stable funding must be a top priority!

Vote Yes on C

A yes vote means that you support changing the current fragmented system.

A yes vote means that you want to see an improvement in the region's fire protection system.
Please join us in voting YES on C.

DIANNE JACOB
Chairwoman

San Diego County Board of Supervisors

KEVIN CRAWFORD
President

San Diego County Fire Chiefs’ Association

BILL HORN

San Diego County Supervisor
District 5

LISA BRIGGS
Executive Director

San Diego County Taxpayers Association

N SD 432-054

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION C

No argument against the proposition was filed
in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PINE VALLEY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
Proposition AA

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

nnAH A A Shal1 the Pine Valley Fire Protection District institute
rnUr AA a sPec'al benefit tax forthe purpose of continuing to
■ iivi nn provide fjre protection and emergency medical ser-
vices and the hiring of additional fulltime staffing, which will increase the level
of emergency services provided. Charges will not exceed the amount set forth
in Ordinance 2004-01?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds of the voters.

Full text of this proposition
follows the argument.

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Pursuant to authority granted by statute, the Pine Valley Fire Protection District (“District”) is
asking registered voters of the District to vote on a ballot measure proposing the adoption of a
special benefit tax. Revenue raised by the special benefit tax may only be used to pay for the costs
of fire protection and emergency medical services within the District.

Specifically, the measure requests voter approval of a maximum special benefit tax levied on a
parcel, class of improvement to property and use of property basis as set forth in Ordinance No.
2004-01 of the District. The District will annually determine the amount to be levied, within the
maximum amounts established. Each year there will be an annual adjustment to the maximum
special benefit tax based on the increase, if any, in the consumer price index for the San Diego
Region as determined by the United States Department of Labor.

The special benefit tax would no longer be collected in the event the County of San Diego
establishes a fire protection district, fire authority, or contracts fire services to another fire agency to
protect the citizens of the District.

Approval by two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure is required to adopt the special
benefit tax. The District may not levy more than the maximum tax set forth in the ordinance without
again obtaining two-thirds voter approval.

A “yes’1 vote means that you are in favor of adoption of an annual special benefit tax for
providing fire protection and emergency medical services.

A “no" vote means that you are opposed to adoption of an annual special benefit tax for
providing fire protection and emergency medical services.

PR-19N0-1

N SO 432-055

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION AA

OUR COMMUNITY Last year our area withstood the threat of a great disaster. Many neighbors
and community members lost everything. For the majority who were spared, we remember
everyday how close it was. We live here because it's beautiful. We live here because we want to
raise families and retire in places called towns. The recent fires are a reminder of our precious
community, its resources and its people. A reminder that we must provide fire and emergency
services everyday - not just during natural disasters.

OUR FIREFIGHTERS Our current fire services are fulfilled by outstanding volunteers. These brave
firefighters sacrifice their spare time away from their lives and families to protect each of us
everyday. Our towns wouldn’t be safe without their service. These volunteers have jobs and lives
that take them away from our area much of the time. Proposition AA will supplement Pine Valley’s
volunteers by providing 24-hour fire protection and emergency services to our area. If our
neighbor becomes injured or their house ignites, Proposition AA will makes certain that at least 4
well-equipped and trained firefighters are available to join our volunteers, coming to our their aid.
Today, when there are no volunteers available, there is no one to help.

FIRE PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY SERVICES The current budget for the Pine Valley Fire
Protection District is $187,000 annually. This money is used to maintain the fire department, fire
equipment, including fire trucks and the equipment necessary to fight fires and provide emergency
services. This proposal will allow for each homeowner to pay a small annual assessment of $200
that will provide 24-hour fire protection in our area as a supplement to our volunteer forces.

TAXPAYER PROTECTION When the County of San Diego provides regional fire department for
our area, this annual assessment will cease immediately.

Please help the firefighter by making Pine Valley area safer. Vote Yes on Proposition AA.

CHARLES A. CHAPMAN

Pine Valley Fire Protection District

Board Member

Vice President of

Pine Valley Improvement Club

JIM PILANT

Pine Valley Fire Protection District
Board Member

Former Pine Valley Fire Chief

BEN TULLOCH
Pine Valley Fire Protection District Board Member
Pine Valley Planning Group Member

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION AA

No argument against the proposition was filed
in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

PR-19N0-2

N SD 432-056

ORDINANCE No. 2004-01 A ORDINANCE DETERMINING
AND PROPOSING FOR ADOPTION AN ANNUAL SPECIAL BENEFIT TAX
FOR FIRE PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
IN THE AREA OF THE PINE VALLEY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

The Board of Directors of the Pine Valley Fire Protection District hereby ordains as follows;

Section 1. The Board does hereby determine and propose for adoption an annual special benefit
tax for fire protection and emergency medical services within the boundaries of the area of the Pine
Valley Fire Protection District pursuant to Government Code Section 53978 to be levied on a
parcel, class of improvement, and use of property basis, not to exceed the following schedule:

Parcel, Class of Improvement Maximum Special Benefit Tax to Property, Use of Property

RESIDENTIAL $200.00 PER PARCEL

APARTMENTS, CONDOMINIUMS, MOBILE HOME UNITS, $100 PER UNIT

COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL $300.00 PER STRUCTURE Defined as any business registered
within San Diego County

INSTITUTIONAL $300.00 PER PARCEL

RECREATIONAL $150.00 PER PARCEL Defined as any inhabited structure

IRRIGATED FARM LAND AND AGRICULTURAL, $200 PER PARCEL Defined as any inhabited
structure.

For the purpose of the special benefit tax, all single-family residences, mobile home units,
apartment dwelling units, condominium dwelling units and trailers shall be considered equal and
shall be subject to separate calculations according to the rates established in Section 1. Any
commercial structure also used as a residence will be assessed the commercial fee only. There will
also be an annual adjustment based on the Increase in consumer price Index for the San Diego
region as determined by the United States Department of Labor.

Section 2. Such charges shall be charged to any parcel, improvement, or use of property to
which fire protection and emergency medical services may be made available, whether or not said
services are actually used upon a parcel, improvement or use of property.

In the event that San Diego County establishes a fire protection district, fire authority, or contracts
fire services to another fire agency to protect the citizens of the Pine Valley Fire Protection District
this proposition shall be nullified. On the date of said event, the revenues collected, based on this
proposition, shall no longer be collected as prescribed by this proposition.

Section 3. Such charges shall be imposed for the purpose of obtaining, furnishing, operating and
maintaining fire protection and emergency medical equipment and apparatus, and for the purpose
of paying salaries, Insurance costs, and benefits to personnel.

Section 4. In fiscal year 2004-5 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Board of Directors may direct
the maximum special benefit tax as stated in Section 1 to be increased by a percentage equal to
the percentage increase of the adjusted consumer price index measured between January 1 of the
immediately preceding fiscal year and the proceeding January 1 as determined for the San Diego
area by the U.S. Department of Labor. Increases greater than the increase In the adjusted
consumer price Index shall not be made unless they are authorized by a two-thirds vote of the
voters casting ballots in the year for which increases are proposed.

Section 5. Pursuant to Government Code Section 53978, the special benefit tax proposed by this
Ordinance shall be submitted to the voters within the boundaries of the Pine Valley Fire Protection
District. The ballot proposition shall be worded as provided in the Resolution of the Board of
Directors calling for the election.

Section 6. This Ordinance shall become operative on January 1, 2005, if the special benefit tax
proposed by this Ordinance is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the question of the
adoption of the special benefit tax.

Section 7. If the proposition is approved, the Board of Directors shall establish schedules varying
each of such special taxes according to parcel, improvement to property, and use of property.

However, the special benefit taxes shall not exceed the maximum charges set forth in Section 1.

Section 8. If any portion of this Ordinance be declared unconstitutional, invalid or otherwise
unenforceable, the other provisions of this Resolution shall remain in full force and effect.

Section 9, Pursuant to Government Section 53978, this Ordinance is effective immediately as an
Ordinance relating to an election,

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 3,d day of August 2004.

AYES: 4 NOES: 0 ABSENT: 1

SIGNED: Benjamin Tulloch, Board President	ATTEST:	Judi	Lenz,	Clerk	of	the	Board

PR-19N0-3

N SD 432-057