EVERGREEN SCHOOL DISTRICT


To ensure funding for local Evergreen school that cannot be taken away by the State and that will be used to continue K-3 class-size reduction’ keep school libraries open; support technology in every school; and provide a textbook for every child; shall the Evergreen Elementary School District be authorized to levy a tax of ($94) per parcel per year for a period of only four years with an exemption for 65 or older? 

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE N

California law permits a school district to levy a special tax on parcels of
land within the district if the tax is Approved by two-thirds of the voters voting in an election. 

The Board of Trustees of the Evergreen School District proposes a special
tax of $94 per parcel, per year, for 4 years. A vote tor the special tax is also a
vote to increase the appropriations limit by the amount of the increased special
tax. 

The purpose of the special lax is to provide funding for local Evergreen
schools that cannot he taken away by the State and to improve the quality of
education. In the school district by continuing class-size reduction tor
Kindergarten through 3rd grade, keeping school libraries open, providing a 
textbook for every child, and supporting technology in every school.	

Under no circumstances will any of the proceeds of the special tax be
used for administrative salaries. The proceeds of the special tax will be applied
only to the specific purposes identified above and deposited into a separate
fund no later than January 1 of each year the special tax is in effect, the
school district will prepare an annual report detailing the amount of funds
collected and expended and the status of any project authorized to be funded
by this measure.

The school district will grant an exemption from the special tax on any
parcel owned by one or more persons, 65 years or over, occupying the parcel
as a principal residence, upon annual application for exemption. In addition,
exemptions may be granted annually for owners of multiple parcels that are
contiguous and constitute one economic unit - meaning that they have the
same primary purpose as the principal parcel and are not separate and distinct
properties that can be independently developed or sold - and for property
owners whose properties are extensively damaged by a natural disaster.

A “yes" vote is a vote to approve a special tax on parcels within Evergreen
School District.

A "no" vote is a vote not to approve the special tax.

Ann Miller Ravel
County Counsel

By: Isl Lisa Herrick

Deputy County Counsel

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE N

The following is the full ballot text of the proposition to be presented to the
voters by the Evergreen School District in the ballot pamphlet:

Shall the Evergreen Elementary School District be authorized to levy a tax of
Ninety-Four Dollars ($94) per parcel per year for a period of only four years?

The purpose of the special tax is to provide funding for local Evergreen schools
that cannot be taken away by the State and to improve the quality of education
in the District by taking actions including:

1.	Continuing K-3 class-size reduction

2.	Keeping school libraries open

3.	Providing a textbook for every child

4.	Supporting technology in every school

UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL ANY OF THE PROCEEDS OF THE
TAX BE USED FOR ADMINISTRATIVE SALARIES.

The term “parcel” shall mean any parcel of land, developed or undeveloped
wholly or partially located within the District, for which the County Assessor has
assigned an assessor's identification number.

An exemption shall be granted annually on any parcel owned by one or more
persons, 65 years or over, occupying said parcel as a principal residence, upon
annual application for exemption. In addition, exemptions may be granted
annually for owners of multiple parcels that are contiguous and constitute one
economic unit, meaning they have the same primary purpose as the principal
parcel and are not separate and distinct properties that can be indepdently
developed or sold and for property owners whose properties are extensively
damaged by a natural disaster.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB and applicable laws, during the
four-year period of this special tax, the appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax.

The proceeds of this special tax shall be applied only to the specific purposes
identified above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited into a fund
that shall be kept separate and apart from other funds of the District. No later
than January 1 of each year while the tax is in effect, the District shall prepare
and file with the Board of Trustees a report detailing the amount of funds
collected and expended and the status of any project authorized to be funded
by this measure.



AROUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE N

M#. ru<f.» k« h«vo (.MXN) f VI ROREEN ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
in »whM> 'in Inidgo) Without additional funding, our schools lac« major
, mMiw M m Mwiimi iKogntms. irn Ming teacher and staff layoffs, toss of class
«</• mwIih iirifi dosor* of school libraries, and less money tor books and
IfH fwwilngy

Yes u" Measuie N provkte* local funds for our neighborhood elementary and
n*kfl* schools Unlike most scfiool funding, money raised by Measure N
r mvvil lie l»k«»n by the stale f very dollar will stay in our community and wf be
us«l to maintain and protect vital school programs

For If NT I*' month, Yes on Measure N Will raise nearly $2 miion for our
«< lx mis I vetyiMie over age 65 is eligible for an exemption This Measure wMI
I# in p!a< e for four years, and cannot be extended without voter approval

Yes on Measure N will allow Evergreen Elementary School District to maintain
en ellenl low liars ami quality programs by:

•	Continuing class size reduction in kindergarten, first, second, and third
grades

•	Keeping school libraries open so that students have regular access to
books and library sorvices that support classroom learning.

•	Ensuring that ovory child has appropriate textbooks.

•	Maintaining current lovels of technology support in our schools.

If California Distinguished Schools and 11 National Blue Ribbon Award
Schools In Iho Evergreen Elementary School District attest to our students'
successes Yes on Measure N is supported by parents, teachers, business and
community leadars who know successful schools will keep our community
stmny

Investing In good schools benefits the Evergreen community by prepanng
students fix future success and raising property values.

Join us In voting Yes on Moasuro N-

Visit ecli2004.net

Isl Tom M Mllsumolo
Trustee, Fvetyrnon School District Board

/s/ Dallas Clatk
President, Dallas Sheet Metal Mlg, Inc.

1*11 velyn M Allen
Chair, Eveigreon Citizens for Local Schools

/v I uciie fiounde Chacon
Admlnlslialor, Abra/os & Books

IV David Cortese
CdUndlmember City of San Jose

The issues arent educators mportance or Sacramento* budget cuts
issues are truth and favness

Propos4ion 96 guaranteed that tO% of Catforrva s oeneraf funds be i
pubtc cducabon Accordfog to toe Governors budget statewide
spendngfstudent contnues to mease1 The ‘crisis’ isn't REVENUE; it s
SPENDING!

•	Property taxes already \nd Evergreen Elementary School Ostnct

•	AddritonaNy, homeowners are STILL repaywg toe folmwng
infrastructure bonds 1989 - S35.000.000; and 1997 - $60,000,000

•	Last March. Proposition 55 authorized $12,300,000,000 more to
overcrowdng/repaa' older K-12 schools!

Why another tax that onfy property owners pay?

Homeowners are on a property taxing merry-go-round. How many dn
‘creatively labeled* property taxes are necessary? When is enough enough?
When do tenants and exempted seniors (Evergreen Elementary School Du
offers seniors exemptions for votes) pay ther fair share?

Tenants and senior homeowners (52% of the electorate) escape taxa
altogether!

To the District "the ends justify the means * Only residents vote, whether or i
they are homeowners. It's unfair for the majority who WONT be
Measure N to vote for more property taxes1

History demonstrates Evergreen Elementary School District repeatedly taxej
homeowners ONLY!

Tax EVERYONE (the cost/resident would be dramatically less) or NO ONE!

Measure N:

•	Increases everyone's living costs.

•	Makes the home ownership dream even more unattainable.

Your NO vote on Measure N doesn't mean you are against schools, it mean
you are for wise spending.

For more information see www.VoteNoOnN.us

Is/ Allen Hacker

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

Isl Dennis Umphress
President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association

Isl Jack E. Davis
Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association

Isl Elizabeth C. Brierty

Board Member, Silicon Valley Taxpayers’ Assn.

N «sP Rallnt Tun« no-. ~

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE N

No specific plan exists on how Evergreen School District will spend this money
There s no requirement that any of it go to providing a text-book for every child
or keeping school libraries open.

There's also no plan to measure how effective this money will be in relieving
problems.

Parcel taxes have a number of detrimental features.

Because parcel taxes affect all parcels of property equally, and residential
property makes up the bulk of most districts, the burden falls disproportionately
hard on homeowners.

Additionally, these taxes make no distinction regarding ability to pay. Measure
N impacts most who can afford it least- those on fixed incomes- and it taxes
uniformly no matter how large/expensive the parcel! A homeowner living in a
modest home could owe the same parcel tax amount as someone who lives in
an expensive mansion, or the owner of a huge office building worth tens of
millions of dollars.

The amount of this tax is generally the same for each parcel, and since in most
local jurisdictions single-family residential parcels constitute the bulk of parcels
within the jurisdiction the vast majority of the tax burden will disproportionately
fall on single-family residential parcels.

The use of parcel taxes to get around Proposition 13's limitation on property tax
increases is accelerating and taxpayers throughout the state are beginning to
feel the pinch.

Now is the wrong time to heighten financial burdens on already struggling
property owners and their tenants.

There are only three voter positions when it comes to taxes:

1.	Taxes are too high.

2.	Taxes are about right.

3.	Taxes are too low.

If you agree with #3, then you could support this tax. However, if you agree with
position “1” or “2”, then you should vote “NO" on Measure N

I Visit www.VoteNoOnN.us for more information.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINSf Ml AMJIM M

Measure N is being supported by local business tellers, parents le^.tier* and |
community members who care about our local schools

We know the Evergreen School District has a strong record ftvjl ]
accountability We know the District has already made significant cuts due to I
decreased funding from Sacramento We know funding from Sacramento is nrrf
expected to be sufficient next ye» We know the only way to make sure ok
children have a quality education is to provide local funds that go directly into
our local schools

Outside anti-tax crusaders make the same arguments against Me.r.ure N they
have made throughout the County But those of us who kve here know our
School Board has committed these funds to academe programs that will make
a difference And we know it is better to have those funds administered by *
local school board accountable to local citizens than it is to rely on unstable
state funding

We know older citizens can apply for an exemption, and that the cost, less than
$8 per month, is a reasonable amount that won t create undue hardship for
anyone We know this funding will only last for four years, long enough to
ensure we get through these difficult times, and that it cannot be renewed
without voter approval

In short, we know Measure N is good for our schools, good for our community,
and good for our children That is why those of us who live and work in
Evergreen are united in supporting Measure N

I Isl Lucille B Chacon
Evergreen Resident

Isl Evelyn M Allen

Chair, Evergreen Citizens For Local Schools

Isl Tom M Matsumoto

Trustee, Evergreen School District Board

Isl David Cortese

Councilmember City of San Jose

| Isl Allen Hacker

Chair, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County

| Isl Dennis Umphress

President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association

I Isl Jack Davis
Businessman

Isl Elizabeth C. Briefly

Board Member, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Assn.