MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

SCHOOL

PETALUMA JOINT UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
MAINTAINING EXCELLENCE IN JR. HIGH AND
HIGH SCHOOLS ACT OF 2004 TAX
MEASURE K

KTo keep school libraries open, restore smaller class
sizes grades 7-12, restore and maintain computer and
technology programs, maintain music and fine art
programs, and provide necessary educational programs and
materials to the extent funds are available, shall the
Petaluma Joint Union High School District be authorized to
levy a $50 annual parcel tax for four years, beginning July 1,
2005 with annual citizens’ oversight committee, exempting
parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or
over?

PETALUMA JOINT UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
MAINTAINING EXCELLENCE IN JR. HIGH AND
HIGH SCHOOLS ACT OF 2004 TAX
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE
PETALUMA JOINT UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
OF THE COUNTIES OF SONOMA AND MARIN,

STATE OF CALIFORNIA
CALLING PARCEL TAX ELECTION

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code Section, 50079 authorizes a school district, upon
approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting on the measure, to levy a
qualified special tax for specified purposes; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Education (the ''Board”) of the Petaluma Joint
Union High School District (the “District”) is committed to preserving
quality in educational programs and providing the best possible
education to our students in all grades; and

WHEREAS, the State budget threatens education funding in the short
run, and demonstrates ongoing uncertainty for funding of the District’s
programs in the foreseeable future; and

WHEREAS, due to lack of funding, the District has eliminated and is in
danger of eliminating more programs beneficial and necessary to the
students who attend the schools of the District; and once eliminated
these programs will be extremely difficult to reinstate; and

WHEREAS, the District is committed to quality education for every
student and high standards of academic achievement and performance;
and

WHEREAS, a high quality public education is vital to the community’s
well-being and fosters the growth of society's greatest natural resource -
the minds of students; and

WHEREAS, the investment in student’s education is beneficial to the
economic well-being of our community and our country; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that in order to continue meeting
the educational needs of all of the District’s students and to provide
stable local funding for area schools, it is necessary to authorize a
special tax; and

WHEREAS, this Board has held a public hearing after due notice
regarding the proposed authorization of the parcel tax;

WHEREAS, the District is a joint union high school district with territory in

both Sonoma and Marin Counties (collectively referred to as “County");

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Education of
the Petaluma Joint Union High School District, as follows:

1.	Recitals. This Board hereby finds and determines that the
foregoing recitals are true and correct.

2.	Order of Election. This resolution shall stand as the order to the
Sonoma County Superintendent of Schools and the Marin County
Superintendent of Schools to call an election within the boundaries of the'
District on November 2, 2004 for approval of the measure contained in
Section 3 hereof. The authority for the specifications of this election
order is contained in Sections 5304 and 5322 of the California Education
Code and Section 50079 of the California Government Code.

3.	Specifications of Ballot Measure. This Board hereby requests the
Registrar of Voters of the Counties of Sonoma and Marin (the “Registrar
of Voters”) to submit to the voters of the District on November 2, 2004,
the following ballot measure:

PETALUMA JOINT UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT MAINTAINING
EXCELLENCE IN JR. HIGH AND HIGH SCHOOLS ACT OF 2004 TAX

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Petaluma Joint
High School District Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools
Act of 2004 Tax” or as “Measure K”.

TERMS OF MAINTAINING EXCELLENCE IN JR. HIGH
AND HIGH SCHOOLS ACT OF 2004 SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on
this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special
tax of $50 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District
for no more than four years, commencing July 1, 2005. The qualified
special tax shall be known and referred to as the "Maintaining Excellence
in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax”. To the extent such funds
are available, proceeds of the Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and
High Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall be authorized to keep school
libraries open, restore smaller class sizes grades 7-12, restore and
maintain computer and technology programs, maintain music and fine art
programs, and provide necessary educational programs and materials.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens
in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years
of age or older shall be exempt from the Maintaining Excellence in Jr.
High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax upon proper application to the
District. Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or
before May 1,2005 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any
one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for
the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such
applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the
Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax,
the Board of Education shall cause an account to be established for
deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the Maintaining
Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax remain
unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District
shall cause an independent financial auditor to prepare a report to be
filed with the Board of Education and the Citizens’ Oversight Committee
no later than December 31 of each year, commencing December 31,
2005, stating (1) the amount of Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and
High Schools Act of 2004 Tax received and expended in such year, and
(2) the status of any projects or description of any programs funded from
proceeds of the tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal
year, or other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall
determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget,
audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board of Education.

MEASURE K CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21-604

21604

Citizens' Oversight Committee. The Board of Education shall appoint a
Citizens' Oversight Committee which shall, on an annual basis, review
both the Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of
2004 Budget and the Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High
Schools Act of 2004 Independent Audit.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High
and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be
applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION
The Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004
Tax shall be collected by the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector
and the Marin County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and
manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem
property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes
shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem
property taxes until paid. The collection of the Maintaining Excellence in
Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax shall not decrease the funds
available from other sources of the District in any period from the
effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property" shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District whicn receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office
or the Marin County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All property which
is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property
taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Maintaining Excellence
in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax in such year. Parcels
owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older are exempt
from the Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of
2004 Tax as described above.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has
approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Maintaining
Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax as described
above to the Sonoma and Marin County tax collection officials. The
Sonoma County or Marin County Assessor’s determination of exemption
or relief for any reason other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel
from taxation shall be final and binding for the purposes of the
Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax.
Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination
must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of
property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a
refund of Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of
2004 Tax paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax
refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has
independent value, and the Board of Education and the voters would
have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision
hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be
found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all
remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest
extent allowed by law.

4.	Summary of Measure. The measure contained in Section 3 hereof
shall be summarized in the following form, and the Registrars of Voters
of the Counties of Sonoma and Marin, are requested to cause this
summary of the measure to appear on the ballot:

To keep school libraries open, restore smaller class sizes grades 7-12,
restore and maintain computer and technology programs, maintain
music and fine art programs, and provide necessary educational
programs and materials to the extent funds are available, shall the

Petaluma Joint Union High School District be authorized to levy a $50
annual parcel tax for four years, beginning July 1, 2005 with annual
citizens' oversight committee, exempting parcels owned and occupied
by persons 65 years of age or over?"

5.	Filina of Order of Election. The Secretary of this Board is ordered
to cause certified copies of this resolution and order to be delivered not
later than August 6, 2004 to the Sonoma County Superintendent of
Schools and the Marin County Superintendent of Schools, the Registrars
of Voters and the Clerks of the Boards of Supervisors of the Counties of
Sonoma and Marin.

6.	Formal Notice. The Sonoma County and Marin County
Superintendents of Schools are hereby requested to prepare and
execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order
in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “Formal
Notice"), and to call the election by causing the Formal Notice to be
posted in accordance with Section 5362 of the Education Code no later
than August 6,2004, or to otherwise cause the notice to be published as
permitted by law. The Secretary of this Board, on behalf of and as may
be requested by the County Superintendent of Schools, is authorized to
cause all notices required by law in connection herewith to be published
and posted, as the case may be.

7.	Conduct of Election.

(a)	Request to Registrar of Voters. Pursuant to Section 5303 of
the Education Code, the Registrars of Voters of the Counties of
Sonoma and Marin are requested to take all steps to hold the election
in accordance with law and these specifications.

(b)	Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar of Voters is hereby requested
to reprint the measure in its entirety (that portion of Section 3 hereof
which is printed in bold-face type) in the voter information pamphlet to be
distributed to voters pursuant to Section 13307 of the Elections Code. In
the event the measure in Section 3 will not be reprinted in the voter
information pamphlet in its entirety, the Registrars of Voters of Counties
of Sonoma and Marin are hereby requested to print, immediately below
the impartial analysis of the measure, in no less than 10-point boldface
type, a legend substantially as follows:

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure K. If
you desire a copy of the measure, please call the Sonoma County
Registrar of Voters at (707) 565-6800 or the Marin County Registrar
of Voters at (415) 499-6456 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to
you."

(c)	Consolidation. The Sonoma County Superintendent of
Schools and the Marin County Superintendent of Schools and the
Boards of Supervisors of the Counties of Sonoma and Marin are
requested to order consolidation of the election with such other elections
as may be held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that
is in part the same.

(d)	Canvass of Results. The Boards of Supervisors of the
Counties of Sonoma and Marin are authorized to canvass the returns of
the election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

8.	Appropriations Limit. The Board of Education shall provide in each
year (pursuant to Section 7902.1 of the Government Code or any
successor provision of law) for any increase in the District’s
appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that proceeds of the
Maintaining Excellence in Jr. High and High Schools Act of 2004 Tax
may be spent for the authorized purposes.

MEASURE K CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21-605

21605

(Full Text of Measure K Continued)

9.	Ballot Argument. The President of this Board, or any member or
members of this Board as the President shall designate, is hereby
authorized, but not directed, to prepare and file with the Registrar of
Voters a ballot argument in favor of the proposition contained in Section
3 hereof, within the time established by the Registrars of Voters of the
Counties of Sonoma and Marin, which shall be considered the official
ballot argument of this Board as sponsor of the proposition.

10.	Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect from and after its
adoption.

The foregoing resolution was introduced by Board Member Lou
Steinberg who moved its adoption, seconded by Member Christina Kauk
and adopted on roll call by the following vote:

Ayes: 4 Noes: 0 Absent/not voting: 1

WHEREUPON, the President declared the above resolution adopted
and SO ORDERED this 5th day of August, 2004.

si Camille Sauve, President
Board of Education

ATTEST:

si Margaret Viguie, Secretary

SECRETARY’S CERTIFICATE

I,	Margaret Viguie, Secretary of the Board of Education of the Petaluma
Joint Union High School District, County of Sonoma, California, do
hereby certify as follows:

The attached is a full, true and correct copy of a resolution duly adopted
at a special meeting of said Board of said District duly and regularly held
at the regular meeting place thereof on August 5, 2004, and entered in
the minutes thereof, of which meeting all of the members of said Board
of Education had due notice and at which a quorum thereof was present,
and said resolution was adopted by the following vote:

AYES:	4

NOES:	0

ABSTAIN: 0
ABSENT:	1

At least 24 hours before the time of said meeting, a written notice and
agenda of the meeting was mailed and received by or personally
delivered to each member of the Board of Education not having waived
notice thereof, and to each local newspaper of general circulation, radio,
and television station requesting such notice in writing, and was posted
in a location freely accessible to members of the public, and a brief
description of the resolution appeared on said agenda.

I have carefully compared the same with the original minutes of said
meeting on file and of record in my office. Said resolution has not been
amended, modified or rescinded since the date of its adoption, and the
same is now in full force and effect.

WITNESS my hand this 5“' day of August, 2004.

si Margaret Viguie

Secretary of the Board of Education
Petaluma Joint Union High School District

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE K

The Petaluma Joint Union High School District has called an election on
a special tax measure to fund educational programs. State law requires
voter approval before a school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $50 per year per parcel for each
parcel of land within the District's boundaries. The tax would be based
on the privilege of using the parcel, would begin on July 1, 2005, and
would remain in effect for no more than four years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be
used for purposes set out in the measure, which include keeping school
libraries open, restoring smaller class sizes to grades 7 through 12,
restoring and maintaining computer and technology programs,
maintaining music and fine art programs, and providing necessary
educational programs and materials. Each year, beginning with the year
ending December 31,2005, the measure calls for preparation of a report
by an independent financial auditor, stating the amount received and
expended from the tax for that year, and the status of any projects, and
description of any programs, funded from the proceeds of the tax. In
addition, the District Board is required to appoint a Citizens’ Oversight
Committee which each year will review both the budget for use of the tax
proceeds and the annual independent audit.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that
receives a separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt
from property tax, or on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are
also exempt from this tax. The measure also exempts from the tax
parcels owned or partially owned and occupied by a person who will be
65 years of age or older. Persons claiming exemptions based on
ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District on or
before May 1, 2005, or May 1 of the first year the exemption applies to
them. The measure describes what process must be followed to appeal
any decision regarding applicability of the tax, or to apply for a refund if
appropriate.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Petaluma Joint Union High School
District who vote on this measure vote “yes,’’ the measure will pass and
the special tax will be levied. The tax would be collected in the same
manner as regular property taxes starting with the 2005-2006 fiscal year.

Dated: August 17,2004

PATRICK K. FAULKNER
Marin County Counsel

STEVEN WOODSIDE
Sonoma County Counsel

By: KATHLEEN LAROCQUE
Sonoma Deputy County Counsel

MEASURE K CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21-606

21606

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

Measure K is a local solution to the statewide problem of education
funding. Measure K will maintain excellence in Petaluma’s junior high
and high schools and give our children the education they need to
succeed.

As we all know, the State has drastically cut funding to all school
districts. Our local schools are left with two options: cut basic programs
that we offer to our students or come up with a local plan to solve our
funding problem.

Measure K is exactly that - a local plan to maintain excellence in
Petaluma’s schools.

Measure K will allow schools of the Petaluma Joint Union High School
District to keep their libraries open and to maintain music and fine art
programs that have been jeopardized over the past year.

Measure K will allow Petaluma's junior high and high schools to reduce
class size and restore and maintain computer and technology programs
that our students need to excel in college or in their careers.

There are taxpayer safeguards within Measure K. An independent
Citizens Oversight Committee will conduct annual reviews to ensure
Measure K funds are used as promised. Not one penny of Measure K
will be used for administrative salaries.

And, senior citizens 65 years of age or older may apply for an exemption
to Measure K for parcels that they own and occupy.

Please join local teachers, parents, business owners, retirees and
community leaders in voting Yes on Measure K.

Measure K is a local solution that will maintain excellence in Petaluma's
junior high and high schools.

si Gay Robbins, High School Teacher

si William M. Hammerman, Retiree

si Karen Nemrow, Parent

si Elizabeth Marquardt, Certified Public Accountant

si Vanna McWhinnie, Registered Nurse

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE K

Wise counsel dictates that when you have dug yourself into a hole-stop
digging. Facing a statewide financial crisis, it is time to stop spending
and rethink our priorities. As painful as this can sometimes be, there can
be benefits. When we are forced to live within our means, we will
choose to spend on those programs we collectively deem most valuable
to our students and delay programs of lesser value.

The state’s funding to local school districts has decreased from the high
levels of the late 1990s. Although the state spends more than $9,600
per pupil, we are still considerably below the national average in student
achievement.

Providing more tax dollars does not always solve the problem. Better
allocation of existing resources is called for. We urge you to send a
strong message to the District’s trustees and management to rethink
how existing funds can be re-prioritized. Vote NO on Measure K.

s/Jack Atkin, President
Sonoma County Taxpayers’ Association

si Jack Abercrombie, Treasurer
Sonoma County Taxpayers’ Association

si Fred Levin, Executive Director
Sonoma County Taxpayers’ Association

si John B. Landis, Vice President
Sonoma County Taxpayers’ Association

si Jeanne Levin, Secretary
Sonoma County Taxpayers’ Association

MEASURE K CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE



21607

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

In terms of the coming year's budget, it may well be true that funds for
the programs named in the ballot measure are limited. However, let's
be clear how the District arrived at this point. During a number of
recent years, the State had pumped increasing revenues to school
districts. These revenues were then committed by the school districts
to higher teachers salaries and were locked in by union contracts. Now
that the gravy train from the State has slowed, the District finds itself
with little discretionary revenue, because they failed to plan for leaner
times. Taxpayers should be able to count on school trustees to
manage for the future, not just the present.

We urge you to take a good look at your current property tax bill’s
special assessments and add the requested parcel tax. Then, ask
yourself, is this the right time for the District to ask me for more money?
We already paid our share of taxes. Additionally, ask yourself whether
or not the District is prudently managing its financial affairs. If not, how
can you reward the District with higher taxes?

We urge you to send a strong message to the District's trustees and
management to rethink how existing funds can be re-prioritized. Vote
No on Measure K.

si Jack Atkin, President
Sonoma County Taxpayers’ Association

si Jack Abercrombie, Treasurer
Sonoma County Taxpayers’ Association

si Fred Levin, Executive Director
Sonoma County Taxpayers’ Association

si John B. Landis, Vice President
Sonoma County Taxpayers' Association

si Jeanne Levin, Secretary
Sonoma County Taxpayers’ Association

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

Measure K is a local solution to the statewide problem of education
funding. Every penny of Measure K will stay here in Petaluma - it will
not be sent to Sacramento.

Petaluma’s schools have undergone tremendous budget cuts. There is
no “fat” - we have eliminated many things that are considered the
“basics”.

Many core programs have been cut and more are threatened if we do
not find a local answer to our education-funding problem.

Measure K will allow schools of the Petaluma Joint Union High School
District to keep their libraries open and to maintain music and fine arts
programs that have been jeopardized over the past year.

Measure K will allow Petaluma’s junior high and high schools to reduce
class size and restore and maintain computer and technology programs
that our students need to excel in college or in their careers.

Not one penny of Measure K will be used for administrative salaries - it
will all go directly into our junior high and high schools.

And, our senior citizens can apply for an exemption to Measure K for
parcels that they own and occupy.

Petaluma is a terrific place to live and to raise a family. Slashing
essential school programs will put that at risk.

Please join our local classroom teachers, parents, businesspeople,
senior citizens and community leaders in voting Yes on Measure K.

si Gay Robbins, High School Teacher

si William M. Hammerman, Retiree

si Karen Nemrow, Parent

si Elizabeth Marquardt, Certified Public Accountant

si Vanna McWhinnie, Registered Nurse

END OF MEASURE K _________________

21608