

<full> ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF TEHAMA ADDING CHAPTER 4.05 TO THE TEHAMA COUNTY CODE
(IMPOSING A TEMPORARY GENERAL PURPOSE
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX SUBJECT TO
APPROVAL BY THE VOTERS)

AND CALLING A SPECIAL ELECTION THEREON

THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF TEHAMA
ORDAINS AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1, Chapter 4.05 Is hereby added to the Tehama County
Code to read as follows:

4.05.010	Short title and applicability.

4.05.020	General Tax.

4.05.030	Definitions.

4.05.040	Purpose of chapter.

4,05.050	Contract with State.

4.05.060	Imposition of transactions tax; transactions tax rate.

4.05.070	Place of sale.

4.05.080	, Imposition of. use tax; use tax rate.

4.05.090	Adoption of provisions of state law.

4.05.100	Limitations on adoption of state law and collection
of use taxes,

4.05.110	Permit not required.

4.05.120	. Exemptions and exclusions.

4.05.130	Adoption of amendments to state law.

4,05.140	Enjoining collection forbidden.

4,05.150	Severability.

4.05.010	Short title and applicability. This chapter shall be
known as the County of Tehama Temporary General Purpose
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. This chapter shall be
applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of Tehama
County,

4.05.020	General Tax. The transactions and use tax imposed
by this chapter is a general tax within the meaning of Article XIIIC,
section 1, subdivision (a) of the California Constitution. The revenue
generated by this general tax shall be used for general governmental
purposes and shall be available to the Tehama County Board of
Supervisors for annual appropriations in the County’s budget for
any lawful expenditure. Nothing in this chapter, nor in any other
ordinance, advisory measure, resolution, or policy shall be construed
as limiting, in any way, the amount or the objects of the appropriations
and expenditures that can be made from the revenue of the tax,
nor be construed as creating a continuing appropriation,

4.05.030	Definitions, For purposes of this chapter the following
words and phrases shall have the meaning given in this section:

A.	"The County" means the County of Tehama.

B.	"Operative date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than one hundred ten days after the
adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter and the approval
of such ordinance by the voters of the County, provided that, if the
County shall not have entered into a contract with the State Board
of Equalization as required by Section 4.05.050 prior to such date,
the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract. If the ordinance codified
in this chapter is approved by the voters of Tehama County at the
November 2, 2004 election, and the contract is executed on or
before March 31, 2005, the operative date shall be April 1, 2005,

C.	“Termination date" shall1 mean the third anniversary of the
operative date, unless this transactions and use tax is extended by
the voters at an election held subsequent to the November 2, 2004
election, If the operative date is April 1, 2005, the termination date
shall be March 31, 2008, unless this transactions and use tax is
extended by the voters at an election held subsequent to the
November 2, 2004 election.

4.05.040	Purpose of chapter. Pursuant to Article XIIIC, section 2,
subdivision of the California Constitution, the transactions and use
tax imposed by this chapter shall be submitted to and approved by a
was of the voters of the County. Once so approved by a
majority vote of the voters of the County, this tax shall be a general tax
imposed for general governmental purposes as defined by Article XIIIC,
section 1, subdivision (a) of the California Constitution and any other
applicable laws. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that this
chapter is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that its provisions be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with
the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and.Section 7285 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2, which authorizes the County to adopt a transactions and use
tax ordinance for general governmental purposes that shall be operative
if a majority of, the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at a regularly scheduled general election for members
of the Tehama County Board of Supervisors.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax
Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6  of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a general tax and provides a measure therefore that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can
be administered in. a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under
the provisions of this chapter.

4.05.050	Contract with State. Prior to the operative date, the
County shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform
alt functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance.

4.05.060	Imposition of transactions tax: transactions tax rate.
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax
is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County at the rate of one half of one
percent (0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale
of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on
and after the operative date and before the termination date.

4.05.070	Place of sale. For the purposes of this chapter, all
retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer
unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer
or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier
for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from
such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are
subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent
place of business in the State or has more than one place of business,
the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall
be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

4.05.080	Imposition of use tax: use tax rate. An excise tax is
hereby imposed on the storage, use or' other consumption in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date and before the termination date for storage, use or
other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one
percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price
shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

4.05.090	Adoption to provisions of state law. Except as
otherwise provided in this chapter and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter
as though fully set forth herein.

4.05.100	Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of
use taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the state of California is named or referred to as
the taxing agency, the name of the County shall be substituted
therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made:

1.	When the word "state” is used as a part of the title of the
State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of-Control, State Board
of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	When the result of that substitution would require action
to be taken by or against the County or any agency, officer, or
employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration
or operation of this chapter;

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the state, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

a,	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property that would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to
tax by the state under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or

b.	impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property that would
not be subject to tax by the state under the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

B.	The phrase "Tehama County" shall be substituted for the word
"State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in business in this State" in
Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

4.Q5.11Q Permit not required, if a seller's permit has been issued
to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this chapter.

4.05.120	Exemptions and exclusions. A. There shall be
excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of
California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount
of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the County in which the sale is made and directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State,
the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the County which is
shipped to a point outside the County, pursuant to the contract of
sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the County shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-County address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact,
his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a

place of business out-of-County and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3,	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is
obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this chapter.

4,	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the (ease
prior to the operative date of this chapter.

5,	For the purposes of subsections 3. and 4. of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible persona! property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter,
the storage, use or other consumption in the County of tangible
personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been
subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered
transactions and use tax ordinance;

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the taws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1
of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California;

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for
a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this chapter;

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power
over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is
a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance;

5.	For the purposes of subsections 3. and 4. of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise
of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised;

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph 7„ a retailer engaged
in business in the County shall not be required to collect use tax
from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the County or participates within
the County in making the sale of the property, including, but not
limited to, soliciting or receiving the border, either directly or indirectly,
at a place of business of the retailer in the County or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
the County under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the County" shall also
include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code; aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code; or undocumented
vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required
to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel or aircraft at an address in the County.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions
tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for, a transactions
tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

4.05.130	Adoption of amendments to state law. All amendments
subsequent to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with


Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all
amendments to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Cods, shall automatically become a part of this chapter; provided,
however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the
rats of fax imposed by this article, nor shall any such amendments
operate so as to affect the fact that the tax imposed by this ordinance
is a general tax, as defined by Article XIIIC, section 1, subdivision
(a) of the California Constitution and any other applicable laws.

4.05.140 Enjoining collection forbidden. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the state or the County, or against
any officer of the state or the County, to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

4.05.150 Severability. If any provision of this chapter or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid,
trie remainder of the chapter and the application of such provision
to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 2. This ordinance is subject to approval by the voters
of Tehama County and shall not be operative and shall not be codified
in the Tehama County Code until a majority of the electors voting
on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the general purpose
transactions and use tax at a regularly scheduled general election
for members of the Tehama County Board of Supervisors.

SECTION 3. The Tehama County Board of Supervisors hereby
calls a special election for the purpose of submitting this ordinance
for approval or disapproval by the voters of Tehama County. This
special election shall be consolidated with the November 2, 2004
general election, which is a regularly scheduled general election for
members of the Tehama County Board of Supervisors.

SECTION 4. This ordinance shall be subject to a measure to
be known as “Measure B" on the ballot. The form of the question
appearing on the ballot shall be:

Shall Tehama County adopt a temporary one-half percent
sales tax increase for three years, the proceeds of which
would be placed in the County's general fund and used for
general governmental purposes?

SECTION 5. In accordance with the provisions of Section 9160 of
the California Elections Code, the County Auditor-Controller is hereby
directed to prepare a fiscal impact statement of this measure, and the
County Counsel is directed to prepare an impartial analysis of this
measure. Arguments for and against this measure may be submitted in
conformance with California Elections Code Sections 9161 and following.

SECTION 6. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of
the County Transactions and Use Taxes and shall take effect immediately
pursuant to Government Code section 25123, subdivision (c).

SECTION 7. This ordinance shall be published at least one time in
the Red Bluff Daily News, a newspaper of general circulation In Tehama
County, prior to the expiration of fifteen (15) days from the adoption thereof.

The foregoing ordinance was duly passed and adopted by the
Board of Supervisors of the County of Tehama, State of California,
at a regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors on the 13th day
of July,'2004 by the following vote:

AYES: Supervisors Mclver, Russell, Borror and Turner
NOES: None

ABSENT OR NOT VOTING: Supervisor Willard

s/ Ross M. Turner, CHAIRMAN, Board of Supervisors

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

) ss

COUNTY OF TEHAMA )

I,	MARY ALICE GEORGE, County Clerk and ex-officio Clerk of the Board
of Supervisors of the County of Tehama, State of California, hereby certify
the above and foregoing to be a full, true and correct copy of an ordinance
adopted by said Board of Supervisors on the 13th day of July, 2004,

DATED: This 13th day of July, 2004,

MARY ALICE GEORGE, County Clerk and ex-officio Clerk of the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Tehama, State of California,

By: s/ Angela L Ford, Deputy <fullend>










<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B

Measure "B" would temporarily impose an additional 1/2 percent
sales tax within Tehama County for a period of three years. The
tax would be collected at the same time and in the same manner
as existing sales taxes. The current sales tax rate in the incorporated
and unincorporated areas of Tehama County is 7.25 percent.
Measure "B" would increase this rate to 7.75 percent. The tax would
be effective within the incorporated cities of Red Bluff, Corning, and
Tehama, in addition to the unincorporated area of the County,
Measure “B” must be approved by a simple majority of the voters
voting on the Measure in order for the tax to be imposed. If Measure
"B" is approved by the voters, the County would begin collecting
the tax no earlier than April 1, 2005. The revenue from the tax
would be placed in the County's general fund and used for general
governmental purposes as directed by the Tehama County Board
of Supervisors. This means that the tax proceeds may be used by
the County for any legal governmental purpose without restriction.
The County is not in any way legally bound to use the tax monies
for any special purpose or for any particular project or projects.

SUBMITTED BY: <impartialend>







<impartialsigs> s/ William James Murphy
WILLIAM JAMES MURPHY
TEHAMA COUNTY COUNSEL <impartialsigsend> 








<fiscal> STATEMENT OF FISCAL IMPACT
MEASURE B

If passed, this measure will result in the imposition of an additional
one half of one-percent (0.50%) sales tax on all taxable sales within
Tehama County for a period of three years, raising the total sales
tax rate from 7.25 percent to 7.75 percent, The tax would generally
apply to retail sales of goods, which are subject to the existing sales
and use tax. Exemptions and exclusions are cited in Section 1 of
the Tehama County. Ordinance No. 1820,

It is estimated that the immediate result of the imposition of the one
half of-one-percent transaction use tax will be a revenue increase
to the County general fund of approximately 2.6 million dollars per
year for three years. This figure is based on the assumption that
the 2003 calendar year countywide taxable sales of about 570 million
dollars wilt be equaled In each of the three years following the
imposition of the transaction and use tax. <fiscalend>








<fiscalsigs> s/ Robert J, Mieske
Auditor-Controller <fiscalsigsend>











<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B
MEASURE B WILL PROTECT OUR COMMUNITIES:

Measure B protects essential law enforcement patrols on our
streets and at our schools. Your YES vote will help keep our children
and neighborhoods safe.

MEASURE B IS LOCALLY CONTROLLED

It is dependent upon us, as individual citizens working together,
to provide a safe community for all citizens, young and old.

MEASURE B PROTECTS THE TAXPAYERS

Measure B will cost county and city residents an additional one half
percent in sales tax. This modest increase is temporary-just 3
years.

A YES vote on this measure will RESTORE AND ENHANCE

critical Public Safety services in Tehama County, as well as the
incorporated cities of Red Bluff, Tehama and Corning.

A YES vote means we can maintain staffing in the Sheriff’s
Department, and local police departments and fire stations. The
maintenance of existing staffing means a prompt response to your
home or business in case of an emergency. It will also ensure the
provision of needed safety equipment and facilities.

For just pennies a day, your YES vote can ensure this necessary
safety measure stays in place.

Your YES vote means peace of mind.

PROTECT THE LOCAL SERVICES THAT PROTECT YOU. FOR
PUBLIC SAFETY, VOTE YES ON MEASURE B. <favorend>








<favorsigs> s/ Clay D. Parker

s/ Al Shambiin

s/ Michael J. Damon

s/ Gary Durden

s/ Anthony F. Cardenas <favorsigsend>









<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

In addition to $216,529.00 in donations to just the Sheriff's
department, the State has just returned another $500,000.00 to law
enforcement, Our Sheriff’s Department is financially able to continue
the same services we are accustomed to, with no layoffs, including
keeping the DARE and SERFF programs. Additional public funds
and another contribution of $20,000,00, was made, to be sure these
programs stay.

Tehama County has already placed a $1 tax on all Vehicles
County wide, with the State now contemplating another $2 tax on
vehicle registrations, The County is anticipating large tax revenues
from the Del Webb up scaled senior citizen community, which
will house the Shasta College outreach, golf course, restaurants
and shopping. The City of Red Bluff also has a large new tax
revenue base coming in with at least fourteen major name companies.
Why does our County need to Impose on the already strapped
taxpayer with one more tax with all this new revenue coming into
our area?

Why is Our County and Cities so set on getting money by adding
this new tax, when the State and our surrounding counties are doing
everything possible not to add any new taxes? This will discourage
out of County shoppers when they realize we have a higher tax
base than they do at home, plus It promotes local residences to
shop out of County and save the extra taxes.

Remember, this tax does not have to be rescinded.

VOTE NO ON NEW TAXES!!! <rebutfavorend>









<rebutfavorsigs> s/ Ron Nelson
s/ Kathy Nelson <rebutfavorsigsend>









<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

Vote no on new taxes. The state has told us they would balance
the budget without new taxes. The City, arid Counties agreed for
the State to "DRAIN an extra $2.6 Billion dollars from the Cities.
Counties and Special Districts Throughout California over the
next two years in exchange for the State to promise to stop
raiding local coffers and not to raise taxes. Our County and
City of Red Bluff have both decided that, although they agreed to
the states above agreement, now want the residences and anyone
shopping in our area, to pay for their, decision to let the state take
the monies, There is no guarantee that the state won't continue
raiding the coffers for as long as they want. The "Sunset clause"
on this Tax could continue without any further vote or citizen input,
The state has an agreement to keep the local tax monies for just
TWO years, why does our County have this tax written for THREE
Years. Our Law Enforcement has just recently received over
$216,529.00 in donations to spend as they see fit. Our County fire
department has also received over $166,529.00. Corning Fire
received at least $10,000.00. Don’t be fooled by the promises.
When was any new "tax or fee" ever rescinded. <againstend>









<againstsigs> s/ Ron Nelson

s/ Kathy Nelson <againstsigsend>









<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

The State of California still has an approximate 39 billion dollar
deficit. The State’s plan to tackle the deficit is to reduce funding
to City and County government for the next several years. Simply
put...Tehama County's money, money that we should get back from
the State from our local taxes has been taken to begin to pay off
the State’s debt. The-State says that next year, and for the next
several years, the Tehama County Sheriff's Office, the Tehama County
District Attorney's Office, the Red Bluff Police Department, the
Corning Police Department, the City of Red Bluff Fire Department,
the City of Corning Fire Department and the Tehama County Fire
Department must each try to protect ail of us without enough money
to do so.

Yes several departments have received some donations, but our
safety, cannot be based on "donated" money. Something’s got to
give; unfortunately for each of our local law enforcement and fire
protection agencies it will likely be the number of Deputy Sheriff's,
Prosecutors, Police Officers and Firefighters that will be cut.
Everyone knows that a reduction in the number of personnel means
less service. Less service means less protection and more risk of
harm, So far, only some of our local agencies have taken cuts in
personnel. Further cuts will drastically threaten our safety,
Remember, this is a TEMPORARY 3 year increase which cannot
be extended without our FUTURE VOTE.

We must protect ourselves. Vote YES on Measures A and B. <rebutagainstend>









<rebutagainstsigs> s/ Clay D. Parker	s/ Anthony F. Cardenas

s/ Gary Durden	s/ Michael J. Damon

s/ Al Shamblin <rebutagainstsigsend>

