MEASURE TO BE VOTED ON

MEASURE F

Measure F - “Shall the City of Turlock impose a one-half of one cent ($.005)
transaction and use tax that expires on December 31,2009?”

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
MEASURE F

This measure, if adopted, would impose a general transaction and use tax of
one-half cent ($.005) within the corporate limits of the City of Turlock. The tax will
expire on December 31, 2009.

Argument in Favor of Measure F

Without a one-half cent increase in the sales tax the City of Turlock will be forced to cut
back on essential services. Public Safety services (police and fire) make up 72% of the City’s
general fund expenses. We do not want the City to cut back on these and other vital services that
provide us the quality of life that we enjoy. Measure F is the best solution to a difficult situation.

The City’s budget shortfall is the result of a combination of problems. Chief among the
problems has been the reduction in the amount of money that the State of California provides to
California cities. Because of the State’s own budget crisis, less money has been trickling down to
California cities. In addition, workers compensation, health insurance, and retirement programs
for personnel have increased dramatically.

The City of Turlock is not alone in this period of budget crisis. Neighboring cities have
placed a variety of measures on this November’s ballot to cover their budget shortfalls, including
parcel taxes, utility taxes, and sales taxes. The City of Turlock has long been respected for its
fiscal responsibility. We should support the City’s efforts to continue to operate in a conservative
and prudent manner. Measure F has a sunset clause that will terminate the one-half cent increase
in the sales tax at the end of five years. It is hoped that the State of California will correct its
budget problems and restore appropriate funding to California cities within this time frame.

Committee for Yes on
Curt Andre

Jim L. Theis

J.	Scott Dorius

Chris Kiriakou

Alan Marchant

Date: August 10, 2004

The abovesigned proponents or authors of the primary argument in favor of ballot Measure F at
the General Municipal Election for the City of Turlock to be held on November 2, 2004, hereby
state that such argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

BEFORE THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF TURLOCK

IN THE MATTER OF IMPOSING A	} ORDINANCE NO.	1033

TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX	>

TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE	}

STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION	}

______________________________}

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of the City of Turlock as
follows:

Section 1. Title: This ordinance shall be known as the City of Turlock Transactions and
Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Turlock hereinafter shall be called "City." This ordinance
shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. Operative Date: "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of
such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. Purpose: This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to
adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar
as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a
tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires
the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California
State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of
collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of
record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Ordinance No. 1033
Page 2

Section 4. Contract with State: Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with
the State Board of Equalization to perform ail functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the
first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. Transactions Tax Rate: For the privilege of selling tangible personal property
at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at
the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale
of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date
of this ordinance.

Section 6. Place of Sale: For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent
place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places
at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations
to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. Use Tax Rate: An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said
territory at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the property.
The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales
or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. Adoption of Provisions of State Law: Except as otherwise provided in this
ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes: In

adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall
not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

Ordinance No. 1033
Page 3

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of
the substitution would be to:

(a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would
not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption
remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by
the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	in Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. Permit Not Required: If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under
Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not
be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. Exemptions and Exclusions:

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and
the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the
City in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped
to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at

Ordinance No. 1033
Page 4

such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

(a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial
vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

(b)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale
of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to
a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to
a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators
of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such

Ordinance No. 1033
Page 5

property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or
participates within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the
retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. Amendments: All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and
use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. Enjoining Collection Forbidden: No injunction or writ of mandate or other
legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against
the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. Termination Date: The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance
shall expire on December 31,2009.

Ordinance No. 1033
Page 6

Section 15. Severability: if any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.

Section 16. Validity: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, word, or phrase of this
ordinance is held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid for any reason, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance. The Turlock City Council
hereby declares that they would have passed this ordinance, and each section, subsection,
sentence, clause, word, or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that one or more section,
subsection, sentence, clause, word, or phrase be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

Section 17. Effective Date: This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the
City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of
Turlock this 27th day of July, 2004, by the following vote:

AYES: Councilmembers Hatcher, Lazar, Wallen, Yerby and Mayor Andre

NOES: None
ABSTAIN: None

NOT PARTICIPATING: None

ABSENT: None

Signed and approved this 27th day of July, 2004.

ATTEST:

Rhonda Greenlee, CMC

City Clerk, City of Turlock, County

of Stanislaus, State of California