MEASURES	COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE S
CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S	BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SAN JOSE:  Title 4 of the San Jose Municipal Code is amended to add a new Chapter to be numbered, titled and to read as follows:  CHAPTER 4.79  SAN JOSE LIBRARY AND READING PROTECTION ORDINANCE (LIBRARY PARCEL TAX)  Parti Title and Purpose  4.79.010 Title and Purpose  A.	This Chapter shall be known as the San Jose Library and Reading Protection Ordinance.  B.	The Library Parcel Tax imposed under this Chapter is a special tax pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIII A of the California Constitution and Is solely for the purpose of raising revenue necessary to maintain and enhance Neighborhood Library services in the City of San Jose. The Library Parcel Tax Is not an ad valorem tax on real property nor a transaction tax nor a sales tax on the sale of real property.  C.	The intent in adopting this Chapter is to continue funding for Neighborhood Library services provided by the expiring Library Benefit Assessment District. Unless in conflict with the provisions of this Chapter, the mechanics of calculating and imposing the Library Parcel Tax shall be cdnsistent with those employed in imposing assessments through the Library Benefit Assessment District, as implemented.  D.	This Chapter shall be subject to Title 1, “General Provisions,” of the San Jose Municipal Code, as amended, except to the extent that a provision of this Chapter conflicts with a provision set forth in Title 1, in which case the provision of this Chapter shall control.  4.79.020 Deposit and Use of Proceeds  A.	The proceeds of the Library Parcel Tax imposed under this Chapter shall be deposited in a special fund to be known as the San Jose Library Parcel Tax Fund.  B.	The proceeds of the Library Parcel Tax imposed under this Chapter shall be expended only for Library purposes, including the following:  1.	the acquisition of library books and materials and related costs to maintain Library collections at all Libraries;  2.	the development and delivery of homework and educational programs for all age groups to support literacy and lifelong learning;  3.	the repair, equipping and staffing of Libraries; and  4.	the cost of collection and administration of the Library Parcel Tax.  Part 2 Definitions
SAN JOSE LIBRARY AND READING PROTECTION MEASURE  The proposed measure, if approved, would amend the San Jose Municipal Code to add a new chapter entitled “San Jose Library and Reading Protection Ordinance.” The Ordinance would impose an annual special tax on parcels of land for library purposes (“Library Parcel Tax”). Under State law, passage of this measure requires two-thirds voter approval.  The Ordinance would continue library funding provided by the Library Benefit Assessment District, which was established in 1994 and expires on June 30, 2005. The proposed land use classifications and Library Parcel tax rates imposed on those classifications are the same as assessments charged pursuant to the Assessment District’s formula: $25 on single-family parcels, condominiums and townhomes and a proportional amount for multi-family and other types of residential, industrial, commercial, professional, and vacant parcels, based on their relative benefit from library services and the parcel size or number of units.  The Library Parcel Tax would be Imposed at these rates in Fiscal Year 05-06. Commencing with Fiscal Year 06-07, the City Council may adjust the Library Parcel Tax rates by the inflation rate in the Bay Area, subject to a three percent cap. The Library Parcel Tax would expire on June 30,2015.  The Ordinance exempts parcels owned by churches and religious organizations and used for religious worship and parcels owned by governmental entities.  The Ordinance provides that the City Council may adopt clarifying amendments and corrections to the Ordinance. However, voter approval is required to increase the Library Parcel Tax rate, other than Inflation adjustments, or to extend the term of the tax.  The Library Parcel Tax would be collected by the County in conjunction with the collection of property taxes. Payment of the Library Parcel Tax is subject to the same requirements applicable to the payment of property taxes.  The Library Parcel Tax proceeds are required to be deposited into a special fund and used only for library purposes, including the acquisition of library books and materials and related costs of maintaining library collections; the development and delivery of homework and educational programs; the repair, equipping and staffing of libraries; and the cost of collection and administration of the Library Parcel Tax.  The Ordinance requires the City Council to appoint or designate an oversight committee to review the expenditure of the Library Parcel Tax proceeds. Annually, the City’s Director of Finance must report in writing to the City Council for the prior fiscal year the amount of Library Parcel Tax receipts and the expenditures. Additionally, the City’s independent auditor is required to annually audit the expenditure of the Library Parcel Tax proceeds.  Voting yes on this measure is a vote to approve the imposition of the Library Parcel Tax for a ten year period to be used only for Library purposes.  Voting no on this measure is a vote not to approve the imposition of the Library Parcel Tax.  Isl Richard Doyle  City Attorney, City of San Jose	






RESOLUTION NO, 72412

RESOLUTION OF THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN JOSE
RECITING THAT A REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTION WAS HELD IN
THE CITY OF SAN JOSE ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2004, WHICH
WAS CONSOLIDATED WITH THE GENERAL ELECTION ON THAT
DATE; STATING THE OFFICE TO BE FILLED AT THE ELECTION;
FINDING AND DECLARING THAT THE REGISTRAR OF VOTERS OF
THE COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA HAS CANVASSED THE RETURNS
OF THE ELECTION, AND CONFIRMING THE RESULTS OF THE
CANVASS; STATING THE WHOLE NUMBER OF VOTES CAST IN THE
CITY, THE NAME OF THE PERSON VOTED FOR, THE OFFICE THE
PERSON WAS VOTED FOR, THE NUMBER OF VOTES GIVEN AT
EACH PRECINCT TO EACH PERSON; FINDING AND DECLARING
THAT NANCY PYLE WAS ELECTED TO THE OFFICE OF MEMBER,
CITY COUNCIL, DISTRICT 10; AND STATING THE MEASURE VOTED
ON, THE NUMBER OF VOTES GIVEN AT EACH PRECINCT FOR THE
MEASURE AND DETERMINING THAT A REQUIRED NUMBER OF THE
QUALIFIED VOTERS VOTED IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 8,

BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN JOSE:

SECTION 1. The Council of the City of San Jose hereby finds, determines,
declares and recites that a General Municipal Election was held in the City of San jose
on Tuesday, Novembei 2, 2004 for the purpose of electing one person from Council
District 10 to the Council of the City of San Jose, for a four-year term commencing
January' 1, 2005, and expiring December 31,2008 and for the purpose of voting on
Measure S,

SECTION 2, The Registrar of Voters of Santa Clara County has duly canvassed
the votes cast in the City of San Jose at the General Municipal Election consolidated
with the State Genera! Election held on November 2, 2004, by the electors of the City
for the offices set forth, and has prepared a statement of aii votes cast, and has

283764- NS

RD:NS

12-7-04

Res, No, 72412

certified the result of the votes cast at said election for each office, which said
certification is now on file in the office of the City Clerk of the City of San Jose.

SECTION 3, The Council of the City of San Jose hereby finds, determines and
declares that said canvass is confirmed, and that the following are the results of said
canvass and of said election:

(a)	That the total number of ballots cast in the City of San Jose in Said
election is set forth in Exhibit "A", the Certificate of Election Results,
attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference; and

(b)	That the following candidate was elected to the following designated
offices, each for a four-year term commencing January 1, 2005 and
ending December 31, 2008:

Nancy Pyle	Member,	City	Council,	District 10

(c)	That the Council of the City of San Jose hereby finds and declares that
the following measure was adopted:

MEASURE S: °an Jose Library and Reading Protection Measure

. ? -

283764- NS

RD:NS

12-7-04

Res. Mo. 72412

ADOPTfcD this 7:n = day of December, 2004, by the following vote:

AYES:	CAMPOS, CHAVEZ, CHIRCO. GREGORY, LeZOTTE, REED, GONZALES	CORTE5E, DANDO, WILLIAMS, YEAGER;
WOES:	NONE	
ABSENT:	NONE	
DISQUALIFIED:	NONE	

LEE PRICE, CMC
City Clerk

A .. ,	„

/c&cA&ytff

“ROfTGOf42rt'^“

Mayor



283764 - NS

- o -



CERTIFICATE OF ELECTION RESULTS

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

) ss.

COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA	)

This certifies that, at the General Election held in and for the Count)' of Santa Clara on
November 2, 2004,

Nancy Pyle

was elected to the office of

Council Member, City of San Jose, District 10

as appears by the official returns of the election and the Statement of Votes Cast now on file in
mv office.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I, Jesse Dura/o, Registrar of Voters of the County of Santa
Clara, hereby issue this official Certificate of Election this 30lh day of November, 2004.

1

Certificate of Election Results

/ ^

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

) ss,

COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA	)

I

I, Jesse Durazo. Registrar of \'oters of the County of Santa Clara, State of California,
hereby declare:

1.	A General Election was held in the County of Santa Clara, for the City of San Jose,
on November 2, 2004 for the purpose of electing One (1) Council Member, District 10 to the
Governing Board.

2.	The official canvass of the returns of said election was conducted by the Office of fne
Registrar of Voters in accordance with the appropriate provisions of the Elections Code of the
State of California.

3. The Statement of Votes Cast, now on file in my office, shows the number of votes for
each candidate for the Governing Board of the City of San Jose, and in each of the precincts
and that the total shown for each candidate are hue and correct.

WITNESS my hand and Cffiehl Sea! this 30th day of November, 2004,

Certificate of Election Results

STATE OF CALIFORNIA


COUNTY OF SANTA CLARA )

I, Jesse Durazo, Registrar of Voters of the County of Santa Clara, State of California,
hereby declare:

1. A Genera! Election was held in the County of Santa Clara, in the City of San Jose
on November 2,2004 for the purpose of submitting the following measure to the voters:

S SAN JOSE LIBRARY AND READING PROTECTION MEASURE

To support neighborhood libraries, including:
buying needed books and materials;
preventing severe reductions in hours;
preventing deep cuts in children’s reading programs;

shall the City of San Jose replace the expiring library assessment with an
annual parcel tax in the same amount, S25 for sinr .-famiiy residences and
proportional for other properties, adjusted for inflation capped at 3% annually,
limited to ten years and subject to independent audits and citizen oversight?

2,	The official canvass of the returns of said election was conducted by fire Office of the
Registrar of Voters in accordance with the appropriate provisions of the Elections Code of the
State of California,

3.	The Statement of Votes Cast, now on file at my office, shows the whole number of
votes cast for Measure S in each of the precincts and the total shown is true and cowect.

WITNESS my hand and Official Seal this 30th day of November, 2004.

1




Res. No. 72268

REGISTRAR OF VOT^feSOLUTION NO. 72268
COUNTY 0^6A^m.CLARA

By~A RLSOLU nQN O^PPME COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN
JOSE ORDERING, ON ITS OWN MOTION, THE
SUBMISSION TO THE ELECTORS OF THE CITY OF SAN
JOSE, AT THE GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION TO BE
HELD ON NOVEMBER 2, 2004, A MEASURE TO IMPOSE
AN ANNUAL SPECIAL TAX IN THE FORM OF A PARCEL
TAX FOR LIBRARY PURPOSES

WHEREAS, the Council of the City of San Jose has previously called and ordered a
General Municipal Election to be held on November 2, 2004 by the adoption of
Resolution No. 72035 on April 6, 2004, for the purpose of electing one person from
Council District 10 to the Council of the City of San Jose for a term commencing on
January 1,2005 and expiring December 31,2008; and

WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Council to submit to the electors of the City of San
Jose, at the General Municipal Election, on its own motion, the proposed measure, as
set forth in this Resolution, to impose an annual special tax in the form of a parcel tax
for library purposes; and	*

WHEREAS, the proposed measure requires the approval of a two-thirds majority of the
electorate voting on the measure;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN
JOSE THAT:

SECTION 1. The Council reaffirms the provisions of Resolution 72035, except as
expressly specified in this Resolution. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing
statement, the Council reaffirms Section 6 of Resolution 72035 in which the Council
requested the Board of Supervisors of Santa Clara County (“Board of Supervisors”) to
consolidate the City’s General Municipal Election, to be held on November 2, 2004, with
the California State Election, which is to be held in Santa Clara County on the same
date.

The election precincts, polling places, voting booths, voting systems and election
officers for the above-mentioned General Municipal Election shall be the same as
provided for the above-mentioned State General Election in the City of San Jose.

The Board of Supervisors is hereby authorized to canvass the returns of said General
Municipal Election in accordance with §10411 of the Elections Code of the State of
California.

SECTION 2. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 4 of Article XIII A of the Constitution
of the State of California and §10403 of the Elections Code of the State of California,

1

RD:DMK

7/29/04

Res. No. 72268

the Council of the City of San Jose, on its own motion, does hereby order and direct
that the following measure be submitted to the electors of the City of San Jose, for their
approval or rejection, at the General Municipal Election to be held in Santa Clara
County on November 2, 2004:

I	*

SAN JOSE LIBRARY AND READING PROTECTION MEASURE

\

Z.%

3

To support neighborhood libraries, including:
buying needed books and materials:
preventing severe reductions in hours;
preventing deep cuts in children’s reading programs;

shall the City of San Jose replace the expiring library assessment with an
annual parcel tax in the same amount, $25 for single-family residences
and proportional for other properties, adjusted for inflation capped at 3%
annually, limited to ten years and subject to independent audits and citizen
oversight?

YES	
NO	

SECTION 3. The complete text of the measure set forth in Section 2 above to be
submitted to the voters is the proposed ordinance set forth in Exhibit A to this
Resolution.

SECTION 4. The Council hereby requests the Board of Supervisors to place the
measure set forth in Section 2 of this Resolution on the ballot of the consolidated
election on November 2, 2004 and to include the complete text of the measure as set
forth in Exhibit A to this Resolution in the voter information portion of the sample ballot.

SECTION 5. Pursuant to the provisions of California Elections Code §10002, the City
Council hereby requests the Board of Supervisors to permit the Registrar of Voters of
the County of Santa Clara to render to the City of San Jose such services as the City
Clerk of the City of San Jose may request, relating to the conduct of the above-
mentioned election with respect to the following matters, to wit:

Coordination of election precincts, polling places, voting booths,
voting systems and election officers;

Printing and mailing of voter pamphlets;

Preparation of tabulation of result of votes cast.

SECTION 6. The City Clerk is hereby directed to reimburse the County of Santa Clara
in full for any of the above-mentioned services which may be performed by the
Registrar of Voters, upon presentation of a bill to the City, with monies heretofore
appropriated to the City Clerk for election purposes.

SECTION 7. Pursuant to California Elections Code §§9282 and 9285, the City Council
hereby approves the submittal of direct arguments for and against ballot measures, but
determines that rebuttal arguments shall not be allowed.

T-870\ 265846.4.doc

2

RD:DMK

7/29/04

Res. No. 72268

SECTION 8. Pursuant to §13116 of the Elections Code of the State of California, the
City Clerk of the City of San Jose and the Registrar of Voters of Santa Clara County are
hereby authorized to mutually agree to use, and to use, a letter designation for the City
ballot measures qualifying for a place on the ballot that will not conflict with other
measures on the ballot or confuse the voters.

SECTION 9. Section 13 of Resolution 72035 is superseded by this Section 9.
Pursuant to §12111 of the Elections Code of the State of California and to §6061 of the
Government Code of the State of California, the City Clerk is hereby ordered to cause a
synopsis of the proposed measure to be published in the San Jose Mercury News, a
newspaper of general circulation within the City of San Jose, to cause copies of
proposed measure to be printed in convenient pamphlet form and in type of not less
than 10-point; to cause copies of that pamphlet to be mailed to each of the qualified
electors of the City of San Jose; and to do all other things required by law to submit the
specified measure above to the electors of the City of San Jose at the November 2,
2004 election.

SECTION 10. The City Clerk shall comply with provisions of Federal, State, and Local
law with regard to the conduct of the election.

ADOPTED this 3rd day of August, 2004, by the following vote:

AYES:	CAMPOS, CHIRCO, CORTESE, DANDO, GREGORY,

LeZOTTE, REED, WILLIAMS, YEAGER; GONZALES

NOES:	NONE

ABSENT:	CHAVEZ

DISQUALIFIED:	NONE

RON GONZALES
Mayor

Tho foregoing Instrument l§
• correct a>py of the origin*
onSJeinttwcffic*.

UEEPRICS

City Clerk

RD:DMK	Res.	No.	72268

7/29/04

EXHIBIT A

PROPOSED ORDINANCE

T-870\ 265846.4.doc

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SAN JOSE:

Title 4 of the San Jose Municipal Code is amended to add a new Chapter to be
numbered, titled and to read as follows:

CHAPTER 4.79

SAN JOSE LIBRARY AND READING PROTECTION ORDINANCE

(LIBRARY PARCEL TAX)

Part 1
Title and Purpose

4.79.010 Title and Purpose

A.	This Chapter shall be known as the San Jose Library and Reading Protection
Ordinance.

B.	The Library Parcel Tax imposed under this Chapter is a special tax pursuant to
Section 4 of Article XIII A of the California Constitution and is solely for the
purpose of raising revenue necessary to maintain and enhance Neighborhood
Library services in the City of San Jose. The Library Parcel Tax is not an ad
valorem tax on real property nor a transaction tax nor a sales tax on the sale of
real property.

C.	The intent in adopting this Chapter is to continue funding for Neighborhood
Library services provided by the expiring Library Benefit Assessment District.
Unless in conflict with the provisions of this Chapter, the mechanics of
calculating and imposing the Library Parcel Tax shall be consistent with those
employed in imposing assessments through the Library Benefit Assessment
District, as implemented.

Res. No. 72268

D.	This Chapter shall be subject to Title 1, “General Provisions,” of the San Jose
Municipal Code, as amended, except to the extent that a provision of this
Chapter conflicts with a provision set forth in Title 1, in which case the provision
of this Chapter shall control.

4.79.020	Deposit and Use of Proceeds

A.	The proceeds of the Library Parcel Tax imposed under this Chapter shall be
deposited in a special fund to be known as the San Jose Library Parcel Tax
Fund.

B.	The proceeds of the Library Parcel Tax imposed under this Chapter shall be
expended only for Library purposes, including the following:

1.	the acquisition of library books and materials and related costs to maintain
Library collections at all Libraries;

2.	the development and delivery of homework and educational programs for
all age groups to support literacy and lifelong learning;

3.	the repair, equipping and staffing of Libraries; and

4.	the cost of collection and administration of the Library Parcel Tax.

Part 2
Definitions


4.79.200 Definitions

The definitions set forth in this Part shall govern the application and
interpretation of this Chapter.

4.79.202 Acre

“Acre” means the land area of an Assessor Parcel as shown on an Assessor
Parcel map, or if the land area is not shown on an Assessor Parcel map, the
land area shown on the applicable final map or other parcel map recorded with
the County of Santa Clara.

4.79.204 Assessor Parcel: Parcel

“Assessor Parcel” or “Parcel” means a unit of real estate with an assigned
County of Santa Clara Assessor's Parcel number as shown on the most current
official assessment roll of the County of Santa Clara Assessor.

4.79.206 Commercial Parcel

“Commercial Parcel” means an Assessor Parcel on which is located a facility
engaged in a commercial use. Examples of such facilities include: shopping
malls, shopping centers, strip malls, commercial business districts, retail stores,
department stores, discount stores, supermarkets, restaurants, fast food
eateries, theaters, hotels, motels, service stations, car washes, recreational
facilities (athletic clubs, country clubs, card rooms, golf courses, fitness centers,
etc), social clubs, fraternal order clubs, private community centers, parking
facilities associated with commercial uses, stand alone parking facilities, or
other establishment engaged in commercial activities.

4.79.208 Condominium/Townhouse Parcel

“Condominium/Townhouse Parcel" means an Assessor Parcel on which a
condominium or townhouse Unit has been constructed for residential use.

4.79.210 CPI Index

"CPI Index" means the Consumer Price Index, All Urban Consumers, published
by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics for the San
Francisco-Oakland-San Jose area, with all items Included.

4.79.212 Fiscal Year

“Fiscal Year" means the period starting July 1 and ending on the following June
30.

4.79.214 Governmental Entity

“Governmental Entity" means an agency or department of the federal
government, the State of California, a county, city, district, public authority,
public agency, and any other political subdivision or public corporation in the
State of California.

4.79.216 Industrial Parcel

"Industrial Parcel" means an Assessor Parcel on which is located a facility
engaged in Industrial or manufacturing uses. Examples of such facilities
include: manufacturing plants, food and beverage processing plants,
warehouses, storage facilities, wholesale facilities and parking facilities
associated with facilities engaged in industrial or manufacturing uses.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE S - Continued
4.79.218 Land Use Classification

“Land Use Classification’’ means each of the land use classifications defined in
this Chapter and referred to in Exhibit A of this Chapter for purposes of setting
the Library Parcel Tax rates.

4.79.220 Multi-Family Residential Parcel

“Multi-Family Residential Parcel” means an Assessor Parcel on which two (2) or
more residential Units, whether detached or attached, have been constructed or
on which is located one or more mobile homes. This Land Use Classification
excludes “Other Residential Parcels.”

4.79.222 Neighborhood Library: Library

“Neighborhood Library” or “Library” means any of the City of San Jose libraries
including the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Library.

4.79.224 Other Residential Parcel

“Other Residential Parcel" means an Assessor Parcel on which two (2) or more
residential Units, whether detached or attached, are located for purposes of any
of the following: farm labor camp dwellings in an urban location, fraternity,
sorority, boarding, or rooming houses, summer cabins, or camps and
campgrounds.

4.79.226 Person

“Person,” unless it otherwise appears from the context as used, means and
includes any natural person, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business trust, company, or corporation.

4.79.228 Professional Parcel

“Professional Parcel” means an Assessor Parcel on which is located a facility
engaged in professional uses. Examples of such facilities include: banks, office
buildings, medical offices and clinics, hospitals, including skilled nursing
facilities and convalescent hospital facilities, Research and Development
Facilities or any parking facilities associated with these uses.

4.79.230 Research and Development Facility

“Research and Development Facility" means an establishment or facility
engaged in industrial or scientific research, product design, development and
testing,.and limited manufacturing necessary for the production of prototypes.

4.79.232 Sinale-Familv Parcel

“Single-Family Parcel” means an Assessor Parcel on which only one (1) single-
family Unit has been constructed.

4.79.234 Unit

"Unit” means a structure constructed primarily for human habitation, which may
be an individual detached residential unit, an individual attached residential unit
within a duplex, triplex, fourplex, townhome, or condominium structure, an
individual apartment unit, or a mobile home or other dwelling unit.

4.79.236 Vacant Parcel

“Vacant Parcel" means an Assessor Parcel which is unimproved.

N SC Ballot Type 059 - Page 039

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE S - Continued
Part 3

Imposition and Collection of Tax
4.79.300 Imposition of Library Parcel Tax

Subject to the exemptions specified in Part 6 of this Chapter, there is hereby
imposed an annual special tax on Parcels in the City of San Jose at the rates
specified in Section 4.79.310. The special tax imposed by this Section shall be
referred to as the Library Parcel Tax.

4.79.310 Library Parcel Tax Rates

The Library Parcel Tax shall be imposed in accordance with the rates set forth
in Exhibit A to this Chapter.

4.79.320 Term of Library Parcel Tax

The Library Parcel Tax shall take effect on July 1,2005 for Fiscal Year 2005-06
and shall continue in effect for each Fiscal Year thereafter until June 30,2015.

4.79.330 Annual Adjustment of Library Parcel Tax Rates

A.	Commencing with Fiscal Year 2006-07, the City Council may, by
resolution of the City Council, Increase the Library Parcel Tax rates if the
City Council finds that the cost of living in the City of San Jose as shown
on the CPI Index has increased over the preceding Base Period, as
described in Subsection B.

B.	For purposes of calculating any increase to the Library Parcel Tax rates,
the Base Period for Fiscal Year 2006-07, shall be the period commencing
on July 1, 2005 and ending on March 31, 2006. For each Fiscal Year
following Fiscal Year 2006-07, the Base Period shall be the period from
April 1 through and including March 31, commencing with April 1, 2006
through and including March 31,2007.

C.	The increase in the Library Parcel Tax rate shall not exceed the increase
in the CPI Index for the applicable Base Period, but in no event shall the
increase exceed three percent (3%).:

D.	In the event the CPI Index is no longer published, the City Council shall
use as a its reference another index published by either the State of
California or a federal department or agency that is charged with the
responsibility of measuring the cost of living in the geographical area that
includes the City of San Jose.

4.79.340 Collection of Library Parcel Tax

A.	Unless otherwise directed by the City Council, the Library Parcel Tax shall
be collected by the County of Santa Clara in two (2) approximately equal
installments in the same manner and on the same applicable dates as
established by applicable law for the collection of ad valorem property
taxes by the County of Santa Clara for the City of San Jose. The
collection of the Library Parcel Tax by the County of Santa Clara shall be
subject to the regulations and procedures governing the collection of ad
valorem property taxes by the County of Santa Clara, including without
limitation, the Imposition of penalties, additional fees, interest on the failure
to remit or the delinquent remittance of the Library Parcel Tax.

B.	The Director of Finance is charged with the responsibility of overseeing
the collection and receipt of the proceeds of the Library Parcel Tax.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE S - Continued

C.	In the event that the Director of Finance erroneously fails to have placed
on the Santa Clara County tax roll, in whole or part, the payment of the
Library Parcel Tax, the Director of Finance shall invoice the owner of the
Parcel for the amount of the erroneously omitted Library Parcel Tax.

4.79.350 Tax Deemed Debt to City

A.	The amount of any Library Parcel Tax, interest, or penalties imposed
under this Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any Person who
fails to timely pay the Library Parcel Tax shall be liable to an action
brought in the name of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction for
the amount of the Library Parcel Tax or interest or penalties owed.

B.	In any such action to recover the delinquent payment of the Library Parcel
Tax, interest or penalties, the City shall also be entitled to recover its
administrative costs and attorneys' fees.

4.79.360 Regulations

The City Council is authorized to promulgate such regulations as it deems

necessary in order to implement the provisions of this Chapter.

Part 4
Refunds and Appeals

4.79.400 Refunds

A.	The Director of Finance may refund, without interest, any Library Parcel
Tax, penalty or interest which has been overpaid or erroneously collected,
provided that all of the following conditions are met:

1.	A written claim for the refund, made upon a form provided by the
Director of Finance, stating under penalty of perjury the specific
grounds upon which the claim for refund is founded, is filed with the
Director of Finance within three (3) years of the date of payment; and

2.	The Director of Finance is satisfied on the basis of written records
submitted by the claimant that the claimant is entitled to the refund
under the provisions of this Section. The Director of Finance, the
City Auditor or the City Attorney, or the authorized representative of
any of them, shall have the right to examine and audit the records of
the claimant in order to determine the eligibility of the claimant to the
claimed refund. No claim for refund shall be allowed if the claimant
refuses to allow such examination of claimant's records after request
by the City to do so.

B.	Any decision of the Director of Finance made under this Section shall be
subject to appeal to the Appeals Hearing Board or to such other body as
designated by the City Council for hearing such appeals.

4.79.410 Appeals

A. Any Person dissatisfied with any decision of the Director of Finance under
the authority of this Chapter may appeal in writing to the Appeals Hearing
Board of the City of San Jose within sixty (60) days of the date of mailing
of the Director of Finance’s decision. The appeal shall be addressed to
the current address for the Appeals Hearing Board maintained by the City
Clerk. Reference to the Appeals Hearing Board in this Section shall also
include any successor body appointed by the City Council pursuant to
Section 4.79.400.

PR-8271-3

N SC Ballot Type 059 - Page 040

r COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE S ■ Continued

g, The Appeals Hearing Board shall have the authority to promulgate rules
and to prescribe forms for the conduct of appeals made under this
Chapter.

C.	The Appeals Hearing Board may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of
the Director of Finance based on the preponderance of evidence
presented at the hearing on the appeal.

D.	The Appeals Hearing Board shall issue its decision in writing, addressed
to both the Director of Finance and, to the appellant, at the appellant’s
address as stated in the appeal, or in cases where no address is listed in
the appellant's appeal, to the address listed on the most current official
County of Santa Clara assessment roll. The Appeals Hearing Board’s
decisions and hearing procedures in matters relating to this Chapter shall
be in accordance with the requirements set forth In Title 1 of this Code,
and any amendments to such Title. The decision of the Appeals Hearing
Board shall be final.

Part 5

Oversight and Reporting
4.79.500 Oversight Committee

The City Council shall designate or appoint a body to review the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Library Parcel Tax.

4.79.510 Annual Audit

The Director of Finance shall cause the City’s Independent auditor to perform an
annual audit of the expenditure of the proceeds of the Library Parcel Tax.

4.79.520 Annual Report

No later than January 1 of each year, the Director of Finance shall provide to
the City Council a written report which sets forth for the preceding fiscal year,
the total amount of Library Parcel Tax proceeds collected and expended and a
description of the expenditures.

Parte

Exemptions

4.79.600 Exemptions from Library Parcel Tax

A.	Any Parcel owned by a church or religious organization and used for
religious worship shall be exempt from the Library Parcel Tax.

B.	Any Parcel owned by a Governmental Entity shall be exempt from the
Library Parcel Tax.

Part 7
Miscellaneous

4.79.700 Amendment

A.	This Chapter may not be amended by the City Council to increase the
Library Parcel Tax, or to extend the duration of the Library Parcel Tax
without the applicable voter approval.

B.	Subject to the provisions of Subsection A, the City Council may amend
this Chapter without voter approval to clarify its provisions or to make
technical corrections, including conforming the collection provisions of this
Chapter with applicable State law.

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE S ■ Continued

4.79.710 Severability

A.	The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to any Person, or to any
property as to whom or which it is beyond the power of the City of San
Jose to impose the Library Parcel Tax.

B.	If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this Chapter is found
to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality,
or invalidity shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause, section or
part of this Chapter and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining
provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or parts of this Chapter. It is
hereby declared to be the intention of the people of the City of San Jose,
that this Chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional,
illegal or invalid provision, sentence, clause, section or part thereof not
been included herein,

EXHIBIT A
LIBRARY PARCEL TAX RATES

Land Use Classification	Tax Rata
Single-Family Parcels	$25.00/Parcel
Condominium/Townhome Parcels	$25.00/Parcel
Other Residential Parcels	
Up to 20 Units	$9.37/Unlt
21 to 50 Units	$184.40 + $6.25/Unit Greater than 20
	Units
51 to 100 Units	$374.90 + $3.12AJnit Greater than 50 Units
Over 100 Units	$530.90 + $1.25/Unit Greater than 100 Units
Multi-Family Residential	
Up to 20 Units	$12.56/Unit
21 to 50 Units	$251.20 + $8.37/Unit Greater than 20 Units
51 to 100 Units	$502.30 + $4.18/Unit Greater than 50 Units
Over 100 Units	$711.30 + $1.67/Unit Greater than 100 Units
Commercial Parcels	
Less than or equal to 0.5 acres	$75.00/Acre
Greater than 0.5 acres to 1.0 acre	$37.50 + $50.00/Acre Greater than 0.50 Acres
Greater than 1.0 acre to 5.0 acres	$62.50 + $37.50/Acre Greater than 1.0 Acres
Greater than 5.0 acres to 10 acres	$212.50 + $25.00/Acre Greater than 5.0 Acres
Greater than 10 acres	$337.50 + $6.25/Acre Greater than 10.0 Acres
Minimum Tax per Parcel	$12.50/Parcel
Professional Parcels	
Less than or equal to 0.5 acres	$112.50/Acre
Greater than 0.5 acres to 1.0 acre	$56.25 + $75.00/Acre Greater than 0.50 Acres
Greater than 1.0 acre to 5.0 acres	$93.75 + $56.25/Acre Greater than 1.0 Acres

COMPLETE TEXT OF MEASURE S • Continued

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Greater than 5.0 acres to 10 acres
Greater than 10 acres
Minimum Tax per Parcel

$318.75 + $37.50/Acre Greater than 5.0
Acres

$506.25 + $9.37/Acre Greater than 10.0
Acres

$18.75/Parcel

Support San Jose’s public libraries WITHOUT raising taxes. Measure S will
simply replace San Jose’s current library assessment that expires at the end of
2004. Passing Measure S will not only prevent significant cutbacks in library
services, it will provide additional funding to replace outdated books and
materials, update deteriorating equipment, protect library hours and improve
other library services.

I

Industrial Parcels

Less than or equal to 0.5 acres $37.50/Acre

Greaterthan 0.5 acres to 1.0 acre $18.75 + $25.00/Acre Greater than 0.50

Acres

EXHIBIT A
LIBRARY PARCEL TAX RATES

Land Use Classification	Tax Rate
Greater than 1.0 acre to 5.0 acres	$31.25 + $18.75/Acre Greater than 1.0 Acres
Greater than 5.0 acres to 10 acres	$106.25 + $12.50/Acre Greater than 5.0 Acres
Greaterthan 10 acres	$168.75 + $3.12/Acre Greater than 10.0 Acres
Minimum Tax per Parcel	$6.25/Parcel
Vacant Parcels	
Less than or equal to 0.5 acres	$9.36/Acre
Greater than 0.5 acres to 1.0 acre	$4.68 + $6.25/Acre Greater than 0.50 Acres
Greater than 1.0 acre to 5.0 acres	$7.80 + $4.68/Acre Greater than 1.0 Acres
Greater than 5.0 acres to 10 acres	$26.52 + $3.12/Acre Greater than 5.0 Acres
Greater than 10 acres	$42.12 + $0,78/Acre Greater than 10.0 Acres
Minimum Tax per Parcel	$6.25/Parcel

Measure S will help to keep our kids safe. San Jose libraries provide activities,
like homework centers and tutoring, which serve hundreds of kids every day
during afterschool hours when kids are most likely to get into trouble. Passing
Measure S will help prevent cuts in these after-school services.

Many school districts are cutting back school libraries and staffing. As a result,
many local public school and community college students are depending upon
San Jose public libraries. By passing Measure S, we can ensure that our local
libraries continue to meet the educational needs of local students.

Unless Measure S is approved, budget cuts will force the City of San Jose to
make serious cutbacks to librarians and library staff, and two-thirds of new
library book and materials purchases. These cuts could result in libraries
closing additional days each week, longer waits for assistance and computers,
and very few new materials available.

In 1994, San Jose voters overwhelmingly passed Measure E, the library
assessment that over the last decade has funded the purchase of 7 out of every
10 new books, more than 40 library staff positions and many programs that
serve children. We once again face severe budget cutbacks in our state and
city governments. Measure S is a dedicated source of funding so that we can
prevent drastic cutbacks to San Jose’s 17 neighborhood branch libraries.

Please join us in protecting San Jose’s outstanding public libraries!

Isl Ron Gonzales

Mayor, City of San Jose

Isl Bobbie Fischler

League of Women Voters San Jose/Santa Clara

Isl Jim Cunneen

President, San Jose Silicon Valley Chamber of Commerce

Isl Phaedra Ellis-Lamkins

Executive Officer South Bay AFL-CIO Labor Council

Isl Don Iglesias

Superintendent, San Jose Unified School District

N SC Ballot Type 059 ■ Page 042

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

This is NOT a referendum on libraries. We all want our libraries to be
adequately funded and well-run. That’s why we ALREADY pay taxes.

Why aren’t library users being asked to pay their fair share?

Please consider the following points:

Unjust Priorities: The city could cover the library costs that would be paid by
this new tax, but they choose instead to spend tens of millions of dollars on new
furniture for the new city hall. Why not simply move the current furniture or buy
used furniture?

Fines for overdue books go to city general fund.

$807,458.65 was collected in fines for 01/2002.

$841,167.83 was collected in fines for 02/2003.

$974,023.80 was collected in fines for 03/2004.

Why isn’t this money staying with the libraries?

Continuing Library tax: In November, 2000, voters approved the upgrade and
expansion of the library facilities with passage of Measure 0, the Library Bond
measure. Measure 0 provides $212 million over ten years. The City Council
voted at their August, 2004, meeting to increase the tax levy from $25.80 for FY
2003-04 to $49.40 for FY 2004-05, for a single-family home with a net assessed
value of $200,000. This is to pay for these and for other bonds.

Unfair tax: This proposed ten-year Parcel Tax makes no distinction regarding
ability to pay.

Parcel taxes are regressive, especially for homeowners whose assessed value
is protected by Proposition 13. A homeowner living In a modest home can pay
the same parcel tax amount as someone who lives in an expensive mansion.

Some areas in San Jose will have four or more new local taxes on this ballot. If
all of these pass our annual property taxes could increase by hundreds of
dollars.

Vote “NO” on Measure S

Visit www.VoteNoOnS.us for more information.

Isl Dennis Umphress

Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association President

Isl Zander Collier

Candidate, Assembly District 24

Isl Elizabeth C. Brierly

Board Member, Silicon Valley Taxpayers’ Association

Isl Dale Warner

Secretary, Save Open Spaces Coalition

N SC Ballot Type 059 - Page 043