This is an archive of a past election.

See http: //www. smartvoter.org/ca/ed/ for current information.

League of Women Voters of California Education Fund

El Dorado County, CA	March	8,	2005	Election

Measure H

Replace expiring Library Parcel Tax
County Service Area No. 10 Zone H (County Library)

2/3 Approval Required
See Also: Index of all Measures

Information shown below: Impartial Analysis I Arguments I Full Text

To maintain library services in the PlacervillelPollock Pines Zone of
Benefit (Zone H) within county Service Area 10, shall a $15.00 per
year library special tax be imposed annually upon all parcels in the
Zone to replace the expiring library assessments of $12, for the sole
purpose of providing library service within such zone, commencing
in 200512006for a period often (10) years, and with annual
adjustments not exceeding 3% annually or $5.00 for the life of the
tax?

Suggest a link related to
Measure H

Links to sources outside of Smart Voter
are provided for information only and do
not imply endorsement.

Impartial Analysis from El Dorado County Counsel

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

OF MEASURE H

This measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on the measure,
would authorize a special tax within the Placerville/Pollock Pines
Zone of Benefit (Zone H) of County Service Area No. 10, to be used
solely to provide extended library services within that zone. This tax
would replace existing benefit assessments (fees) that are scheduled to
expire on June 30,2005, and would be used for the same purpose of
supporting the county's Placerville (Main) and Pollock Pines libraries.
The annual tax would be $15 per parcel of land (improved and
unimproved), except that the tax on property developed with
apartment units (excluding time shares) would be $12 per apartment,
and the tax on property developed as mobile home parks would be
$7.50 per mobile home. The tax rate will be increased annually in
proportion to any increase in the Consumer Price Index; provided, that
the annual increase cannot exceed 3%. The tax on single-family
residential parcels cannot exceed a maximum of $20 per year.

The tax will be collected beginning in fiscal year 2005-2006 and will
be listed as a separate item on the county property tax bill for each
parcel of land. The special tax will be collected in the same way as the

general property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and
enforcement of county property taxes, including provisions for
penalties and procedure for sale of the property in case of delinquency,
shall also apply to the special tax. The tax will be imposed for a period
of 10 years, after which the special tax will expire and will no longer
be collected.

Beginning in fiscal year 2005-2006, if the special tax is approved by
the voters, the Board of Supervisors is required annually to budget and
allocate from the county's general funds a sum equal to or greater than
the special tax collected annually, for the operation of the county
library system.

On November 7, 1995, the voters within the Placerville/Pollock Pines
Zone of Benefit (Zone H) of CSA No. 10 approved a ballot measure
authorizing the collection of a benefit assessment (fee) of $12 per
dwelling unit to support extended library services within the zone.

That fee has been collected annually and used for the support of the
county's Placerville and Pollock Pines libraries. However, that fee
expires, or "sunsets," on June 30,2005, and can no longer be
collected.

If this measure is approved by 2/3 of the voters on March 8,2005, the
special tax will replace the benefit assessment. If the measure is not
approved, those funds will no longer be available for the support of
library services within the zone.

This measure requires an affirmative vote of 2/3 or more of all voters
voting on the measure in order to pass.

A "YES" vote is a vote to authorize the special tax provided in the
measure.

A "NO" vote is a vote against the special tax provided in the measure,
s/ LOUIS B. GREEN County Counsel

Arguments For Measure H

Arguments Against Measure H

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H	No	arguments	against	this	measure	were	submitted.

Support our library. Vote YES on Measure H.

Funding for the Placerville and Pollock Pines
Libraries, passed by voters ten years ago, is about to
expire + at a time when reading, technology,
education, and literacy are more important than ever
before.

For only $15 per year we can restore the funding

that has kept our library open, put new books on the
shelves and provided programs that promote the
importance of reading for children.

•	This special tax will replace the $12 a year
assessment we are already paying.

•	This measure PROTECTS library funding + it
cannot be diverted to other county programs.

•	The County Board of Supervisors is
REQUIRED to match 100% of the funds
raised by this measure and use those matching
funds to support the county library system.

•	All money raised by this special tax will be
returned to the Placerville and Pollock Pines
Libraries to pay for books and materials, open
hours, and library services.

•	Measure H includes a mechanism to increase
our library funding as costs go up, but the
special tax will never be more than $20 per
parcel. This measure will expire after ten
years.

With these funds, our local library will be able to
maintain the hours it is open and to purchase new
books. Children's story-times, public computers,
adult literacy efforts, the bookmobile, and other
valuable programs will be continued. The
Placerville and Pollock Pines Libraries are valuable
assets for the community that everyone, young and
old, can enjoy. If we truly want our children to value
reading, we must make reading and libraries a
priority.

Please join us in preserving our libraries. Vote YES
on Measure H.

s/ Jeff Neves Sheriff

s/ Wendell E. Smith President + El Dorado County
Chamber

s/ Vicki L. Barber County Superintendent of
Schools

s/ Ellen Day President Taxpayers Association of El
Dorado County

s/ Joe Harn, CPA El Dorado County Auditor-
Controller

Full Text of Measure H

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE H

RESOLUTION NO. 363-2004

OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE

COUNTY OF EL DORADO

PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX FOR THE PURPOSE OF PROVIDING
EXTENDED LIBRARY SERVICES FOR THE PLACERVILLE/POLLOCK
PINES ZONE OF BENEFIT (ZONE H) WITHIN COUNTY SERVICE
AREA NO. 10

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors has previously established the authority for County Service Area No.
10 to provide extended library services and facilities, and did, on August 1, 1995, establish the
Placerville/Pollock Pines Zone of Benefit (Zone H) within County Service Area No. 10 for the purpose of
providing such extended services, and

WHEREAS, on August 1, 1995 the Board of Supervisors passed and adopted Resolution 222-95 which
established a benefit assessment for extended library services for a period of ten years, and which was
approved by the voters at the general election on November 7, 1995, and

WHEREAS, the benefit assessment is due to expire on June 30, 2005 which will leave the county unable to
provide library services in Zone of Benefit H (Placerville/Pollock Pines), and

WHEREAS, Government Code section 25210.6a expressly authorizes a county service area to levy a special
tax for extended library services subject to voter approval, and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors proposes to levy a special tax for the purpose of funding library
services within the zone according to the methodology as set forth below in order to replace the expiring
benefit assessment and to ensure that funding will exist to maintain library hours and operations,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Supervisors finds, determines, declares and
orders as follows:

1.	That upon approval by the voters as set forth in this Resolution, there shall be levied and assessed
annually a special tax to be used solely for extended library services in Zone H on each parcel of property,
improved and unimproved, residential and non-residential, within Placerville/Pollock Pines Zone H of
County Service Area no. 10, in the sum of $15.00 per parcel commencing with the fiscal year 2005-2006
and continuing each fiscal year thereafter, except for those parcels as outlined as follows:

A.	The annual amount of the special tax on parcels of land developed with multi-family
residential dwelling units (excluding time shares) shall be eighty percent (80%) of the base tax
used for single family dwellings multiplied by the number of multi-family residential dwelling
units on the parcel.

B.	The amount of the special tax on parcels of land developed as mobile home parks shall be
fifty percent (50%) of the base tax used for single family dwellings multiplied by the number of
mobile home park dwelling units on the parcel.

C.	Parcels of land developed with churches, cemeteries, or schools shall be exempt.

2.	"Parcel of property" as used in this resolution shall mean any contiguous unit of real property held in
separate ownership, which is capable of sale or transfer without further action under the Subdivision Map
Act (Government Code section 66410, et seq.).

3.	The tax imposed by this resolution shall appear as a separate item on the tax bill of each such taxable
parcel and shall be collected at the same time and manner as county property taxes are collected as set forth
in the applicable provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and shall be subject to the same penalties

and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for such taxes. All laws applicable to the
levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes shall be applicable to such tax.

4.	The tax shall be imposed only for a period of ten (10) years, at the end of which time the special tax shall
cease to be imposed.

5.	The tax rate shall be increased annually in proportion to the increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI),
San Francisco Area, all items, most recently available prior to the date of the increase, provided, however,
that this increase shall not exceed three percent (3%) in any year. The base special tax on single family
residences shall not exceed $20.00 per taxable parcel.

6.	The Board, commencing with the fiscal year 2005-2006, shall annually budget and allocate from the
County General Fund for the operation of the county library system an amount equal to or greater than 100%
of the annually collected special library taxes for those zones receiving voter approval on March 8,2005.

El Dorado Home Page II Statewide Links II About Smart Voter II Feedback

Created: March 29, 2005 12:42 PST
Smart Voter <http://www.smartvoter.org/>

Copyright © League of Women Voters of California Education Fund http://ca.lwv.0r2
The League of Women Voters neither supports nor opposes candidates for public office or political parties.