


ORDINANCE NO. 591

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COMMERCE, STATE OF
CALIFORNIA, ENACTING A HOTEL VISITOR TAX

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COMMERCE, STATE OF CALIFORNIA DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. The following new Chapter 3.10 is hereby added to the Commerce
Municipal Code:

’’CHAPTER 3.10
HOTEL VISITOR TAX

3.10.010	Short title. This chapter shall be known as the “Uniform Hotel Visitor
Tax Ordinance of the City of Commerce’’.

3.10.020	Definitions. Except where the context requires, the definitions give in
this section govern the construction of this chapter, as follows:

(a)	“Guest”, “transient” and/or “visitor” means any person who exercises
occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access,
license or other agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less,
counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a
hotel shall be deemed to be a guest, transient and/or visitor until the period of thirty (30)
days has expired unless there is an agreement in writing between the operator and the
occupant providing for a longer period of occupancy. In determining whether a person is a
guest, transient and/or visitor, uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and
subsequent to the effective date of this chapter may be considered.

(b)	“Hotel” means any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is
occupied or intended or designed for occupancy by guests, transients and/or visitors for
dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house,
bed and breakfast, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house,
apartment house, boarding house, dormitory, public or private club, mobile home or house
trailer at a fixed location or other similar structure or portion thereof.

(c)	“Occupancy" means the use or possession, or the right to use or possession,
of any room or rooms or portion thereof in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes.

(d)	“Operator" means the person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the
capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or any other
capacity. Where the operator performs his or her functions through a managing agent of
any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be deemed
an operator for the purposes of this chapter and shall have the same duties and liabilities
as his or her principal. Compliance with the provisions of this chapter by either the
principal or the managing agent shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.

(e)	“Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate or other group or combination acting as a unit.

(f)	“Rent" means the consideration charged, whether or not received, for the
occupancy of space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods,

ORDINANCE NO. 591 -
HOTEL VISITOR TAX

labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and services of any
kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.

(g)	“Tax administrator” means the Finance Director of the City or his or her
designee.

3.10.030	imposition - Amount - Where payable. For the privilege of occupancy
in any hotel, each guest, transient and/or visitor is subject to and shall pay a tax in the
amount of twelve percent (12%) of the rent charged by the operator or at any lesser rate
that the City Council shall determine by resolution. Said tax constitutes a debt owed by the
guest, transient and/or visitor to the City which is extinguished only by payment to the
operator or to the City. The guest, transient and/or visitor shall pay the tax to the operator
of the hotel at the time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate
share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the
guest, transient and/or visitor’s ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the
tax due is not paid to the operator of the hotel, the tax administrator may require that such
tax shall be paid directly to the tax administrator.

3.10.040	Exemptions. No tax shall be imposed upon:

(a)	Any federal officer or employee when on official business:

(b)	Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of
express provision of federal law or international treaty:

No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the time rent is
collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by the tax administrator.

3.10.050	Guest, transient and/or visitor occupancy registration certificate
requirements. Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this chapter, or within thirty
(30) days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of any hotel
renting occupancy to guests, transients and/or visitors shall register such hotel with the tax
administrator and obtain from him or her a guest, transient and/or visitor occupancy
registration certificate, which shall be referred to as the Visitor Occupancy Registration
Certificate, to be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. Such
certificate shall, among other things, state the following:

(a)	The name of the operator;

(b)	The address of the hotel;

(c)	The date upon which the certificate was issued, and

(d)	The following statement:

“This Visitor Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the person named on
the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Uniform Hotel Visitor Tax Ordinance of
the City of Commerce by registering with the Tax Administrator for the purpose of
collecting from guests, transients and/or visitors the hotel guest, transient and/or visitor tax
and remitting such tax to the Tax Administrator. This certificate does not authorize any
person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful
manner, nor to operate a hotel without strictly complying with all local applicable laws,
including but not limited to those requiring a permit from any board, commission,
department or office of this City. This certificate does not constitute a permit. It is unlawful
to operate a hotel in the City without a currently valid certificate.”

3.10.060	Collection. Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter
to the same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from every guest, transient
and/or visitor. If the operator collects the rent but fails to collect the tax imposed by this
chapter, for any reason, the operator shall nevertheless be required to pay such tax to the
City. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent charged,
and each guest, transient and/or visitor shall receive a receipt for payment from the

2

ORDINANCE NO. 591."
HOTEL VISITOR TAX

operator. A duplicate of this receipt shall be kept by the operator in accordance with
Section 3.10.080. No operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether
directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the
operator, or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded
except in the manner hereinafter provided.

3.10.070	Reporting and remitting. Each operator shall, on or before the last day
of the month following the close of each calendar quarter, or at the close of any shorter
reporting period which may be established by the tax administrator, make a return to the
tax administrator, on forms provided by him, of the total rents charged and received and
the amount of tax collected for guest, transient and/or visitor occupancies. At the time the
return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted by the operator to the
tax administrator. The tax administrator may establish shorter reporting periods for any
certificate holder if he or she deems it necessary in order to insure collection of the tax and
he or she may require further information in the return. Returns and payments are due
immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. All taxes collected by operators
pursuant to this chapter shall be held in trust for the account of the City until payment
thereof is made to the tax administrator.

3.10.080	Recordkeeping. It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the
collection and payment to the City of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and
preserve, for a period of three (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the
amount of such tax as he or she may have been liable for the collection of and payment to
the City, which records the tax administrator shall have the right to inspect at all
reasonable times.

3.10.090	Failure of operator to collect and report tax - Determination of tax by
tax administrator - Notice and hearing. If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax
and to make, within the time provided in this chapter, any report and remittance of such tax
or any portion thereof required by this chapter, the tax administrator shall proceed in such
manner as he or she may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to base his
or her estimate of the tax due. As soon as the tax administrator shall procure such facts
and information as he or she is able to obtain upon which to base the assessment of any
tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any operator who has failed or refused to
collect the same and to make such report and remittance, he or she shall proceed to
determine and assess against such operator the tax, interest and penalties provided for by
this chapter. In case such determination is made, the tax administrator shall give a notice
of the amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States
mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at his or her last known
place of business address. Such operator may, within ten (10) days after the serving or
mailing of such notice, make application in writing to the tax administrator for a hearing on
the amount assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing is not made within the
time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the tax administrator
shall become final and conclusive and immediately due and payable. If such application is
made, the tax administrator shall give not less than five (5) days written notice in the
manner prescribed herein to the operator to show cause, at a time and place fixed in the
notice, why the amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest and
penalties. At such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why such
specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such hearing, the tax
administrator shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall thereafter give written
notice to the person in the manner prescribed herein of such determination and the
amount of such tax, interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be
payable fifteen (15) days after the date of the tax administrator’s written notice unless an
appeal is taken as provided in Section 3.10.100.

3.10.100	Appeals. Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the tax
administrator with respect to the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may
appeal to the city council by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within fifteen (15)
days of the serving or mailing of the determination of the tax due. The city council shall fix
a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the city clerk shall give five (5) days notice
in writing thereof to such operator at his or her last known place of business address. The
findings of the city council shall be final and conclusive, and shall be served upon the

3

appellant in the manner previously prescribed for service of notice of hearing. Any amount
found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the service of notice.

3.10.110	Penalties and interest.

(a)	Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any portion of any tax
imposed by this chapter, within the time required, shall pay a penalty often percent (10%)
of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.

(b)	Continued delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of thirty (30) days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of ten percent
(10%) of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the ten percent
(10%) penalty first imposed.

(c)	Audit deficiency. If, upon audit by the City, an operator is found to be
deficient in his or her return or his or her remittance, or both, the tax administrator shall
immediately invoice the operator for the amount of the net deficiency plus a penalty of ten
percent (10%) of the net deficiency. If the operator fails or refuses to pay the deficient
amount and applicable penalties within fourteen (14) days of the date of the invoice, an
additional penalty shall be imposed at the rate of one percent (1%) per day of the net
deficiency, not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the total of the deficiency amount and
penalties.

(d)	Fraud, if the tax administrator determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of
the amount of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in
subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

(e)	Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails to remit
any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one and one-half percent
(172%) per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from
the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.

(f)	Penalties merged with tax. Every penalty imposed and such interest as
accrues under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax herein required
to be paid.

3.10.120	Duty of successor or operator. If an operator who is liable for any tax
or penalties under this chapter sells or otherwise disposes of his or her hotel, his or her
successor shall notify the tax administrator of the date of sale and withhold a sufficient
portion of the purchase price to equal the amount of such tax or penalty, for payment to
City, until the selling operator produces a receipt from the tax administrator showing that
the tax or penalty has been paid or a tax clearance certificate from the tax administrator
stating that no tax or penalty is due. If the seller does not present a receipt or tax
clearance certificate within thirty (30) days after such successor commences to conduct
business, the successor shall deposit the withheld amount with the tax administrator
pending settlement of the account of the seller.

3.10.130	Liability of successor for failure to withhold - Notice of amount due. If
the successor to the hotel fails to withhold a portion of the purchase price as required, he
or she shall also, along with the seller, be liable for the payment of the amount required to
be withheld, and any penalty. Within thirty (30) days after receiving a written request from
the successor for a tax clearance certificate, stating that no tax or penalty is due, the tax
administrator shall either issue the certificate or mail notice to the successor at his or her
address as it appears on the records of the tax administrator of the estimated amount of
the tax and penalty that must be paid as a condition of issuing the certificate.

3.10.140	Refunds.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid or
paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City

4

ORDINANCE NO. 591*
HOTEL VISITOR TAX

under this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in subsections (b) and (c) of this
section, provided a claim in writing therefor, stating under penalty of perjury the specific
grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the tax administrator within six (6)
months of the date of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the tax
administrator.

(b)	An operator may claim a refund, or take as credit against taxes collected and
remitted, the amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or
received when it is established in a manner prescribed by the tax administrator that the
person from whom the tax has been collected was not a guest, transient and/or visitor;
provided, however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of
the tax so collected has either been refunded to the guest, transient and/or visitor or
credited to the rent subsequently payable by the guest, transient and/or visitor to the
operator.

(c)	A guest, transient and/or visitor may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid
more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City by filing a claim
in the manner provided in subsection (a) of this section, but only when the tax was paid by
the guest, transient and/or visitor directly to the tax administrator, or when the guest,
transient and/or visitor, having paid the tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction
of the tax administrator that the guest, transient and/or visitor has been unable to obtain a
refund from the operator who collected the tax and that the operator has already paid the
amount of the subject tax to the City.

(d)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes his or her right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

3.10.150	Action by City to collect tax. Any tax required to be paid by any guest,
transient and/or visitor under the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed
by the guest, transient and/or visitor to the City and payable through the operator. Any
such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the City shall be deemed tax
funds held in trust for the account of the City which are due and payable by the operator to
the City pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. Any person owing money to the City
under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the
City for the recovery of such amount. In such action, such person shall also be liable for
the City’s attorney fees and costs in such amount as shall be approved by the court.

3.10.160	Violations - Penalties. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction.

3.10.170	Revocation of certificate. Whenever any operator fails to comply with
any provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation of the tax administrator prescribed
and adopted under this chapter, the tax administrator upon hearing, after giving the
operator ten (10) days notice in writing, specifying the time and place of hearing and
requiring him or her to show cause why his or her certificate should not be revoked, may
suspend or revoke the certificate held by the operator. The tax administrator shall give the
operator written notice of the suspension or revocation of his or her certificate. The notice
required in this section may be served personally or by mail in the manner prescribed for
service of notice of a deficiency determination. The tax administrator shall not issue a new
certificate after a revocation unless he or she is satisfied that the former holder of the
certificate will comply with the provisions of this chapter and regulations of the tax
administrator.

3.10.180 Closure of hotel without certificate. During any period of time during
which a certificate has not been issued or is suspended, revoked or otherwise not validly in
effect, the tax administrator may require that the hotel be closed.

3.10.190 Recording notice of lien. If any amount required to be remitted or paid
to the City under this chapter is not remitted or paid when due, the tax administrator may,
within three (3) years after the amount is due, file for record in the office of the county
recorder a notice of lien specifying the amount of the tax, interest and penalties due, the
name and address as it appears on the records of the tax administrator of the operator

5

ORDINANCE NO. 591.
HOTEL VISITOR TAX

liable for the same and the fact that the tax administrator has complied with all provisions
of this chapter in the determination of the amount required to be remitted and paid. From
the time of the filing for record, the amount required to be remitted, together with interest
and penalties, constitutes a lien upon all real property in the county owned by the operator
or afterwards and before the lien expires acquired by him or her. The lien has the force,
effect and priority of a judgment lien and shall continue for ten (10) years from the time of
filing of the notice of lien unless sooner released or otherwise discharged.

3.10.200 Priority and lien of tax.

(a)	The amounts required to be paid by any operator under this chapter with
interest and penalties shall be satisfied first in any of the following cases:

(1)	Whenever the person is insolvent;

(2)	Whenever the person makes a voluntary assignment of his or her assets;

(3)	Whenever the estate of the person in the hands of executors, administrators,
or heirs is insufficient to pay all the debts due from the deceased;

(4)	Whenever the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed or absent
person required to pay any amount under this chapter are levied upon by process law.
This chapter does not give the City a preference over any recorded lien which attached
prior to the date when the amounts required to be paid became a lien.

(b)	The preference given to the City by this section shall be subordinate to the
preferences given to claims for personal services by Sections 1204 through 1208.5 of the
Code of Civil Procedure.

3.10.210	Warrant for collection of tax. At any time within three (3) years after
any operator is delinquent in the remittance or payment of any amount herein required to
be remitted or paid or within three (3) years after the last recording of a notice of lien under
Section 3.10.190, the tax administrator may issue a warrant for the enforcement of any
liens and for the collection of any amount required to be paid to the City under this chapter.
The warrant shall be directed to any sheriff, marshal or constable and shall have the same
effect as a writ of execution. The warrant shall be levied and sale made pursuant to it in
the same manner with the same effect as a levy of and a sale pursuant to a writ of
execution. The tax administrator may pay or advance to the sheriff, marshal or constable
the same fees, commissions and expenses for his or her services as are provided by law
for similar services pursuant to a writ of execution. The tax administrator, and not the
court, shall approve the fees for publication in a newspaper.

3.10.220	Seizure and sale. At any time within three (3) years after any operator
is delinquent in the remittance or payment of any amount, the tax administrator may
forthwith collect the amount in the following manner: The tax administrator shall seize any
property, real or personal, of the operator and sell the property, or a sufficient part of it, at
public auction to pay the amount due, together with any interest and penalties imposed for
the delinquency and any costs incurred on account of the seizure and sale. Any seizure
made to collect hotel guest, transient and/or visitor taxes due shall be only of property of
the operator not exempt from execution under the provisions of the Code of Civil
Procedure.

3.10.230 Withhold notice. If any person or operator is delinquent in the
remittance or payment of the amount required to be remitted or paid by him or her, or in
the event a determination has been made against him or her for the remittance of tax and
payment of the penalty, the City may, within three (3) years after the tax obligation became
due, give notice thereof personally or by registered mail to all persons, including the state
or any political subdivision thereof, having in their possession or under their control any
credits or any personal property belonging to the taxpayer. After receiving the withholding
notice, the person so notified shall make no disposition of the taxpayer’s credits, other
personal property or debts until the City consents to a transfer or disposition or until sixty
(60) days elapse after the receipt of the notice, whichever expires earlier. All persons,
upon receipt of said notice, shall advise the City immediately of all such credits, other

6

personal property or debts in their possession, under their control or owing by them. If
such notice seeks to prevent the transfer or other disposition of a deposit in a bank or
other credits or personal property in the possession or under the control of the bank, to be
effective the notice shall be delivered or mailed to the branch or office of such bank at
which such deposit is carried or at which such credits or personal property is held. If any
person so notified makes transfer or disposition of the property or debts required to be held
hereunder during the effective period of the notice to withhold, he or she shall be liable to
the City to the extent of the value of the release up to the amount of the indebtedness
owed by the taxpayer to the City.”

Section 2. This ordinance shall be submitted to the electorate of the City of
Commerce for approval at the November 8, 2005, Special Municipal Election.

Section 3. if any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause,
or phrase in this chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or
invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect
the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this chapter or any part thereof.
The people of the City of Commerce, State of California hereby declare that they would
have approved each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause, or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more subsections, subdivisions,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, or phrases be declared unconstitutional, or invalid or
ineffective.

Section 4. This ordinance requires the majority vote of the electorate voting in its
favor in order to become a valid and binding ordinance of the City of Commerce. This
ordinance shall be considered adopted upon the date that the vote is declared by the
legislative body and shall become effective on January 1, 2006.

ENACTED BY THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF COMMERCE, STATE OF
CALIFORNIA AT THE SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION HELD ON TUESDAY,
NOVEMBER 8, 2005.

ATTEST:

Linda Kay Open, MMC
City Clerk

ELEC ORDINANCE (HOTEL GUEST TAX).DOC
7/29/04 Iko
Rev. 7/11/05 Iko
Rev. 7/14/05 Iko

7

Ordinance No. 591

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES ) SS
CITY OF COMMERCE )

I,	Linda Kay Olivieri, MMC, City Clerk of the City of Commerce, California, do
hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of an Ordinance of said City
which was authorized at a regular meeting of said City Council, held on July 19, 2005, to
be presented to the qualified voters of the City for consideration at a Special Municipal
Election to be held on Tuesday, November 8, 2005, by the following vote, to wit:

AYES:	Councilmembers:	Dei Rio, Lopez, Ramos Mayor Pro Tempore Fierro Mayor Argumedo
NOES:	Councilmembers:	None
ABSENT:	Councilmembers:	None
ABSTAIN:	Councilmembers:	None

I,	further certify that said Ordinance required the majority vote of the qualified
registered voters in the City of Commerce voting in its favor to become a valid and binding
Ordinance of the City of Commerce.

1,	further certify that said Ordinance was presented to the qualified registered voters
in the City of Commerce at the November 8, 2005, Special Municipal Election, which was
consolidated with the Special Statewide and Consolidated Elections held on that same
date, as Measure A, and that said Ordinance was duly approved thereat by the following
vote, to wit:

YES:	1,266 Total Votes Cast

NO:	893 Total Votes Cast

I, further certify that the City Council approved and adopted Resolution No. 05-40,
reciting the fact of the Special Municipal Election held on Tuesday, November 8, 2005,
declaring the result and such other matters as provided by law, on December 6, 2005,
wherein said Ordinance was deemed adopted and ratified as Ordinance No. 591.

I, further certify that said Ordinance was thereupon signed by the Mayor of the City
of Commerce, California.

Dated: 12/7/2005