INYO

tH

r

Compiled and Distributed by Inyo County Elections Department

SPECIAL

STATEWIDE ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2005

©si[Mi[S 3®

and

Voter Information Pamphlet

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR
ABSENT VOTER BALLOT ENCLOSED

notice

°ur polling place
have been
c^Hged- See back

Phler/or P°l,in9
Ce location.

THE LOCATION OF YOUR
POLLING PLACE

IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

• POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M. •

SAVE THIS SAMPLE BALLOT TO HELP YOU LOCATE
YOUR POLLING PLACE ON ELECTION DAY

14-FC-10327 14-FC

OFFICIAL BALLOT

SPECIAL STATEWIDE ELECTION
COUNTY OF INYO, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8,2005
40TH CONGRESSIONAL, 34TH ASSEMBLY DISTRICTS

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS: To VOTE, CONNECT THE ARROW pointing to your choice, like this:

To vote for a qualified write-in candidate, write the person’s name on the blank line provided and CONNECT THE ARROW:
IMPORTANT: Use only a pencil or a dark ink pen.

DO NOT USE RED INK

If you make a mistake marking your ballot, return it to the Section Official and a replacement ballot will be issued.

DISTRICT

SOUTHERN INYO
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

Commissioner

Vole for no
more than Two

BARBARA FAYE PRICE

FRANK C ESPOSITO

Pastor Faith Community

DAVID HAWK FANN

Retired Armv

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO
THE VOTERS

STATE

7Q WAITING PERIOD AND
#U PARENTAL NOTIFICATION
BEFORE TERMINATION OF
MINOR'S PREGNANCY. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Amends
California Constitution, defining and prohibiting
abortion for unemandpated minor until 48 hours
after physician notifies minor's parent/guardian,
except in medical emergency or with parental
waiver Mandates reporting requirements
Authorizes monetary damages against
physidans for violation Fiscal Impact: Potential
unknown net state costs of several
million dollars annually for health and
social services programs, the courts,
and state administration combined

YES

NO

7/1	PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHERS.

I H	WAITING PERIOD FOR

PERMANENT STATUS.
DISMISSAL. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Increases
probationary period for public school teachers
from two to five years Modifies the process by
which school boards can dismiss a teaching
employee who receives two consecutive
unsatisfactory performance evaluations Fiscal
Impact Unknown net effect on school
costs for teacher compensation,
performance evaluations, and other
activities Impact would vary
significantly by district and depend
largely on future district personnel
actions

YES

NO

7C	PUBLIC EMPLOYEE UNION

I O	DUES. RESTRICTIONS ON

POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS.
EMPLOYEE CONSENT REQUIREMENT.
INITIATIVE STATUTE. Prohibits using public
employee union dues for political contributions
without individual employees' prior consent
Exdudes contributions benefitting charities or
employees Requires unions to maintain and,
upon request report member political
contributions to Fair Political
Practices Commission, Fiscal
Impact Probably minor state and
local government implementation
costs, potentially offset in part by
revenues from fines and/or fees

YES

NO

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO
THE VOTERS

STATE

7C STATE SPENDING AND SCHOOL
I D FUNDING UMITS. INITIATIVE

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.

Limits state spending to prior year’s level plus
three previous years' average revenue growth
Changes minimum school funding requirements
(Proposition 98). Permits Governor, under
specified drcumstances, to reduce budget
appropriations of Governor's choosing. Fiscal
Impact State spending likely reduced relative to
current law, due to additional
spending limit and new powers
granted to Governor Reductions
could apply to schools and shift
costs to other local governments.

YES

NO

77 REDISTRICTING. INITIATIVE
I f CONSTFUTIONAL AMENDMENT.

Amends state Constitution’s process
for redistricting California's Senate, Assembly,
Congressional and Board of Equalization
districts Requires three-member panel of retired
judges selected by legislative leaders Fiscal
Impact One-time state redistricting costs
totaling no more than $15 million
and county costs in the range of SI
million Potential reduction in future
costs, but net impact would depend
on decisions by voters

YES

NO

7Q DISCOUNTS ON PRESCRIPTION
I O DRUGS. INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Establishes discount prescription
drug program for certain low- and moderate-
income Californians Authorizes Department of
Health Services to contract with participating
pharmacies for discounts and with participating
drug manufacturers for rebates Fiscal Impact:
State costs for administration and outreach in the
millions to low tens of millions of
dollars annually State costs for
advance funding for rebates
Unknown potentially significant
savings for state and county health
programs

YES

NO

7Q PRESCRIPTION DRUG
I y DISCOUNTS. STATE-

NEGOTIATED REBATES.
INITIATIVE STATUTE Provides drug discounts
to Californians with qualifying incomes Funded
by state-negotiated drug manufacturer rebates
Prohibits Medi-Cal contracts with manufacturers
not providing Medicaid best price Fiscal Impact:
State costs for administration and outreach in
low tens of millions of dollars annually State
costs for advance funding for
rebates Unknown potentially
significant: (1) net costs or savings
for Medi-Cal and (2) savings for state
and county health programs.

YES

NO

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO
THE VOTERS

STATE

A A ELECTRIC SERVICE PROVIDERS.

OU REGULATION. INITIATIVE

STATUTE. Subjects electric service
providers to regulation by California Public
Utilrties Commission Restricts electricity
customers’ ability to switch from private utilities
to other providers Requires all retail electric
sellers to increase renewable energy resource
procurement by 2010 Fiscal Impact Potential
annual administrative costs ranging
from negligible to S4 million, paid by
fees Unknown net impact on state
and local costs and revenues from
uncertain impact on electricity rates

YES

NO

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO
THE VOTERS

DISTRICT

SOUTHERN INYO
HEALTHCARE DISTRICT

Ain order to maintain

healthcare services, shall
the “Save Southern Inyo
Hospital Parcel Tax” be
approved?	YES

NO

Sample Ballot

14SB6X

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A
Southern Inyo Healthcare District

EXHIBIT A
RESOLUTION 05-05

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
SOUTHERN INYO HEALTHCARE DISTRICT, COUNTY OF
INYO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA IMPOSING THE “SAVE
SOUTHERN INYO HOSPITAL PARCEL TAX” SUBJECT TO
VOTER APPROVAL

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Southern Inyo
Healthcare District (“District”) has engaged in a variety of efforts
seeking to generate funds for its medical programs,

AND WHEREAS, such efforts included working with the Inyo
County Task Force in looking at all viable options, sharing in local
funds, instituting cost-cutting measures, broadening programs to
increase use of the clinic and laboratories, and successfully
campaigning for tobacco settlement revenues,

AND WHEREAS, such efforts have not generated sufficient
revenues to support the District,

AND WHEREAS, the District’s Board of Directors finds and
determines that it is necessary to impose a special tax (“tax”) in
the nature of a parcel tax upon real property located within the District,
AND WHEREAS, the proceeds of such tax would be used solely
for the following specific purposes: funding standby emergency
services, funding laboratory equipment and laboratory services,
funding x-ray equipment and x-ray services, funding physical therapy
equipment and physical therapy services, funding physician
recruitment, and funding operation, maintenance, repair and
replacement of the hospital plant and grounds, but shall in no case
be used to pay wages of employees,

AND WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California
Constitution, and Government Code Sections 50075 et. seq., Sections
53720 et. seq., and Section 53730.01 authorize a hospital district,
after due notice and public hearing, to impose a special tax for
specific purposes upon approval by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
qualified electors of such district who vote on the measure,

AND WHEREAS, the District finds that it has duly noticed and
conducted a public hearing and has given all other notices as required
by law,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED THAT:

1.	Imposition of Special Tax. There is hereby imposed upon all
real property, including possessory interests, located within the
political boundaries of the Southern Inyo Healthcare District (“District”)
a special tax in the nature of a parcel tax. This resolution shall be
known as Southern Inyo Healthcare District Measure: “Save Southern
Inyo Hospital Parcel Tax.” The tax imposed hereby shall be known
as the “Save Southern Inyo Hospital Parcel Tax.”

2.	Rate of Tax. The tax imposed hereby is imposed at the following
rates:

A.	Upon every parcel of unimproved or improved real property
for which the Inyo County Assessor has assigned an assessor’s
parcel number: Fifty Dollars ($50.00).

B.	Upon every such parcel which is improved with one (1)
or more dwelling units: The additional sum of One Hundred Dollars
($100.00) per dwelling unit.

C.	Upon every such parcel upon which is located a
commercial business, or which parcel is used for conducting a
commercial business, or upon which is located commercial
improvements, the additional sum of Five Hundred Dollars
($500.00).

D.	Parcels which fall within both categories 2 (B) and 2 (C)
above shall pay the rate set forth in 2 (A) and 2 (C) only.

E.	Fences, corrals, wells, pumps and pump houses, towers,
and storage sheds not exceeding four hundred square feet of
footprint shall not alone constitute commercial improvements.

3.	Definitions. The following definitions apply:

A.	“Parcel” means a parcel or assessment of real property
located within the District which has been assigned an assessor’s
parcel or assessment number by the Inyo County Assessor.

B.	“Dwelling Unit” means a single family residence, a
mobilehome, a condominium, an apartment unit, or other place
of residence or abode designed for one or more persons to
reside or be domiciled for more than thirty (30) consecutive days
and whether or not occupied. “Dwelling Unit” shall not include
motel or hotel units, where the units are rented to any renter for
thirty (30) consecutive days or less.

C.	“Commercial Business” means every business, trade,
profession, calling, occupation, vocation, exhibition, show and
enterprise of any and every kind.

D.	“Commercial Improvement” means any structure, as
defined in Section 301 of the Uniform Building Code, which is
actually used in the conduct of a commercial business.

E.	All other definitions shall be otherwise set forth in California
law pertaining to real property taxation.

4.	Specific Purposes of Tax. The proceeds of the tax imposed
by this Resolution shall be used only for the following specific
purposes: funding standby emergency services, funding laboratory
equipment and laboratory services, funding x-ray equipment and x-
ray services, funding physical therapy equipment and physical
therapy services, funding physician recruitment, and funding
operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of the hospital plant
and grounds. In no case shall the proceeds of the tax imposed by
this Resolution be used to pay salaries or wages of employees. This
statement of specific purposes is made pursuant to the requirements
of Government Code Section 50075.1(a) and (b).

5.	Creation of Tax Account. There is hereby created a “Special
Tax Account” for the District. All proceeds of the tax imposed by this
Resolution shall be deposited into such “Special Tax Account”. The
“Special Tax Account” is created pursuant to the requirements of
Government Code Section 50075.1 (c).

6.	Annual Report. The Chief Fiscal Officer of the District shall
file a report with the District’s Board of Directors no later than January
1, 2007 and at least once a year thereafter. The annual report shall
contain both of the following:

i.	The amount of funds collected and expended.

ii.	The status of any project required to be funded as
identified in Government Code Section 50075.1 (a).

This requirement of annual report is made pursuant to the
requirements of Government Code Section 50075.1 (d) and Section
50075.3.

7.	Commencement of Imposition of Tax. The tax imposed
hereunder shall be imposed annually commencing on January 1,
2006 and continuing on the first day of each and every calendar
year thereafter.

8.	Lien Date. The tax imposed pursuant to this Resolution shall
constitute a lien on all real property to which such tax applies. The
lien shall be first imposed on January 1, 2006 and again annually
on the first day of each and every year thereafter.

9.	Collection of Tax and Delivery of Information to Invo Countv.
The District hereby requests that Inyo County collect the tax imposed
by this Resolution in the same manner and at the same times as said
Inyo County collects Inyo County property taxes.This request is made
pursuant to Government Code Section 53730.1 and Section 50077
(b) . Inyo County shall have the right to deduct its reasonable costs
incurred for its services before remittal of the balance to the District.

Annually not later than June 15 of each year, the District shall
deliver to the Inyo County Auditor-Controller all information that the
County requires to collect the tax for the District on the unsecured
property tax roll. Annually not later than July 1 of each year, the
District shall deliver to the Inyo County Auditor-Controller all
information that the County requires to collect the tax for the District
on the secured property tax roll.

10.	No Intention to Reduce Other Revenue. The collection of
this special tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase
in local, state or federal revenues that are available to the District
or which might become available to the District in the future.

11.	Serverability. If any section, sub-section, clause or provision
of this Resolution is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable,
such holding shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other
part of this Resolution.

14501

12.	Voter Approval Required. This Resolution shall only be
effective if it is approved by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the qualified
electors of the District who vote on the measure.

13.	Creation of Board of Tax Appeals. There is hereby created
a Board of Tax Appeals within the District. The Board of Directors
of the District shall serve as the Board of Tax Appeals for all purposes.

14.	Tax Appeals. Each person or entity upon whom a tax is
imposed by this Resolution shall have a right to appeal the imposition
of the tax and/or the amount of the tax. An appeal is taken by the
taxpayer by mailing or delivering a written notice of appeal to the
District within thirty (30) days of the date that the tax bill for the tax
being appealed is mailed to the taxpayer. The notice of appeal must
state the reason why the tax should not be imposed or why the tax
should not be imposed in that amount. Appeals are timely made if
the District receives the notice of appeal within such thirty (30) day
period if the notice of appeal is delivered, and are timely made if
the notice of appeal is post-marked by the United States Postal
Service within such thirty (30) day period if the notice of appeal is
mailed.

Within sixty (60) days of receipt of a notice of appeal, the Board
of Tax Appeals shall set the matter down for an open and public
appeal hearing. The Board of Tax Appeals shall give the appellant
at least thirty (30) days prior written notice of such hearing. The
Board of Tax Appeals shall tender its decision within fifteen (15)
days of the conclusion of the hearing. The decision of the Board of
Tax Appeals shall be final.

If as a result of the appeal the tax is reduced, the District shall
refund any over-payment after both installments have been paid to
the County and not prior to May 1 of each fiscal year. If as a result
of the appeal the tax is increased, the tax payer shall pay to the
District such increased tax within thirty (30) days.

If filing of an appeal is not qround for failure to timely pay the
tax imposed.

Notices of appeal must be in writing, and must be delivered to
the District business office or mailed to: Southern Inyo Healthcare
District, P.O. Box 1009, Lone Pine, California 93545.

Duly adopted this 28th day of July, 2005 by the Board of Directors
of the Southern Inyo Healthcare District by the following vote:

improvements. Parcels upon which a dwelling unit and a commercial
business or commercial improvement are located, would not be taxed
for the dwelling unit or units. Thus, a vacant parcel not being used
for commercial business purposes, would be taxed fifty dollars
($50.00) annually; a parcel upon which a single dwelling unit is located
would be taxed one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) annually; and a
parcel upon which a commercial business or business improvements
were located, with or without a dwelling unit, would be taxed five
hundred fifty dollars ($550.00) annually.

Owners of taxable possessory interests in tax exempt property
within the District would be taxed at the same special tax rate as
if they were the owners of the parcel.

The special tax would be collected in the same manner and at
the same time as Inyo County collects property taxes.

The money received from this special tax can only be used by
the District for the purposes set forth in the measure. For purposes
of accountability, the proceeds of this special tax would be placed
into a special account and reported upon annually.

This measure will pass only if it is approved by two-thirds (2/3)
of the voters voting upon this measure in this election.

A “Yes” vote is a vote to approve the special tax for the purposes
specified.

A “No” vote is a vote disapproving the special tax for these
purposes.

si Paul N. Bruce, County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Southern Inyo Health Care District is the front line of care for District
residents as well as the tourists who help support our economy. Not
only does it provide 24-hour emergency care but also it cares for our
sick and elderly in its skilled nursing facility and rural health clinic. It
is one of the community’s largest employers and for years has been
a vital component of our economic well being. Its existence is being
threatened by the increase in costs of delivering care, the growing
number of uninsured citizens and the declining reimbursements for
providing care. Without the hospital the following would be the result:

Ayes: 4
Noes: 0
Absent: 1

si RICHARD GERING, President, Board of Directors
Southern Inyo Healthcare District

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL MEASURE A

1.	All emergencies would have to travel either 60 miles to Bishop
or 80 miles to Ridgecrest far outside the “golden” hour that
medical research has shown to be critical to survival of many
heart attacks or strokes. Lives would be lost.

2.	A study by California State University determined should the
hospital close the immediate loss to the District would be
fifteen million ( $15,000,000) in direct Revenue and twenty
four million ( $24,000,000) in indirect costs. Our community
including the school district, would be far poorer.

Southern Inyo Healthcare District

You are being asked to consider approving a special tax upon
real property within the Southern Inyo Healthcare District (hereinafter
“District”). As indicated in the measure, the money received from
this tax will be used for funding standby emergency services,
laboratory equipment and services, x-ray equipment and services,
physical therapy equipment and services, physician recruitment, and
operation, maintenance, and repair at the Southern Inyo Hospital.

If this measure is approved, a parcel of land within the District
which has a County Assessor’s parcel number, would be taxed annually
beginning January 1, 2006 at the rate of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
parcel, whether the parcel is improved or not. Any parcel improved
with one or more dwelling units would be taxed an additional one
hundred dollars ($100.00) annually per dwelling unit. Any parcel upon
which a commercial business is located or operated, or upon which
commercial improvements are located, would be taxed an additional
five hundred dollars ($500.00) annually. Dwelling units are defined as
a single family residence, mobilehome, condominium, apartment unit,
or other places of residence designed for persons to reside for more
than thirty (30) consecutive days. Dwelling units do not include motel
or hotel units rented for thirty (30) consecutive days or less. Fences,
corrals, wells, pumps and pump houses, towers, and storage sheds
not exceeding four hundred square feet, do not constitute commercial

3.	Families would have to relocate their loved ones in the skilled
nursing facility to a distant location, making daily visits difficult
if not impossible.

4.	People may move from Lone Pine to be closer to a hospital,
affecting property values and the ability to attract vital new
business to the area.

5.	The volunteer ambulance service would be unable to provide
the emergency service required.

All of our citizens deserve quality health care, but many are either
uninsured or elderly and in declining health. We must all pull together
and make a commitment to ensure the survival of this valuable, life
saving community asset. Save our hospital! Your life may depend on it.

si Andrew (Drew) Wickman
Educator
si Donald L. Christenson
Medical Doctor
si Dan Dickman
Businessman

si Dean R. Vander Wall
Pharmacist
s/ Bruce S. Ivey
Businessman

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

14-502

14502