Measure A: School Tax, Acalanes Union High School District

To strengthen and restore classroom programs that provide local students with rigorous preparation in math, science, writing, history, computers, music, art and other subjects and address the negative impact of state budget cuts, shall the Acalanes Union High School District be authorized to replace its existing parcel tax with a new qualified special tax costing $189 per taxable parcel on July 1, 2005, for six years, offering a senior exemption and with expenditures monitored by a citizens' oversight committee?

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel
The governing board of the Acalanes Union High School District has adopted a resolution proposing a parcel tax (a qualified special tax).

The ballot measure asks voters to decide whether a parcel tax should be imposed on parcels of taxable real property within the District for six years, beginning July 1, 2005. It would replace the District's existing parcel tax that expires on June 30, 2007.

The new parcel tax would be $189 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District. A parcel of taxable real property is any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for property taxes from the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. A parcel otherwise exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of the parcel tax.

The ballot measure includes a senior citizen exemption. Any parcel owned and occupied by a person sixty-five years of age or older would be exempt from the parcel tax upon proper application to the District. Any senior citizen exemption granted for the existing parcel tax will continue for the new parcel tax.

The ballot measure states that the proceeds of the parcel tax will be used for such purposes as "preventing the elimination of teaching positions"; "preventing the dramatic increase in class size in freshman English and history"; "supporting the maintenance of college preparatory courses, Advanced Placement and honors classes, and electives courses"; "supporting the continuation of student support services such as librarians"; and "preventing class size increase for all students at each of the District's schools." Proceeds from the parcel tax may be used only for the specific purposes set forth in the ballot measure and according to constitutional and statutory provisions.

The use of proceeds from the parcel tax will be annually reviewed by a citizens' oversight committee to ensure that all funds are spent responsibly and according to the ballot measure.

Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve the measure for it to pass.

A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax.

A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax.

Arguments For Measure A
Since 1991, voters have demonstrated their support for quality education by providing the high schools in the Acalanes Union High School District with reliable, locally controlled, parcel tax revenue.
The results are clear. Local support has paid-off in higher test scores and improved student performance. Based on results of state-wide student tests released in 2004 our high schools rank at the very top + ranked number two when compared to all of the high school districts in California.
But today, the State of California has put the academic programs available to our local students at risk. Nearly $2.7 million in state funding cuts have forced the District to reduce classroom programs and increase class sizes. We must again act locally to provide reliable funding to our schools.
The facts are clear.
Measure A will:
	•	Restore access to the classes competitive colleges and universities require for admission and students need to explore career paths;
	•	Restore smaller class sizes in English and Algebra and keep other class sizes from increasing further;
	•	Make sure that when students need help planning for college and a career, help is available; and
	•	Provide academic help and support to students struggling with writing and math. 
Without Measure A the District will be forced to:
	•	Eliminate teaching positions;
	•	Reduce or eliminate many more academic, college prep, Advanced Placement and Honors classes; and
	•	Severely reduce student access to a full curriculum. 
The cost is reasonable. Measure A increases the cost of the parcel tax by $104 + less than $9 per month. An exemption is offered to any homeowner 65 or older. All Measure A expenses will be monitored by a volunteer citizens' oversight committee.
Join us in voting yes on Measure A.
M. Margaret DePriester, Former Mayor, Town of Moraga
Roger W. Falcone Professor of Physics, UC Berkeley
John G. Goode Chairman & Chief Investment Officer Davis Skaggs Investment Management
A. Myron Herrell Retired Clergyman Rossmoor Community Leader
Thomas K. Terrill President, The Terrill Company

(No argument against Measure A was submitted.)

Full Text of Measure A
