STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
DIRECTOR, DIVISION FOUR
Calaveras County Water District

STATEMENT OF CANDIDATE FOR
DIRECTOR, DIVISION FOUR
Calaveras County Water District

RAYMOND BEHRBAUM

Occupation: Director Union Public Utility District

EDWARD A. RICH
Occupation: Olive Oil Producer

AGE: 59

Education and Qualifications:	I graduated from Bishop

O'Dovvd High School. I received a certificate for course in
management at Ohlone College. I am currently enrolled in a
Utility Management course at California State University
Sacramento. I served 6 years in the military. I served 3 terms on
the board of Union Public Utility District, 1 term on Utica Power
Authority', 3 terms on board of For Love Of Children. I have
lived in Division 4 for 25 years. I owned and operated a R.V.
parts store in this county for 15 years. Meetings I normally
attend, Union Public Utility District. Calaveras County Water
District, Murphys Fire Protection District, Murphys Sanitary
District, Utica Power Authority, Angels Camp City Council,
County Planning Commission, and Board Of Supervisors. I
volunteer at Murphys Fire Protection District and at Safe Kids at
child seat checks 1 have committed my self to serving this
community. 1 ask you for your support of my commitment to
serve this community.

Education and Qualifications: I have been a property owner in
Calaveras County since the mid-70's and have always considered
CCWD fee's to be high with service provided to fewer customers
than what I saw in other communities. I am concerned that while
everyone expects the Highway 4 corridor to grow dramatically,
little is said about what our water and sewer services capacity is
or how older subdivisions might have services improved as part
of any growth. I have a graduate degree from the University of
Portland and spent 20 plus years in commercial real estate in
Dublin/San Ramon areas. I witnessed first hand the tremendous
growth of those areas and saw the benefits of well planned
growth, balancing new population with services expansions to
older areas and problems in areas wrere short sighted leaders
merely looked to each project as it came along. In 1992 my
family permanently relocated here and I started Calaveras Olive
Oil Company. Among my many endeavors I have formerly
served as District 5 planning commissioner; Vice-president
Copper Cove Homeowners Association; Director Calaveras
County Chamber of Commerce; alternate member Copperopoiis
Community Plan committee; and founding President of Calaveras
Grown. I would ask for your vote and support.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF ANGELS

MEASURE A

Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.91 authorizes cities to levy, increase or extend a transactions and use tax, commonly
referred to as a sales tax, for specific purposes. The tax may be levied, increased or extended if the following requirements are met: (a)
The ordinance proposing the increase is approved by a two-thirds vote of ail members of the governing body and is subsequently
approved by a two-thirds vote of qualified voters of the city voting in an election on the issue; (b) The transactions and use tax
conforms to the Transactions and Use Tax Law; (c) The ordinance includes an expenditure plan describing the specific projects for
which the revenues from the tax may be expended.

This measure will impose an additional .75% (three quarters of one percent) tax on retail sales within the City of Angels. The current
sales tax rate is 7.25%. If the additional tax is imposed, the sales tax rate will be 8%. The tax will be imposed in substantially the same
manner as the existing State of California Sales and Use Tax.

The net proceeds from the added tax will be expended by the City on the following:

Funding of the design and construction of an arterial alternate route to Highway 49 to mitigate traffic congestion by extending the
road known as Angel Oaks Drive and Greenhorn Creek Road to connect with Highway 49 near the north and south city limits in
accordance with the City's General Plan. Expenditures include the planning, design, required studies, permits, right-of-way
acquisition, construction, inspection and all expenses necessary to achieve final acceptance of the roadways by the government of
jurisdiction and satisfaction of all related debt.

The effective date of the Ordinance is January 1, 2006.

A yes vote on this ballot measure wouid impose the tax and increase the sales and use tax within the City of Angels to 8% allowing
for the design and construction for the project described above.

A no vote on this ballot measure would maintain the current sales and use tax rate of 7.25% within the City of Angels and would not
provide additional funding for the design and construction of the project described above.

s/Richard D. Matranga
City Attorney, City of Angels

THE ABOVE STATEMENT IS AN IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF ORDINANCE NUMBER 420 (MEASURE A) IF YOU
DESIRE A COPY OF THE ORDINANCE OR MEASURE, PLEASE CALL THE ELECTIONS OFFICIAL'S OFFICE AT
(209) 754-6376 AND A COPY WILL BE MAILED AT NO COST TO YOU.