SCHOOL

LARKSPUR SCHOOL DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX RENEWAL TO MAINTAIN QUALITY
PUBLIC EDUCATION AND SERVICES
MEASURE B

BTo maintain the high quality of public education in Corte
Madera and Larkspur by providing continued support for small
class sizes, exceptional instructional programs, and highly
qualified staff for a growing student population, shall the Larkspur
School District be authorized to renew a parcel tax commencing
July 1,2005 for a maximum of six years at the rate of $289.00 per
parcel per year with a 5% annual adjustment and an exemption for
property owners 65 and older?

LARKSPUR SCHOOL DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX RENEWAL TO MAINTAIN QUALITY
PUBLIC EDUCATION AND SERVICES
FULL TEXT OF RESOLUTION
MEASURE B

LARKSPUR SCHOOL DISTRICT
Larkspur, California

Resolution 2004/05 — 08

In the Matter of a )	5	RESOLUTION	AND

Parcel Tax )	ORDER	OF ELECTION

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature fails to provide adequate and
predictable funding for schools, and as a result of this lack of financial
support, without renewal of this parcel tax, the Larkspur School District
would; be forced to reduce or eliminate important programs and
instructional staff beneficial and necessary to the children who attend Neil
Cummins Elementary and Hall Middle Schools; and

WHEREAS, in 1999 the voters of the District authorized a base parcel tax
which expires on June 30, 2005 at $248.85; and in 2003 the voters of the
District authorized a supplemental parcel tax which expires on June 30,
2005 at $75.00; and

WHEREAS, without a renewed authorization by the voters of a base parcel
tax, an immediate and substantial reduction and elimination of educational
programs and services will be necessary, which will have a severe and
negative impact on the growing student population of the District; and

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to generate
funds for its educational programs, including lobbying in the State
Legislature, supporting local fund-raising efforts of the Corte Madera
Larkspur Schools Foundation and the PTAs, and seeking grants; and

WHEREAS, the District has implemented economic and operational
efficiencies, and adheres to the highest standards of fiscal accountability
for which it has been praised by the County; and

WHEREAS, the voters of Corte Madera and Larkspur have consistently
supported the District's excellent education program by approving parcel
taxes for school operations and bonds for school renovation and
modernization; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and well-developed public education program
delivers many long-lasting benefits and advantages to all the residents of

our community; and a high quality, community-directed school system
favorably impacts property values, which is vital to the overall well-being
of the entire community; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code Sections 50075, 50077, 50079 and 53720 et seq.
authorize a school district to levy a parcel tax to raise funds for the
purpose of conducting its business upon the approval by two-thirds of
the votes cast;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Trustees of
the Larkspur School District conduct a special election on March 8,2005,
to submit to the qualified voters of the Larkspur School District a
measure to authorize renewal of a parcel tax for the purpose of
continuing vital programs critical to the education of the District's
students; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED by the Larkspur School District Board of
Trustees as follows:

Section 1. This election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries
of the Larkspur School District, to submit to the qualified voters, the
following measure, to wit:

MEASUREB

To maintain the high quality of public education in Corte Madera
and Larkspur by providing continued support for small class sizes,
exceptional instructional programs, and highly qualified staff for a
growing student population, shall the Larkspur School District be
authorized to renew a parcel tax commencing July 1, 2005 for a
maximum of six years at the rate of $289.00 per parcel per year
with a 5% annual adjustment and an exemption for property owners
65 and older?

The district will use the funds generated from the parcel tax renewal, to
the greatest extent possible, to maintain the following:

•	Small class sizes;

•	Quality programs in reading, writing, mathematics, science,
social studies, technology, music and art;

•	Highly qualified and experienced teachers and staff;

o Current educational and instructional equipment, supplies,
library and text books; and

® Support services needed for a safe and educationally sound
environment for children.

The parcel tax for each assessor’s parcel will be renewed at the rate of
$289.00 per year with a 5% annual adjustment. An exemption for the
assessment will be made available to each individual in the District who
will attain the age of 65 prior to June 1 of the assessment year, who
owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, who uses this parcel as his or
her principal place of residence, and who applies to the District on or
before June 1,2005 or June 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any
one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for
the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such
applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her principal residence.
Senior exemptions granted during the term of the current parcel tax will
continue in effect during the term of the renewal.

Section 2. The text of the measure as displayed on each individual
ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

MEASURE B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE



21554

LARKSPUR SCHOOL DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX RENEWAL TO MAINTAIN QUALITY
PUBLIC EDUCATION AND SERVICES
MEASUREB

To maintain the high quality of public education in Corte Madera
and Larkspur by providing continued support for small class sizes,
exceptional instructional programs, and highly qualified staff for a
growing student population, shall the Larkspur School District be
authorized to renew a parcel tax commencing July 1, 2005 for a
maximum of six years at the rate of $289.00 per parcel per year
with a 5% annual adjustment and an exemption for property owners
65 and older?

YES	NO

Section 3. Commencing on July 1, 2005, the parcel tax collected
annually on all assessor's parcels at the rate specified above, shall be
collected and administered in the same manner as ad valorem property
taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code.

Section 4. The Superintendent of Schools of Marin County is hereby
requested to call an election of this,parcel tax to be held on March 8,
2005. The County Clerk is hereby requested and authorized to : 1) set
forth this measure on all sample ballots relating to this election to be
mailed to the qualified electors of the Larkspur School District; and 2) to
provide absentee voter ballots for this parcel tax election for use by
qualified electors of the Larkspur School District who are entitled thereto
in the manner provided by law.

Section 5. If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this resolution
is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portion of this resolution. This governing board
declares that it would have adopted -this resolution and each section,
subsection, phrase or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one
or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases or clauses shall be
declared invalid.

Section 6. The clerk of the Larkspur School District governing board is
hereby authorized and directed to certify to the due adoption of this
resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Marin County
Superintendent of Schools and to file a copy hereof so certified with the
Marin County Clerk.

The foregoing resolution was moved by Board Member Sally Blatt,
seconded by Board Member Nicole Kowalski, and adopted by roll call
vote on December 8,2004, by the following vote:

AYES: Blatt, Futterman, Kowalski, Mangan, Weeks

NOES: None

ABSENT/NOT VOTING: None

si Kevin W. Mangan, President	si	Michael	Futterman, Clerk

Board of Trustees	Board	of Trustees

I, Bob Cone, Secretary to the Board of Trustees, do hereby certify that
the foregoing is a true and correct copy of the Resolution adopted by the
Board of Trustees of the LARKSPUR SCHOOL DISTRICT at its meeting
of December 8, 2004, which Resolution is on file in the office of said
Board.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B

If this Measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the Larkspur School
. District will be authorized to levy a special tax for a maximum of six years
beginning on July 1, 2005. The Measure states that the amount of the
special tax shall begin at Two Hundred and Eighty Nine Dollars
($289.00) per parcel per year, plus an annual five percent (5%)
adjustment.

An exemption is created for owners aged sixty-five (65) years or older
who use the parcel as his or her principal place of residence.

Dated: December 17,2004

PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

Dated: December 8,2004

si Bob Conej Secretary to the Board of Trustees

MEASURE B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21-555

21555

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Ensure Excellence in Education

The citizens of Corte Madera and Larkspur recognize the importance of
excellent local schools. Our schools are assets that distinguish the Twin
Cities and help maintain property values. Traditionally strong support
from community members and parents has helped ensure that our
elementary and middle schools offer only high quality programs. In
2003, responding to a state funding crisis, a temporary two year
supplemental parcel tax of $75 was approved by the voters. It expires in
June, 2005.

Measure B provides for a six year renewal of the basic underlying parcel
tax that our community has supported since 1988. This parcel tax has
historically funded the District’s core academic programs that have
placed our schools among the best in the state for exceptional student
achievement. This parcel tax currently funds 14% of the District's annual
operating budget.

Measure B will help maintain:

•	Small class sizes

•	Quality programs in reading, writing, mathematics, science,
social studies, technology and music

•	Highly qualified and experienced teachers and staff

•	Up-to-date educational and instructional equipment, supplies,
library and text books

Measure B asks voters to renew the parcel tax for a term of six years at

a cost of $289 annually or $24.08 per month per parcel, with a five

percent yearly adjustment to support a growing student population. All

funds generated from this measure will go directly to programs at Neil

Cummins Elementary and Hall Middle Schools. Residential property

owners 65 and older may apply for an exemption.

*

Larkspur and Corte Madera have a proud tradition of supporting our
outstanding schools. Please join us on March 8th in reaffirming that
commitment. Vote YES on Measure B, a sensible investment in local
education.

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS
MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

si Larry Chu
Larkspur City Council Member

si Charles H. Curley
Twice Mayor of Larkspur

si Melissa Gill
Corte Madera Town Councilmember, Former Mayor

si Harry Schriebman
Former Corte Madera Community Foundation President

si Kevin W. Mangan
President Board of Trustees, Larkspur School District

END OF MEASURE B

21556