LOWELL JOINT SCHOOL DISTRICT

RESOLUTION 402

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
LOWELL JOINT SCHOOL DISTRICT
PROPOSING A QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX AND
ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER

Whereas, The Lowell Joint School District (“District") has been inadequately funded by
the State for many years and the District has used funds from property sales to maintain quality
educational programs; and

Whereas, the District provides a high quality public education, rated as a high-scoring
district by the State with a District Academic Performance Index (API) of 818 and having met all
requirements of No Child Left Behind (NCLB); and

Whereas, property values within the District are directly affected by changes in the
quality of education available in the public schools; and

Whereas, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to generate additional funds for
the educational program, including local fundraising efforts, and cost-cutting measures,
including employee layoffs and cutting budgets, and these efforts have not produced sufficient
revenues to maintain the quality of education and facilities in the District; and

Whereas, future funding for the District from the State of California and other sources is
projected to be inadequate to provide the level of support to the District’s education programs
which the citizens of the District expect; and,

Whereas, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government Code
Section 50075 et.seq. authorizes a school District, following notice and public hearing, to levy a
tax for specified purposes upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting on the measure;
and

Whereas, this Board believes that a special tax equaling $95 per parcel, is necessary to
provide and maintain educational opportunities for the students of this District;

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that:

1.	The Board hereby proposes to levy a special tax for the specific purposes enumerated in
Section 6 of this Resolution;

2. Said qualified special tax shall be in an amount not to exceed $95 per parcel annually for
eight (8) years assessed against each parcel of taxable land in the District. An annual
review and recommendation shall be completed for the determination of the amount of the
qualified special tax to be assessed for each successive year, but not to exceed $95 per
year.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District that now receives a separate tax
bill from the Los Angeles County Assessor’s Office. AH property that would otherwise be
exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of said qualified special
tax.

RES402.DOC

1 Of 4

3.	Subject to voter approval as set forth below, the special tax shall be levied commencing July
1, 2005, and shall be collected by the Los Angeles and Orange County Tax Collectors at the
same time as and along with the general ad valorem taxes collected by said tax collectors.
The tax shall be subject to the same interest and penalty as general ad valorem taxed. The
tax penalty shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property
taxes until paid. In addition, any owners who are 65 years of age or older of a Parcel used
solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes may obtain an exemption from
the levy of the special tax, by submitting an application of such owners to the Board in
accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by the Board.

4.	The levy and collection of the special parcel tax is not intended to decrease or offset any
increase in local, state or federal government funding sources that would otherwise be
available to the District at any time during which the special tax may be levied. In the event
that the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District shall reduce the special tax
levy to the extent of any such decrease or offset.

5.	Subject to the approval of not less than two-thirds of the voters voting on the proposition,
and pursuant to Article XII1B, Section 4, of the California Constitution, the annual
appropriations limit of the District shall be increased in the 2005-06 fiscal year of the District
and each of the next seven fiscal years thereafter, by the amount of the special tax levied in
each of such fiscal years, not to exceed $95 per year.

6.	This Board hereby requests that at the special election to be held on March 8, 2005 the Los
Angeles County Registrar-Recorder submits to the voters of this district the following
condensed version of the ballot measure for the voting machine and sample ballot:

“Measure____

(Special Tax for Lowell Joint School District)

“To maintain quality educational programs and classroom instruction, to prevent
significant increases in class size, to avoid reductions in teaching positions, to attract
and retain the best teachers and employees, and to support educational programs that
enhance student achievement, shall the Lowell Joint School District be authorized to
levy a special tax of $95 on each parcel of land within the District each year for eight
years with an exemption opportunity for seniors?"

The full text of the ballot measure shall read as follows:

“Shall the Lowell Joint School District, serving the City of La Habra, the City of Whittier,
the City of La Habra Heights, and the county territory of Whittier levy a special tax for
under-funded programs with an exemption opportunity for seniors to:

1.	attract and retain the very best teachers;

2.	keep the Reading Assistance Program for students;

3.	continue to improve student learning and performance;

4.	maintain and/or reduce existing class size in order to continue quality instruction;

5.	continue the library, music, art and technology programs;

RES402.DOC

2	of 4

AMOUNT OF TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT

The special tax shall be $95 (or less as provided below) per year for eight (8) full years
assessed against each parcel within the boundaries of the Lowell Joint School District.

DEFINITION OF “PARCEL"

For purposes of the special tax, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of land which lies
wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Lowell Joint School District, for which the
Assessor of the County has assigned an Assessor’s parcel number.

EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS

Pursuant to the California Government Code Section 50079(b), any owners who are 65
years of age or older of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential
purposes may obtain an exemption from the special tax by submitting an application to
the Board of Trustees of the Lowell Joint School District in accordance with rules and
regulations adopted by the Board.

DISTRICT PHILOSOPHY

The Lowell Joint School District is committed to providing a strong academic program of
basic skills with a well-rounded program of traditional subject offerings. At all District
schools, we emphasize the importance of education, the family, and traditional American
values. We stress the value of persona! integrity, social responsibility, and a respect for
our national heritage.

Pursuant to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriations limit for the Lowell
Joint School District will be increased by the aggregate sum collected by the levy of this
special tax in each of the years for which this special tax is authorized."

7.	This measure shall be submitted to the voters of the Lowell Joint School District at the
special election to be held on March 8, 2005, and shall take effect immediately upon its
confirmation by two-thirds (2/3rds) of the voters voting upon the proposition at said election;

8.	This Board requests that the district election be consolidated with any and all elections to be
held on the same date as specified above;

9.	This Board requests that the Los Angeles County Registrar-Recorder carry out all necessary
duties in connection with the consolidated election, including printing and mailing sample
ballots, arguments and applications for absentee ballots; providing adequate polling places;
canvassing returns and certifying the results to this Board; and all other election duties
prescribed by law;

10.	Pursuant to Sections 9316 and 9502 of the Elections Code, the Los Angeles County
Registrar/Clerk is requested to publish the Notice once in a newspaper of general circulation
published in the District so as to provide a reasonable time in which to prepare and print the
arguments, and to permit the 10-calendar-day public examination. The Board requires that
a copy of that published Notice be delivered to the Clerk of the Board, pursuant to Section
12113 of the Elections Code.

11.	The Secretary of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to post a copy of the
Resolution on or near the doors of the District’s Office and in three public places within the
District for at least two weeks before the date of the election;

RES402.DOC

3 Of 4

12.	If any section, subsection, phrase or clause of this Resolution is for any reason found to be
invalid, such section, subsection, phrase or clause shall be severed from, and shall not
affect the validity of, all remaining portions of this Resolution which can be given effect
without the severed portion; and

13.	The officers of the District are, and each of them acting alone is, hereby directed to take
such other actions and to execute such other documents as are necessary to carry out the
purpose of this Resolution.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED this 25th day of October 2004, by the following vote:

AYES: Mrs. Janet Averill, Mr. Darin Barber, Mrs. Cathy Greer, Mrs. Gayle Rogers,
and Mr. Fred Schambeck
NOES: None

ABSENT: None

I, Joe H. Gillentine, Secretary to the Board of Trustees of the Lowell Joint School District of Los
Angeles and Orange Counties, California, hereby certify that the above and foregoing resolution
was duly and regularly adopted by the said Board at a regular meeting thereof held on the 25th
day of October 2004, and passed by a unanimous vote of those present.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, 1 have hereunto set my hand and seal this 25th day of October

2004.

Joe	1 of T	rustees

RES402.DOC

4	of 4