WOODLAKE - Bond Information

WOODLAKE UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

MEASURE B

(2/3 vote required to pass)

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B
BALLOT TEXT
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

Ballot Text

For all schools, to provide funds not otherwise available for the athletic facility improvements,
repainting of the campus, fencing, irrigation and well improvements for the baseball field, salary
and benefits of additional maintenance employees, shall the Woodlake Union High School
District be authorized to collect an annual qualified special tax of $50 per taxable parcel
beginning July 1, 2005, for a period of seven years, and with all expenditures monitored by an
independent oversight committee?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

MEASURE B

m050308B.htm[l/5/2015 7:54:20 AM]

WOODLAKE - Bond Information

Woodlake Union High School District Special Tax Measure

Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution, and Government Code section 50075
authorize a special district to impose a special tax upon two-thirds vote of the qualified electors
in the district.

Proposed is a special tax of fifty dollars ($50) per parcel within the boundaries of the Woodlake
Union High School District (hereafter referred as "District") on the secured tax roll to be imposed
on an annual basis. If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting in the election held within the
boundaries of the District vote in favor of the measure, the District will be authorized to impose
this special tax for the purpose specifically stated in the measure. The measure’s stated purpose
is to continue vital educational programs critical to the educational process in the schools of the
District, including athletic facility improvements, repainting of the campus, fencing, irrigation and
well improvements for the baseball field, and salary and benefits of additional maintenance
employees.

The proposed special tax would be applied uniformly per taxable parcel for a period of seven
years, commencing on July 1, 2005. The special tax shall be fixed and collected in the same
manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.

This measure makes no change to existing law. The electors entitled to vote on this measure are
the registered voters within the boundaries of the District. If the measure is not approved by at
least two-thirds of the votes cast on the measure, the measure will fail and the special tax will
not be implemented.

KATHLEEN BALES-LANGE

Tulare County Counsel

s/ Judy Chapman

Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

In June of 1998 the voters in the Woodlake High School District approved a bond measure of 3.6
million dollars. With this money the District was able to leverage another 2.6 million dollars in
state modernization and joint use funding and as a consequence, the district has many new and
modernized facilities for students and community members to enjoy. This proposed tax of $50
per parcel per year will generate approximately $300,000 per year for the next seven years for

m050308B.htm[l/5/2015 7:54:20 AM]

WOODLAKE - Bond Information

the Woodlake High School District.

This parcel tax is being proposed by the Board of Trustees because the State of California has
not been able to fund schools at the level set forth in Proposition 98 for the last three years. The
school district has had to reduce its workforce, modify its modernization plans and change the
structure of the instructional day. The parcel tax proposed on this ballot will enable the Board to
stabilize funding for:

Instructional materials

Instructional staff

Additional classrooms

Groundskeepers

Complete outdoor facilities

The State budget does not supply the projected funding that Proposition 98 was intended to
deliver to local school districts. A parcel tax would give local taxpayers the assurance that
facilities at High School District properties will be maintained in a condition that will promote
pride in the community and preserve residential home values. The tax will expire in seven years
unless it is reauthorized by the voters. Approval of this measure will require the Board to
establish an oversight committee so that the expenditures made from these funds will be
reviewed, approved and reported to the public on a regular basis.

s/ Steve M. Tietjen

Superintendent



WOODLAKE UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

NOV ZA 2004

RESOLUTION NO. H04/05-17	% 4 ^^

RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL PARCEL TAX ELECTION, ESTABLISHING
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER, AND REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH

OTHER ELECTIONS

RESOLVED, by the Board of Trustees (the “Board”) of the Woodlake Union High School
District (the “District”), as follows:

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide adequate funding to the
District and as a result of this lack of financial support for the schools, the District has been and will
find it necessary to reduce services and upkeep at facilities necessary to the well being of the schools
and children of the District;

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to generate funds for the
educational program, including lobbying in the State Legislature and many local fundraising efforts,
and has undertaken cost-cutting measures, including employee layoffs, reduction in administration,
and reduction of programs and services beneficial and necessary to the students of the District;

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program delivers many long-lasting
benefits and advantages to all the residents of our community; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIILA of the California Constitution and Sections 50075,
50075.1, 50075.3, 50075.5, 50076, 50077, 50079, and 53720 et seq. of the California Government
Code authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the purpose of conducting its
business upon the approval of two-thirds of votes cast by voters voting upon such a special tax
proposal; and

WHEREAS, it has been determined that the Board conduct a special election on March 8,

2005, at which will be submitted to the qualified voters of the District a measure to authorize a special
tax for the purpose of continuing vital educational programs critical to the educational process in the
schools of the District;

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Trustees of the Woodlake Union High School District
does hereby resolve, determine, and order as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held within the boundaries of the District, at
which election shall be submitted to the qualified voters within the District the follow measure, to wit:

“MEASURE”

For all schools, to provide funds not otherwise available for the athletic facility improvements,
repainting of the campus, fencing, irrigation and well improvements for the baseball field, salary and
benefits of additional maintenance employees, shall the Woodlake Union High School District be
authorized to collect an annual qualified special tax of $50 per taxable parcel beginning July 1, 2005,

for a period of seven years, and with all expenditures monitored by an independent oversight
committee.

Section 2. Commencing on July 1, 2005, the special tax collected annually on all assessor’s
parcels at the rate specified above, shall be collected and administered in the same manner as ad
valorem property taxes are fixed and collected under provisions of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code.

Section 2. The Tulare Coimty Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to call a special
election of the said special tax to be held on March 8, 2005. The Tulare County Clerk is hereby
requested and authorized to: 1) set forth said measure on all sample ballots relating to said election to
be mailed to the qualified electors of the District; and 2) to provide absent voter ballots for said
special tax election for use by qualified electors of the District who are entitled thereto in the manner
provided by law.

The Board requests that the District’s election be consolidated with any and all elections to be
held on the same date as specified above.

Section 4. If any section, sub-section, phrase, or clause of this resolution is for any reason held
to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this resolution.
This Board of Trustees declares that it would have adopted this resolution and each section, sub-
section, phrase, or clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, sub-sections,
sentences, phrases, or clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 5. The Board shall provide in each year (pursuant to section 7902.1 of the California
Government Code or any successor provision of law) for any increase in the District’s appropriations
limit as shall be necessary to ensure that proceeds of the parcel tax may be spent for the authorized
purposes.

Section 6. The President of the Board and/or his designees are hereby authorized to prepare
and file with the Registrar of Voters a ballot argument in favor of the proposition, or act as an author
of any ballot argument prepared in connection with the election, including a rebuttal argument, each
within the time established by the Registrar of Voters, which shall be considered the official ballot
arguments of the Board as sponsor of the proposition.

Section 7. The Clerk of the Board is hereby authorized and directed to certify to the due
adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to the Tulare County
Superintendent of Schools and to file a copy hereof so certified with the Tulare County Clerk.

The foregoing resolution was moved by Board Member Robert Burke, seconded by Edmund
Pena, and adopted on roll call on November 3, 2004, by the following vote:

AYES:	Hardcastle,	Pena, Burke, Owen, Mills

NAYS:	None

ABSENT:	None