/// v/o s





ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS
LOS ARGUMENTOS EN FAVOR 0 EN CONTRA DE LAS LEYES PROPUESTAS SON LAS OPINIONES PERSONALES DE SUS AUTORES

CITY OF MERCED
MERCED VITAL CITY SERVICES PROTECTION
CIUDAD DE MERCED
PROTECCION DE LOS SERVICIOS MUNICIPALES ESENCIALES DE MERCED

MEASUREC
MEDIDA C

To help preserve the safety and character of Merced, with a priority on funding essential services
such as police, fire, and street maintenance, as well as other general City services, shall an Ordinance be
adopted increasing the City’s sales tax by 1/2 cent for every taxable dollar spent for not more than 20
years, with citizens oversight and independent annual audits of all expenditures?

Yes______ No______

Para ayudar a conservar la seguridad y la personalidad de Merced, dando prioridad al financiamiento
de servicios esenciales de policia, bomberos y mantenimiento de calles, junto con otros servicios munici-
pales generates, <-,se adoptara una Ordenanza que aumente el impuesto a las ventas de la Ciudad en
medio centavo ($.005) por cada dolar imponible gastado, por un plazo no superior a 20 anos, con escruti-
nio ciudadano y auditorfas anuales independientes de todos los gastos efectuados?

Si___ No.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C FOR
MERCED VITAL CITY SERVICES PROTECTION

ORDINANCE NO.________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MERCED, CALIFORNIA, AMENDING
TITLE 3, “REVENUE AND FINANCE,” OF THE MERCED MUNICIPAL CODE BY ADDING
CHAPTER 3.38, “MERCED VITAL SERVICES PROTECTION MEASURE GENERAL TRANS-
ACTIONS (SALES) AND USE TAX,” TO THE MERCED MUNICIPAL CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MERCED DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. AMENDMENT TO CODE. Title 3, “Revenue and Finance,” of the Merced Municipal Code is
hereby amended by the addition of Chapter 3.38, “Merced Vital City Services Protection Measure General
Transactions (Sales) and Use Tax,” to read as follows:

“CHAPTER 3.38

Merced Vital City Services Protection Measure
General Transactions (Sales) and Use Tax

Sections:

3.38.005	Chapter Title.
3.38.010	Purposes.
3.38.020	Operative Date.
3.38.025	Termination Date.
3.38.030	Tax Suspended If Proceeds Taken By State.
3.38.035	Transactions (Sales) Tax.
3.38.040	Use Tax.
3.38.050	Citizens Oversight Committee.
3.38.060	Accounting and Report.
3.38.070	Independent Audit.
3.38.080	State Requirements.

3.38.090	Contract with State.

3.38.100	Place of Sale. *-

3.38.110	Additional Permits Not Required.

3.38.120	Adoption of Provisions of State Law -Generally.

3.38.130	Adoption of Provisions of State Law - Limitations.

3.38.140	Exemptions and Exclusions.

3.38.150	Amendments to State Law.

3.38.160	Non-Exclusivity.

3.38.170	Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

3.38.180	Authority to Amend.

3.38.005 Chapter TitleJThis Chapter shall be known as the ‘Merced Vital City Services Protection Measure’ (the
‘Measure’). This Chapter shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

3.38.010 Purposes.

The People of the City of Merced declare that this Chapter, pursuant to the Measure, is adopted as a general tax
to ensure adequate funding for vital City services which are funded by the City’s General Fund. Among the vital ser-
vices funded by the General Fund are police protection, fire protection, and road and street maintenance and
improvements.

3.38.020	Operative Pate. This Chapter shall be operative ten (10) days after certification by the City Council of
the returns of the election indicating approval by a majority of the voters voting in the election of the Measure enact-
ing this Chapter. The general transactions (sales) and use tax imposed hereunder shall be operative the first day of
the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this Chapter (‘Operative Date’).
Based on a November 8, 2005 election, the Operative Date for the general transactions (sales) and use tax imposed
hereunder shall be April 1,2006.

3.38.025 Termination Pate. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Measure shall expire March 31, 2026,
unless extended by the voters.

3.38.030 Tax Suspended If Proceeds Taken By State. Upon written notice to the State Board of Equalization
as required, this Chapter shall be automatically suspended, and all funding related thereto stopped, if the revenue
generated under this Chapter is diverted by the State of California.

3.38.035 Transactions (Sales) Tax. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is here-
by imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the Operative Date of said tax until said tax is terminated under Section 3.38.025.

3.38.040	Use Tax. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the City of tan-
gible personal property purchased from any retailer for storage, use, or other consumption in the City at the rate of
one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the property sold on and after the Operative Date of said tax until
said tax is terminated under Section 3.38.025. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to the State sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.38.050	Citizens Oversight Committee.

A.	Pursuant to the Measure, and Sections 200 and 706 of the City Charter, there is hereby created a Merced
Vital City Services Protection Measure Citizens Oversight Committee (‘Citizens Oversight Committee’) to
review the revenues and expenditures generated and spent under this Chapter.

B.	The Citizens Oversight Committee shall consist of three (3) voting members from each of the existing
three (3) Policing Districts of the City, as these Policing Districts exist on the effective date of this Chapter,
for a total of nine (9) voting members.

C.	Initial voting members of the Citizens Oversight Committee shall be nominated to the City Council by the
Citizens Revenue Task Force.

1.	The City Council shall first consider the nominations from the Citizens Revenue Task Force as a whole
and either affirmatively vote to appoint or not appoint the nominees as a whole.

2.	In the event a majority of the City Council fails to appoint the nominees as a whole, the City Council
may make individual appointments from the nominations from the Citizens Revenue Task Force.

(a) The remainder of any unfilled positions on the Citizens Oversight Committee shall be returned to
the Citizens Revenue Task Force for further nominations.

3.	The City Council shall consider those nominations by following the same procedure as set forth in
Subsections C.1 and 2 above.

D.	Any vacancy for a voting member on the Citizens Oversight Committee shall be filled by having the
Citizens Oversight Committee make nominations to the City Council for consideration as a whole.

1.	The City Council shall first consider the nominations as a whole and either affirmatively vote to appoint
or not appoint the nominees as a whole.

2.	In the event the City Council fails to affirmatively appoint the nominees as a whole, the City Council
may make individual appointments from the nominees submitted by the Citizens Oversight Committee.

(a) The remainder of any unfilled positions on the Citizens Oversight Committee shall be returned to
the Citizens Oversight Committee for further nominations.

3.	The City Council shall consider these nominations by following the same procedure as set forth in
Subsections D.1 and 2 above.

E.	In addition to the voting members, there shall be made available to each employee association and unrep-
resented employees, a non-voting ex-officio member of the Committee from each employee association,
including unrepresented employees. Each employee association, including unrepresented employees, shall
determine the selection process and term for their ex-officio member. In addition, each association shall
have the right to designate an alternate ex-officio member to the Committee to serve when the ex-officio is
unable to attend.

F.	Voting members of the Committee shall be restricted to individuals who are registered voters within the City
of Merced. Elected officials at any level of government and employees of the City of Merced and the
dependents of each are ineligible to serve as voting members of the Committee.

G All voting members so appointed shall serve without compensation for a term of four (4) years. The voting
members first appointed to the Committee shall classify themselves by lot so that by the following City
Council election the term of one (1) of the voting members in each Policing District shall expire. Said lot
shall provide for the grouping of terms to such an extent as is necessary in order that the term of at least
three (3) voting members, one (1) from each Policing District, shall expire on each succeeding City Council
election.

H. The Committee shall review the projected revenues and recommended expenditures for the funds generat-
ed by this Chapter and shall make their recommendations to the City Council on the same as a part of the
City’s budget process. After a review of the independent audit required by Section 3.38.070 hereof, the
Citizens Oversight Committee shall provide its findings to the City Council. Unless modified by City Council
Resolution, the Citizens Oversight Committee shall not have any function, power, or authority other than as
expressly provided herein.

The Citizens Oversight Committee shall meet quarterly or as often as it deems necessary to accomplish the
objectives stated in this Section.

3.38.060	Accounting and Report. Prior to the adoption of the City budget in June of each year, the City
Manager and the Finance Officer shall present to the City Council an accounting of the tax revenues received and
expenditures made under this Chapter.

3.38.070	Independent Audit. After the close of every fiscal year in which the tax imposed hereunder is levied,
the City shall cause an independent audit to be conducted as to the revenue generated as a result of this Measure
and to ensure the proper expenditure thereof consistent with the purposes of this Chapter. The report and any find-
ings of the independent auditor shall be transmitted to the Mayor, City Council, City Manager, City Attorney, Finance
Officer, and the Citizens Oversight Committee established by Section 3.38.050 hereof.

3.38.080	State Requirements. Pursuant to the requirements of the State Board of Equalization, this Chapter is
adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order
to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions (sales) and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (com-
mencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part
1.7 of Division 2, and which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance, which shall be operative if a
majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called
for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions (sales) and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those
of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with
the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions (sales) and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure
therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that
adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory
and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting
the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions (sales) and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will
be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue

and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions (sales) and use taxes, and at the same
time, minimize the burderuof record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
Chapter.

3.38.090	Contract with State. Prior to the Operative Date of this Chapter, as required by State law, the City
shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation
of the transactions (sales) and use tax imposed under this Chapter; provided, however, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the Operative Date of this Chapter, the City shall nevertheless
so contract and in such case the operative date of the transaction (sales) and use tax shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such contract.

3.38.100	Place of Sale. For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of busi-
ness of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer, or his or her agent, to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from
such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales and use tax, regardless
of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State, or has
more than one place of business, the place or places at which retail sales are consummated shall be determined
under the rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.38.110 Additional Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional seller’s permit shall not be required by this Chapter.

3.38.120 Adoption of Provisions of State Law - Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.38.130 Adoption of Provisions of State Law - Limitations. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be
substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word ‘State’ is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of
Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any agency,
officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this Chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries

of the State of California, where the	result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this	transaction (sales) and use tax with	respect to certain sales,	stor-

age, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and	Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to	certain sales, storage, use or other	consumption of tangible	per-

sonal property which would not be subject to tax by the State under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word ‘City’ shall be substituted for the word ‘State’ in the phrase ‘retailer engaged in business in this
State’ in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

3.38.140	Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions (sales) and use tax the amount of any sales
tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any State-administered transactions
or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the transactions (sales) tax the gross receipts
from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be
used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively
in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of )
this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by .delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer
to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a
point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-
of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and declara-
tion under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that
address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time
for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the
operative date of this Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this Section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease
upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Chapter, the storage, use, or other consumption in
this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pur-
suant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addi-
tion to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

4. If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises
under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the
lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of
this Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this Section, storage, use, or other consumption, or
possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not
to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, sub-
sidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	‘A retailer engaged in business in the City’ shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehi-
cles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undoc-
umented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehi-
cle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Chapter may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reim-
bursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to

\

Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the prop-
erty the storage, use o* other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.38.150 Amendments to State Law. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Chapter to Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this Chapter, provided howev-
er, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Chapter.

3.38.160 Non-Exclusivity. The sales tax levied under this Chapter is in addition to, not in lieu of, any and all oth-
er applicable taxes already in existence.

3.38.170 Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process
shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the
State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected hereunder.

3.38.180	Authority to Amend. In order to further the purposes and intent of this Chapter, the City Council is
authorized to amend this Chapter in the following areas without a further vote of the People:

A.	The composition of the Citizens Oversight Committee;

B.	The suspension or reactivation of this Chapter if the revenue generated under this Chapter is diverted by
the State of California for purposes other than those specifically enumerated herein;

C.	Any change required by the State of California as a precondition to the collection of the special tax autho-
rized hereunder.

Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, any proposed change to the tax rate imposed under this
Chapter shall be submitted to the vote of the People.”

SECTION 2 EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions
(sales) and use tax shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after the certification by the City Council of the elec-
tion returns indicating passage of the Ordinance by a majority of the voters casting votes in the election.

SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of
this Ordinance, is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent juris-
diction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance. The People of the City of
Merced hereby declare that they would have adopted this Ordinance, and each section, subsection, subdivision, sen-
tence, clause, phrase, or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivi-
sions, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions thereof be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION 4. PUBLICATION. The City Clerk is directed to cause a copy of this Ordinance to be published in
the official newspaper at least once within fifteen (15) days after its approval by the voters.

The foregoing Ordinance was approved by the voters of the City of Merced at a special election held on the_

day of November 2005, by the following vote tally:

YES:

NOES:

OTHER:

APPROVED:

Mayor

ATTEST:

JAMES G. MARSHALL, CITY CLERK

BY:___________________________________

Deputy City Clerk
(SEAL)

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

City Attorney

J

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE

The Merced Vital City Services Protection Initiative
Measure contains the following provisions:

® General Sales (transaction & use) tax for vital
City services, including police and fire protec-
tion, road maintenance, and any other general
fund purpose.

© Measure becomes effective 10 days after the
certification by the City Council with sufficient
votes for passage; the tax becomes operative
April 1, 2006 for a period of 20 years.

© Suspends the tax, after notice to the State,
should the State divert this revenue for State
purposes.

© The sales and use tax rate is set at one-half of
one percent of every taxable sales dollar.

© Forms a Citizens’ Oversight Committee of nine
voting members, three from each of the exist-
ing Policing Districts of the City. Ex-officio
non-voting membership available to each
employee bargaining unit.

o Voting members must be registered voters
of City and no elected officials or City
employees allowed to be yoting members.

o Meet at least quarterly to review revenues
and expenditures and report findings to the
City Council.

o Make budget recommendations to the City
Council for expenditures of revenue raised
prior to budget adoption.

o Initial membership nominated to the City
Council by Citizens Revenue Task Force.

o City Council can appoint as a whole or
return unfilled positions to the Citizens
Revenue Task Force for further nomina-
tions.

o Once formed, vacancies filled from nomina-
tion from Oversight Committee.

o Appointed to 4-year staggered terms.

© Prior to adoption of budget City Manager and
Finance Officer present City Council account-
ing of revenue and expenditures collected and
made under the Measure.

• Requires a further vote of the people before
the tax rate may be increased or the term of
the tax extended.

Respectfully submitted,

s/ GREGORY G. DIAZ
City Attorney

© Requires an independent audit of all expendi-
tures from revenue raised by the Measure.

© The City Council has the authority to amend
the Measure in the following areas:

o Composition of the Citizens Oversight
Committee.

o To not suspend the tax if the State diverts
the revenue collected under the Measure on
a temporary basis.

o To remain consistent with the requirements
of the State to allow for the continued col-
lection of the tax.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

We urge you to support the City of Merced’s Vital
Services Initiative Measure.

In the last ten years, Merced’s population has grown
by 20% but the number of police officers and firefighters
has only increased by 4%. Meanwhile, crime (including
gangs and youth violence), traffic, and road deterioration
are also rising. The current ratio of population to law
enforcement is inadequate, and in a recent poll, the citi-
zens of Merced spoke out strongly in favor of increased
public safety and better roads.

The City Council has dedicated 96% of the General
Fund Revenue to public safety, which limits our ability to
improve road infrastructure. The State has taken over
$15 million of local tax revenue, which severely inhibits
the City’s ability to provide vital services.

This measure is needed to serve Merced’s current
residents. New development will pay for additional need-
ed services through developer fees and other taxes.

This proposed half-cent sales tax over a period of
twenty years is a very small price to pay to add additional
police officers and firefighters, expand and improve anti-
gang, anti-drug, and crime prevention programs, reduce
traffic congestion, and improve roads throughout the City.
Strict accountability provisions and an independent citi-
zen’s oversight committee will ensure all funds are spent
prudently. By law, the State cannot take away the rev-
enue generated by this tax, every dollars stays within the
City.

It just makes sense, increased safety for yourself
and your families, as well as improving our roads for a
cost of less than a penny on the dollar.

Help us make Merced a better and safer place to
live by voting “YES” on the City of Merced’s Vital
Services Initiative Measure.

ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE LA MEDIDA C

Lo instamos a apoyar la Medida para la Iniciativa de
los Servicios Esenciales de la Ciudad de Merced.

Durante los ultimos diez anos, la poblacion de
Merced ha crecido en 20%, pero el numero de policias y
bomberos ha aumentado en solo 4%. Entretanto, sigue
aumentando el delito (incluyendo la violencia de jovenes
y pandilleros), el trafico y el deterioro de los caminos. La
actual proporcion entre poblacion y miembros del orden
publico es insuficiente, y en una encuesta reciente los
ciudadanos de Merced se expresaron vehementemente
en favor de un aumento en la seguridad publica y de
mejores caminos.

El Concejo Municipal ha dedicado el 96% de los
Ingresos al Fondo General a la seguridad publica, lo que
limita nuestra capacidad para mejorar la infraestructura
caminera. El Estado se ha apoderado de $15 millones en
ingresos tributarios locales, lo que gravemente inhibe la
capacidad de la Ciudad para ofrecer servicios esen-
ciales.

Necesitamos esta Medida para atender a los resi-
dentes actuates de Merced. Las nuevas urbanizaciones
pagaran por los servicios adicionales que se necesiten
mediante cargos de urbanizacion y otros impuestos.

El impuesto a las ventas de medio centavo que se
propone aplicar durante veinte anos es un precio mfnimo
a cambio de aumentar el numero de policias y
bomberos, ampliar y mejorar los programas de preven-
cion de delitos y contra drogas y pandillas, reducir la
congestion del trafico, y mejorar los caminos a traves de
la Ciudad. Los estrictos requisitos en cuanto a respons-
abilidad y el establecimiento de un Comite Ciudadano
Supervisor aseguraran que todos los fondos se gasten
prudentemente. Por ley, el Estado no puede apoderarse
de los ingresos generados por este impuesto, y cada
dolar permanece dentro de la Ciudad.

s/ E.J. Lorenzi
Chair
s/ Tony Dossetti
Police Chief
s/ Ken Mitten
Fire Chief
s/ John Raggio

Public Works Director
s/ Diana Almanza

A Woman’s Place, Executive Director

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE C
WAS SUBMITTED

Tiene perfecto sentido: un aumento en la seguridad
suya y de su familia y al mismo tiempo el mejoramiento
de nuestros caminos por un costo de menos de un
penique de cada dolar.

Ayudenos a hacer de Merced un lugar para vivir
mejor y mas seguro, votando “SI” a la Medida para la
Iniciativa de los Servicios Esenciales de la Ciudad de
Merced.

f/ E.J. Lorenzi
Presidente
f/ Tony Dossetti
Jefe de Policia
f/ Ken Mitten

Jefe de Bomberos
f/ John Raggio

Director de Obras Publicas
M Diana Almanza

Directora Ejecutiva, Lugar de la Mujer (A
Woman’s Place)

NO SE PRESENT© ARGUMENTO
EN CONTRA DE LA MEDIDA C