VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

SANTA CRUZ CITY ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS FUNDING RENEWAL. To

B provide continued funding to retain quality teachers, art
and music programs, credentialed librarians and counsel-
ors for at-risk youth and students with academic needs,
shall the Elementary District of the Santa Cruz City Schools re-
new without increase its existing assessment of $70/year per par-
cel for seven years, beginning July 1, 2006, exempting parcels
owned/occupied by seniors (65+), with independent community
oversight and accountability to ensure funds are used only to im-
prove student learning?

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE B

Local Elementary Schools Funding Renewal

To provide continued funding to retain quality teachers, art and music programs,
credentialed librarians and counselors for at-risk youth and students with academic
needs, shall the Elementary District of the Santa Cruz City Schools renew without
increase its existing assessment of $70/year per parcel for seven years, beginning
July 1, 2006, exempting parcels owned/occupied by seniors (65+), with no funds
taken by the state, independent community oversight and accountability to ensure
funds are used only to improve student learning as specified below?

In order to retain qualified and experienced teachers, librarians and counselors, the
following educational programs and services for elementary and middle school stu-
dents shall be supported by this assessment:

School libraries: Credentialed librarians and other resources to support the devel-
opment of independent research skills and the study of literature by all students.

Counseling Services: Resources and credentialed counselors for at-risk youth and
students with academic counseling needs.

Arts and Music Education: Teachers and supplies for elementary and middle
school arts and music programs.

The parcel tax will be imposed at the rate of $70 per year for each assessor’s parcel
within the Elementary School District (grades K-8).). A parcel is defined as any unit
of land in the District that now receives a separate tax bill from Santa Cruz County.
All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be ex-
empt from the imposition of said qualified special tax.

An exemption from the assessment will be made available to each individual in the
District who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the assessment year, and
who owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or her
principal place of residence, and who applies to the Schools on or before July 1,
2006, or July 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any one application from a
qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of
the assessment so long as such applicant continues to own and use the parcel as
his or her principal residence.

In addition to the accountability measures required by law, an independent commu-
nity oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board of Education to oversee
all expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent
wisely and used only for the purposes approved by the voters. The oversight com-
mittee shall monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and shall report
on an annual basis to the community on how these funds have been spent.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the Santa
Cruz City Elementary School District (“the School District”) will be authorized to
levy a special tax assessment on real property. The tax would be imposed for
seven years beginning July 1, 2006, at the rate of $70 per year on each parcel
within the School District.

The proceeds of the special tax, if approved, may be applied only for the purposes
set out in the full text of Measure B which is included in this pamphlet.

In accordance with State law, the School District Board would create a designated
account into which the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited. Furthermore,
an annual written report would show the amount of the special taxes which have
been collected and expended, and the status of projects to be funded from those
proceeds. Additionally, an independent community oversight committee would be
appointed to monitor expenditures and report annually.

The special tax shall be collected in the same manner as those property taxes
which are based upon property value. An exemption from the tax will be granted for
any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over who occupy the
parcel as a principal residence, if the owner makes a one-time application for
exemption.

A separate parcel tax of $70 per parcel per year approved by the District’s voters in
March 2002 was for a four-year period which ends June 30, 2006; therefore that
particular tax will have expired as of the commencement of this new $70 tax pres-
ently before the voters, and it is the existing assessment to which the ballot ques-
tion refers.

In June 2003, voters of the School District approved a five-year parcel tax on par-
cels within the District at the rate of $6.75 per month ($81 per year) beginning July
1, 2003. Consequently, if the measure presently before the voters is enacted it
would overlap with the parcel tax approved in 2003 during the two-year period July
1,2006, through June 30,2008.

A “yes” vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.

A “no” vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

DANA McRAE, COUNTY COUNSEL

By Jane M. Scott, Assistant County Counsel

44-4

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B  Years of state budget cuts have threatened Santa Cruz schools. Fortunately, our community has invested in local schools to protect students, teachers, librarians, arts, music and counseling from state cuts.  Along with Measure A for local high schools, Measure B will renew vital school fundinq for Santa Cruz elementary and middle schools - without increasinq taxes.  For the past four years, voter-approved local school funds have protected teach- ers, librarians, arts, music and counseling programs to help at-risk youth in local el- ementary and middle schools. Local funds have also supported instruction in science, English and math, preserved small class sizes and provided basic class- room supplies. Critical elementary and middle school funds are set to expire next year, along with Measure As high school funding.  If we don’t act, local schools face $2.1 million in across-the-board cuts that threaten teachers, librarians, counselors, other academic programs and small class sizes.  Together, Measures A & B will renew this vital school funding and prevent drastic cuts - without increasinq taxes.  All funds raised bv Measure B will support teachers, librarians, counselors and ac- ademic instruction in our local schools.  No funds can be taken bv the state or used for administrative salaries.  A citizen’s oversiqht committee will review all soendinq.  Senior citizens 65 and older can file a one-time, permanent exemption.  Measure B funds will:  •	Retain experienced, qualified teachers and librarians  •	Provide arts and music classes  •	Continue counseling for at-risk youth  •	Prevent cuts that could impact small class sizes and academic instruction in core subjects  This is a chance for our community to support local elementary and middle schools in the face of ongoing state cuts.  Please join us in voting YES on Measure B to continue our investment in Santa Cruz elementarv and middle schools - without increasinq taxes.  si John Laird State Assemblymember  si Patty Zoccoli Local Business Owner, Past PTA President  si Neal Coonerty Owner Bookshop Santa Cruz  si Manuel Pastor Professor, UC Santa Cruz  si George Ow, Jr.  Businessperson	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B  State budget cuts have never threatened Santa Cruz City Schools. In 2001 when they first wanted this tax, they said revenues were down when in fact they were up. Per pupil spending had risen from $4,800 (or more) in 1997-1998 to $7129 (or more) in 2001- 2002 when Measure D was passed. This years state budget puts 2005-2006 per pupil spending at a whopping $10,325 (go to www.STOP-EM.us). Has your annual income increased by 45% since 2002?  The first Measure B followed Measure D and was meant to keep our schools open, It didn’t!!! They then told us that the $1.25 million per year funding from that first Measure B was insufficient to keep schools open and also fund “additional pro- grams and staff....” (Santa Cruz Sentinal 2-22-2004). Huh??? The ballot argu- ments favoring the first Measure B said nothing about funding additional programs and staff. It was supposed to keep schools open.  Finally, we are frequently accused of being against all taxes. That’s not true!! We will overwhelmingly support any new tax the day our schools tell the truth, “we are flush with revenue - we just want more money to spend,” and grant an exemption to anyone who wants it regardless of age or financial status. In other words, grant the same consideration to all citizens that they use to bribe that special class of citi- zens called seniors; you don’t have to pay the tax if you don’t want to.  ON NOVEMBER 8, 2005  VOTE NO ON MEASURE B  si Alan W. Bailey Retired Financial Consultant  STOP-EM  si Vernon C. Bohr Jr., Chairperson STOP-EM  si Carolyn M. Busenhart, Treasurer

44-5

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

In March 2002, we approved Santa Cruz City School District parcel tax Measure D
based on the assertion that revenues were down. They were not!

One year later, the elementary district told us, “Without Measure B our schools face
drastic cuts such as closing 2 of 6 neighborhood schools;” and “School closures will
result in overcrowding....” We approved Measure B and schools closed anyway.

The District now wants us to renew Measures D with Measure B stating “.. .the Cali-
fornia Legislature has failed to provide adequate funding for.(“Schools”). Is a

rise of ADA school funding from $6,630 in 2001 to $10,325 this year inadequate?

Finally, the district seems willing to violate Article I Section 7(b) of the California
State Constitution which says “A citizen or class of citizens may not be granted
privileges or immunities not granted on the same terms to all citizens.” Aren’t se-
niors a class of citizen? Isn’t a “senior only exemption”, a privilege granted to this
class of citizens only and a privilege not granted on the same terms to all citizens?

Let’s see, we should now approve a parcel tax for a district that has told us reve-
nues were down when they were up, told us that the legislature has failed to provide
adequate funding to our schools when they have increased funding by more than
55% in just 3 years, and a district that appears to be willing to violate the state con-
stitution that they swore to uphold?

Fool me once shame on you, fool me twice, shame on me, fool me a third time, I’m
just a fool. Will we be duped into voting for this unnecessary parcel tax this time?

DON’T ENCOURAGE BAD BEHAVIOR BY REWARDING IT.

ON NOVEMBER 8, 2005, VOTE NO ON MEASURE B.

s/Alan W. Bailey
Retired Financial Consultant

STOP-EM

s/Vernon C. Bohr. Jr., Chairperson
STOP-EM

si Carolyn M. Busenhart, Treasurer

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

Santa Cruz students are fortunate that our community values education and aca-
demic opportunity in the face of state budget cuts. Local parcel tax funds have
saved experienced and qualified teachers, librarians and counselors, along with
arts and music programs.

Measures A & B renew this vital funding for Santa Cruz elementary, middle, and
high schools—without increasing taxes. A citizens’ oversight committee will review
all Measure A & B spending to ensure it’s used only for voter-approved purposes.

The state has steadily shortchanged school funding. This year, the Governor broke
his promise to stop that trend. Our opponents invented numbers claiming that ADA
funding has increased by 55%, but it’s just not true! Santa Cruz City Schools’ ADA
funding per-student was $7,511 in 2001-02 and $7,842 in 2003-2004. (See
www.ed-data.k12.ca.us for California Department of Education official numbers.)

The state won’t provide adequate funding for Santa Cruz schools. If we don’t renew
our investment in our local schools, Santa Cruz students and teachers will suffer.

Measures A & B prevent drastic cuts, without increasing taxes. If A & B fail, local
schools face $2.1 million in across-the-board cuts that threaten teachers, librari-
ans, counselors, art, music, and class sizes.

All A & B funds will be used in local schools and classrooms and cannot be taken by
the state.

An exemption is available for those 65 and older.

Please join us in voting YES on A & B. Let’s renew our investment in Santa Cruz el-
ementary, middle, and high schools, without increasing taxes.

si Emily Reilly

Santa Cruz Councilmember and Owner, Emily’s Good Things to Eat

si Liz Pollock
Treasurer, Gault Parent Teacher Alliance (GPTA)

si Scott Daly
O.D., Optometrist/Business Owner

si Ziggy Rendler-Bregman
Arts Advocate and Santa Cruz High Parent

si Cindy Geise

Owner-Ristorante Avanti and Santa Cruz High Site Council

44-6