WATERFORD CITY COUNCIL

RESOLUTION NO. 2005 - 44

A RESOLUTION CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF A
CONSOLIDATED DISTRICT ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER
8, 2005 FOR THE SUBMISSION OF A PROPOSED BALLOT MEASURE

WHEREAS, Article XIII A, Section 4 of the California Constitution authorizes cities, by
a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the qualified electors, to impose special taxes, except ad valorem taxes
on real property or a transaction tax or sales tax on the sale of real property within cities; and

WHEREAS, Senate Bill 566, which added Section 7285.91 to the Revenue and Taxation
Code, authorizes all cities to levy, increase, or extend a transactions and use tax for special
purposes, at a rate of one-quarter percent (0.25%) or a multiple thereof, subject to approval of
two-thirds (2/3) of the City Council and a two-third (2/3) majority of qualified voters voting on
the issue; and

WHEREAS, The City Council desires to submit a ballot measure on a transaction (sales)
and use tax proposition for special purposes to the qualified voters voting on the issue; and

WHEREAS, The California Elections Code authorizes the filing of an impartial analysis
and the filing of arguments for or against any ballot proposition and rebuttal arguments.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF WATERFORD DOES HEREBY
RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE, AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: That pursuant to Elections Code §12001 et seq, and the requirements of
the laws of the State of California relating to General Law Cities there is called and ordered to be
held in the City of Waterford on Tuesday, November 8, 2005, a Consolidated Election for the
purpose of submitting ballot measures to the voters.

SECTION 2: Said proposition shall appear on the ballot for said election as set forth on
Exhibit “A”.

SECTION 3: The text of the proposition Ordinance to be submitted to the voters is
attached hereto as Exhibit “B”.

SECTION 4: The ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content as
required by law.

SECTION 5: The object and purpose of the proposition and the special transactions
(sales) and use tax is to provide additional revenue for the purpose of improving law
enforcement services and the city streets in the City of Waterford.

1

SECTION 6: The proposition shall be submitted to the voters of the City of Waterford as
required by State law approved by the voters of California in 1986 as Proposition 62, in 1996 as
Proposition 218, and as required by Section 7286.44 of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code.

SECTION 7: The City’s sales tax imposed on the sale of tangible personal properties
shall be increased by the addition of a special transaction (sales) tax, levied at the rate of one-half
(0.50%) for twenty (20) years, if more than two-third (2/3) of the qualified voters voting on the
proposition vote in favor thereof.

SECTION 8: The City’s use tax imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the
City of tangible personal properties purchased from any retailer shall be increased by the
addition of a special use tax, levied at the rate of one-half (0.50%) for twenty (20) years, if more
than two-thirds (2/3) of the qualified voters voting on the proposition vote in favor thereof.

SECTION 9: The date of submission of primary arguments (for and against) for said
proposition is hereby set for^roy 26, 2005; the date for submission of the City Attorney’s
impartial analysis of said proposition is hereby set for August 5, 2005; and the date for

submission of rebuttal arguments to said primary arguments is hereby set for August- f2; 2005.

3-ep-. Ui

SECTION 10: Pursuant to the requirements in Election Code Sections 9280 and 9282, the
impartial analysis shall not exceed 500 words in length, and the arguments shall not exceed 300
words in length.

SECTION 11: The City Attorney is directed to prepare all necessary documents and the
City Attorney and City Clerk are directed to take all further actions necessary for purposes of this
election, including the preparation of an impartial analysis of the proposition showing the effect
of the proposition on the existing law and the operation of the proposition.

SECTION 12: The City Clerk is directed to Elections Code Sections 9283 and 9287 to
ensure statutory compliance governing the submission of ballot arguments and to further
determine priority of the submitted ballot arguments.

SECTION 13: An election is hereby called for November 8, 2005, to be held within the
City on said date, and within the territory affected by the Consolidated Election.

SECTION 14: The polls for the election shall be open at seven o’clock a.m. of the day of
the election and shall remain open continuously from that time until eight o’clock p.m. of the
same day when the polls shall be closed.

SECTION 15: In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be held
and conducted as provided by law.

2

SECTION 16: The City Clerk is authorized, instructed, and directed to procure and
furnish any and all official ballots, notices, printed matter and all supplies, equipment and
paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to properly and lawfully conduct the election.

SECTION 17: Notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City
Clerk is authorized, instructed, and directed to give further or additional notice of the election, in
time, form, and manner as required by law.

The foregoing Resolution was passed and adopted by the City Council of the City of
Waterford, County of Stanislaus, State of California, at a regular meeting thereof held on the
16th day of Jurte’, 2005, by the following vote:

J Olv{	^	4	»

AYES:	L\
NOES:	0
ABSTAIN:	0
ABSENT:	0

IfTES TURNER, Mayor

ATTEST:

LQRl MARTIN
City Clerk

3

EXHIBIT A

PUBLIC SAFETY AND CITY
STREET IMPROVEMENT ACT.

Shall the Ordinance, creating the Public
Safety and City Street Improvement Act
and imposing a '/2 cent special sales tax
for 20 years and create a Citizens
Advisory Oversight Committee, be
adopted?

YES	(+)
NO	(+)

4

EXHIBIT B

ORDINANCE NO. 2005-03

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF WATERFORD, CALIFORNIA,
AMENDING TITLE 3, “REVENUE FINANCE,” OF THE WATERFORD MUNICIPAL
CODE BY ADDING CHAPTER 3.46, “PUBLIC SAFETY AND CITY STREET
IMPROVEMENT ACT” TO THE WATERFORD MUNICIPAL CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY WATERFORD DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: AMENDMENT TO CODE. Title 3, “Revenue and Finance,” of the
Waterford Municipal Code is hereby amending by the addition of Chapter 3.46, “Public Safety
and City Street Improvement Act” to read as follows:

CHAPTER 3.46

Public Safety and City Street Improvement Act

Sections:

3.46.010	Chapter Title and Dedication.
3.46.020	Purposes.
3.46.030	Operative Date.
3.46.040	Special Transactions (Sales) Tax.
3.46.050	Special Use Tax.
3.46.060	Citizens Oversight Committee.
3.46.070	Account and Report.
3.46.080	Maintenance of Effort.
3.46.090	Revenue Distribution.
3.46.100	Disposition of Moneys Collected; Expenditure Plan.
3.46.110	Advancement of Funds.
3.46.120	State Requirements.
3.46.130	Contract with State.
3.46.140	Place of Sale.
3.46.150	Additional Permits Not Required.
3.46.160	Adoption of Provisions of State Law- Generally.
3.46.170	Adoption of Provisions of State Law - Limitations.
3.46.180	Exemptions and Exclusions.
3.46.190	Amendments to State Law.
3.46.200	Non-Exclusivity.
3.46.210	Enjoining Collection Forbidden.
3.46.220	Authority to Amend.

6

3.46.010. Chapter Title.

This Chapter shall be known as the “Public Safety and City Street Improvement Act” (the
“Act”). This Chapter shall be applicable in the unincorporated territory of the City.

3.46.020. Purposes.

The People of the City of Waterford declare that this Chapter, pursuant to the Act, is adopted for
the special purpose of funding additional public safety service and to improve city streets over
the term of the tax imposed under this Chapter, including necessary equipment, training, support
and supervisory staff and their equipment and training, support and supervisory staff and their
equipment and training, as well as all benefits associated with these Specially-Funded Personnel
positions, and paying for all incidental costs of operating this special transactions (sales) and use
tax program, including administration and collection costs reimbursable to the State Board of
Equalization, with any unused revenue committed to police services.

3.46.030. Operative Date.

This Chapter shall be operative ten (10) days after certification by the City Council of the returns
of the election indicating approval by voters by a two-thirds margin of the Ordinance enacting
this Chapter, and the special transactions (sales) and use tax imposed hereunder shall be effective
the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of
this Chapter. Based on a November 8, 2005 election, the special transactions (sales) and use tax
imposed hereunder shall be effective April 1, 2006 and shall continue through March 31, 2026,
unless extended by the voters. Upon notice to the State Board of Equalization as required, this
Chapter shall be automatically suspended, and all funding related thereto stopped, if the revenue
generated under this Chapter is diverted by the State of California for purposes other than those
specifically enumerated herein.

3.46.040. Special Transactions (Sales) Tax.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in
said territory on and after April 1, 2006 through March 31, 2026.

3.46.050. Special Use Tax.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer for storage, use, or other consumption in the City
at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the property sold on and after
April 1, 2006 through March 31, 2026. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to the State sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

7

3.46.060. Citizens Oversight Committee.

A.	Pursuant to the Act, there is hereby created a Public Safety and City Street
Improvement Act, Citizens Oversight Committee to review the revenues and
expenditures generated and spent under this Chapter.

B.	Said Committee shall consist of five (5) members with each member appointed by
motion of the City Council adopted by majority vote.

C.	Membership to the Committee shall be restricted to individuals who are registered
voters within the City of Waterford or business owners in the City of Waterford who
are residents of the City of Waterford. Elected officials at any level of government
and employees of the City of Waterford are ineligible to serve as members of the
Committee.

D.	The members so appointed shall serve without compensation for a term of five (5)
years. The members first appointed to the Committee shall classify themselves by lot
that by the following City Council election the term of one (1) of the members shall
expire. Said lot shall provide for the grouping of terms to such an extent as is
necessary in order that the term of at least three (3) members, shall expire on each
succeeding City Council election.

E.	The Committee shall review the revenues and expenditures generated and spent under
this Chapter, and provide its findings to the City Council, in the form of three
quarterly reports and one annual report (including fourth quarter information), no
later than October 1st of each year. Unless modified by City Council Resolution, the
Committee shall not have any function, power, or authority other than those expressly
provided herein.

The Committee shall meet quarterly or as often as it deems necessary to accomplish
the objectives stated in this Section.

3.46.070. Account and Report.

Prior to the adoption of the City budget in June of each year, the City Administrator shall present
to the City Council an account of the tax revenues received and expenditures made under this
Chapter, and the funds remaining in the accounts established for their respective purpose
hereunder. Concurrent with the annual account presentation, the City Administrator shall also
report to the City Council that no funds received under this Chapter were spent for purposes
other than those authorized by this Chapter.

8

3.46.080. Maintenance of Effort.

Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, revenues received under this Chapter shall not be
used to replace general fund expenditures for normal operations at the previous years’ levels, nor
shall revenues received under this Chapter be used to fund, supplant, or supplement the salaries
and benefits of existing personnel or other positions not created under this Chapter. No existing
City personnel shall have their salary or benefits increased as a result of the enactment of this
Chapter. In determining general fund expenditures, no expenditures for capital costs shall be
included in the maintenance of effort calculation. The City Council may, with findings and
declaration of economic emergency, override this provision by no less than a supermajority
affirmative vote of four of five of its members, and the override shall be deemed automatically
withdrawn after three (3) months unless extended by City Council by the supermajority vote as
identified above.

3.46.090 Revenue Distribution.

Net revenues received under Section 3.46.100 shall be distributed in accordance with the
percentage as follows:

A.	Tax proceeds to increase police services shall be allocated over the next twenty (20)
years to further the purpose of Section 3.46.100(A);

B.	An equivalent amount of tax proceeds shall be allocated to city street improvements
to further the purpose of Section 3.46.100(B).

3.46.100 Disposition of Moneys Collected; Expenditure Plan.

After deduction of all incidental costs of operating this special transactions (sales) and use tax
program including, but not limited to, administration and collection costs reimbursable to the
State Board of Equalization, and in accordance with the distribution allocation set forth in
Section 3.46.090, all remaining moneys collected under and pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter shall not be deposited into the City’s general fund, but shall, instead, be deposited and
paid into special accounts of the City, which are hereby established, earmarked for the following
special authorized purposes, which shall be paid only from the respective special accounts and
not from the City’s general fund, as follows:

A.	Special Police Account for increase in sworn peace officers over the term of the tax
imposed under this Chapter, including their necessary equipment, training, support
and supervisory staff and their equipment and training, as well as all benefits
associated with these Specially-Funded Personnel positions and additional sworn
peace officers as revenue received from the tax under this Chapter becomes available.

B.	Street Improvement Account for repair and improvement of existing City streets.

9

The balances in these special accounts shall earn interest, which shall be deposited into the
respective accounts, or pay interest, if subject to indebtedness, calculated at the same rate the
City receives in its investment portfolio, from the revenue allocated to the accounts under this
Chapter.

3.46.110 Advancement of Funds.

The City Council, at its sole and complete discretion, may advance funds from the city’s general
fund into any one or more of the special accounts in order to accomplish the objectives of this
Chapter. Any advancement from the City shall be reimbursed by the recipient account to the
City, with interest calculated at the same rate the City receives in its investment portfolio during
the time of the advancement, within twenty-four (24) months of the date of the advance.

3.46.120 State Requirements.

Pursuant to the requirements of the State Board of Equalization, this Chapter is adopted to
achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions (sales) and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the
City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a 2/3 majority of the
electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election
called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions (sales) and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California
insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions (sales) and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore than can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State board of Equalization in administering and
collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions (sales) and use tax ordinance that can be administered in
a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the costs of
collecting the transactions (sales) and use taxes at the same time, minimize the burden
of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of the
Chapter.

10

3.46.130 Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date of this Chapter, as required by State law, the City shall contract with
the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of the special transactions (sales) and use tax imposed under this Chapter; provided,
however, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to
the operative date of this Chapter, the City shall nevertheless so contract and in such case the
operative date of the special sales tax shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such contract.

3.46.140 Place of Sale.

For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer, or his or her agent,
to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject
to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a
retailer has no permanent place of business in the State, or has more than one place of business,
the place or places at which retail sales are consummated shall be determined under the rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.46.150 Additional Permit Not Required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, an additional seller’s permit shall not be required by this Chapter.

3.46.160 Adoption of Provisions of State Law - Generally.

Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of
Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.46.170 Adoption of Provisions of State Law - Limitations.

In adopting the provision of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

1.	The word ‘State’ is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

11

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this special sales tax with respect to
certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax
by the State under the provisions of Part 1 or Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be
subject to tax by the State under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
3797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation code.

B. The word ‘City’ shall be substituted for the word ‘State’ in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

3.46.180 Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the special transactions (sales) and use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any State-administered transactions or use
tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the special transactions
(sales) tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made an directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by

12

the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment
to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a
point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address
and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this Chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of the
Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this Section, the sale or lease
of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the special use tax imposed by this Chapter, the storage,

use, or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transaction
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	If the purchase is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

3.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the

property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of the
Chapter.

4.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (2) and (3) of this section, storage, use, or
there consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or
not such right is exercised.

5.	Except as provided in subparagraph (6), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
City or participates within the City in making the sale of property, including,
but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City
under the authority of the retailer.

D.

6.	A retailer engaged in business in the City’ shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

Any person subject to use tax under this Chapter may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale of the person of the property the storage,
use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax..

3.46.190 Amendments to State Law.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to
Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and taxation code, shall automatically become
a part of this Chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect
the rate of tax imposed by this Chapter.

14

3.46.200 Non-Exclusivity.

The special sales tax levied under this Chapter is in addition to, not in lieu of, any and all other
applicable taxes already in existence.

3.46.210 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit action
or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the
City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Chapter, of any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected hereunder.

3.46.220 Authority to Amend.

In order to further the purposes and intent of this Chapter, the City Council is authorized to
amend this Chapter in the following areas without a further vote of the People:

A.	The composition of the Citizens Oversight Committee;

B.	The suspension or reactivation of this Chapter if the revenue generated under this
Chapter is diverted by the State of California for purposes other than those
specifically enumerated herein;

C.	Any change required by the State of California as a precondition to the collection
of the special tax authorized hereunder; and.

Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary, any proposed change to the tax rate or the
disposition of the revenue generated under this Chapter to the Public Safety and City Street
Improvement Account shall be submitted to the vote of the People.

SECTION 2, Validity: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, word, or phrase of this
ordinance is held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid for any reason, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remainder of this ordinance. The City Council hereby declares that
it would have passed this ordinance, and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, word, or
phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses,
words, or phrases be declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION 3, Enactment: This ordinance shall become effective and be in full force on and
after thirty (30) days of its passage and adoption, and prior to the expiration of fifteen (15) days
from the passage and adoption thereof, shall be published in the City of Waterford, County of
Stanislaus, State of California, together with the names of the members of the City Council
voting for and against the same.

15

EXHIBIT B

SUMMARY OF ORDINANCE BEING SUBMITTED FOR VOTER
APPROVAL ON NOVEMBER 8, 2005

The Ordinance will amend Title 3, Revenue Finance, of the Waterford
Municipal Code by adding Chapter 3.46, titled. Public Safety and City Street
Improvement Act to the Waterford Municipal Code.

The Ordinance permanently provides for a tax imposed sales and use
tax at a rate of one-half percent (0.5%) in the City of Waterford (“City”).
The one-half percent (0.5%) will be added to the sales tax that is levied in
the City of Waterford effective April 1, 2006. The stated purpose of the
additional one-half (0.5%) increase is for the City of Waterford to acquire
additional funds for public safety and city street improvements.

The Ordinance provides that prior to the adoption of a city budget in
June of each year the City Administrator is required to present to the City
Council an account of the tax revenues received and expenditures made
pursuant to this program and the funds remaining in the account as to the
status of their respective purpose. Concurrent with the annual account
presentation the City Administrator shall also report to the City Council that
no funds received under the Chapter was spent for purposes other than those
authorized by the Ordinance.

The Ordinance provides that revenues cannot be used to replace
general fund expenditures for normal operations at the previous years’
levels, nor shall revenues received under this Chapter be used to fund,
supplant, or supplement the salaries and benefits of existing personnel or
other positions not created under the Ordinance.

The Ordinance provides for revenue distribution which provides that
one-half (1/2) of the amount be allocated for police services and one-half
(1/2) for city street improvement funds. The revenues shall be distributed as
follows: one-half (1/2) for an increase in sworn peace officers over the term
of the tax imposed including their necessary equipment, training, support
and supervisory staff, as well as their benefits associated with the specially
funded personnel positions and additional sworn peace officers revenue
received from the tax under this Chapter becomes available; and one-half

1

(1/2) for a street improvement account for repair and improvement of
existing city streets.

The Ordinance also provides that the City comply with State
requirements that the City contract with the State for administration of the
tax. All retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer,
unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer, or his
or her agent, to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. If a seller’s permit has been issued to
a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional seller’s permit shall not be required by this Chapter.

The Ordinance provides that if the State takes the tax for its own
functions, then the tax automatically expires on its face. The exemptions for
the special tax are the same which currently exist under the sales and use tax
for the State of California.

The Ordinance also provides for a Citizen Oversight Committee to
provide oversight regarding the collection and the use of the tax revenue
generated.

The sales and use tax if approved will be effective April 1, 2006 and
shall continue through March 31, 2026 unless extended by the voters of the
City of Waterford.

A certified copy of the full text is posted in the office of the City
Clerk. Copies and a complete text of the ordinance are available at City Hall
for review.

2

Impartial Analysis - Ballot Measure
Transaction and Use Tax Proposition

Pursuant to Revenue & Taxation Code Section 7285.91, a General Law City such as the City
of Waterford may levy, or increase a transaction use (sales) tax for special purposes at the
rate of one-quarter of a percent, (.025%) or a multiple thereof, subject to approval of the City
Council and by a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote of qualified voters voting on the issue.

On July 7, 2005, the City Council of the City of Waterford unanimously approved the
submittal of the Ordinance to the voters of the City of Waterford providing for the levying of
a transaction/use tax (sales) for special purposes at the rate of one-half percent (0.5%) and
directed that the measure be placed on the November 8, 2005 ballot. The stated special
purposes are increased police services and improvement of existing city streets.

The submitted Ordinance provides that if the increase in sales tax of one-half percent (0.5%)
is approved by a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the qualified voters voting on the issue, the
funds generated by the increase in sales tax available for use by the City will be used one-
half (1/2) for increased police services and one-half (1/2) to improve the City streets over the
term of the tax imposed.

Included in the Ordinance are provisions for the payment of necessary expenses from
revenues generated for equipment, training, support and supervisory staff and their
equipment and training, as well as benefits associated with those specially funded personnel
positions.

The Ordinance also provides for a Citizen Oversight Committee appointed by the City
Council of the City of Waterford to review the revenues generated and the expenditures of
the revenues.

The special tax, if approved, will be effective April 1, 2006 and shall continue through
March 31, 2026 unless extended by the voters of the City of Waterford.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance 2005-03. If you desire a copy
of the Ordinance or Measure, please call the election official’s office at (209) 874-2328