ORDINANCE NO. 580

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF INDIAN WELLS, CALIFORNIA,

APPROVING AN INCREASE IN THE ADMISSION TAX FROM A MAXIMUM

OF FIVE PERCENT (5%) TO A MAXIMUM OF TEN PERCENT (10%)

THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF INDIAN WELLS ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Section 3.14.020 of the Indian Wells Municipal Code is amended to read
in its entirety as follows:

3.14.020 Tax Imposed. There is hereby imposed a tax ("Admission Tax") on each
Admission Charge to any Event. The Admission Tax is a debt owed by the Patron to the City,
which debt shall be extinguished only by payment to the Operator or the City. The Admission
Tax shall be in addition to all other taxes or fees imposed by law. The Admission Tax shall be a
maximum of ten percent (10%) of the Admission Charge to an Event. Notwithstanding the
maximum amount of the Admission Tax heretofore set forth, for calendar year 2006 the
Admission Tax shall be five percent (5%) of the Admission Charge to an Event, and for calendar
year 2007 and for each calendar year thereafter, the City Council is authorized to decrease by
ordinance or resolution the Admission Tax, or to increase by ordinance or resolution the
Admission Tax up to a maximum of ten percent (10%) of the Admission Charge to an Event. In
order to decrease or increase the Admission Tax for any calendar year as permitted hereunder,
the City Council shall do so on or before January 1 to take effect the following January 1.

SECTION 2. If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person
or circumstances is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect any other provision or applications, and to this
end the provisions of this Ordinance are declared to be severable. The City Council and the
electorate by referendum, do hereby declare that they would have adopted this Ordinance and
each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, parts or portions thereof, be
declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION 3. This Ordinance shall become effective only if approved by a majority of
the voters of the City of Indian Wells voting at a Special Municipal Election to be held on
November 8, 2005, and shall become effective ten (10) days after the City Council has, by
resolution, declared the results of that Special Municipal Election.

SECTION 4. The Mayor shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance by
the electorate voting thereon on the 8th day of November, 2005.

City of Indian Wells
Ordinance No. 580
Page 2

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED AND
ADOPTED by the people of the City of Indian Wells on the 8th day of November, 2005.

Dated: December 1, 2005

MAYOR