To reduce violent crime and increase public safety, shall the City of East Palo Alto increase successful after school, truancy, and job training programs,
early intervention programs for children, programs to prevent child abuse and domestic violence, and increase community police officers and
investigations, by authorizing a parcel tax for 10 years, subject to annual performance and financial audits by a citizens oversight committee and an
exemption for senior citizens?

FULLTEXT

A PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF EAST
PALO ALTO CREATING A SPECIAL TAX TO FUND
VIOLENCE AND CRIME PREVENTION PROGRAMS

WHEREAS, the citizens of the City of East Palo Alto (the “City”) are
committed to a community-oriented approach to violence prevention in
East Palo Alto; and

WHEREAS, preventing violence and ensuring public safety requires
an integrated system of social-services intervention, long-term crime-
prevention programs, and police services; and

WHEREAS, East Palo Alto funds basic police services at levels below
those of similar-sized cities throughout the country; and

WHEREAS, the unemployment rate as of July 1, 2005 was 7.4%, and
East Palo Alto has a population of approximately 200-250 people on parole
at any given time, many of whom have difficulty finding work; and

WHEREAS, in an effort to prevent violence and crime, the City has
partnered with the community-based organizations to work with parolees,
to make sure they have an opportunity for successful reentry into society,
including job opportunities, instead of resorting to crime; and

WHEREAS, in an effort to prevent violence and crime, East Palo Alto
currently funds or administers programs for youth recreation and
counseling, recreation, and job training; and

WHEREAS, currently these programs are limited in scope or have
been cut due to funding constraints;

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED:

That the city council of the City of East Palo Alto does hereby submit
to the voters at the November 8, 2005 special municipal election, an
ordinance, which reads as follows:

PART 1. GENERAL

Section 1. TITLE AND PURPOSE.

(A)	Title. This ordinance may be cited as the ‘Violence Prevention
and Public Safety Act of 2005.”

(B)	Purpose. The taxes imposed or increased under this ordinance
are solely for the purpose of raising revenue necessary to retain and
enhance services and programs to prevent violence and crime in the City of
East Palo Alto.

The parcel tax imposed in Part 2 is not an ad valorem tax on real
property, nor a transaction tax or sales tax on the sale of real property. It is
an excise tax on the privilege of using and use of municipal services. Such
municipal services increase and provide a greater benefit to Owners of
Parcels when programs aimed at preventing violence and crime in the City
are enhanced. Because the proceeds of the tax will be deposited in a special
fund restricted for the services and programs specified herein, the tax is a
special tax.

Section 2. FINDINGS

1.	Investing in an coordinated system of early intervention,
community policing and violence-prevention efforts before injury occurs
will reduce economic and emotional costs and be a cost-effective use of
taxpayer dollars.

2.	Violence and crime occurs at workplaces, on school grounds, and
in residential neighborhoods within the East Palo Alto community.

3.	Due to budget constraints, the City’s police department is staffed at
a level significantly lower than cities of similar size in the United States.

4.	This special tax is based on a community assessment of innovative
prevention strategies and is intended to be proportional to and based on
estimates of typical use and benefit from these municipal services.

5.	Crime in East Palo Alto disrupts local commercial activity, reduces
business and industrial productivity, deters tourism and outside financial
investments, and depreciates the value of real estate.

6.	The apportionment of the parcel tax to various types of properties
is based, in part, on the intensity of policing and violence prevention needed
for different kinds of land uses and on the average number of occupants of
a parcel of each type of property. Users of residential property typically
generate more calls for service to the police and fire departments, and the
intensity of use of police and fire protection services increases as the
number of residential units on a parcel increases. On the other hand,
because of the typically large size of commercial and industrial parcels, and
because the employees who work for businesses located on such parcels
and the customers who visit such businesses generally outnumber the
residents of even a similarly sized parcel of residential property (partly
because nonresidentially developed real property often has more than one
business operating on it), the tax on commercial/industrial properties is
calculated based on single family equivalent units.

7.	As the density of residential development increases, the cost of
providing policing and violence and crime prevention services also
increases. The differing tax rates accurately reflect the differing costs of
providing services to the different densities of residential development.

8.	Some services, such as an additional neighborhood police officer
in each community policing beat, are not based on density of population.

9.	The parcel tax rates established in this ordinance are intended to be
proportional to and based on estimates of typical use of and benefit to
occupants of different residential parcels of policing and violence
prevention services. The rates are not tailored to individual use both
because such tailoring is not administratively feasible and because the City
must make police services available to all parcels and owners of parcels
equally.

10.	Each occupant of a parcel derives value from the availability
policing and violence and crime prevention and fire protection services.
The value of such services is in their availability and benefit to all residents,
and it would be unfair to charge their costs only to those persons who
actually use the services. Even if such services are not presently used by an
occupant, they may be used in the future and, in any event, their availability
benefits each occupant. The City’s policing and violence prevention
enhance the health, safety and welfare of all occupants of property in the

City and improve their quality of life both directly and indirectly. Reducing
violence and crime is vitally important to the health, safety, and welfare of
the occupants.

11.	Nothing in this ordinance is intended to preclude owners from
recovering the tax from the occupant. Whether the occupant is charged
depends on the occupancy agreement and the requirements of the Rent
Stabilization Program. Moreover, non-payment will not be a lien on the
property but a personal obligation of the occupant or owner.

12.	It is not feasible for the City to collect the tax from the non-owner
occupants on whom it is imposed because the records available to the City
do not include the names of non-owner occupants. Therefore, the only
practical way to collect a tax imposed on occupants is to collect it from the
owners of the occupied properties.

13.	There are existing general taxes in the form of business license,
the proceeds of which are deposited in the general fund. Additional
revenues received as a result of this ordinance will be used for the purposes
set for in Section 3 and thus are special taxes.

14.	This Ordinance is exempt from the California Environmental
Quality Act, Public Resources Code section 21000 et seq., as it can be seen
with certainty that there is no possibility that the activity authorized herein
may have a significant effect on the environment.

Section 3. USE OF PROCEEDS

The tax proceeds raised by this ordinance may only be used as part of
the following integrated program of violence prevention and public
safety intervention, in accordance with the following specific purposes:

1.	Community and Neighborhood Policing:

a.	Neighborhood beat officers: each community policing beat
shall have at least one neighborhood officer assigned solely to
serve the residents of that beat to provide consistent contact
and familiarity between residents and officers, continuity in
problem solving and basic availability of police response in
each neighborhood;

b.	School safety: supplement police services available to respond
to school safety and truancy;

c.	Crime reduction team: provide additional officers to
investigate and respond to illegal narcotic transactions and
commission of violent crimes in identified violence hot spots;

d.	Domestic violence and child abuse intervention: additional
officers to team with social service providers to intervene in
situations of domestic violence and child abuse, including
child prostitution;

e.	Officer training and equipment: training in community-
policing techniques, establishing police-social services
referrals and equipping officers provided in this paragraph.

f.	Follow-up investigations of crimes and training and
assignment of officers to investigate crimes after initial
reports are received.

2.	Violence Prevention Services With an Emphasis on Youth and

Children: Expand preventive social services provided by the City of

East Palo Alto, or by adding capacity to community-based nonprofit

programs with demonstrated past success for the following objectives:

a.	Youth outreach counselors: hire and train personnel who will
reach out, counsel and mentor at-risk adolescents and young
adults by providing services and presenting employment

opportunities;

b.	After and in school program for youth and children: expand
existing City programs and City supported programs that
provide recreational, academic tutoring and mentoring
opportunities for at-risk adolescents and children during after
school hours; expand truancy enforcement programs to keep
kids in school.

c.	Domestic violence and child abuse counselors: make
available counselors who will team with police and the
criminal justice system to assist victims of domestic violence
or child prostitution and to find services that help to avoid
repeat abuse situations; expand early childhood intervention
programs for children exposed to violence in the home at an
early age.

d.	Offender/parolee employment training: provide parolee pre-
release employment skills training and provide employers
with wage incentives to hire and train young offenders or
parolees;

3.	Evaluation: Not less than 1% or more than 3% of funds appropriated
to each police service or social service program shall be set aside for
the purpose of independent evaluation of the program, including the
number of people served and the rate of crime or violence reduction
achieved.

4.	Mandated Apportionment to Social Service Programs: Of the total
proceeds spent on programs enumerated in this Section 3, Paragraphs
1 and 2, not less than 50% of such proceeds must be allocated to
programs enumerated in this Section 3, Paragraph 2 each year this
Ordinance is in effect.

PART 2. OVERSIGHT. MINIMUM STAFFING AND TERM OF TAX
IMPOSITION

Section 1. ANNUAL AUDIT.

An independent audit shall be performed to assure accountability and
the proper disbursement of the proceeds of this tax in accordance with the
objectives stated herein in accordance with Government Code sections
50075.1 and 50075.3. Tax proceeds may be used to pay for the audit.

Section 2. SPECIAL FUND

All funds collected by the City from the taxes imposed by this
ordinance shall be deposited into a special fund in the City treasury and
appropriated and expended only for the purposes authorized by this
Ordinance.

Only the incremental taxes and surcharges approved by Parts 3 of this
ordinance shall be dedicated to the purposes specified by this ordinance.
Any portion of the parking and business license tax rate that were general
taxes prior to the enactment of this ordinance shall remain general taxes.

Section 3. OVERSIGHT

To ensure proper administration of the revenue collection and
spending, and the implementation of the programs mandated by this
ordinance, the city council shall appoint five members of a “Violence
Prevention and Public Safety Oversight Committee.” The committee shall
review the annual audit, evaluate, inquire and review the administration,
coordination and evaluations of the programs and make recommendations
to the city council for any new regulations, resolutions or ordinances for
the administration of the programs to comply with the requirements and
intent of this Ordinance.

Section 4. MINIMUM POLICE STAFFING PREREQUISITE AT
FISCAL YEAR 03-04 LEVEL

No tax authorized by this Ordinance may be collected in any year that
the appropriation for staffing of sworn uniformed police officers is at a
level lower than the amount necessary to maintain the number of uniformed
officers employed by the City of East Palo Alto for the fiscal year
2003-2004.

Section 5. TERM OF TAX IMPOSITION

The taxes imposed by this Ordinance shall become effective on July 1,
2006 and shall continue in effect for 10 years.

Section 6. SAVINGS CLAUSE.

If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this ordinance is
found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality,
illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause,
section or part of this ordinance and shall not affect or impair any of the
remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or parts of this
ordinance. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City, that the City
would have adopted this ordinance had such unconstitutional, illegal or
invalid provision, sentence, clause, section or part thereof not been
included herein.

If any tax or surcharge imposed by this ordinance is found to be
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, the amounts, services, programs and
personnel (as set forth in Part 3) required to be funded from such taxes and
surcharges shall be reduced proportionately by any revenues lost due to
such unconstitutional^ illegality or invalidity.

Section 7. REGULATIONS.

The city council is hereby authorized to promulgate such regulations or
ordinances as it shall deem necessary in order to implement the provisions
of this ordinance.

Section 8. NO AMENDMENT.

The tax rates may not be amended by action of the city council without
the applicable voter approval.

Section 9. CHALLENGE TO TAX.

Any action to challenge the taxes imposed by this ordinance shall be
brought pursuant to Government Code section 50077.5 and Code of Civil
Procedure section 860 et seq.

PART 3. PARCEL TAX

Section 1. DEFINITIONS.

For purposes of this part only, the following terms shall be defined as set
forth below:

(A)	“Building” shall mean any structure having a roof supported by
columns or by walls and designed for the shelter or housing of any person,
chattel or property of any kind. The word “Building” includes the word
“structure.”

(B)	“Family” shall mean one or more persons related by blood,
marriage, domestic partnership, or adoption, who are living together in a
single residential unit and maintaining a common household. Family shall
also mean all unrelated persons who live together in a single Residential
Unit and maintain a common household.

(C)	“Hotel” shall mean as defined by East Palo Alto Municipal Code
section 3.68.020.

(D)	“Multiple Residential Unit Parcel” shall mean a parcel zoned for
a building, or those portions thereof, that accommodates or is intended to
contain two or more residential units.

(E)	“Non-Residential” shall mean all parcels that are not classified by

this ordinance as Residential Parcels, and shall include, but not be limited
to, industrial, commercial and institutional improvements, whether or not
currently developed.

(F)	“Occupancy” shall be as defined by East Palo Alto Municipal
Code section 3.68.020.

(G)	“Operator” shall be as defined by East Palo Alto Municipal Code
section 3.68.020

(H)	“Owner” shall mean the Person having title to real estate as
shown on the most current official assessment role of the San Mateo
County Assessor.

(I)	“Parcel” shall mean a unit of real estate in the City of East Palo Alto
as shown on the most current official assessment role of the San Mateo
County Assessor.

(J)	“Person” shall mean an individual, firm, partnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, joint stock company,
corporation, estate, trust, business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any
other group or combination acting as a unit.

(K)	“ Senior Citizen” shall mean a person 65 years of age or older.

(L)	“Possessory Interest” as it applies to property owned by any agency
of the government of the United States, the State of California, or any
political subdivision thereof, shall mean possession of, claim to, or right to
the possession of, land or Improvements and shall include any exclusive
right to the use of such land or Improvements.

(M)	“Residential Unit” shall mean a Building or portion of a Building
designed for or occupied exclusively by one Family.

(N)	“Single Family Residential Parcel” shall mean a parcel zoned for
single-family residences, whether or not developed.

(O)	“Transient” shall mean any individual who exercises Occupancy of
a hotel or is entitled to Occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of
access, license or other agreement for a period of thirty (30) consecutive
calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any
individual so occupying space in a Hotel shall be deemed to be a Transient
until the period of thirty (30) consecutive days as elapsed.

Section 2. IMPOSITION OF PARCEL TAX.

There is hereby imposed a special tax on all Owners of parcels in the
City of East Palo Alto for the privilege of using municipal services and the
availability of such services. The tax imposed by this Section shall be
assessed on the Owner unless the Owner is by law exempt from taxation,
in which case, the tax imposed shall be assessed to the holder of any
Possessory Interest in such parcel, unless such holder is also by law exempt
from taxation. The tax is imposed as of July 1 of each year on the person
who owned the parcel on that date.

The tax hereby imposed shall be at the following rates, subject to
annual adjustment as provided in Section 6:

(A)	For owners of all Single Family Residential Parcels, the tax shall
be at the annual rate of $100.00 per Parcel.

(B)	For owners of all Multiple Residential Unit Parcels, the tax shall
be at the annual rate of $75.00 per occupied Residential Unit. Owners of
units that are vacant for six months or more per year, may apply to the
director of finance to have the rate reduced by 50% to $37.00 per vacant
Residential Unit located on the Parcel.

(C)	The tax for a Non-Residential Parcels is calculated using both
frontage and square footage measurements to determine total Single

Family Residential Unit Equivalents. A frontage of 80 feet for a
commercial/industrial parcel, for example, is equal to one (1) single family
resident unit equivalent. (See matrix.) An area of 6,400 square feet for the
commercial industrial parcel is equal to one (1) single-family resident unit
equivalent. The tax is the annual rate ($50.00) multiplied by the total
number of Single Family Equivalents’ (determined by the frontage and
square footage).

LAND USE CATEGORY	FRONTAGE	AREA(SF)
Commercial Institutional	80	6,400
Industrial	100	10,000
Public Utility	1,000	100,000

Example: assessment calculation for an owner of a commercial parcel with
a frontage of 160 feet and an area of 12,800 square feet:

1. Frontage - 160 feet:	2.	Area - 12.800 sf:

160 ft. / 80 ft.= 2 SFE	12,800	SF	/	6,400	SF = 2 SFE

3. Add Single Family Equivalents 4. Tax = Annual Rate ($50.00)

from Frontage and Area:	multiplied by total SFE:

2 SFE + 2 SFE = 4 SFE	4	SFE	x	$50.00	=	$200.00	tax

(D)	An Owner of An Undeveloped Parcel is exempt from this parcel
tax if the owner can prove that the parcel was undeveloped for at least six
months of the year in question.

Section 3. HOTELS

The tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be imposed on each Hotel
within the City in accordance with the following:

1.	Residential Hotels. If rooms in a Hotel were occupied by individuals
who were not Transients for 80% or more of the previous fiscal year, such
Hotel shall be deemed a Residential Hotel, and such rooms shall be deemed
Residential Units and shall be subject to the Parcel tax imposed on Multiple
Residential Units. The remainder of the Building shall be subject to the
applicable Square Footage tax computed in accordance with the Single
Family Residential Unit Equivalent calculations.

2.	Transient Hotels. Notwithstanding the previous sub-section, if 80%
or more of the Operator’s gross receipts for the previous fiscal year were
reported as rent received from Transients on a return filed by the Operator
in compliance with Chapter 3.68 of the East Palo Alto Municipal Code
(commonly known as the Transient Occupancy Tax of the City of East Palo
Alto), such Hotel shall be deemed a Transient Hotel. The entire Building
shall be deemed a Non-Residential Parcel, categorized as Commercial,
Institutional, and shall be subject to the Square Footage and Single Family
Residential Unit Equivalent calculations set forth in Section 4(C), and the
parcel tax imposed on Residential Units shall not apply.

Section 4. REDUCTION IN TAX: RATE ADJUSTMENT.

(A)	Subject to paragraph (B) of this section, the tax rates imposed by
this ordinance are maximum rates and may not be increased by the city
council above such maximum rates. The tax imposed by the ordinance may
be suspended, reduced or eliminated by the city council for a subsequent
fiscal year upon a vote of the city council on or before June 30th in any year
in which the city council determines that after such suspension, reduction
or elimination there will be sufficient revenues available to balance the city
council’s Adopted Budget and provide the services and programs described
in Section 3 above. Such suspension, reduction or elimination shall be
effective for the fiscal year following such vote.

(B)	Beginning in Fiscal Year 2007-2008, and each year thereafter, the
city council may increase the tax imposed hereby only upon a finding that
the cost of living in the immediate San Francisco Bay Area, as shown on

the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all items in the San Francisco Bay Area
as published by the U.S. Department of Labor Statistics, has increased. The
percentage increase of the tax imposed hereby shall not exceed such
increase, using Fiscal Year 2004-2005 as the index year and in no event
shall any annual adjustment exceed 5% (five percent).

Section 5. DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: NOTICE OF
DECISIONS.

It shall be the duty of the director of finance to collect and receive all
taxes imposed by this ordinance, and to keep an accurate record thereof.

The director of finance is charged with the enforcement of this
ordinance, except as otherwise provided herein, and may prescribe, adopt,
and enforce rules and regulations relating to the administration and
enforcement of this ordinance, including provisions for the re-examination
and correction of returns and payments. The director of finance may
prescribe the extent to which any ruling or regulation shall be applied
without retroactive effect.

Upon disallowing any claims submitted pursuant to this ordinance, the
director of finance shall mail written notice thereof to the claimant at
his/her address as shown on the San Mateo County Assessor’s property tax
rolls.

Section 6. EXAMINATION OF BOOKS. RECORDS. WITNESSES:
PENALTIES.

The director of finance or his/her designee is hereby authorized to
examine assessment rolls, property tax records, records of the San Mateo
County Recorder and any other records of the County of San Mateo
deemed necessary in order to determine ownership of Parcels and
computation of the tax imposed by this ordinance.

The director of finance or his/her designee is hereby authorized to
examine the books, papers and records of any person subject to the tax
imposed by this ordinance for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any
petition, claim or return filed and to ascertain the tax due. The director of
finance, or his/her designee is hereby authorized to examine any person,
under oath, for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any petition, claim
or return filed or to ascertain the tax due under this ordinance and for this
purpose may compel the production of books, papers and records before
him/her, whether as parties or witnesses, whenever s/he believes such
persons have knowledge of such matters. The refusal of such examination
by any person subject to the tax shall be deemed a violation of this
ordinance.

Section 7. COLLECTION OF TAX: INTEREST AND PENALTIES.

The tax levied and imposed by this ordinance shall be due and payable
on July 1 of each year, but it may be paid in two installments due no later
than December 10 and April 10. The tax shall be delinquent if not received
on or before the delinquency date set forth in the notice mailed to the
Owner’s address as shown on the most current assessment roll of the San
Mateo County Tax Collector and shall be collected in such a manner as the
city council may decide.

A one-time penalty at a rate set by the city council, which in no event
shall exceed 25% of the tax due per year, is hereby imposed by this
ordinance on all taxpayers who fail to timely pay the tax provided by this
ordinance; in addition, interest shall be assessed at the rate of 1% per month
on the unpaid tax and the penalty thereon.

Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the
provisions of this ordinance shall become a part of the tax herein required
to be paid.

The City may authorize to have the taxes imposed by this ordinance
collected by the County of San Mateo in conjunction with and at the same
time and in the same manner as the County’s collection of property taxes
for the City. If the City elects to so collect the tax, penalties and interest
shall be those applicable to the nonpayment of property taxes.

In no event shall anything herein be construed to impose a tax lien on
the Parcel to secure payment of the tax.

Section 9. COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES.

The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under the
provisions of this ordinance shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any person
owing money under the provisions of this ordinance shall be liable to an
action brought in the name of the City for the recovery for such amount.

Section 10. REFUND OF TAX. PENALTY. OR INTEREST PAID
MORE THAN ONCE: OR ERRONEOUSLY OR ILLEGALLY
COLLECTED.

Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest imposed by this
ordinance has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or
illegally collected or received by the City it may be refunded provided a
verified claim in writing therefore, stating the specific ground upon which
such claim is founded, is filed with the director of finance within one (1)
year from the date of payment. The claim shall be filed by the person who
paid the tax or such person’s guardian, conservator of the executor of her
or his estate. No claim may be filed on behalf of other taxpayers or a class
of taxpayers. The claim shall be reviewed by the director of finance and
shall be made on forms provided by the director of finance. If the claim is
approved by the director of finance, the excess amount collected or paid
may be refunded or may be credited against any amounts then due and
payable from the Person from who it was collected or by whom paid, and
the balance may be refunded to such Person, his/her administrators or
executors. Filing a claim shall be a condition precedent to legal action
against the City for a refund of the tax.

Section 11. EXEMPTION FOR SENIOR CITIZEN PROPERTY
OWNERS.

(A)	Qualification for Exemption. Any senior citizen property owner
may qualify for an exemption from the tax imposed by this chapter by
establishing, to the satisfaction of the city’s director of finance, that the
owner of the household subject to the tax is 65 years of age or older.

(B)	Application for Exemption. Applications for an exemption pursuant
to this section shall be submitted to the city’s director of finance on such
form as she/he shall prescribe. The application shall be accompanied by
such evidence as the director of finance deems necessary to determine
eligibility for the exemption. No fee shall be charged for filing or
processing the application.

(C)	Granting of Exemption. Upon a determination by the director of
finance that the applicant qualifies for an exemption by reason of being
senior citizen property owner, the director of finance shall issue to the
applicant a certificate of exemption and cause the tax to be removed from
the applicant’s property tax bill. In the event the tax, or any portion thereof,
has already been paid, the city shall refund such payment to the applicant.

(D)	Expiration and Renewal of Exemption. An exemption pursuant to
this section may be granted for a period of one year. The exemption may be
renewed for additional one year periods upon the filing of an application for
renewal with the director of finance on such form as he shall prescribe. No
fee shall be charged for such application. The application shall be granted
and a renewal certificate of exemption shall be issued if the director of
finance determines that the applicant still qualifies as senior citizen
property owner.

(E)	Termination of Exemption. An exemption granted pursuant to this
section shall automatically terminate upon any sale or other transfer by the
exempt person of his or her ownership interest in the property, or upon any
change in fact or circumstance which would disqualify such person from
receiving the exemption. It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person
to knowingly receive the benefits of an exemption provided by this section
when the basis for such exemption does not exist or ceases to exist.

(F)	Appeals. Any decision or determination made by the director of finance
with respect to the granting or denial of an exemption, or renewal of an
exemption, may be appealed to the city council as provided by Section 12
of this enacting ordinance.

Section 12. CITY COUNCIL APPEAL.

(A)	Any person dissatisfied with any decision of the director of finance
adversely affecting the rights or interests of such person may appeal to the
city council by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within ten days
after the date on which such order was rendered.

(B)	The city clerk shall set the matter for hearing at the next available
regular meeting of the city council and shall mail notice of such hearing to
the appellant and to any other interested person requesting the same.

(C)	The city council shall either affirm the decision of the director of
finance or make such modifications, amendments or corrections thereto as
the council deems appropriate.

(D)	Any tax, penalty or interest found to be owed is due and payable at
the time of the city council’s decision becomes final.

(E)	All decisions rendered by the city council shall be final, and no
further administrative appeal of these decisions is provided or intended.

Section 13. MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION.

Any Owner who fails to perform any duty or obligation imposed by this
ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment
for a period of not more than one year, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. The penalties provided in this section are in addition to the
several remedies provided in this ordinance, or as may otherwise be
provided by law.

* * *

This ordinance shall become effective only upon approval of two-thirds
(2/3) of the voters voting on such measure at the November 8, 2005 special
municipal election, as certified by the San Mateo County Election Office.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

This proposed measure, if adopted by (2/3) of East Palo Alto voters voting
on the measure, would raise revenue to address violence and promote crime
reduction programs to enhance public safety in the City. The revenue will
come from a new parcel tax, which is proposed to be in effect for ten (10)
years. The permitted uses of the revenue are community and neighborhood
policing (hiring and maintaining additional police officers above the
currently budgeted 48 officers), violence-reduction programs, and
anti-violence education and prevention services with an emphasis on youth
and gangs. The revenue allocated to the violence prevention services will
be not less than 50% of the total proceeds allocated for community and
neighborhood policing. The parcel tax will be $100.00 for a single family
residential parcel, $75.00 for each unit in a multi-family residential parcel.
For commercial and industrial parcels, the parcel tax varies depending on
the frontage and size area of the property.

California cities may impose special taxes only if (2/3) of a city’s voters
approve the tax. A “special” tax is a tax that the City can use only for the
purposes specified in the tax measure.

The revenue generated from this tax may be expended only:

A.	For preventive social services, including youth outreach counselors,
after-school and in-school programs for at-risk adolescents and
children, domestic violence and child abuse counselors, and ex-
offender employment training.

B.	To hire additional sworn police officers, including at least one
community-policing officer for each existing community policing
beat, for combating truancy, for a crime reduction team, for domestic
violence and child abuse intervention, and for community policing
training and equipment.

This measure also requires an annual independent audit and establishes a
“Violence Prevention and Public Safety Oversight Committee” to review
the annual audits, evaluate the effectiveness of the programs, and make
recommendations to the Mayor and City Council regarding regulations.

Owners of undeveloped parcels are exempt from this parcel tax for each
year that they can prove to the City that their parcel was undeveloped for at
least six months of the year. Senior citizens over 65 years of age would
also be exempt, upon application for exemption.

All funds collected from the parcel tax will be deposited into a special fund.
The City may collect the taxes authorized by this measure only if the City’s
appropriation for sworn police officers (without including the taxes raised
by this measure) is at least equal to the amount necessary to employ 48
officers.

/s/ Michael S. Lawson	August	29,	2005

City Attorney
City of East Palo Alto

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

In 1992, East Palo Alto earned the dubious distinction of being dubbed the
‘murder capital” of the United States. Although violence has decreased
since 1992, the per capita violence rate in East Palo Alto has continuously
been the highest in San Mateo County, and the highest in California for
cities of similar size. Violence is on the rise again at an alarming rate. The
homicide per capita rate in East Palo Alto this year has been the highest in
Northern California - higher than both Richmond and Oakland.

In order to achieve sustainable violence reduction, the City must implement
a comprehensive and balanced violence-reduction plan that focuses on
enforcement, education and prevention.

This Measure is a smart, fiscally responsible proposal that funds violence
reduction through the expansion of aggressive and effective police
enforcement programs and an increase in the number of community police
officers working in East Palo Alto neighborhoods.

This Measure will provide job training, mentoring and counseling
programs for young adults and expand after school and truancy programs.

This Measure will increase early intervention programs for at-risk youth,
and programs to prevent child abuse and domestic violence.

This Measure will increase anti-violence education and prevention services
with an emphasis on at-risk youth and gangs.

This Measure includes strict financial oversight and performance reviews
of police and violence prevention programs. An annual, independent audit
will be performed to ensure fiscal accountability. Programs will be
evaluated by the level and quality of outreach to the target population and
its impact on crime reduction. If it is determined that a program is not
meeting specific requirements, funding for that program will be redirected
to more effective programs.

East Palo Alto needs enhanced public safety through a balanced,
comprehensive crime-reduction strategy. Please vote YES to reduce
violence in East Palo Alto.

/s/ Patricia Foster

City Councilmember

/s/ Donna Rutherford

City Councilmember

/s/ David E. Woods

Mayor, City of East Palo Alto

/s/ Ruben Abrica

Vice Mayor, City of East Palo Alto

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

“This measure will not necessarily increase police presence in The City.”
This is a quote by the East Palo Alto City Manager regarding Measure K at
a meeting with property owners and citizens voicing concerns over this new
tax. We must not lose sight of the following facts: The City has early
intervention and job training programs and a first-source hiring policy
already in place. Numerous non-profit agencies currently provide
mentoring, counseling and job skills for at-risk youth in the City.

This parcel tax measure does not identify who will be receiving money,
how programs will be evaluated, or who will evaluate them. Is City Staff,
(the brainchild of this tax), qualified to make these kinds of decisions, and
if not, who? Is the answer really to give existing non-profits more money?
Measure K is full of vague promises of programs for youth, while the most
serious offenders are age 21 or older. Why are we still blaming our
Community’s youth?

We do need a crime prevention strategy, but nothing concrete is provided
for in the actual measure.

Public safety is the most important issue facing our community, but it can’t
be addressed by overburdening taxpayers. The City and its staff must
become more creative in its use of already existing funds. All property
owners have the right to pass these taxes on to their tenants. Vote NO to 10
years of higher taxes and higher rents.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

East Palo Alto residents are currently the highest, most tax burdened in the
greater Bay Area, yet we have the highest crime and truancy rate locally.
The City Council is again asking for a $100 per resident parcel, $75 per
apartment unit and an as yet undetermined amount on commercial property.
The real problem is The City’s past fiscal mismanagement that created 1.9
million dollars in debt. Additionally, there’s the $350,000 they lost in a
lawsuit because of their failure to pay rent on land they had leased, as well
as other avoidable lawsuits in which The City did not prevail. This tax is
being created to pay bills generated by inept business decisions. It
adversely affects every homeowner, renter, and business to the extent that
all of us will pay higher housing expenses, either in property taxes or rents,
to bail The City out of yet another financial mess of their own making. We
do not see that the proposed strategies will do a significant job of enhancing
public safety. As a result of this we propose different strategies that go to
the very core of the problems we face as a community, without the need to
raise taxes. That every resident take 100% responsibility for monitoring
crime in and around his and her home, apartments and the community at
large. That speeding, public gambling, loitering, brandishing of weapons,
discharging weapons and domestic violence be abhorred by every person in
every instance. That community block clubs be given priority attention by
the police department. That the police department administration becomes
constitutionally creative in its efforts to remove arms from the streets and
remove predators from East Palo Alto.

/s/ Juanita Riisma-Deicke
/s/ Ombria B. Decarmo
/s/ Patsy Johnson
/s/ Heather Hamilton

August 29, 2005
August 29, 2005
August 29, 2005
August 29, 2005

/s/ Patsy Johnson

August 19, 2005

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K

MEASURE K IS A PUBLIC SAFETY MEASURE that will provide
resources to the Police and fund effective social services programs to
reduce violence in our community.

For the opponents to Measure K to state every resident should “...take
100% responsibility for monitoring crime in and around his and her home,
apartments and the community at large” is an insult to this community as it
suggests that East Palo Alto residents are apathetic. East Palo Alto has
demonstrated time and time again its resolve to make this community the
safest in the Bay Area. However, we just do not have sufficient resources to
sustain a long-term effort. Consequently, violence continues to rise.

The opponents also state that “...the police department administration
becomes constitutionally creative in its efforts to remove arms from the
streets and remove predators from East Palo Alto.” Under the leadership of
the new Police Chief, the police have taken many creative and aggressive
short-term measures to curb violence. These measures, however, are
primarily based on the involvement of outside agencies and are short-term.
The new Police Chief has developed a comprehensive long-term
crime-reduction strategy that focuses on enforcement, education and
prevention and engages the community in problem-solving. Without
additional resources the police department’s capacity to fully implement
the plan and sustain this effort is severely limited.

Vote YES on this measure and give the new police chief the resources and
support necessary to make our community safe!

s/ Patricia Foster

City Councilmember

/s/ David E. Woods

Mayor, City of East Palo Alto

/s/ Donna Rutherford

City Councilmember

/s/ Ruben Abrica

Vice-Mayor, City of East Palo Alto