1

RESOLUTION #11-03/04

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE TAHOE TRUCKEE
UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT PROPOSING AN EXTENSION AND ORDERING AN
ELECTION, ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER AND
REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH ANY OTHER ELECTION CONDUCTED

ON THE SAME DATE

COUNTIES OF EL DORADO, NEVADA AND PLACER

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has not provided adequate and necessary
funding for the continued operation of certain programs and services of the schools of
Tahoe Truckee Unified School District (Tahoe Truckee High, North Tahoe High, Sierra
High, North Tahoe Middle, Sierra Mountain Middle, Tahoe Lake Elementary, Creekside
Magnet at Rideout Elementary, Kings Beach Elementary, Truckee Elementary, Glenshire
Elementary, Dormer Trail Elementary and Coldstream Alternative School); and

WHEREAS, the State does not provide sufficient revenues to maintain quality education
within the District and reliance on State funding alone will result in the loss of critical
education programs; and

WHEREAS, this Board believes that the special Measure A tax currently being levied
should be continued to maintain enhanced educational opportunities for the students of
this district; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program delivers many long-
lasting benefits and advantages to all of the residents of our community; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Education (Board) of the Tahoe Truckee Unified School
District (District) is authorized to order special tax elections, after notice and hearing,
pursuant to Government Code Section 50079; and

WHEREAS, this Resolution was presented at a duly noticed regular board meeting
pursuant to Education Code Section 35144 and Government Code Section 54956 with
notice having been given and with opportunity for public comment having been provided;
and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of this Article XIIIA of California Constitution provides that
special districts, by a two-thirds vote of the qualified electors of such district, may impose
special taxes, and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution provides that the
appropriations limit of any entity of government may be changed by the electors of such
entity, for a period of up to four years from the date of the vote making such change; and

2

WHEREAS, the Board and Measure A Citizen's Review Committee has concluded that
the present revenues of the District are inadequate to meet the expenses of:

CLASSROOM SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT:

The continued provision of instructional supplies, books, equipment and programs
needed to bring each school site in line with state curriculum standards.

VOCATIONAL EDUCATION:

The continued enhancement of vocational education curricula by updating
equipment, developing new programs, maintaining current programs and classes
that address local vocational education needs.

ACADEMIC PROGRAMS:

The continued enhancement of academic programs, such as college preparatory
courses and academic electives, by providing qualified teachers and acquiring
necessary instructional supplies and equipment.

MUSIC:

The continued support of the elementary, middle and high school music programs
with music teachers, equipment, equipment maintenance and supplies.

COMPUTER AND ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY CURRICULUM:

Well planned, standardized and coordinated district technology curriculum to
include: the maintenance and timely replacement of existing computer
laboratories, additional classroom computers, continued development and
implementation of computer literacy curriculum at each school which will be
taught by qualified personnel.

REDUCED CLASS SIZE:

Additional teachers will be provided to ensure that no 4th, 5th or 4/5-combination
classroom will exceed 28-1.

MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY:

Funding to match state grants for replacement of school buses which no longer
meet state standards; and the maintenance of playgrounds and fields to ensure
student safety.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION:

The continued support of elementary physical education programs and the
acquisition of necessary equipment and supplies at school sites.

LIBRARIES:

The continued staffing of the TTHS and NTHS libraries with certificated
librarians, the continued acquisition of library books and equipment for all school

3

sites, and the continued support for a district-wide educational media distribution
center.

COUNSELING AND NURSING SERVICES:

The continued employment of school counselors and special service personnel as
needed; the continued employment of at least one full time nurse and the
acquisition of necessary equipment, supplies, and testing material to enable
screening, testing, and caring for pupils as required by state law; health and safety
clerks at each school to address the immediate health and safety needs of students
on a day-to-day basis.

WHEREAS, in the judgment of the Board, following notice and public hearing, it is
advisable to seek to provide funding for all or part of these special purposes by means of
a uniform flat rate parcel tax which includes an exemption from taxes for taxpayers 65
years of age or older who choose to apply for the exemption, as permitted by Government
Code Section 50079 (b); and

WHEREAS, in the judgment of the Board, it is advisable to order the County
Superintendents of Schools and the County Registrars of the Voters to call and conduct
an election on the questions of: whether the District shall levy a special tax within the
District for a period of four years, for the purposes of raising additional revenue for
specific purposes for the District and whether the District’s appropriations limit may be
increased in the amount of revenue so raised for a period of four (4) years from July 1,
2005.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Education of the Tahoe Truckee Unified School
District DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

1.	The authority for the specifications of the election order is contained in Education
Code Section 5322. Section 5322 requires that 123 days prior to the date set for the
election, the Board by resolution deliver to the County Superintendent of Schools and
the officer conducting the election a resolution specifying the date and purpose of the
election, the authority for ordering the election, the authority for the specifications of
the election order, and the signature of the Officer of the Board authorized by law to
make the designations. Education Code Section 5324 requires the County election
and formal notice of election to the county clerk or registrar of voters at least 120
days prior to the election date for any school election.

2.	The date of the election shall be March 8, 2005.

3.	The purpose of the election shall be for the voters in the District to vote on a
proposition (in the form set forth in paragraph 10 of this resolution) posing the
questions of whether two-thirds of the votes cast by the voters voting upon the
proposition shall continue to approve the levy of a special tax within the Tahoe
Truckee Unified School District for a period of four (4) years, and whether the
District’s appropriation limit shall be increased in the amount of revenue so raised for

4

a period of four years from July 1, 2005. Said election shall also provide for an
exemption from the tax for parcel owners age 65 or older who choose to apply for the
exemption, to be known as the “Senior Citizens Exemption”.

4.	The authority for ordering the election is contained in Government Code Sections
50079 and 50077.

5.	This Resolution shall stand as the authority for the order of election and the
specifications of election order to the County Superintendents of Schools and the
officers conducting the election.

6.	The Secretaiy of the Board is hereby directed to send two certified copies of this
Resolution to each of the following: El Dorado, Nevada, and Placer County
Superintendents of Schools and the El Dorado, Nevada, and Placer County Clerks
and/or Registrars of Voters so that this Resolution is received by them on or before
Wednesday, November 5, 2004.

7.	The County Superintendents of Schools are hereby requested to deliver the order of
election by delivery of this Resolution and a formal notice of the election to the
official in their county in charge of conducting elections no later than Tuesday,
November 7, 2004.

8.	The special tax shall be a school tax levied at a rate not to exceed eighty dollars
($80.00) a year for each assessor’s parcel within the District, as shown on the then
current local assessment rolls prepared by the El Dorado, Nevada, and Placer County
Assessors. The special tax shall be levied only in fiscal years 2005/2006, 2006/2007,
2007/2008 and 2008/2009 upon approval thereof by this Board, and shall be collected
and enforced in the same manner and subject to the same penalties and procedures
prescribed by law for the collection of other taxes fixed and collected on said local
Assessment Rolls and, by agreement with the appropriate counties, the special tax
shall be collected by the counties on behalf of the District. The revenue derived from
the special tax shall be expended solely (less implementation costs as agreed to by the
Citizens Review Committee) for the following special purposes:

CLASSROOM SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT:

The continued provision of instructional supplies, books, equipment and programs
needed to bring each school site in line with state curriculum standards.

VOCATIONAL EDUCATION:

The continued enhancement of vocational education curriculums by updating
equipment, developing new programs, maintaining current programs and classes that
address local vocational education needs.

ACADEMIC PROGRAMS:

The continued enhancement of academic programs, such as college preparatory
courses and academic electives, by providing qualified teachers and acquiring

5

necessary instructional supplies and equipment.

MUSIC:

The continued support of the elementary, middle and high school music programs
with music teacher(s), equipment, equipment maintenance and supplies.

COMPUTER AND ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY CURRICULUM:

Well planned, standardized and coordinated district technology curriculum to include:
the maintenance and timely replacement of existing computer laboratories, additional
classroom computers, continued development and implementation of computer
literacy curriculum at each school which will be taught by qualified personnel.

REDUCED CLASS SIZE:

Additional teachers will be provided to ensure that no 4th, 5 th or 4/5 combination
classroom will exceed 28-1.

MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY:

Funding to match state grants for replacement of school buses that no longer meet
state standards and the maintenance of playgrounds and fields to ensure student
safety.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION:

The continued support of elementary physical education programs and the acquisition
of necessary equipment and supplies at school sites.

LIBRARIES:

The continued staffing of the TTHS and NTHS libraries with certificated librarians,
the continued acquisition of library books and equipment for all school sites, and the
continued support for a district-wide educational media distribution center.

COUNSELING AND NURSING SERVICES:

The continued employment of school counselors and special service personnel as
needed; the continued employment of at least one full time nurse and the acquisition
of necessary equipment, supplies, and testing material to enable screening, testing,
and caring for pupils as required by state law; health and safety clerks at each school
to address the immediate health and safety needs of students on a day-to-day basis.

9.	For a parcel owner age 65 or older to be entitled to a Senior Citizens Exemption from
the special tax, such a parcel owner, as such owner is shown on the latest current
assessment roll, shall submit proof of entitlement to an exemption from the special
tax, in a manner satisfactory to the District, proving such parcel is owned individually
or in common with others. Partnerships, corporations, trusts, and other entities shall
not be entitled to an exemption. The Board, in consultation with the county assessors,
shall adopt, after public hearing, further rules and regulations governing the within
exemption.

6

10.	The form of the proposition shall read as follows:

MEASURE A

(Continuation of Special Tax for the Tahoe Truckee Unified School District)

Shall Tahoe Truckee Unified School District continue to collect $80/year per taxable
parcel for four years, with citizen oversight and exemptions for taxpayers aged 65 and
older for classroom supplies, materials, vocational education, academic programs,
music, computers, technology support, lower 4th/5th grade class size, nursing,
physical education, bus replacement fund, playground, field maintenance, librarians,
elementary school counseling and shall the District’s appropriations limit be
increased accordingly?

11.	Prior to levying either part or all of the special tax in any given year, the Board will
conduct a public hearing on the matter. Notice of the time, date, and place of hearing
shall be published pursuant to Government Code Section 6066 at least twice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the District, and posted commencing at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. Following said hearing each year, the Board
shall adopt a resolution establishing the amount of tax to be raised for that year and
the rate per parcel, up to $80.00. Any tax levied shall become a lien upon the
properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible as herein provided. The
Board shall consider any reports submitted by the Measure A Citizen’s Review
Committee concerning levying the special tax.

12.	It is not intended that the collection of the special tax provided for herein decrease the
funds available from other sources of the District for any period from the effective
date hereof. In the event that it does, the District shall cease to levy said special tax.

13.	Pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA and Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the
California Constitution and Government Code Section 50077, the special tax shall
become effective only upon the approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by the voters
voting on the proposition.

14.	The County Superintendent of Schools of the Counties of El Dorado, Nevada, and
Placer and the County Clerks and/or Registrars of Voters of El Dorado, Nevada, and
Placer Counties are hereby requested to take all necessary steps to call and hold the
election in their respective counties in accordance with the law.

15.	The District is situated in El Dorado, Placer, and Nevada Counties. Pursuant to

7

Education Code Section 5303 and for the purposes of this election. Placer County is
the county, which, by mutual agreement, shall perform the duties of conduction the
election. The Clerk of Placer County is hereby authorized to provide, at District
expense, all necessary election services that shall include, but not be limited to:

•	Requesting impartial analysis by Placer County Counsel subject to
approval of El Dorado and Nevada County Counsels

•	Setting the last day to file arguments

•	Preparing ballot layout and election materials

•	Printing and mailing sample ballots and other election materials

•	Printing official ballots

•	Providing precinct supplies

•	Appointing and training election officers

•	Obtaining and renting polling places

•	Preparing voter indexes

•	Publishing list of election officers and polling places

•	Mailing appointment notices for polling places and/or precinct boards

•	Processing absentee ballots

•	Providing voter count by precinct

•	Canvassing the results of the election

Whenever possible, the District’s schools shall be used as polling places.

16.	The Board of Supervisors of Placer County is hereby requested to authorize the Clerk
of Placer County to be responsible for conducting this election; the boards of
Supervisors of El Dorado and Nevada Counties are hereby requested to authorize the
clerk or registrar of voters of their counties to cooperate with the Clerk of Placer
County in conducting this election. The Boards of Supervisors of El Dorado, Placer,
and Nevada Counties are also requested to authorize consolidation of this election
with any other applicable election conducted on the same day this election.

17.	If any part of this resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining parts of this resolution.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE TAHOE
TRUCKEE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT THIS 1ST DAY OF DECEMBER, 2003,
BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

AYES:	y

NOES:	0

ABSENT: /
ABSTENTION: 0

ATTEST

Presided of if\t Board of Education of the Tahoe
Truckee Unified School District

Secretary to the Board of Education of the Tahoe
Truckee Unified School District



8

CERTIFICATION

State of California	)

ss.

County of Placer	)

I,	Dennis K. Williams, Superintendent of the Tahoe Truckee Unified School
District, do hereby certify and declare that the foregoing is a full, true and complete copy
of a resolution duly passed and adopted by the Governing Board of the Tahoe Truckee
Unified School District at a special meeting of said Board duly called at Truckee,
California on the 1st day of December 2003.

DATED:	\; 3>QQ3

Dennis K. Williams, Superintendent

