MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

MUNICIPAL

TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO
SPECIAL MUNICIPAL SERVICES TAX
MEASURE B

B Shall an ordinance be adopted approving a special San
Anselmo municipal services tax of $250 per year per living
unit and per 1500 square feet of nonresidential use, for a
period of four years, to be used to:

■ Restore and maintain Police, Parks, and Library staffing and
services,

■ Maintain minimum staffing at San Anselmo fire stations,

Increasing the appropriations limit by the amount of said tax for
the next four years and establishing a citizens’ oversight
committee?

TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO
SPECIAL MUNICIPAL SERVICES TAX
FULL TEXT OF ORDINANCE
MEASURE B

ORDINANCE NO. ______

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE TOWN OF
SAN ANSELMO, CALIFORNIA, ADOPTING A SPECIAL
MUNICIPAL SERVICES TAX BY ADDING A NEW
CHAPTER 6 “SPECIAL MUNICIPAL SERVICES TAX”
TO TITLE 8 OF THE SAN ANSELMO MUNICIPAL CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE TOWN OF SAN ANSELMO DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. ADDITIONS TO CODE. A new Chapter 6 entitled “Special
Municipal Services Tax” is hereby added to the San Anselmo
Municipal Code as follows:

8-6.01 Title

This chapter shall be known as the "Special Municipal Services Tax Law of
the Town of San Anselmo.”

8-6.02 Necessity, Authority, and Purpose

The Council hereby determines that the cost to maintain basic services at
the level required to provide for the health, safety, and general welfare of
the residents of the town exceeds the amount of funds and revenues
generated from all other sources. The Council further determines that the
levy of a special municipal services tax for a period of four years on
improved real property throughout the town is necessary to maintain an
adequate level of basic services. Accordingly, a tax is imposed by this
chapter pursuant to Section 37100.5 of the Government Code of the State.

8-6.03 Tax imposed

A special municipal services tax not exceeding the maximum amounts set
forth in this section is hereby imposed effective July 1, 2006 and levied on
all improved real property within the boundaries of the Town at the
maximum flat rate of two hundred fifty and no/IOOths ($250.00) Dollars per
year per living unit and per 1,500 square feet of structure of nonresidential
use, except that the tax derived from a nonresidential structure seventy-five
(75%) percent or more occupied by a single enterprise or institution shall
not exceed $3,000.

8-6.04 Levy by Council resolution

Prior to August 10 of each year, the Council by resolution shall determine
and fix the precise amount of tax to be levied during the current fiscal year.
Such tax shall not exceed the maximum amount set forth in Section 8-6.03
of this chapter.

8-6.05 Increase Appropriations Limit

Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriations limit for the Town of San
Anselmo will be increased one times the aggregate sum authorized to be
levied as a special tax in each of the years covered by this ordinance.

8-6.06 Use of County Records

The records of the County Assessor as of March 1 each year may be
used to determine the actual use of each parcel of real properly and, as
applicable, the structural square feet for the purposes of determining the
tax imposed by this chapter.

8-6.07 Personal Liability

The tax levied and imposed by this chapter shall be collected by the
County Tax Collector at the same time as, and along with, the property
taxes collected by the County Tax Collector; however, the tax shall not
become a tax lien on the properly against whose owner the tax is
assessed. The owner of the properly shall be personally liable for
nonpayment of the tax.

8-6.07.1 Deposit and Use of Funds from Special Municipal Services
Tax

All proceeds from the taxes imposed and levied by this chapter shall be
paid into the “Special Municipal Services Tax Fund” to be used
exclusively to restore and maintain Police, Parks and Library staffing and
services and to maintain minimum staffing at the San Anselmo Fire
Stations.

8-6.07.2 Reporting

A Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall be established to monitor the
annual expenditures from the special tax. The Finance & Administrative
Services Director shall file a report with the Town Council no later than
January 1 of each year, beginning in 2008, containing the amount of
funds collected and expended and the status of any project to be funded
by the special tax.

8-6-08 Partial invalidity

If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase, or clause of this chapter is
for any reason held by any court to be invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect the remaining portions of this chapter. The Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this chapter, and each section,
subsection, sentence, phrase, or clause thereof, irrespective of the fact
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, phrases, or clauses
be declared for any reason invalid.

8-6.09 Tax Equity Board

The Tax Equity Board established by resolution of the Council shall
receive and act upon applications for full or partial rebates for persons
claiming inability to pay the tax provided for in this chapter.

8-6.10 Exemptions

Improved property used exclusively for educational, hospital, scientific,
charitable, or religious purposes owned and operated by institutions,
foundations, or corporations organized and operated for educational,
hospital, scientific, charitable, or religious purposes shall be granted an
exemption to the tax imposed by this chapter on proof that any such
organization has first qualified as an exempt organization under
subsection (d) of Section 23701 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the State and subsection (3) of subsection (c) of Section 501 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954.

The exemption provided for by this section shall be effective from and
after November 8,2005.

8-6.11 Penalty for disclosure of information on applications for
rebate of municipal service tax

Any person disclosing the name of any person and any financial
information obtained from an application for a rebate of a municipal
service tax shall be guilty of an infraction.

SECTION 2. CURRENT CHAPTER 6. The current Chapter 6 "Claims
and Suits for Refunds of Taxes, Fees, Assessments and Levies” is
hereby renumbered Chapter 7.

MEASURE B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21-555

(Full Text of Measure B Continued)	IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY TOWN ATTORNEY MEASURE B
SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the Town special municipal services tax and shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after the certification by the Town Council of the election returns indicating passage of the Ordinance by two-thirds of the voters casting votes in the election. The special municipal services tax will be assessed beginning fiscal year 2006-07.	Measure B enacts by ordinance a Special Municipal Services Tax to be levied on all improved real properly within the boundaries of the Town of San Anselmo. The tax is proposed at the rate of $250 per year per residential living unit and per 1,500 square feet of structure of nonresidential use, effective July 1, 2006. This measure requires a two- thirds majority to pass and terminates 4 years from its effective date.
The foregoing Ordinance was approved by the voters of the Town of San Anselmo at the Consolidated General District and School Election held on the 8th day of November, 2005, by the following vote tally:  YES:  NO:	Linder the ordinance, all proceeds from the taxes imposed are to be paid into a “Special Municipal Services Tax Account” to be used exclusively to restore and maintain Police, Parks and Library staffing and services and to maintain minimum staffing at the San Anselmo Fire Stations.  The Town’s Finance and Administrative Services Director is to report annually to the Town Council on the amount of funds collected and expended and the status of any project to be funded by the special tax.
Peter Breen, Mayor	A Citizen’s Oversight Committee is to be established to monitor the annual expenditures from the special tax and to ensure they are made in accordance with the requirements of the ordinance.
ATTEST:	Persons of low-income may apply for a full or partial rebate of the tax payment, to be decided by the San Anselmo Tax Equity Board. Properly used exclusively for educational, charitable or religious purposes is granted an exemption to the tax.
Barbara Chambers, Town Clerk	The State places limits on the amount of revenue that can be collected by cities and towns based on a calculation known as the appropriations limit. Therefore, voters are asked to approve an increase in the appropriations limit to authorize the additional revenue.
	HADDEN ROTH  San Anselmo Town Attorney
	ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST
	THIS MEASURE
	START ON THE NEXT PAGE
	MEASURE B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

In San Anselmo, we've always been proud of our community - its
neighborhoods, its civic character, our quality of life. But, the Town, like
many other California cities, is currently facing a severe fiscal crisis.
Consequently, San Anselmo's ability to provide quality services is in
peril.

In recent years Sacramento has diverted $5 million in San Anselmo tax
dollars while balancing the State budget on the backs of local
government.

During the last three years, the Town has reduced expenses by leaving
eight positions vacant and deferring capital projects, equipment
purchases and employee raises, as well as increasing revenue where
possible.

But it isn’t nearly enough. The Fiscal Advisory Committee appointed to
review the Town's financial situation found that the Town has been in a
tight expense reduction mode for three years, with nothing left to cut
without greatly impacting Town services.

The San Anselmo Town Council placed Measure B, a $250 per year
special municipal services tax that expires in four years, on this ballot to
sustain current Town services.

The revenue from this tax, approximately $1.6 million per year, will be
spent to restore and maintain adequate Police, Library and Parks staffing
and services. It will also maintain minimum safety staffing levels at the
two San Anselmo fire stations.

Measure B will ensure that San Anselmo's ability to provide outstanding
and cost effective police and fire protection is not compromised. It will
ensure that our parks are well-maintained and that the Library remains
open.

Measure B is truly for San Anselmo. Sacramento can't touch these
funds, and the measure mandates a Citizen's Oversight Committee to
monitor their use.

We need all those who care about San Anselmo to join together to keep
our Town great. We urge you to renew your commitment and protect
your investment in San Anselmo. Please join us in voting Yes on
Measure B.

s/ Peter Breen
Mayor, San Anselmo

s/ John D. Wright, Trustee
Tamalpais Union High School District

si Cynthia Barrows, Member
Friends of the San Anselmo Library

si Lori Lopin, Trustee
Ross Valley School District

si Jonathan Braun, Chair
San Anselmo Open Space Committee

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE B

Measure B has no SUNSET DATE.

This $250 Special Tax is effective 2006-2010, but the Tax Ordinance
does not prohibit renewal.

Measure B has no restriction to prevent siphoning.

Attorneys opined Tamalpais School District Measure A facility renovation
bond dollars could be used to develop the Ross Valley School District
property because it was within the Tamalpais District.

State law requires an oversight committee review revenue and
expenditures of a Special Tax, but the Council appoints the committee.
Once Measure B is approved, it will be too late to ever correct the
deficiencies constructed into this bad tax law.

VOTERS SHOULD VOTE NO ON MEASURE B
AND

SEND THIS BAD TAX ORDINANCE BACK TO THE TOWN COUNCIL.

•	The San Anselmo Pension Override Properly Tax generates more
than $1.2 million annually to pay 100% of the employer and
employee share of the retirement expense.

•	Union bargaining agreements stipulate San Anselmo and San
Rafael employee total compensation packages must be within $1 of
one another.

Currently the $78 per living unit Municipal Services Tax revenue purpose
is to “maintain municipal services.”

The proposed $250 per living unit Special Municipal Services Tax
revenue purpose is to “maintain basic services.”

An attorney could define “basic services” as tax revenues that may be
siphoned to compensate for special development projects.

Measure B

is a punishing tax amount and defective tax law,
is proposed by a fiscally reckless Council,
deserves your condemnation.

Voters of San Anselmo should VOTE NO ON MEASURE B.

si Louise Mathews
Taxpayer

si Lujza J. Mehling
Taxpayer

si Nancy Okada
Taxpayer

MEASURE B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21-557

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE B

After our economy declined and the State began to fail to meet its
scheduled revenue support, San Anselmo Town Council still focused on
providing annual employee salary increases, costly pension entitlements
and generous benefit packages for all Police, Staff and Management
positions.

Town Council explored the concept of fiscal discipline by INCREASING
Fees for:

Administration

Library

Recreation

Parks

Planning

Police

Public Works

Business License processing

the installation of public parking lot meters

and two types of Road Impact fees; generating revenue estimated at
more than half a million dollars annually.

Council has now scheduled approval of negotiated employee contracts
and the payment for two years’ worth of deferred employee raises until
after the November 2005 election. The Tax Ordinance language,
"Maintain minimum staffing at fire stations” is also set by contract.

Council was asked to correct several deficiencies in this Tax Ordinance.
Voters should examine two pertinent points that call into question a
possible hidden intent of Council’s interpretation of this Tax Ordinance.

o There is no Sunset Date for the Tax written into the Ordinance.
The four-year term could be interpreted to be renewable at the
end of each four-year term, without any future voter approval.

o There is no Restriction on the use of this Tax revenue that shall
prohibit the Town officials from siphoning off Tax revenue to
build and maintain the Red Hill Community Park. Ross Valley
School District owns that site and will have sole ownership of
$2.5 million dollars worth of improvements.

Council chose not to remedy these two critical deficiencies in the Special
Municipal Services Tax Ordinance language, deficiencies that violate the
public’s trust and are an assault upon limited taxpayer resources.

Voters of San Anselmo should Vote NO on Measure B.

si Louise Mathews
Taxpayer

si Lujza J. Mehling
Taxpayer

si Nancy Okada
Taxpayer

These are the facts about Measure B:

•	Town employees have had no salary increases since July 2003.

•	The pension plans that are in place were committed to in 2002 and
have not been enhanced.

•	Current employee benefits were committed to in 2002 and have not
been increased.

•	The Town’s employees have agreed to extend existing contracts with
no changes in order to assist the Town during this difficult fiscal
period. No new negotiations have taken place. No new contracts
have been discussed. No Town Council approvals are scheduled.

•	Staffing at our two fire stations is at the minimum. This measure will
allow us to maintain this minimum staffing.

•	Extensive expenditure cuts have been made in all areas of Town
operations, resulting in reduced services to the people of San
Anselmo.

•	Measure B must sunset in June 2010. By law, it cannot be renewed
without another election before the voters of San Anselmo.

•	The Town’s financial commitment to Red Hill Community Park is
$100,000 in State Park Bond funds reserved exclusively for parks.
The Town Council has consistently said that no general fund money
will be spent for the park.

San Anselmo community members have repeatedly indicated that they

want quality police and fire protection services, well maintained parks

and a full service Library. Maintaining these services is a top priority for

the Town. Protect your investment in San Anselmo.

Vote Yes on Measure B.

si Barbara Thornton
Vice-Mayor, San Anselmo

si Jeff Kroot
Councilmember, San Anselmo

si Ellin A. Purdom, Member
San Anselmo Volunteer Advisory Board

si Tom Boss, Founder
Film Night in the Park

END OF MEASURE B

21-558