ORDINANCE NO. 05-1996

AN ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 5.78 TO TITLE 5 OF THE TULARE
MUNICIPAL CODE TO PROVIDE FOR AN ADDITIONAL ONE-HALF OF
ONE PERCENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR GENERAL PURPOSES

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL AND THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF TULARE:

I

SECTION 1. AMENDMENT OF CODE.

Tulare Municipal Code Title 5 is hereby amended by the addition of a new Chapter to read as follows:
CHAPTER 5.78 - TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR GENERAL PURPOSES

5.78.010

5.78.020

5.78.030

5.78.040

5.78.050

5.78.060

5.78.070

5.78.080

5.78.090

5.78.100

5.78.110

5.78.120

Purpose.

Operative Date.

Contract with State.

Imposition of Transactions Tax.

Presumption as to Place of Sales.

Imposition of Use Tax.

Adoption of Certain Sections of California Revenue & Taxation Code by Reference.
Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

Permit Not Required.

Exemptions and Exclusions.

Amendments.

Enjoining Collection Prohibited.

\

5.78.010 Purpose/Title:

This Ordinance shall be known as the Transactions and Use Tax for General Purposes ordinance. The city
of T ulare shall hereinafter be called City. This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the. City.
This Ordinance of the Tulare Municipal Code has been adopted for the following (and other) purposes, and directs
that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing
with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7
of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority
of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called
for that purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those
of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent
with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure
therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that
adapts itself as fully as practical to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Transactions and Use Taxes;

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will,
to the degree possible consistent with the provisions of Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the said
Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting City transactions and use taxes, and at

1

the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the
provisions thereof.

(e)	To provide a source of revenue to be used by the City for general purposes. There shall be no legal
obligation created by this Chapter for use of the funds for specific purposes.

5.78.020. Operative Date:

Operative date means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 11 C| days after the
adoption of this Ordinance, the date of such adoption being set forth below.

5.78.030. Contract with State:

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation hereof. If the City has not contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall
be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract. The Council may make any
technical amendments to this Ordinance required by the State Board of Equalization, except for any changes
affecting the tax rate, its manner of collection, or the purpose for which the revenue from the tax may be used.

5.78.040. Imposition of Transactions Tax:

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in
the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the gross receipts ,of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the City of Tulare on and after the operative
date of this Ordinance. The City Council is authorized to establish a tax rate of one-half of one percent by
resolution. This tax is imposed in addition to the tax imposed pursuant to Chapter 5.08 of this Code. The City
Council may, by resolution after public notice and public hearing, reduce said tax to one-guarter of one percent
(0.25%).

5.78.050	Presumption as to Place of Sales:

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer,
unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or
to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules
and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the Board of Equalization.

5.78.060. Imposition of Use Tax:

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the City of Tulare of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on or after the operative date of this Ordinance, at the rate of one-
half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the property subject to the tax. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to State transactions or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. The City Council is authorized to establish a tax rate of one-half of one percent by resolution.
The tax imposed is in addition to the tax imposed pursuant to Chapter 5.08 of this Code. The City Council may,
by resolution after public notice and public hearing, reduce said tax to one-quarter of one percent (0.25%).

5.78.070. Adoption of Certain Sections of California Revenue & Taxation Code by Reference:

Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Parts 1.6
and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all Of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of said Code,
as amended and in force and effect on the operative date of this Ordinance, applicable to use taxes are hereby
adopted and made a part of this section as though fully set forth herein.

2

5.78.080. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes:

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(a)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City
shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

(1)	The word State is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board
of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution pf the State of
California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization,
in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under
the provisions of Part 1 of Divisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that
code.

(4)	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,6797 or 6828

of the Revenue and Taxation Code.	'

(b)	The word City shall be substituted for the word AState@ in the phrase Aretailer engaged in business
in this State© in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

5.78.090. Permit Not Required:

If a sellers permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

Exemptions and Exclusions:

There shall be excluded from the measure of (he transactions tax and die use tax the amount of any
sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county
pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, otherthan fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft
to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made and directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the
authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City,
pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes
of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

5.78.100.

(a)

(b)

3

r

With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code
by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed 4
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be^operated from
that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period
of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease
prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage, use or other

consumption in this City of tangible personal property: .

. (1) The gross receipts from the sale of. which have been subject to a transactions tax under any
state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

\

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed
by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and
necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contact
entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property
arises under a lease which is continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption,
or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of
the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

4

(7)	AA retailer engaged in business in the City@ shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuantto Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000)
of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the City.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax. under this Ordinance may credit against that tax any ^ansactions tax
or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 5.78,110. Amendments/Severability:

All amendments subsequent to the operative date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and ail amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance. If any provision of this
Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance
and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 5.78.120 Enjoining Collection Prohibited:

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or
proceeding in any court against the State or this City, or against any officer of the State or this City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection hereunder, or Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax
or any amount of tax required to be collected.	•	'

SECTION 2:	STATUTORY AUTHORITY FOR TAX.

This ordinance is adopted pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code section 7285.9.

SECTION 3:	ELECTION REQUIRED.

This ordinance shall not become operative unless and until at least a majority of the electors voting on this
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at the election to be held on November 8,2005.

SECTION 4:	EFFECTIVE DATE.

If this ordinance is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the issue at the November 8,2005 election,
pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217, the tax shall become effective ten (10) days after the Council certifies
the results of the election.

APPROVED by the following vote of the People of the City of Tulare on November 8, 2005:
Measure I Results: Yes 5285 No: 2130 (71.27%)

PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this 20th day_of December 2005.

Chief Deputy City Clprk and Clerk of
The Council of the City of Tulare

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )

COUNTY OF TULARE	)ss

CITY OF TULARE	)

1

I,	DARREL PYLE, City Clerk of the City of Tulare and Clerk of the Council:of said city,
do hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance No. 05-1996 was duly adopted by the City Council of
said city and was signed by the President of said Council at a regular meeting of said City Council
held on the 20th day of December, 2005 and was approved by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL MEMBERS:	Richard Ortega

Craig Vejvoda
Carlton Jones

NOES:	COUNCIL MEMBERS:	None

ABSTAIN:	COUNCIL MEMBERS:	None

ABSENT:	COUNCIL MEMBERS:	Philip VandegHft

David Macedo

DARREL PYLE, CITY CLERK

M*---------------

eputy City Clerk and Clerk
“©Council of the City of Tulare