Sample Ballot

Sample Ballot

Per California Elections Code section 13204 the elections official is required to provide

the following Instructions to Voters:

To vote on the measure, turn the select wheel to move the blue bar to highlight your choice in the voting square after the word "Yes” or after the word "No"
and press the ENTER button.

VOTER'S PAMPHLET
THE FOLLOWING CONTAINS BALLOT MEASURE ANALYSIS AND ARGUMENTS
ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B	IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B
LOWELL JOINT SCHOOL DISTRICT	BY LOS ANGELES COUNTY COUNSEL
(Special Tax for Lowell Joint School District)  ‘To maintain quality educational programs and classroom instruction, to prevent significant increases in class size, to avoid reductions in teaching positions, to attract and retain the best teachers and employees, and to support educational programs that enhance student achievement, shall the Lowell Joint School District be authorized to levy a special tax of $95 on each parcel of land within the District each year for eight years with an exemption opportunity for seniors?”  The full text of the ballot measure shall read as follows:  “Shall the Lowell Joint School District, serving the City of La Habra, the Qity of Whittier, the City of La Habra Heights, and the county-territory of Whittier levy a special tax for under-funded programs with an exemption Opportunity for seniors to:  1.	attract and retain the very best teachers; ,  V*'  2.	keep the Reading Assistance Program for students; V. .. ,  i  3.	continue to improve student learning and performance;  4.	maintain and/or reduce existing class size in order to continue quality instruction;  5.	continue the library, music, art and technology programs;  AMOUNT OF TAX; PERIOD OF ASSESSMENT The special tax shall be $95 (or less as provided below) per year for eight (8) full years assessed against each parcel within the boundaries of the Lowell Joint School District. 1  DEFINITION OF “PARCEL”  For purposes of the special tax, the term “Parcel” means any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially within the boundaries of the Lowell Joint School District, for which the Assessor of the County has assigned an Assessor’s parcel number.	Approval of Measure B would authorize the Lowell Joint School District (“District") to levy a qualified special tax not to exceed $95 per year on any parcel of land which lies wholly or partially in the District for which the Assessor of the County has assigned a parcel number.  The tax revenues would be used to attract and retain teachers, keep the Reading Assistant Program for students, continue to improve student learning and performance, maintain and/or reduce existing class sizes, and , continue the library, music, art and technology programs.  The tax would be levied for eight (8) years. Owners who are 65 years of age or older of a parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential . purposes may obtain an exemption from the levy of the special tax by submitting an application to the Board of Trustees (“Board”) for the District in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by the Board. A parcel is any unit of land in the District which receives a separate tax bill. All property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt. The taxes under this Measure shall be collected by the Los Angeles County Treasurer and Tax Collector and Orange County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be subject to the same interest and penalties as general ad valorem property taxes collected by the Tax Collector. The tax shall bear the interest rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. Any tax levied shall become a lien upon the properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible.  The levy and collection of the special tax is not intended to decrease or offset any increase in local, state, or federal funding that would otherwise be available to the District. In the event the levy and collection does have such an effect, the District shall reduce the special tax levy to the extent of any such decrease or offset. An annual review and recommendation shall be completed for the determination of the amount of the qualified special tax to be assessed for each successive year, but not to exceed $95 per year.  This Measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) vote for passage.
EXEMPTION FOR SENIORS  Pursuant to the California Government Code Section 50079(b), any owners who are 65 years of age or older of a Parcel used solely for owner-occupied, single-family residential purposes may obtain an exemption from the special tax by submitting an application to the Board of Trustees of the Lowell Joint School District in accordance with rules and regulations adopted by the Board.  DISTRICT PHILOSOPHY  The Lowell Joint School District is committed to providing a strong academic program of basic skills with a well-rounded program of traditional subject offerings. At all District schools, we emphasize the importance of education, the family, and traditional American values. We stress the value of personal integrity, social responsibility, and a respect for our national heritage.  Pursuant to California Constitution Article XHIB, the appropriations limit for the Lowell Joint School District will be increased by the aggregate sum collected by the levy of this special tax in each of the years for which this special tax is authorized."	NO ARGUMENTS WERE SUBMITTED FOR OR AGAINST THIS MEASURE

Qn.ni