MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE D

To continue to provide our students with courses in music

Dand art, technology, foreign language instruction, and
library services, all essential for student growth and
development, shall the Gravenstein Union School District
be authorized to replace and extend its existing parcel tax of $36
per year with an annual parcel tax of $52 for eight years,
beginning July 1,2005, with annual audits and an exemption for
parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or more?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

The Gravenstein Union School District has called an election on a special tax mea-
sure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a
school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes to replace the District’s existing special tax of $36 with a
tax of $52.00 per year per parcel for each parcel of land within the District's bound-
aries. The tax would be based on the privilege of using the parcel, would begin on
July 1,2005, and would remain in effect for no more than eight years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
the purposes set out in the measure, which include retaining music and art pro-
grams, supporting technology, retaining foreign language instruction, and keeping
library services available for students. Each year, beginning with the year ending
December 31,2005, the measure requires the Superintendent or Chief Financial
Officer of the District to have the District auditor prepare a report, stating the
amount received and expended from the tax for that year, and the status of any
irojects, and description of any programs, funded from the proceeds of the tax.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

We’re proud of the excellent education our children receive from our locai schools.
In California's state testing program, Gravenstein schools rank highest in West
Sonoma County. Great schools with superior academic programs help create solid
citizens and build strong communities.

But quality education isn't cheap, and state funding for our local schools has stag-
nated. In the last two years, Gravenstein has lost nearly $45,000 in discontinued
state grants. We've been given another $40,000 in lOU's from Sacramento, with
no firm redemption date.

To maintain our outstanding local schools, we must plug the revenue gap our-
selves. That's why we need Measure D.

Measure D will replace an existing parcel tax of $36 per year with an annual tax of
$52 per parcel for a term of eight years. The proceeds will support our arts, music,
computer and foreign language programs, as well as our library services. Senior
citizens age 65 and older may apply for an exemption. Contiguous parcels pay a
single tax, and low-value parcels pay no tax at all.

Measure D's proposed tax of $52 per parcel is the same as those planned by Har-
mony, Oak Grove, Sebastopol and Twin Hills elementary school districts. By work-
ing together on this campaign with our neighbors, we share expenses and create a
spirit of unity that benefits all of our students. We also support Measure B, the pro-
posed high school parcel tax, to help give our children a solid public education,
from preschool right through high school.

Our local Gravenstein schools are well-managed and spend your tax dollars
wisely. They're doing a great job of teaching our children. Measure D supports our
schools by investing our local tax dollars right here at home.

Please vote Yes on Measure D. For more information, visit www.fwcs.info. Thank
you.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and occupied
by a person who will be 65 years of age or older on or before May 1,2005, or May 1
of any subsequent year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemp-
tions based on ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for
this exemption the first year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps
must be followed to appeal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a
refund of the tax, if appropriate.

si Patricia Andersen, President
Gravenstein Schools Foundation

si Randy Coffman
Parent, Realty Office Manager

si Dominico J. Carinalli, Jr., Director
Gold Ridge Fire Protection District

si Kay N. Crocker, Trustee
Gravenstein School District

si Larry H. Winkler, President
Ford of Sebastopol

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE D

If two-thirds of the voters in the Gravenstein Union School District who vote on this
measure vote “yes," the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied. The
tax would be'collected in the same manner as regular property taxes starting with
the 2005-2006 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel



FULL TEXT OF MEASURED

GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “GRAVENSTEIN
UNION DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005” or as “Measure D.”

TERMS OF GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on
this measure, the District shall be authorized to replace its existing parcel tax
of $36 per year with a qualified special tax of $52 per year on each parcel of
taxable real property in the District for no more than eight years, commencing
July 1,2005. The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to as the
“GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005.” To the
extent such funds are available, proceeds of the GRAVENSTEIN UNION
SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005 shall be authorized to keep Music
and Art programs, technology, foreign language instruction, and library ser-
vices available for students.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens
in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of
age or older shall be exempt from the GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL
DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005 upon proper application to the District
Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before May 1,
2005 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any application from a
qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining
term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to qualify for the
exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

I Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL
DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied
only for such purposes.

Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the GRAVENSTEIN UNION
SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCELTAX OF 2005, the Board of Trustees shall cause an
account to be established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds
of the GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005
remain unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the dis-
trict shall cause its auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of
Trustees no laterthan December 31 of each year, commencing December31,
2005, stating (1) the amount of GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX OF 2005 received and expended in such year, and (2) the status
of any projects or description of any programs funded from proceeds of the
tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate
annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and may be incorpo-
rated into our file with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine
report to the Board of Trustees.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005
shall be collected by the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same
time and manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem
property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall
bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property
taxes until paid. The collection of GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX OF 2005 shall not decrease the funds available from other
sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property" shall be defined as any unit of real
operty in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
...operty taxes from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All
property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem
property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the GRAVENSTEIN
UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005 in such year. Parcels
owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older are exempt from the

GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005 as de-
scribed above.

Multiple parcels, which are contiguous and are partof the one economic
unit under the same name and ownership, shall be charged as one parcel
provided proper application is made to the District by May 1,2005 or May 1 of
any succeeding assessment year.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District
has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the GRAVENSTEIN
UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005 as described above to the
Sonoma County tax collection officials. The Sonoma County Assessor’s de-
termination of exemption or relief for any reason other than the Senior Ex-
emption of any parcel from taxation shall be final and binding for the
purposes of the GRAVENSTEIN UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF
2005. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination
must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property
pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or
other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of GRAVENSTEIN
UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT PARCEL TAX OF 2005 paid shall follow the proce-
dures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue
and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees hereby declares and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has
independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof.
Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining
parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed
by law.