VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

COTATI-ROHNERT PARK UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE A

QUALITY PUBLIC EDUCATION PRESERVATION ACT

A OF 2005. To maintain and improve high quality local
education by: Attracting and retaining quality teachers and
staff; enhancing literacy and reading instruction; improving
science and math programs; maintaining library services, shall
Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District levy an annual parcel
tax of $97.00 for 4 years only, with independent community fiscal
oversight, annual audits, exemptions for seniors, and no funds
used for administrator salaries?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District has called an election on a special
tax measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval be-
fore a school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $97.00 per year per parcel for each parcel
of land within the District's boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1, 2005, and would remain in effect for four
years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
the purposes set out in the measure, which include attracting and retaining experi-
enced teachers and staff, enhancing literacy and reading instruction, improving
science and math programs, and maintaining library services. Each year, the mea-
sure requires a report be presented to the Governing Board of the District showing
the amount received and expended from the tax for that year, and the status of any
rojects and description of any programs funded from the proceeds of the tax. In
Jjdition, the measure requires the District Board to appoint an Independent citi-
zens' oversight board to monitor and audit the use of the proceeds and otherwise
assist the District in assuring that funds are properly spent on authorized projects.
The measure further provides that no money from the tax will be spent on adminis-
trators' salaries.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and occupied
by a person who will be 65 years of age or older on or before July 1,2005, or July 1
of any subsequent year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemp-
tions based on ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for
this exemption the first year it applied to them.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District who
vote on this measure vote "yes," the measure will pass and the special tax will be
levied. The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes
starting with the 2005-2006 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

A yes vote on Measure A will maintain excellence in the Cotati-Rohnert Park
Unified School District and give our. children the education they need to succeed.
Measure A is a local solution to the statewide problem of education funding.

As we all know, the State has drastically cut funding to all school districts. Over the
past five years, our local School District has cut over $8 million dollars from its bud-
get, dramatically impacting our school programs. Our schools now face two op-
tions: cut basic programs or develop community funding to support them. Measure
A is exactly that - a local plan to maintain excellence in our schools.

All Measure A funds will stay in our community to benefit local children and local
schools. Measure A will provide funds to attract and retain quality teachers and
staff, maintain literacy and reading programs, continue quality math and science
programs, and ensure access to library services.

There are taxpayer safeguards within Measure A. Audits will be conducted annu-
ally. An Independent Citizens Oversight Committee will monitor all expenditures to
ensure funds are spent properly. Not one penny of Measure A funds will be used
for administrative salaries.

Measure A will be in effect for 4 years, only, and must be used for the priorities out-
lined. Senior citizens 65 years of age or older may apply for a full exemption from
this assessment for parcels they own and occupy.

Good neighborhood schools are the foundation of a quality community. Good
schools protect property values and attract families to our community. Measure A
is a local solution that will maintain excellence in our local schools.

Please join local teachers, parents, business owners, retirees and community
leaders in voting Yes on Measure A.

si Michael Schroeder, President
Rohnert Park-Cotati Educators Assn.

si Debbie Bailey.

Senior Citizen, Community Volunteer

si Dan Sheehy
Parent

si Mike Pastryk
Parent, Cotati Business Owner

si Thomas R. Bullard
Rohnert Park Chief of Police

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE A

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

QUALITY PUBLIC EDUCATION PRESERVATION ACT OF 2005.

To maintain and improve high quality local education by:

Attracting and retaining quality teachers and staff
Enhancing literacy and reading instruction
Improving science and math programs
Maintaining library services

“Shall Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District levy an annual parcel tax of
$97.00 for 4 years only, with independent community fiscal oversight, annual au-
dits, exemptions for seniors, and no funds used for administrator salaries?"

YES________	NO_______

Quality Public Education Preservation Act Programs Parcel Tax Expenditure Plan.
The Board of Trustees of the Cotati-Rohnert Park Unified School District, serving
elementary, middle and high school students in the cities of Cotati, and Rohnert
Park, has evaluated the District’s urgent and critical educational needs which will
allow the District to maintain its tradition of student achievement and academic
excellence.

State budget cuts have forced the District to make approximately $8.2 Million in
budgetary cuts over the past 4 years. Every dime possible has been cut from ad-
ministrative and management overhead as a first priority. However, extensive fu-
ture cuts to the classroom, including student education programs, are anticipated.

The District currently provides high quality public school education, with the high-
est test scores locally. Its schools have been the recipients of several California
Distinguished School awards and Golden Bell awards.

To protect critical educational programs and ensure excellent teachers the
~taard has Identified the following priorities for use of the money raised by
iis parcel tax measure:

•	Attracting and retaining quality teachers and staff

•	Enhancing literacy and reading instruction

•	Improving science and math programs

•	Maintaining library services

FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY. THE EXPENDITURE OF PARCEL TAX FUNDS
ON THESE PROJECTS IS SUBJECT TO STRINGENT FISCAL ACCOUNT-
ABILITY REQUIREMENTS, BEYOND THAT WHICH IS REQUIRED BY LAW.
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES WILL APPOINT AN INDEPENDENT, CITIZENS’
OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE TO ENSURE THAT ALL PARCEL TAX MONEY IS
SPENT ONLY ON THE PRIORITIES PROMISED AND IDENTIFIED ABOVE,
WITH GUARANTEED ANNUAL AUDITS. THIS MEASURE PROVIDES THAT
NO MONEY WILL GO TOWARDS ADMINISTRATORS’ SALARIES.

Over 65 Senior Exemptions. An exemption from the parcel tax will be made avail-
able for any person 65 years of age or older, who owns and occupies as a principal
residence a parcel and applies to the District for such an exemption on or before
July 1, 2005, or July 1 of any succeeding tax year. Any one approved application
from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining
term of the tax, so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel as his or her
principal residence.

Sunset Expiration Clause. This parcel tax is proposed to be in place for four years
only, beginning July 1, 2005, and will expire thereafter.

Sonoma County

49-502

9330