VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

SANTA CRUZ CITY HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

HIGH SCHOOLS FUNDING RENEWAL To provide con-

Atinued funding to retain quality teachers, credentialed li-
brarians, academic and career counseling programs, and
counselors for at-risk youth, shall the High School District
of the Santa Cruz City Schools renew without increase its existing
assessment of $28/year per parcel for seven years, beginning
July 1, 2006, exempting parcels owned/occupied by seniors
(65+), with independent community oversight and accountability
to ensure funds are used only to improve student learning?

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE A

Local High Schools Funding Renewal

To provide continued funding to retain quality teachers, credentialed librarians and
counselors for at-risk youth and students with academic needs, shall the High
School District of the Santa Cruz City Schools renew without increase its existing
assessment of $28/year per parcel for seven years, beginning July 1, 2006, ex-
empting parcels owned/occupied by seniors (65+), with no funds taken by the
state, independent community oversight and accountability to ensure funds are
used only to improve student learning as specified below?

In order to retain qualified and experienced teachers, librarians and counselors, the
following educational programs and services for students in grades 9 through 12
shall be supported by this assessment:

School libraries: Credentialed librarians and other resources to support the devel-
opment of independent research skills and the study of literature by all students.

Counseling Services: Credentialed counselors and other resources to support aca-
demic and career counseling for all students as well as counseling for at-risk youth.

The parcel tax will be imposed at the rate of $28 per year for each assessor’s parcel
within the High School District (grades 9-12). A parcel is defined as any unit of land
in the District that now receives a separate tax bill from Santa Cruz County. All
property that would otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt
from the imposition of said qualified special tax.

An exemption from the assessment will be made available to each individual in the
District who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the assessment year, and
who owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or her
principal place of residence, and who applies to the Schools on or before July 1,
2006, or July 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any one application from a
qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of
the assessment so long as such applicant continues to own and use the parcel as
his or her principal residence.

In addition to the accountability measures required by law, an independent commu-
nity oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board of Education to oversee
all expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent
wisely and used only for the purposes approved by the voters. The oversight com-
mittee shall monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and shall report
on an annual basis to the community on how these funds have been spent.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE A

If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the Santa
Cruz City High School District (“the School District”) will be authorized to levy a
special tax assessment on real property. The tax would be imposed for seven
years beginning July 1,2006, at the rate of $28 per year on each parcel within the
School District.

The proceeds of the special tax, if approved, may be applied only for the purposes
set out in the full text of Measure A which is included in this pamphlet.

In accordance with State law, the School District Board would create a designated
account into which the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited. Furthermore,
an annual written report would show the amount of the special taxes which have
been collected and expended, and the status of projects to be funded from those
proceeds. Additionally, an independent community oversight committee would be
appointed to monitor expenditures and report annually.

The special tax shall be collected in the same manner as those property taxes
which are based upon property value. An exemption from the tax will be granted for
any parcel owned by one or more persons 65 years of age or over who occupy the
parcel as a principal residence, if the owner makes a one-time application for
exemption.

A separate parcel tax of $28 per parcel per year approved by the District’s voters in
March 2002 was for a four-year period which ends June 30, 2006; therefore that
particular tax will have expired as of the commencement of this new $28 tax pres-
ently before the voters, and it is the existing assessment to which the ballot
question refers.

A “yes” vote is to approve imposition of the special parcel tax.

A “no” vote is against imposition of the special parcel tax.

DANA McRAE, COUNTY COUNSEL
By Jane M. Scott, Assistant County Counsel

44-1

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Yes on Measure A: Better High Schools, No Tax Increase.

Years of state budget cuts have threatened the quality of education in Santa Cruz
high schools. Fortunately, our community has invested in local high schools to pro-
tect students, teachers and academic programs from state cuts.

Voter-approved local funds have helped Soquel High, Harbor High and Santa Cruz
High retain experienced teachers and librarians, college and career counselors,
and programs to keep at-risk youth on the right track. These funds have also sup-
ported academic instruction in science, English and math, as well as small class
sizes and basic classroom supplies.

These critical funds are set to expire next year, unless we act to renew them. Mea-
sure A will renew this vital school funding - without increasing taxes.

If Measure A does not pass, all three local high schools face across-the-board cuts
to teachers, librarians, academic programs and small class sizes will be threat-
ened.

All of the money raised by Measure A will support teachers and programs in our lo-
cal high schools.

No funds can be taken away by the state or used for administrative salaries.

A citizen oversight committee will review all spending.

Senior citizens 65 and older can file a one-time, permanent exemption.

Measure A funds will:

•	Retain qualified, experienced teachers and librarians

•	Provide counseling for at-risk youth

•	Provide career and college counseling

•	Prevent cuts that could impact small class sizes and academic instruction in
core subjects

In the face of ongoing state cuts, this measure is an opportunity for our community
to step forward and support our local high schools - without increasing taxes. Vote
YES on Measure A to support Soquel High, Harbor High and Santa Cruz High -
without increasing taxes.

Please Join Us - Yes on Measure A: Better High Schools, No Tax Increase.

si Fred Keeley
Treasurer, County of Santa Cruz

si Sister Julie Hyer, O.P.

President/CEO Dominican Hospital

si Pete Newell
Teacher Santa Cruz City Schools

si Kathy Bisbee
Marketing Director for a Local Internet Provider

si George “Bud” Winslow
Retired School Superintendent, Senior Senator

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A
VOTE NO on MEASURE A

•	A NO VOTE is our best opportunity for Local Control!

The City of Capitola & Soquel already enjoys a community identity that is unique
from the City of Santa Cruz. Local school decision-making has been governing
successfully and operating effectively here for many years. It is clear that we are
ready for a clean separation from the City of Santa Cruz.

•	A NO VOTE gives us the ability to make local decisions for Our Children!

Santa Cruz City Schools claims severe budget challenges as a result of reduced
State funding. This is the same for ALL local school districts. Local funds for future
fiscal emergencies will be held hostage for another 7 years if Measure A passes.

•	A NO VOTE allows more Parental involvement that directly affect their
Kids!

Local control means having local communities make decisions for their own stu-
dents. Let’s put a stop to Santa Cruz City School Administrators siphoning scarce
school funding for their City Schools.

•	A NO VOTE gives our students a better chance for academic and life suc-
cess !

In 1995, the Santa Cruz County Office of Education determined that unification of
Soquel High School into a New Capitola/Soquel K-12 district was feasible. A solu-
tion would be for voters to support unification to allow Mid-County Parents local
control over decisions for their kids and a more cohesive curriculum for their
students.

Why have this expensive Special Election now?

The Parcel Tax does not expire until June 2006!

VOTE NO on MEASURE A

si Mike Crocker
Local Business Owner

si Lou Tuosto
Soquel Union Elementary School District Trustee

si Barbara Barnes
School Occupational Therapist, Retired

si Juan Escamilla
Soquel Village Business Owner

The Senior Coalition

si Tom Walsh, Executive Director

Santa Cruz County-9100

44-2

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A
VOTE NO on MEASURE A

Are your children getting their “ Fair Share ”?

The Santa Cruz City High School District has been UNFAIR to Bonny Doon,
Capitola, Happy Valley, Live Oak, Mountain, Pacific and Soquel Elementary
Schools. In the past, public funds spent by the High School District have gone to
subsidize only the elementary schools in the City of Santa Cruz.

Should the City of Santa Cruz schools get more money ?

Historically, taxpayers in the outlying areas have been forced to pay an unfair
subsidy for the City of Santa Cruz elementary schools and administration. Sacra-
mento-based School Services of California, Inc. found that during one school year
alone the total subsidy amounted to $877.000.

For how long do taxpayers foot the bill for this Parcel Tax ?

Originally, this Parcel Tax was for a temporary crisis and would expire at the end of
five years. Now, the High School District wants YOU to PAY for EXTRA SEVEN
YEARS! Measure A is a classic “bait and switch” tax scheme, and tantamount to
you paying a permanent parcel tax.

Why is there little Local Control over the High Schools ?

The State of California has well over 1,000 School Districts, and only a handful
have the antiquated organizational structure as the Santa Cruz City Schools.

This has led many Parents in portions of our School District to voice serious con-
cerns over High School finances, curriculum and academic success.

What can Voters do to find a solution to these problems ?

Join us in Defeating Measure A. Our community deserves very serious High
School restructuring, and this will lead to more local control over our children’s edu-
cational future. Now is the time to put all of our students at the front of the class-
room.

VOTE NO on MEASURE A

si Robert “Bob” Begun
City of Capitola Treasurer

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

We agree with our opponents: local control of our high schools is vital. That’s why a
citizens’ oversight committee will review and report on all Measure A spending.

In fact, Measure A is the only guaranteed funding for high school instruction and
operations the state can’t steal.

Measure A funds can’t be diverted by the state, county - or even local elementary
schools. In the City of Santa Cruz, Measure B would renew funding for Santa Cruz
elementary and middle schools. Measure A funds can be spent only for Soquel
High, Harbor High, Santa Cruz High, and local alternative schools for at-risk teens.

We also agree that our kids aren’t getting their fair share. The state has
shortchanged schools for years, and Sacramento politicians aren’t reversing the
trend.

Eliminating local support for local high school students is not the answer.

Voter-approved local funds have supported teachers, librarians, English, math and
science instruction, and small class sizes at Soquel, Harbor and Santa Cruz High.
For less than $2.50 per month, our community has helped sustain high student
achievement and prepare local graduates for college or careers - despite state
funding cuts.

Measure A renews this small commitment. It does not increase taxes.

If Measure A fails, local high schools face over $1 million in across-the-board cuts.
We know the state won’t bridge the gap. We must support local students ourselves.

Like our opponents, we are frustrated with Sacramento politics. But why take it out
on local kids? Please vote Yes on A.

si Beverly Bargetto
CEO, Bargetto Winery

s/Dewey Tompkins
Retired Coach, Soquel High School

si Stephanie Harlan
Capitola City Councilmember and Registered Nurse

si John Leopold
Soquel Parent and Cabrillo College Trustee

si Mike Arnone
Soquel High Parent and Capitola Businessman

si Kevin G. McGibben
Soquel Union Elementary School District Trustee

si Alice Ponza
Grandmother and Community Volunteer

si John Galli
Concerned Parent and Local Business Owner

si Mary Frances Smith
Legislative Analyst, Retired Library of Congress

44-3