Chapter 3.14
FUNDING FOR POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTION

Sections:

3.14.010 Title.

3.14.020 Purpose.

3.14.030 Operative date.

3.14.040 Contract with state.

3.14.050	Imposition of transaction tax.

3.14.060 Presumption as to places of sale.

3.14.070 Imposition of use tax.

3.14.080 Adoption of certain sections of California Revenue and Taxation Code by reference.

3.14.090 Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes.

3.14.100 Permit not required.

3.14.110 Exemptions and exclusions.

3.14.120 Amendments.

3.14.130 Enjoining collection prohibited.

Prior legislation: Ordinance 2005-15.

3.14.010 Title.

This chapter shall be known as the “City of Dinuba Police and Fire Protection Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance.” The city of Dinuba hereinafter shall be called “city.” This chapter shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the city. (Ord. 2005-18 § 1 (part), 2005)

3.14.020 Purpose.

This chapter of the Dinuba Municipal Code has been adopted for the following (and other) purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing
with Section 72511 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2 which authorizes the city to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if two-thirds of the
electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of
the Sales and Use Tax Law of the state of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure
therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practical to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Transactions and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will, to
the greatest degree possible consistent with the provisions of Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the said

Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting city transactions and use taxes, and at the
same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions
thereof.

E.	To provide a source of revenue for maintaining the city’s current level of police and fire protection
services and undertake necessary capital projects to support those services. The revenue generated by the
tax provided for herein shall be restricted to those uses. The tax is, therefore, a special tax. (Ord. 2005-18
§ 1 (part), 2005)

3.14.030 Operative date.

“Operative date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than one hundred ten
days after the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter.* (Ord. 2005-18 § 1 (part), 2005)

* Code reviser’s note: Ordinance 2005-18 was adopted September 13, 2005.

3.14.040 Contract with state.

Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation hereof. If the city has not contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative
date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract. The council
may make any technical amendments to this chapter required by the State Board of Equalization, except for
any changes affecting the tax rate, its manner of collection, or the purpose for which the revenue from the
tax may be used. (Ord. 2005-18 § 1 (part), 2005)

3.14.050	Imposition of transaction tax.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in
the city at the rate of three-quarters of one percent of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in the city of Dinuba on and after the effective date of the ordinance
codified in this chapter. The city council is authorized to establish a tax rate of three-quarters of one percent
by resolution. (Ord. 2005-18 § 1 (part), 2005)

3.14.060 Presumption as to places of sale.

For the purposes of this chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer,
unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business
in the state or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the Board
of Equalization. (Ord. 2005-18 § 1 (part), 2005)

3.14.070 Imposition of use tax.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the city of Dinuba of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on or after the operative date of this chapter, at the rate of
three-quarters of one percent of the sales price of the property subject to the tax. The sales price shall

include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state transactions or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made. The city council is authorized to establish a tax rate of three-quarters of one
percent by resolution. (Ord. 2005-18 § 1 (part), 2005)

3.14.080 Adoption of certain sections of California Revenue and Taxation Code by reference.

Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Parts 1.6
and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of said
code, as amended and in force and effect on the operative date of this chapter, applicable to use taxes are
hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as though fully set forth herein. (Ord. 2005-18 § 1 (part),
2005)

3.14.090 Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of use taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the state of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this city shall
be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “state” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board
of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the state of California.

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this city or any agency,
officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this chapter.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the state of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the state under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code; or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of that
code.

4.	In Sections 6701. 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711.6715. 6737. 6797 or 6828 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code.

5.	The word “city” shall be substituted for the word “state” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business
in this state” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203. (Ord. 2005-18 § 1
(part), 2005)

3.14.100 Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this chapter. (Ord. 2005-18 § 1 (part), 2005)

3.14.110 Exemptions and exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any
sales tax or use tax imposed by the state of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to
the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to
be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of
the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a point outside the city, pursuant
to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer
to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this subsection, delivery to a
point outside the city shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in
compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-city address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-city and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that
address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of
time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the
operative date of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (B)(3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this chapter, the storage, use or other consumption in
this city of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-
administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by
such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued

pursuant to the laws of this state, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in
addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of
the state of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property
arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which
the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date
of this chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (C)(3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption,
or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not
to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subsection (C)(7) of this section, a retailer engaged in business in the city
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the city or participates within the city in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a
place of business of the retailer in the city or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the city under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the city” shall also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 40001 of Division 3 of
the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 98401 of
the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the city.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this chapter may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for, a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of
the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax. (Ord. 2005-18 § 1
(part), 2005)

3.14.120 Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the operative date of this chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this chapter; provided, however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 2005-18 § 1
(part), 2005)

3.14.130 Enjoining collection prohibited.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or
proceeding in any court against the state or this city, or against any officer of the state or this city, to prevent
or enjoin the collection hereunder, or Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of
any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (Ord. 2005-18 § 1 (part), 2005)

The Dinuba Municipal Code is current through Ordinance
2015-01, passed April 14, 2015.

Disclaimer: The City Clerk's Office has the official version of the
Dinuba Municipal Code. Users should contact the City Clerk's
Office for ordinances passed subsequent to the ordinance cited
above.