CITY OF FARMERSVILLE
MEASURE G

(Required to Pass: majority of votes cast)

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

BALLOT TEXT

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

Shall Farmersville voters enact a 4% utility users tax to restore and ensure essential government
functions including animal control, police, fire, park facilities maintenance, and other general
fund services continue in the future?

YES

NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE G

The City of Farmersville Revenue Measure approves the enactment of a 4.0% utility user tax
("UUT") within the city of Farmersville. The UUT is a new tax upon the use of phone, electric and
natural gas services by residents and businesses within the City. Elderly citizens receiving
supplemental social security benefits would be exempt from the UUT. In addition, the City is
required to undertake an independent annual audit of the UUT.

The Farmersville Revenue Measure limits the amount of the UUT to 4.0%. The City Council can
reduce the rate from time-to-time, but can never increase the rate above 4.0% without approval

m051108G.htm[l/5/2015 7:54:24 AM]

CITY OF FARMERSVILLE

of the electorate.

The revenues from the UUT are not designated for any specific purpose, and may be used for
general City functions such as animal control, fire services, park maintenance and police
protection. The UUT is expected to generate approximately $223,500 per year to pay for City
services, and would assist the City with replacing general fund revenues lost in previous years
due, in part, to significant State-level funding cuts to local government.

If the Farmersville Revenue Measure is defeated, the City would be forced to maintain services
at the level provided currently. This would include no animal control, minimal park maintenance
and minimal public safety staffing.

A "Yes" vote on the Farmersville Revenue Measure will approve enactment of a 4% UUT within
the City to replace lost general fund revenues. A "No" vote will prevent the enactment of the
UUT.

s/ Michael L. Farley
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

The City of Farmersville is currently one of only two cities in Tulare County that does not have a
Utility User Tax. The only other city is Visalia, which has the largest sales tax base in Tulare
County. For all the other cities in Tulare County, the Utility User Tax has become a stable
source of revenues to fund the vital services the community uses everyday, including, animal
control, park maintenance and public safety,

To balance its own budget, California has recently required local governments to contribute more
of their sales tax and other sources of revenue to the State; leaving less to fund vital City
services. Farmersville reduced all services in the previous fiscal year. Measure G is needed to
reinstate services provided in previous years,

Because the passage of this measure is essential to reestablish levels of provided previously, we
strongly encourage you to vote YES on Farmersville Revenue Measure G. The following are
some important points to consider:

Approving Farmersville Revenue Measure - will impose a 4% tax on electricity, telephone-
cable and natural gas costs to provide essential services to the community - services we
all need like animal control, park maintenance and public safety.

m051108G.htm[l/5/2015 7:54:24 AM]

CITY OF FARMERSVILLE

Senior Citizen Residents 62 (or older) who are receiving supplemental social security
benefits are eligible for an exemption from the tax.

Adequate City services enhance our community and increase property values.

Without additional funds from this measure, Farmersville will be required to maintain
services at present levels.

To preserve the quality of life which makes Farmersville a great place to live, we urge you to
VOTE YES ON FARMERSVILLE REVENUE MEASURE G.

s/ Mario Krstic, Chief of Police

m051108G.htm[l/5/2015 7:54:24 AM]