MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

SCHOOL

SAN RAFAEL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
AND SERVICES
MEASURE B

BTo maintain and improve quality K-8 education, improve
reading and mathematics programs, enhance technology and
science programs, preserve small class sizes, and attract and
retain quality teachers and staff, shall San Rafael Elementary
School District continue the current parcel tax with a levy of
$144.76 per developed or undeveloped parcel beginning 7/1/06 for
eight years with subsequent 5% annual cost of living adjustments
and including exemptions for those 65 and older and annual
citizen oversight?

SAN RAFAEL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
AND SERVICES
FULL TEXT OF RESOLUTION
MEASURE B

RESOLUTION NO. 1153, 2004-05
BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
SAN RAFAEL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT

In the Matter of a	)	* RESOLUTION AND ORDER

Parcel Tax Election	)	OF ELECTION

WHEREAS, the San Rafael City Schools are committed to providing the
highest quality education for every student while providing each student
the opportunity to master challenging academic standards; and

WHEREAS, a high quality public education is vital to the community's
well-being and fosters growth of society’s greatest resource, the minds
of children; and

WHEREAS, the investment in children’s education is beneficial to the
economic well-being of our community and country; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079, and 53720 et.
Seq. authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the
purpose of conducting its business upon the approval of two-thirds of the
votes cast by voters voting upon such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution
allows the apportionment limit of school districts to be increased by
electors. Such approval is required for the District to use the revenues
generated by the tax.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Governing Board of the
San Rafael Elementary School District resolves to conduct a special all-
mail election on August 30, 2005 at which time will be submitted to
qualified voters of the San Rafael Elementary School District a measure
to continue and extend a special tax for the purpose of maintaining arid
enhancing enriched educational programs, while also maintaining
reduced class sizes in the San 'Rafael Elementary Schools and to
request election services by the Registrar of Voters.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1: Said election is hereby, called to be held within the
boundaries of thp San Rafael Elementary School District at which
election shall be submitted to the qualified voters within the San Rafael
Elementary School District the following measure, to wit:

MEASURE 1153

Shall the San Rafael City Schools, serving the children of the San Rafael
Elementary School District, provide funds for the purpose of maintaining
and enhancing rigorous, challenging academic classes and high quality,
enriched educational programs, while also maintaining reduced class
sizes in the San Rafael Elementaiy Schools by continuing its current
special tax based upon the use or right of use of each assessor’s parcel
within the boundaries of the San Rafael Elementary District for a period
of eight (8) years, beginning July 1,2006?

The special tax for the San Rafael Elementary District will be a
continuation of the current structure. Therefore, the tax would be
imposed in the amount of $144.76 for each assessor’s parcel for the tax
year of 2006-2007. Also consistent with the current structure, in each
successive year, the amount of the previous year’s tax would be
increased by 5%.

The proceeds of the taxes shall be deposited in a special fund to be
used for the purpose of maintaining and enhancing rigorous, challenging
academic classes and high quality enriched educational programs, while
maintaining reduced class sizes in the San Rafael Elementary School
District. Exemptions from the tax will be made as follows:

To each individual in the District who will attain 65 years of age on or
before May 1 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year
in which the assessment would apply, and who owns a beneficial
interest in the parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of each parcel,
and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence.

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before
May 1, 2006 or on or before the May 1 immediately preceding any
subsequent tax year.

A qualified applicant will receive an exemption for the parcel for the
remaining term of the tax so long as such applicant continues to qualify
for the exemption as verified by an annual application due on or before
May 1. The District shall establish an administrative review process to
grant such exemptions.

Section 2: The text of the measures as displayed on each individual
ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

SAN RAFAEL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
AND SERVICES

To maintain and improve quality K-8 education, improve reading and
mathematics programs, enhance technology and science programs,
preserve small class sizes, and attract and retain quality teachers and
staff, shall San Rafael Elementary School District continue the current
parcel tax with a levy of $144.76 per developed or undeveloped parcel
beginning 7/1/06 for eight years with subsequent 5% annual cost of
living adjustments and including exemptions for those 65 and older and
annual citizen oversight?

_____YES	 NO

Section 3: Commencing on July 1, 2006 the special tax collected
annually on all assessor's parcels at the rates specified above shall be
collected and administered in the same manner as ad valorem property
taxes are fixed and collected under the provisions of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.

MEASURE B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21-553

21553

Section 4: The Superintendent of Schools of Marin County is hereby
requested to call a special all-mail election of the said special tax to be
held on August 30, 2005. The County Registrar of Voters is hereby
requested and authorized to: 1.) Set forth all ballots relating to said all-
mail election to be mailed to qualified voters of the San Rafael
Elementary District in the manner provided by law. 2.) Collect and
count all ballots as of August 30,2005.

Section 5: If any section, subsection, phrase, or clause of this
resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portion of this resolution. The
Governing Board declares that it would have adopted this resolution
and each section, subsection, phrase, or clause thereof irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, phrases, or
clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6: The Secretary of the San Rafael Elementary School
District's Governing Board is hereby authorized and directed to certify
to the due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so
certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Marin County, the Marin
County Board of Supervisors, and to file a copy hereof to certify with
the County Clerk of Marin County.

The foregoing resolution was introduced by Board Member Natu
Tuatagaloa who moved its adoption, seconded by Board Member
Greg Knell and adopted on roll call on May 23, 2005 by the following
vote:

Member: Jenny Callaway
Member: Jon Loberg
Member: Norman Hering
Member: Greg Knell
Member: Natu Tuatagaloa

AYES: 5 NOES: 0 ABSENT OR NOT VOTING:___________________________

SO ORDERED:	si	Jenny	Fowler Callaway

President

CERTIFIED:

si Laura D. Alvarenga
Secretary, Board of Education

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B

If this measure is approved by a two thirds vote, the San Rafael
Elementary School District will be authorized to levy a special tax of One
Hundred Forty-Four Dollars and Seventy-Six Cents ($144.76) on each
developed or undeveloped parcel of land within the District each year for
eight (8) years, beginning July 1, 2006, with Five Percent (5%) annual
cost of living increases, beginning July 1, 2007. The tax measure
adopted by the District provides exemptions for parcel owners who are
65 and older.

Dated: June 9,2005

PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Vote Yes on Measure B for San Rafaelelementary schools.

Our community values excellence in education for our public schools. In
1998 San Rafael residents showed their support for our elementary and
middle schools by approving a parcel tax to provide necessary funds to
provide quality education. Parcel tax funds have been instrumental in
helping our schools attract the best teachers, keep class sizes small and
offer enhanced instructional programs.--The current parcel tax will expire
next year.

•	Measure B will renew the current parcel tax residents already
pay

» Measure B keeps the parcel tax method exactly the same as
approved in 1998

« Measure B keeps the time period exactly the same as
approved in 1998

Measure B funds go directly into the classroom and allow our middle and
elementary schools to:

•	Improve reading and math achievement;

•	Enhance science and technology programs;

•	Attract and retain quality teachers and staff;

•	Maintain small class sizes;

•	Improve school library programs;

•	Provide services to support safe, healthy and successful student
learning.

A Citizen’s Advisory Committee will be established to provide public
oversight, review financial audits and ensure accountability.

$3.6 million in educational funding from Sacramento has been slashed in
the last three years from San Rafael School District budgets. Measure
B guarantees that local funds stay in our community and directly
support quality education in our schools and classrooms without state
interference. No funds may be spent on administrator salaries.

District residents 65 and older who apply are eligible for an
exemption from the parcel tax.

Our community supports local schools because good schools help make
San Rafael a better place to live and work. Thank you for your
continued support. Vote Yes on Measure B for our middle and
elementary schools, and vote Yes on companion Measure A, which
will benefit our local high schools.

si Albert J. Boro, Mayor
City of San Rafael

si Peny Newman, President
Marin County League of Women Voters

si Glena Coleman, Co-President
San Rafael Teacher's Association

si Jenny Fowler Callaway, President
San Rafael City Schools Board of Education

si Colin J. Russell, Chairman of the Board
San Rafael Chamber of Commerce

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS
MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

END OF MEASURE B

21-554

21554