CITY OF PORTERVILLE
MEASURE H

(Required to Pass: 2/3 of votes cast)

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H
BALLOT TEXT
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

PORTERVILLE POLICE, FIRE AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE/9-1-1 SAFETY MEASURE. In
order to increase the number of police and firefighters, expand neighborhood crime prevention
efforts, improve 9-1-1 response times and communication, upgrade the 9-1-1 dispatch center,
build a new fire station, and expand and improve anti-gang, anti-drug and anti-bullying
programs, shall the sales tax be increased by one-half cent with citizens oversight and
independent annual performance and financial audits?

YES

NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE H
PORTERVILLE POLICE, FIRE AND

m051108H.htm[l/5/2015 7:54:21 AM]

EMERGENCY RESPONSE/9-1-1 SAFETY MEASURE

CITY OF PORTERVILLE

The Porterville Police, Fire and Emergency Response/9-1 -1 Safety Measure proposes to raise
revenue for the purpose of funding police, fire and public safety facilities, equipment and
personnel, by authorizing a special transactions and use tax ("sales tax") of one-half of a cent
(.50 percent), and approving an ordinance adding Article IIA to Chapter 22 of the Porterville
Municipal Code. The tax would be paid in addition to the current state and local sales taxes and
would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.91 authorizes the City to levy or increase a
transactions and use tax (i.e. "sales tax") at a rate of .25 percent or multiple thereof, for specific
purposes as set forth by the City, if the ordinance proposing the tax is approved by at least two-
thirds of the qualified voters of the city voting in an election on that issue. If approved by the
voters, the sales tax will become effective no sooner than April 1, 2006.

The revenues raised from the sales tax will be use to hire and equip additional police officers and
new firefighters. It will provide for the maintenance and expansion of patrol and gang
suppression activities, the purchase of additional public safety equipment, will aid in the funding
of a new fire station, and will be used to improve the 9-1-1 emergency dispatch equipment to
improve emergency response time. A small portion of the revenue, not to exceed 15 percent,
shall be used for the restoration and maintenance of literacy programs in the City due to the
established connection between illiteracy and crime.

The sales tax increase will be subject to certain conditions included in the program guidelines
plan made a part of the ordinance. Such conditions provide that the expenditures pursuant to
the plan be independently audited on an annual basis, that an independent citizen’s oversight
committee review the revenues from and expenditures of the special tax funds, and that findings
of the auditor and oversight committee be reviewed by the City Council and made available to
the public. The City Manager is required to re-certify the plan of expenditures at the time of
submittal of the budget to the City Council. The City Council is prohibited from using these funds
to replace General Fund dollars budgeted for normal operations at the previous year’s service
levels.

s/ Julia M. Lew
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure H. If you desire a copy of the
measure, please call the City Clerk’s Office at (559)782-7442 and a copy will be mailed at

no cost to you.

m051108H.htm[1/5/2015 7:54:21 AM]

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

CITY OF PORTERVILLE

Porterville is a good place to raise a family. Keep it that way—vote YES on H.

Unless we act, Porterville will suffer from drug dealing and methamphetamine labs that threaten
our City. To fight meth, gangs, and youth violence and keep your neighborhood safe, vote YES
on H.

Due to the millions that the State has taken from our City, Porterville’s Police and Fire
Departments are unable to add more police officers or firefighters for our growing population.
The number of calls our Firefighters respond to increased more than 200% in the past 13 years.
Our City cannot afford to add any firefighters to address this demand.

YES on H: Expands anti-gang and anti-drug programs, keeping our children and
youth off drugs and out of gangs.

YES on H: Fights drug dealing and methamphetamine labs in Porterville.

YES on H: Hires more police officers and firefighters and puts more officers in our
neighborhoods and around our schools.

YES on H: Expands library literacy programs that help our community and youth.

YES on H: Improves 9-1-1 emergency response times—mere seconds mean the
difference between life and death.

YES on H: Updates 9-1-1 safety technology and purchases modern emergency
rescue equipment.

YES on H: Builds a new community/neighborhood fire station to serve our
growing population and get to you faster, in an emergency.

Measure H includes strong fiscal accountability requirements, such as annual, independent
financial audits and an independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee to guarantee that all funds
are spent as promised. All funds will be deposited into a separate Public Safety Trust Fund to
ensure money cannot be used for anything other than what you have approved.

Increase safety, protect our kids—vote YES on H. Our future depends on YOU.

s/ Glenn Irish, President, Porterville City Firefighters Association
s/ Rose Olmos, President, Porterville Police Officers Association
s/ Richard Morris, Past President, Porterville Unified School District
s/ Dawn Szypulski, Director, Porterville Police Athletic League
s/ Frank "Buck" Schaffer, Music Educator

m051108H.htm[ 1/5/2015 7:54:21 AM]

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

CITY OF PORTERVILLE

m051108H.htm[l/5/2015 7:54:21 AM]