MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

DISTRICT

MUIR BEACH COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX
MEASURE C

C Shall Ordinance 2005-1 of the Muir Beach Community
Services District levying a special tax annually for a period
of four (4) years, commencing FY 2006-2007, terminating in
FY 2010-2011, in the amount of $3,250.00 per parcel for improved
commercially zoned property, $300.00 per separate habitable
structure on parcels containing residential property and $300.00
per parcel on all other parcels be adopted to provide funds for
water capital improvements as specified in the Ordinance?

MUIR BEACH COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
PARCEL TAX
FULL TEXT ORDINANCE
MEASURE C

ORDINANCE NO. 2005-1
AN ORDINANCE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE MUIR BEACH COMMUNITY SERVICES
DISTRICT APPROVING AND ADOPTING THE LEVY
OF A SPECIAL TAX ON THE REAL PROPERTY
LOCATED WITHIN THE DISTRICT

WHEREAS, the Muir Beach Community Services District has been
empowered by its' voters to supply water service to the District residents;
and

WHEREAS, recent water system failures, problems with raw water
supply, and marginal water quality conditions caused the District to
authorize the development of a long term capital improvement plan to
mitigate these problems; and

WHEREAS, the District subsequently received and has adopted a
comprehensive "Twenty Year Plan" for water system capital
improvements to resolve raw water supply problems, upgrade the water
distribution system and increase the water storage capacity; and

WHEREAS, the District’s water rights permit requires the development
and adoption of an Adaptive Management Plan to govern the diversion
of water, including a water conservation plan, a stream flow monitoring
program and devices, and the installation of cost effective water storage
facilities, and

WHEREAS, such services and the maintenance and improvement of the
equipment and facilities required to provide such services are of benefit
to all parcels within the District to which they are made available,
whether or not the service is actually used, and offering but not limited to
increasing the value of the land, improvements, and their possible future
uses and by reducing the risk of their destruction by fire; and

WHEREAS, the present water service charges and connection fees
neither raise the revenue necessary to pay the costs of improving this
service nor equitably distribute the costs to all those who benefit from it.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF MUIR BEACH COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1: The purpose and intent of the Board with respect to the
special tax are:

(A)	To provide funds for implementation of the capital improvements
necessary to fulfill the recommendations of the "Twenty Year
Plan" and the requirements of the District's water rights permit.

(B)	To annually prioritize and implement the actions needed to
provide the capital improvements within the guidelines of the "Twenty
Year Plan", as deemed fiscally prudent within the funds provided
by this tax measure and other possibly available District and
grant funds.

(C)	To methodically upgrade the District's water supply and
distribution system so as to meet the requirements and reliably
provide potable water in compliance with the District’s water
rights permit, the laws of the State of California and the Federal
Safe Drinking Water Act.

SECTION 2: Land parcels to be assessed under this Ordinance shall
be defined as a lawful parcel created through a land subdivision and
which is capable of having a habitable structure constructed within its
boundaries, in compliance with all applicable required building,
planning and zoning codes. The special tax shall be levied per annum
as follows:

(A)	$3,250.00 per parcel for commercially zoned and improved
property.

(B)	$300.00 per separate habitable structure (as determined by units
listed in the Marin County Assessment roll) on parcel containing
residential property.

(C)	$300.00 per parcel on all other parcels.

(D)	For the purpose of this tax, all contiguous parcels under common
ownership and having no more than one habitable structure
shall be considered as a single parcel.

SECTION 3: Pursuant to the provisions of Article Xlll-B of the
California Constitution, the appropriations limit of the Muir Beach
Community Services District is hereby increased by an amount equal
to the special taxes imposed by this ordinance for a period of four (4)
years.

SECTION 4: Said special taxes shall be collected in the same
manner and subject to the same penalties as and with other charges
and taxes fixed and collected by Marin County on behalf of local
agencies. Marin County may deduct the reasonable costs incurred by
the County for this service before remittance of the balance to Muir
Beach Community Services District.

SECTION 5: This Ordinance shall not become effective unless
approved at the November 8, 2005 election by a two-thirds (2/3)
majority of the voting registered voters within the District.

SECTION 6: This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon the voter approval.

SECTION 7: When approved by the voters this Ordinance shall
remain in effect for a period of four (4) years and shall require a two-
thirds (2/3) majority approval of the voting registered voters within the
District for its continuation beyond the fourth (4th) year of existence.

SECTION 8: If any part of this ordinance is held to be invalid for any
reason, such decision shall not affect the remaining portion of this
Ordinance and the Board hereby declares that it would have passed
the remainder of this Ordinance as if such invalid portion thereof had
been deleted.

SECTION 9: The District Secretary shall certify the passage of this
Ordinance by the Board, and cause a copy thereof to be published as
required by law in a newspaper of general circulation in Marin County,
and this Ordinance shall take force and effect after its passage by the
voter approval supra and as provided by law.

MEASURE C CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

21-564

(Full Text of Measure C Continued)	
SECTION 10: This Ordinance shall be introduced at least five (5)	ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C
days prior to the Board meeting at which this Ordinance is to be adopted by the Board. The full text of this Ordinance shall also be published once within fifteen (15) days after this Ordinance's passage, by the Board, and not less than thirty (30) days prior to the day of the General Election in which the voters are to vote on its approval.  SECTION 11: The District Secretary shall Dost a certified codv of the full text of this Ordinance, as adopted by the Board, along with the names of the board members voting for and against the Ordinance in accord with Government Code Section 36933.  SECTION 12: Upon approval bv the voters the District Secretary shall cause to be recorded a certified copy of the full text of such adopted and voter approved Ordinance, in the public records of Marin County, California.	Our community has taken it upon itself to improve our aging water system. Instead of borrowing money and incurring interest and borrowing costs, we have elected to raise funds in advance by taxing ourselves in order to afford capital improvements for our community water system. We now have sufficient reserves to begin implementation of the improvements. We are counting upon the funds from the four-year continuation of this existing tax in order to fund the necessary improvements - a new water treatment facility is underway. On behalf of your elected Board of Directors, your Water Manager, and your District Manager, we ask that you vote to continue this source of funding - at its present level - for the benefit of our community.
PASSED, APPROVED, AND ADOPTED this 15" day of June 2005 by the following vote:  AYES: Hills, Kamradt, Ostroff, Rudnick, Shaffer NOES: 0 ABSENT: 0 ABSTAIN: 0  si Steven S. Shaffer Board President  ATTEST:  s/Sharon Mullin District Secretary	si Leighton Hills District Mnager
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL MEASURE C	NO ARGUMENT AGAINST
	THIS MEASURE
This Measure, if approved by two-thirds of those voting thereon, would authorize the collection of special tax levied by Ordinance 2005-1 of the Muir Beach Community Services District for four years commencing in FY 2006-2007 and terminating in FY 2010-2011. The ordinance levied taxes in the amount of $3,250.00 per parcel for improved commercially zoned property, $300.00 per separate habitable structure on parcels containing residential property and $300.00 per parcel on all other parcels. The measure states that the proceeds of the taxes would be used to provide funds for water system capital improvements as specified in the ordinance.  Dated: August 17,2005  PATRICK K. FAULKNER  County Counsel	WAS SUBMITTED
	END OF MEASURE C