

er Information Pamphlet



WIiMMmi



SPECIAL STATEWIDE ELECTION

COUNTY OF VENTURA

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2005

PHILIP J. SCHMIT, COUNTY CLERK AND RECORDER
NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR ABSENT VOTER BALLOT ON BACK COVER

AViSO/NOTICE

Se puede obtener una traduccion en espanol
del folleto de informacion para el elector,
llamando al 654-2664.

A Spanish translation of voter information
pamphlet is available by calling 654-2664.

NOTICE

Your polling place may /\
have been changed! \ S'
See back cover for
polling place location.

POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M.

THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

*** SAVE THIS SAMPLE BALLOT TO HELP YOU ON ELECTION DAY

Sample Ballot

B

OFFICIAL BALLOT

SPECIAL STATEWIDE ELECTION
Ventura County
November 8, 2005

This ballot stub shall be removed
and retained by the voter.

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

CITY

CITY OF FILLMORE

Shall the ordinance proposing a special tax of
__ $15 per parcel per year, to be used only for
B5 maintenance and operations of a community
swimming pool be adopted?_____________________

Shall the City of Fillmore allow the develop-
QC mentand construction, with local orstate assis-
tance, of very low to moderate income rental
housing not to exceed in the aggregate
100 dwelling units?

Yes	+
No	+ '
Yes	+
No	+

B

VOTE BOTH SIDES

HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

This page was intentionally left blank.
Examine both sides of each card for
voting opportunities.

56-N999

B

VOTE BOTH SIDES

56-SB005

Sample Ballot

CITY OF FILLMORE

Shall the ordinance proposing a special tax of $15 per
parcel per year, to be used only for maintenance and
operations of a community swimming pool be
adopted?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY*

MEASURE "B5"

The City Council of the City of Fillmore (“City") proposes to purchase the former
swimming pool property located on the Fillmore High School campus, 555
Central Avenue, Fillmore, California, from the Fillmore Unified School District and
construct a new community swimming pool on the property. The stated purpose
of the Ordinance is to impose a maximum special tax of Fifteen Dollars ($15.00)
per year for each single-family residence, condominium, apartment unit,
non-residential parcel and vacant land parcel for swimming pool maintenance
and operating costs. Churches, property owned by charitable organizations and
mobile homes where the owner of the mobile home does not own the land, are
exempt from the tax. The tax will end exactly one (1) year after the life of the pool
ends. Each fiscal year the tax shall be calculated based on the annual
maintenance and operations costs of the swimming pool for that fiscal year
divided by the number of residential units and non-residential parcels within the
City. The annual tax rate cannot exceed the maximum rate of Fifteen Dollars
($15.00). The annual tax rate shall be reduced if the annual maintenance and
operating costs of the swimming pool do not require the maximum rate. The tax
will be imposed annually unless the City Council determines by June 30 before
the next fiscal year not to impose the tax for that fiscal year.

The tax rate cannot exceed the maximum established by the Ordinance without
the approval of a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electors of the City of Fillmore or
such percentage as required by current law. The tax, if approved by two-thirds
(2/3) of the voters, shall be placed in a special fund and can only be used to pay
for the maintenance and operating costs of the swimming pool and limited
administrative expenses required to collect and account for the tax. If the voters
do not approve the Ordinance, the City will not purchase the former swimming
pool property or build a new swimming pool.

‘Section 9280 of the California Elections Code allows the City Attorney to
prepare an impartial analysis of each city measure that appears on the ballot.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "B5"

The only public pool in the City of Fillmore, located at Fillmore High School, was
permanently closed in 2000 because of significant health and safety concerns.

A “YES" vote on Measure B5 will provide the funds for the maintenance and
operation of a new community pool complex. If Measure B5 is approved by
two-thirds of the voters in the City, the City of Fillmore will use existing
redevelopment funds to purchase the old pool and tennis court property from
Fillmore Unified School District. The City would build a new pool complex that
would include a heated pool, locker rooms with showers and bathrooms.

Under Measure B5, each residential unit and non-residential parcel of land in the
City of Fillmore will be assessed a maximum of $15.00 annually or $1.25 per
month. Owners of mobile homes are exempt from this assessment. These funds
can only be used for the maintenance and operation of the new pool complex
and will not be considered part of the City’s general fund.

Fillmore needs facilities that can provide healthy recreation for all of its residents.
A new heated pool would enable residents to participate year round in
recreational swimming and swimming lessons, as well as classes in water
aerobics, water conditioning, water safety and lifeguard skills. In addition,
through a joint use agreement with the City, the School District would be entitled
to use the new pool complex to offer swimming classes, water-safety classes
and competitive swimming for all its students.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE B5.

s/Ernie Villegas	s/M. Carmen Zermeno

Mayor, City of Fillmore	Preschool Teacher

s/John L. Zermeno	s/Robert T alon

Teacher	President - School Board

s/Linda S. Roberts

Newspaper Publisher & resident of El Dorado

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE ”B5"

ORDINANCE NO. 05-786 AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FILLMORE,
CALIFORNIA IMPOSING A COMMUNITY SWIMMING POOL MAINTENANCE
AND OPERATIONS SPECIAL TAX SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF
TWO-THIRDS OF THE VOTES UPON THE PROPOSAL WITHIN THE CITY OF

FILLMORE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF FILLMORE, CALIFORNIA DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Chapter 3.33 of Title 3, Finance and Revenue, is hereby added
to the Fillmore Municipal Code to read as follows:

Chapter 3.33. Community Swimming Pool Maintenance Special Tax

Sec. 3.33.010. Definitions.

For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:

(a)	‘Apartment’ means a dwelling unit rented or leased which is a part of a larger
building with two (2) or more such units.

(b)	‘Building’ means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls
for the housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of
any kind.

(c)	‘Condominium project means a condominium, as defined in Section 1351 of
the Civil Code, a community apartment project, as defined in Section 11004 of
the Business and Professions Code, or a stock cooperative, as defined in
Section 11003.2 of the Business and Professions Code.

(d)	‘Director of Finance’ means the Director of Finance of the City of Fillmore.

(e)	'Dwelling unit' means a unit which is used as a principal residence.

(f)	‘Swimming pool' means the Fillmore Community Swimming Pool, as the
same may exist from time to time, together with any additions or betterments
thereto, or improvements, extensions or expansions thereof.

(g)	'Maintenance and operating costs' of the swimming pool means all
reasonable and necessary costs expended or incurred by the City of Fillmore for
maintaining and operating the swimming pool, calculated in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles including, but not limited to:

(1)	the reasonable expenses of management and repair and other
expenses necessary to maintain and preserve the swimming pool in good repair
and working order; and

(2)	depreciation, replacement and obsolescence charges or reserve
therefor; but shall not be construed to mean costs of major capital improvements.

(h)	'Life of pool’ means as long as the pool can be used as a swimming pool.

(i)	‘Multiple family residential’ means any building which contains more than
one (1) dwelling unit.

(j)	’Parcel’ means a unit of real property identified by a separate and distinct
number or other designation on a plat recorded in the office of the Ventura
County Recorder.

(k)	‘Single family residential’ means the same as dwelling unit.

(l)	'Maximum tax rate’ means the greatest amount of special tax that may be
levied in any fiscal year on each residential unit and non-residential property.

Sec. 3.33.020. Exemptions.

(a)	Nothing in this article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person
when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of either the
Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of California.

(b)	The tax imposed by this article shall not be levied upon the federal
government, the state government, any state agency or any local governmental
agency.

(c)	The tax imposed by this article shall not be levied upon a parcel of property
or improvement to property which is owned by a house of worship or charitable
or community service organization which qualifies for an exemption from ad
valorem taxation under California law.

(d)	Mobile homes in mobile home parks where the owner of the mobile home
does not own the land shall be exempted from the levy based on the definition
that mobile homes are not considered residential units or real property rather
mobile homes are considered personal property.

Sec. 3.33.030. Special tax.

(a)	There is hereby imposed a special tax on each residential dwelling unit or
non-residential parcel within the City of Fillmore for the purposes set forth in this
article at the rate specified herein.

56-7

(b)	This tax is enacted under the authority of Sections 37100.5 and 50075 of the
California Government Code.

Sec. 3.33.040. Purpose.

(a)	This special tax revenue shall be placed in a special fund to be used by the
City only to pay for:

(1)	Maintenance and operating costs of the swimming pool;

(2)	Administrative expenses incurred in implementing this Chapter 3.33,
including refunds involved in the collection of the special tax provided for herein.

(b)	The City may provide for the collection of the special tax in the same manner
and subject to the same penalties as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed and
collected by the City, or by the County of Ventura on behalf of the City. If the
special tax is collected by the County on behalf of the City, the County may
deduct its reasonable costs incurred in such service.

(c)	Any money raised by the special tax, including any interest accrued thereon,
that remains unencumbered at the end of any fiscal year shall only be used in a
succeeding fiscal year for the purposes stated in this article. The availability of a
surplus for any succeeding year shall be considered by the City when levying the
tax for that year.

Sec. 3.33.050. Tax rate; contingency.

(A) Unless, prior to June 30 of the first and each ensuing fiscal year, the City
Council by resolution determines not to impose this special tax, an annual
special tax is hereby levied on the following manner: the Finance Director shall
cause the special taxes to be apportioned and levied in each fiscal year as
follows:

(1)	For tax-exempt parcels, no special tax shall be apportioned or levied.

(2)	For each residential unit and non-residential property, special taxes
shall be apportioned and levied as follows:

Property categories:	Maximum	tax	rate:

(1)	Single family residential or condominium (per unit) $15.00

(2)	Apartment (per unit)	$15.00

(3)	Non-residential property (per parcel)	$15.00

(4)	Mobile home park for each land parcel	$15.00

(5)	Vacant land	$15.00

(a)	determine the aggregate maximum special tax for all residential units
and non-residential properties.

(b)	determine the annual maintenance and operations costs of the
swimming pool for such fiscal year.

(c)	levy on each residential unit and non-residential property an amount
equal to the maximum special tax for such residential unit and non-residential
property determined pursuant to paragraph (A)(2) above; provided that if the
amount determined in (a) above is greater than the amount determined in (b)
above, reduce the levy on each taxable parcel proportionately, based upon the
maximum special tax (determined under (A)(2) above) for each respective
taxable parcel, compared to the maximum special tax for all taxable parcels
(determined under (b) above), so that the total levy on all taxable parcels is equal
to the annual costs for such fiscal year.

(3)	Prepare the Tax Collection Schedule for each taxable parcel and
send it to the Auditor of the County of Ventura requesting that it be placed on the
general, secured property tax roll for such fiscal year. The tax Collection
Schedule shall be sent not later than the date required by the Auditor for such
inclusion.

(4)	In no event shall the amount of the tax rate to be levied under this
article exceed the amount established by this article without the approval of a
two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electors of the City or such percentage as required by
current law voting upon such change at a municipal election called for such
purpose in accordance with applicable law. That is, there is no built in cost of
living adjustment as part of this ordinance. The $15 annual levy will remain as
such unless an increase is approved by two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electors of
the City.

Sec. 3.33.060 Term.

The annual special tax provided for herein shall be and hereby is levied in
consecutive fiscal years, commencing with the first fiscal year in which there is a
levy pursuant to this Chapter 3.33, unless the City Council determines not to
impose the special tax for a particular year pursuant to Section 3.33.50. Such
levy may only be changed or amended with the approval of the voters by a
two-thirds (2/3) vote of the electors of the City or such percentage as required by
current law voting upon such change at a municipal election called for such
purpose in accordance with applicable law._____________________________________

Notwithstanding the above written section 3.33.060, the life of the levy shall end
exactly one (1) year after the life of the pool ends.

Sec. 3.33.070. Adjustments and refunds.

(a)	Requests for adjustments involving imposition of this special tax shall be
filed with the Director of Finance. Upon applicant’s production of reasonably
sufficient evidence of error in the computation of the tax or exemption therefrom,
the Director of Finance, or his/her designee, shall cause the tax to be
recalculated, and shall so advise the Ventura County Tax Collector or other
appropriate official.

(b)	Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid
more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
City under this article, the refund procedure shall be as follows:

(1)	No claim for refund of tax payment shall be allowed in whole or in part
unless filed with the City Clerk within a period of three (3) years from the date of
the claimed overpayment. All such claims for refund of the amount of the
overpayment must be filed on forms furnished and in the same manner
prescribed by the Finance Department of the City. Refunds may be made solely
from the special tax revenues collected under this article.

(2)	In the event the Director of Finance denies the claim, he/she shall
notify the claimant pursuant to California Government Code Section 913.

(c)	The Director of Finance shall have the power to settle claims involving the
special tax, and the power to accept and record underpayments or
overpayments of such tax. The Finance Director shall have the authority to make
refunds of this tax.

(d)	If the County of Ventura does not collect any tax due under this article, the
Finance Director shall have the power and duty to enforce all of the provisions of
this article. In such cases, an assessment may be made against the owner of a
parcel in the manner provided by law. Any unpaid tax due under this article shall
be subject to all remedies provided under the Fillmore Municipal Code and as
provided by law.

(e)	The special tax shall be due in two (2) equal installments in accordance with
the collection procedures of the Ventura County Tax Collector, with the first
installment due November 1 and the second installment due in the next
succeeding February 1, each fiscal year. The owner of land, at the time set forth
in California Revenue and Taxation Code Sections 405 and 2192 for each fiscal
year, shall have a personal obligation to the City until the tax is paid for such
fiscal year.

(f)	The Finance Director may prepare a questionnaire to be served on the
owner of a parcel subject to this special tax. The questionnaire may request
information which would be useful to the Finance Director in the enforcement or
administration of this Chapter 3.33. The failure by an owner to provide the
information requested within thirty (30) days of receipt of the request, or the act
of an owner in knowingly providing false information, shall be a misdemeanor.

Sec. 3.33.080. Amendments.

Procedural provisions of this article may be amended by ordinance duly enacted
by the City Council.

SECTION 2. If any portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be
invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
Ordinance, it being expressly declared that this Ordinance and each portion
hereof would have been adopted irrespective of the fact that any portion would
be declared invalid.

SECTION 3. All ordinances and parts of ordinances of the City in conflict
herewith to the extent of such conflict and no further are hereby repealed.

SECTION 4. This Ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the
date on which the City Council has declared the voters of the City of Fillmore
approved this Ordinance by a vote of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the votes
cast by the electors voting on the special tax proposal set forth in the Ordinance.

SECTION 5. The City Attorney is hereby designated and directed to prepare
a summary of the Ordinance. A certified copy of the full text of the Ordinance
shall be posted and available in the office of the City Clerk.

SECTION 6. The City Clerk shall cause the City Attorney’s summary of this
Ordinance to be published once, within fifteen (15) calendar days after the date
on which the City Council has declared the voters of the City of Fillmore have
approved this Ordinance, in the Fillmore Herald, a newspaper of general
circulation, printed, published and circulated in the City, and shall cause a copy
of this Ordinance and her certification, together with proof of publication, to be
entered in the Book of Ordinances of the City.

56-8