Carson /19

Ballot Measure A proposes the adoption of an ordinance that proponents
contend would more appropriately title the City of Carson’s existing transient
occupancy tax (or “T.O.T.”) as a “hotel visitor’s tax,” and increase the rate of
that tax from 9% to 12%.

Under existing state law, cities such as Carson are permitted to collect a
tax from hotel and motel guests and other temporary lodgers in the City.
The hotel visitor’s tax currently being collected by the City from temporary
lodgers is at the rate of 9% of the hotel or motel room charge. The changes
proposed by Measure A would title the T.O.T. as the “Uniform Hotel Visitor’s
Tax,” and would increase the rate of that tax from 9% to 12%. Any further
change in this hotel visitor’s tax rate would require voter approval. This
tax does not apply to persons renting apartments, houses, mobilehome
spaces, or other dwellings for periods of time longer than thirty (30) days.

Measure A does not propose any new tax or fee; rather it proposes a 3%
increase to an existing tax. A “Yes” vote on Measure A means you favor
changing the title of the City’s T.O.T. to the “Uniform Hotel Visitor’s Tax,”
and that you also favor increasing the tax rate for hotel and motel guests,
and other temporary lodgers, from 9% to 12%. A “No” vote on Measure A
means you favor maintaining the existing name for this tax and maintaining
the existing tax rate. The measure will be adopted if it is approved by a
majority of the voters.

William W. Wynder
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

We strongly urge you to vote Yes on Measure A.

Measure A will increase our hotel room tax paid by out of town guests and
raise around $300,000 in additional revenues for our city. The tax rate will
be competitive with other cities in our area. And this is a tax that no Carson
resident pays.

Measure A will likely raise hundreds of thousands more in additional
revenues in the next few years when new hotels are slated to open in our
city - revenues that will not be paid by Carson residents.

Our hotel room tax helps to pay for important city services such as sheriff’s
deputies, firefighters, street maintenance, youth, senior, and park and
recreation programs. The additional revenues raised by this tax increase
will fund improvements to these services and will be used to directly benefit
all Carson residents.

With the State facing more years of budget deficits, our city may again lose
hundreds of thousands of tax dollars to the State. Measure A provides our
city with a cushion so that we don’t have to cut important city services.

Please help us to continue to make our city a great place to live and join us
and numerous Carson business and community leaders in voting Yes on
Measure A on March 8th.

Sincerely,

/s/	Jim Dear Mayor
/s/	Julie Ruiz-Raber City Councilmember
/s/	Harold Williams City Councilmember
Is/	Karen Avilla City Treasurer
Is/	Frances Cottrell  Carson Planning Commissioner

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

(None Filed)