ORDINANCE

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SAN BERNARDINO ADDING CHAPTER 3.42
TO THE SAN BERNARDINO MUNICIPAL CODE THE CITY OF SAN BERNARDINO LIBRARY
RELIEF ACT TO HELP FUND THE CITY’S LIBRARIES, SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF
TWO-THIRDS OF THE VOTES CAST BY VOTERS VOTING UPON THE PROPOSAL WITHIN
THE CITY OF SAN BERNARDINO.

THE MAYOR AND COMMON COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SAN BERNARDINO DO
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1.	Chapter	3.42	is	hereby	added	to	the	San	Bernardino Municipal

Code to read as follows:

Chapter 3.42
LIBRARY RELIEF ACT

This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of San Bernardino Library
Relief Act Ordinance.”

3.42.020. Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Chapter shall be construed as
defined in this section:

A.	“Building” means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls,
for the housing, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind;

B.	“Condominium	Project” means a condominium as defined in Section 1351

Subdivision (f) of the Civil Code, or its successor Code or Section, a community apartment project
as defined in Section 11004 of the Business and Professions Code, or its successor Code or
Section, or a stock cooperative as defined in Section 11003.2 of the Business and Professional
Code, or its successor Code or Section;

C.	“Improvement	to property” means a building or other improvement erected on

or affixed to a parcel, excluding parking structures;

D.	“Library” means the San Bernardino Public Library system and each of the
branches thereof as the same may exist from time to time, together with any additions or
betterments thereto, or improvements, extensions or expansions thereof;

E.	“Maintenance	and Operations Costs of the Library” means:	(1)	all

reasonable and necessary costs spent or incurred by the City for maintaining and operating the
Library, calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles including, but not
limited to, all amounts paid or payable from time to time for books, periodicals, reference
materials, research materials, subscription services or other information sources, in whatever
form they may take, operated or utilized by or through the Library, the reasonable expenses of
management and repair and other expenses necessary to maintain and preserve the Library in
good repair and working order, salaries and wages of employees, payments to employees’
retirement systems, taxes, if any, fees of auditors, accountants, attorneys or engineers and
insurance premiums;

(2)	depreciation, replacement and obsolescence charges or reserves therefor;

(3)	costs of capital additions, replacements, betterments, extensions or
improvements to the Library, which under generally accepted accounting principles are
chargeable to a capital account or to a reserve for depreciation; but shall not be construed to
mean costs to provide support services to the Library by any other Department of the City;

F.	“Parcel” means a unit of real property as shown on the last equalized
assessment roll of San Bernardino County.

G.	“Required Amount” means the minimum amount which must be appropriated
in a fiscal year by the City as Maintenance and Operations Costs for the Library in order to levy a
special tax in that fiscal year.

H.	“State Aid - Libraries” means funds received from the State of California
pursuant to Title 1, Division 1, Part 11, Chapter 1.5, Articles 1 - 4 of the Education Code of the
State of California (The Public Library Finance Act of 1982), or any other State law resulting in
funds received from the State for use by the Library, except grants for specific projects or specific
services which are applied for by the Library and received from the State of California.

3.42.030. Exemptions.

A.	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of either the
Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of California.

B.	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied upon the federal
government, the state government, any state agency, or any local governmental agency, when
imposition of such tax would be in violation of either the Constitution of the United States or the
Constitution of the State of California.

C.	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied upon a parcel of property
or improvement to property which is owned by a house of worship or community service
organization which qualifies for an exemption from ad valorem taxation for said parcel or
improvement under California law.

D.	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied upon any person if such
person receives an exemption from the Service User’s Tax imposed by Chapter 3.44 of the San
Bernardino Municipal Code.

E.	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied upon any owner of a
parcel containing one single family residence for that parcel or upon any owner of a residential
unit in a residential condominium project for that unit if: 1) either of such owners is 62 Yz years of
age or older and the annual gross income of the household for either of such owners does not
exceed the annual gross income level for sixty percent (60%) of the Median Income Limit based
upon the number of persons in a household as published annually in the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Home Program Income Limits for the Riverside-San
Bernardino Primary Metropolitan Statistical Area, with the addition of the following amounts to the
corresponding income levels: Family Size of 1 - $5,000.00, and Family Size of 2 or more -
$10,000.00, and, 2) either of such owners has applied for an exemption from said tax based on
these provisions and said exemption application has been approved by the City. All such
exemption applications must be filed on forms furnished, and in the manner prescribed by the City
Treasurer.

F.	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be imposed on any owner of a
parcel containing one single family residence for that parcel or upon any owner of a residential
unit in a residential condominium project for that unit if: 1) either of such owners meets the criteria
of disability by the Social Security Administration’s Supplemental Income program for the Aged,
Blind and Disabled (Title XVI of the Social Security Act, as amended), and, 2) either of such
owners has applied for an exemption from said tax based on these provisions and said
exemption application has been approved by the City. All such exemption applications must be
filed on forms furnished, and in the manner prescribed by the City Treasurer.

3.42.040. Special Tax.

A.	There is hereby imposed a special tax on each residential parcel or dwelling

unit, or non-residential parcel within the City of San Bernardino for the purposes set forth in this

Chapter at the rate specified herein.

B.	This tax is enacted under the authority of Section 41 of the Charter of the City of San Bernardino, other authority held as a charter city, and, independently thereof, under the
authority of California Government Code Sections 50075-50077.5.

3.42.050. Findings and Declarations.

A.	Importance of the Library to the quality of life for San Bernardino

Residents.

Since 1905, San Bernardino has maintained an excellent Free Public Library for its
residents as provided by Article XII of the Charter of the City of San Bernardino. The Library is an
essential partner in the educational, social and recreational well-being of San Bernardino’s
residents and provides services at Norman Feldheym Central Library and three branch libraries:
Villasenor Library, Inghram Library and Rowe Library. The mission of the Library is to provide
free access to the world of ideas, information and creative experience for all citizens of San
Bernardino. The Library is a highly regarded educational and cultural center where the people of
San Bernardino come together to learn and participate in public discourse. The Library aids the
community in the creation of informed and educated citizenry and provides opportunities for free
lifelong learning and economic improvement.

The Library has a strong connection to the maintenance of a healthy family community
due to its tangible presence in San Bernardino’s neighborhoods. The presence of branch
libraries adds a special quality to the neighborhoods of San Bernardino and makes a visible
statement regarding the importance of reading and learning. In addition to fulfilling their
traditional library role, the branch libraries serve as meeting places for community groups,
gathering places for families and provide valuable support to other community institutions such as
schools, business and cultural associations. The languages spoken in the neighborhood are
reflected in the branch library collections, the needs of the neighborhood are recognized in the
special materials and programming offered at the branch libraries, and the quality of life in the
neighborhood is enhanced because of the branch library’s presence. The branch libraries
represent a safe haven in our neighborhoods. The Library works steadfastly with neighborhood
schools to raise the level of literacy in the community.

For these reasons, the entire Library system, including all branch libraries, must be
assured through a funding mechanism which provides a stable source of funding for the entire
system.

Without a change in the uncertain and unstable process the budget has become, the
Library is at considerable risk of a dramatic change in its ability to consistently offer the quality
and level of service which the citizens of San Bernardino so highly value, and the result is an
unacceptable deterioration in the quality of life for all San Bernardino residents. The tax rate
classification system adopted in this Ordinance appropriately meets the objective of designing a
taxing scheme which relates the amount of the tax to the benefits received from the Library by the
person paying the tax, and incorporates the element of ability to pay into the tax rates.

3.42.060. Purpose.

A.	The purpose of this special tax is to provide funds to the City to pay only the

following:

1.	One-half	of	the	annual	debt	service

on the bond used to construct the
Feldheym Library, or $332,400.00
per year for each of the next 8
years, whichever amount is less;
and

2.	Maintenance	and	operations	costs

of the Library.

B.	The City Council may provide for the collection of the special tax in the same
manner and subject to the same penalties as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected
by the City, or by the County of San Bernardino on behalf of the City of San Bernardino.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this section and Section 3.42.140, if the special tax is collected
by the County on behalf of the City, the County may recover its reasonable costs incurred for

3.42.070. Special Fund.

A.	There	is	hereby	established	a special fund entitled “Library Relief Act Fund”

(hereinafter the “special fund”). Money collected pursuant to this Chapter shall be deposited into
said special fund and shall be used exclusively as provided in this Chapter for the purposes for
which the tax is imposed, and for no other purposes. The general fund shall be reimbursed for
one-half of the debt service on the bond used to construct the Feldheym Library, or $332,400 per
year for each of the next eight years, whichever amount is less, to be paid into the general fund
from the special fund.

B.	Any money raised by the special tax, including any interest accrued
thereon, that remains unspent at the end of any fiscal year may only be used in a succeeding
fiscal year for the purposes stated in this Chapter.

3.42.080. Tax Rate.

A.	Subject to Section 3.42.030, an annual special tax is hereby levied on the
following classifications of property in the City:

1.	$20.00	on each parcel containing one single family residence and

$20.00 for each residential unit in a residential condominium project;

2.	$13.00	on each residential unit per parcel for all other residentially-

used or designated parcels;

3.	$50.00	on each parcel of non-residentially-used or designated

property in the City;

4.	If	a	parcel	falls	within more than one category, the higher tax shall

be levied.

B.	The annual special tax provided for herein shall not be levied in any fiscal
year for which the City Council shall not have appropriated, as Maintenance and Operations
Costs for the Library, a minimum amount (“Required Amount”) calculated as follows:

1.	In	fiscal	year 2006-2007, the first fiscal year pursuant to Section

3.42.090, the City Council shall appropriate the amount of $2,358,400.00 (“Required Amount” for
fiscal year 2006-2007) to the Library for maintenance and operations costs of the Library for that
fiscal year, and this will result in the subsequent levying of the special tax in fiscal year 2006-
2007. The Required Amount of $2,358,400.00 in fiscal year 2006-2007 represents the total
amount proposed to be appropriated by the City for the Library for maintenance and operations
costs of the Library for the 2005-2006 fiscal year as contained in the City of San Bernardino 2005-
2006 Preliminary Detail Budget, after subtracting $400,000 to reduce the burden on the public's
general fund;

2(a). In fiscal year 2007-2008, the second fiscal year pursuant to
Section 3.42.090, the City Council shall appropriate the Required Amount for the prior fiscal year,
indexed as prescribed in the next sentence, but not less than an amount equal to $2,358,400.00,
and this will result in the subsequent levying of the special tax in fiscal year 2007-2008. Indexing
shall be done for each of the second through the eighth fiscal years using the consumer price
index prepared by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Government for all urban
consumers for the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County statistical area, or any successor index,
to reflect changes in such index during the 12 months which ended on the March 1 preceding
each such fiscal year; the cost of living increase/decrease shall cause the previous year’s
Required Amount to be adjusted pursuant to that index, except, in no year shall the Required
Amount be less than $2,358,400.00;

2(b). The Required Amount of $2,358,400.00 assumes that $70,000.00
will be received from the State of California as “State Aid - Libraries.” If in any fiscal year the
amount received as “State Aid - Libraries” exceeds $70,000.00, the amount in excess of
$70,000.00 shall also be appropriated by the City to the Library for the Library’s exclusive use and
the City shall not factor in nor be credited for that excess amount in determining the Required
Amount in such fiscal year;

3.	In the third fiscal year, an amount equal to the Required Amount

for the prior fiscal year, indexed as prescribed in subparagraphs 2 above, but not less than an
amount equal to $2,358,400.00, indexed annually commencing with the second fiscal year in
which the special tax is levied, as prescribed in subparagraphs 2 above;

4.	In	the fourth fiscal year, an amount equal to the Required Amount

for the prior fiscal year, whether appropriated or not, indexed as prescribed in subparagraphs 2
above, but not less than an amount equal to $2,358,400.00, indexed annually commencing with
the second fiscal year in which the special tax is levied, as prescribed in subparagraphs 2 above;

5.	In	the fifth fiscal year, an amount equal to the Required Amount

from the prior fiscal year, whether appropriated or not, indexed as prescribed in subparagraphs 2
above, but not less than an amount equal to $2,358,400.00, indexed annually commencing with
the second fiscal year in which the special tax is levied, as prescribed in subparagraphs 2 above;

6.	In	the sixth fiscal year, an amount equal to the Required Amount

for the prior fiscal year, whether appropriated or not, indexed as prescribed in subparagraphs 2
above, but not less than an amount equal to $2,358,400.00, indexed annually commencing with
the second fiscal year in which the special tax is levied, as prescribed in subparagraphs 2 above;

7.	In	the seventh fiscal year, an amount equal to the Required

Amount	for	the	prior	fiscal	year, whether appropriated or not, indexed as prescribed in

subparagraphs 2 above, but not less than an amount equal to $2,358,400.00, indexed annually
commencing with the second fiscal year in which the special tax is levied, as prescribed in
subparagraphs 2 above;

8.	In	the eighth fiscal year, an amount equal to the Required Amount

for the prior	fiscal year, whether	appropriated or not, indexed as prescribed in subparagraphs 2

above, but not less than an amount equal to $2,358,400.00, indexed annually commencing with
the second fiscal year in which the special tax is levied, as prescribed in subparagraphs 2 above;

C.	If at any time following the levy of a special tax for a fiscal year, the amount
finally appropriated as Maintenance and Operations Costs for the Library by the City for such
fiscal year is less than the Required Amount for such fiscal year, then no annual special tax shall
be levied in the immediately following fiscal year. In no event shall the failure to levy the special
tax extend the Library Relief Act beyond the stated expiration date herein.

D.	The City Council shall re-evaluate the Library Relief Act no later than 2012
for the purpose of determining whether the Library can be fully funded by the City at the level of
service set forth in this ordinance.

E.	The	tax established herein shall be indexed annually by June 1st of each

year in accordance with the increase or decrease in the consumer price index. Indexing shall be
done by June 1st of each of the seven fiscal years after the first fiscal year using the consumer
price index for all urban consumers for the Los Angeles-Riverside-Orange County statistical area
to reflect changes in such index during the 12 months which ended the preceding March 1.

3.42.090. Term.

The annual special tax provided for herein shall be levied in the first two fiscal years,
commencing in fiscal year 2006-2007, and may be levied in any or all of the six fiscal years
thereafter, commencing with fiscal year 2008-2009 and ending in fiscal year 2013-2014. Such
levy may only be extended with the approval of the voters by two-thirds of the votes cast by
voters voting upon such a change at a municipal election called for that purpose, or as otherwise
required by law.

3.42.100. Adjustments and Refunds.

A.	Requests for adjustments involving imposition of this tax may be filed with the
City Treasurer. Upon sufficient evidence of error in the computation of the tax, the City Treasurer
or his/her designee shall cause the tax to be recalculated, and shall so advise the San Bernardino
County Tax Collector or other appropriate official.

B.	Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid
more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City under this
Chapter the refund procedure shall be as follows:

1.	No	claim	for	refund of tax payment shall be allowed in whole or in

part unless filed with the Office of the City Treasurer within a period of three years from the date
of the claimed overpayment. This includes claims for refund of tax payment due to failure to
previously file and have approved an exemption application pursuant to Sections 3.42.030 E. and
3.42.030 F. All such claims for refund of the amount of the overpayment must be filed on forms
furnished, and in the manner prescribed by the City Treasurer. Refunds may be made solely
from the Library Relief Act Fund;

2.	In	the	event	the City Treasurer denies the claim, he/she shall notify

the claimant pursuant to California Government Code Section 913, or its successor Code or
Section.

C.	The	City Treasurer shall have the power to settle claims involving the special

tax, and the power to accept and record underpayments or overpayments of such tax. The City
Treasurer shall have the authority to make refunds of this tax.

D.	If	the County of San Bernardino does not collect any tax due under this

Chapter, then the City Treasurer or his/her designee shall have the power and duty to enforce all
of the provisions of this Chapter. In such cases an assessment may be made against the owner
of a parcel and improvements in the manner provided by law. Any unpaid tax due under this
Chapter shall be subject to all remedies provided by law.

E.	The	special tax shall be due in two equal installments in accordance with the

collection procedures of the San Bernardino County Tax Collector with the first installment due
November 1, and the second installment due the next succeeding February 1, in each fiscal year.
The owner of the land, or land and improvements, at the time set forth in California Revenue and
Taxation Code Sections 405 and 2192, or their successor Codes and/or Sections, for each fiscal
year, shall have a personal obligation to the City of San Bernardino until the tax is paid for each
fiscal year.

3.42.110. Severability.

If any section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase of this article or the
application thereof is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any
court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining portions of the article, the application
thereof, and the tax imposed shall not be affected thereby, but shall remain in full force and effect,
it being the intention of the voters to adopt each and every section, subsection, part, clause,
sentence or phrase regardless of whether any other section, subsection, part, clause, sentence or
phrase or the application thereof is held to be invalid or unconstitutional.

3.42.120. Effective Date.

1.	This ordinance, which levies the special tax described therein, shall be
submitted to the voters of the City of San Bernardino at a Special Election to be held on
November 8, 2005. The taxes determined and proposed by this ordinance for levy for the eight
(8) fiscal years beginning on and after July 1, 2006, shall be levied only if this ordinance is
approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds of the votes cast by the voters voting on the Library
Relief Act set forth in the ordinance. If the ordinance is approved by the requisite number of
votes, Chapter 3.42 shall henceforth and thereafter be considered a part of the San Bernardino
Municipal Code.

2.	The questions of whether this ordinance shall be added to the San
Bernardino Municipal Code as provided herein shall be submitted to the electors of the City of
San Bernardino pursuant to California law regarding special taxes. Said election shall be called,
authorized and provided for in a manner provided by law.

3.42.130. Annual Report.

A.	At	least once a year after the first fiscal year in which the special tax is levied,

and for each year thereafter in which such special tax is levied, the City Treasurer shall file an
annual report with the City Council containing both of the following:

1.	The	amount of funds collected and expended; and

2.	The	status of either use required/authorized to be funded

as identified in Section 3.42.060 above.

3.42.140. Exclusive Use of Library Relief Act Funds.

Under no circumstances shall any monies in the Library Relief Act Fund be used for
any purpose other than maintenance and operation costs of the Library and payment of one-half
of the annual debt service on the bond used to construct the Feldheym Library, or $332,400.00
per year for each of the next eight (8) years, whichever amount is less.

SECTION 2. This Ordinance shall not become effective unless it is approved by two-
thirds of the voters of the City of San Bernardino at a consolidated primary election held on
November 8, 2005 and, if approved, shall be in effect only for the levying of such taxes for eight
(8) fiscal years commencing July 1,2006 and ending June 30, 2014.

SECTION 3. This Ordinance shall not be amended or repealed during said eight (8)
fiscal year term unless such amendment or repeal is approved by the required number of voters
of the City of San Bernardino at an election called for that purpose.

AYES: Estrada, Longville, McGinnis, Derry, Kelley, Johnson, McCammack
NAYS: None