ORDINANCE NO. 702
CITY OF MILLBRAE, COUNTY OF SAN MATEO

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

***

ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MILLBRAE
ADOPTING CHAPTER 3.15 IN TITLE 3 OF THE MILLBRAE MUNICIPAL
CODE ESTABLISHING A PARKING TAX

The City Council of the City of Millbrae does ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. AMENDMENT OF CODE

A new Chapter 3.15, entitled “Parking Tax,” in Title 3, “Finance,” of the Millbrae Municipal
Code hereby is substituted for the current Chapter 3.15 which is reserved. The new Chapter 3.15
shall read as follows:

Chapter 3.15
PARKING TAX

Sections:

3.15.010	Authority

3.15.020	Purpose

3.15.030	Definitions

3.15.040	Parking Facility Tax Imposed

3.15.050	Exemption

3.15.060	Parking Facility Operator’s Duties

3.15.070	Registration

3.15.080	Reporting and Remitting

3.15.090	Penalties and Interest

3.15.100	Failure to Collect and Report Tax; Determination of Parking Tax Due

3.15.110	Appeal

3.15.120	Records; Audit

3.15.130	Tax Refund

3.15.140	Action to Collect

3.15.150	Prohibited Acts

Section 3.15.010	Authority

This chapter shall be known as the “Parking Tax Ordinance of the City of Millbrae.”

Section 3.15.020	Purpose

The Parking Tax required by this chapter is imposed through the taxing power of the City solely
for the puipose of generating revenue to be placed in the General Fund to support general
municipal services and functions. Payment of the tax does not release or in any way excuse a

1195811.1

person from compliance with other applicable provisions of this code or other laws, including
any permit or license requirement.

Section 3.15.030 Definitions

A.	“Effective Date” means November 9, 2005, on which date this ordinance will go into
effect if it has received a majority vote approval in the General Municipal Election on
November 8, 2005.

B.	"Occupant" means a person who, for consideration, uses, possesses or has the right to use
or possess any space for the parking or storage of motor vehicles, motorcycles, or other similar
means of conveyances in a Parking Facility.

C.	"Parking Facility" means any privately owned operation located off of the street in the
City of Millbrae with the purpose of providing, for any form of consideration, parking or storage
of motor vehicles, motorcycles or other similar means of conveyances.

D.	"Parking Facility Operator" means the person who is the proprietor of the Parking
Facility, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee,
or any other capacity, including but not limited to a receiver appointed by a court of competent
jurisdiction or a trustee in bankruptcy. Where a Parking Facility Operator performs functions
through a managing agent of any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent
shall also be deemed a Parking Facility Operator lor the purposes of this chapter and shall have
the same duties and liabilities as his/her principal. Compliance with the provisions of this
chapter by either the principal or the managing agent shall, however, be considered to be
compliance by both.

E.	"Parking Fee" means the consideration received for the parking or storage of motor
vehicles, motorcycles, or other similar means of conveyances, whether to be received in money,
goods, labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and services of any
kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever. “Parking Fee” includes the total
charges required to be paid by an Occupant (including, but not limited to, a valet or service labor
charge) in connection with the use or occupancy of parking space.

F.	“Parking Tax” means the tax imposed by this chapter.

G.	“Tax Administrator” means the City Manager or designee.

Section 3.15.040 Parking Facility Tax Imposed

For the privilege of parking at a Parking Facility, each Occupant is subject to and shall pay a
Parking Tax in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the Parking Fee charged by a Parking Facility
Operator commencing on the Effective Date of this Ordinance. Where the Parking Fee is paid,
charged or billed, or falls due on either an hourly, daily, weekly, monthly or other term basis, the
Parking Fee so paid, charged, billed, or fallen due shall be subject to the tax herein imposed.

The Parking Tax constitutes a debt owed to the city which is extinguished only by payment to
the Parking Facility Operator or to the city. Each Occupant shall pay the tax to the Parking

Puge 2 of 7

1195811.1

Facility Operator at the time the Parking Fee is paid. If the Parking Fee is paid in installments, a
proportionate share of the tax shall be paid with each installment. If for any reason the tax due is
not paid to the Parking Facility Operator, the Tax Administrator may require that such tax shall
be paid directly to the Tax Administrator.

Section 3.15.050 Exemption

No Parking Tax shall be imposed on any Occupant who is a registered guest in a hotel as defined
in Section 3.30.020 B in the Millbrae Municipal Code for the parking or storage of a motor
vehicle on or off hotel premises if no charge is made to the Occupant or if such charge is added
to the room bill of the Occupant and paid by him to the hotel, provided that proper records are
maintained by both the hotel operator and the Parking Facility Operator which accurately reflect
such exempt parking activity.

Section 3.15.060	Parking Facility Operator’s Duties

Each Parking Facility Operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter to the same extent
and at the same time as the Parking Fee is collected. The amount of tax shall be separately stated
from the amount of the Parking Fee charged, and each customer shall receive a receipt for
payment from the Parking Facility Operator.

No Parking Facility Operator shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or
indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the Parking Facility
Operator, or that it will not be added to the Parking Fee, or that, if added, any part will be
refunded except in the manner provided in this chapter.

Section 3.15.070	Registration

Within ten days after commencing business or the Effective Date of this Ordinance, each Parking
Facility Operator shall register said Parking Facility with the Tax Administrator and obtain from
the Tax Administrator a "Parking Facility Registration Certificate" to be at all times posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises. Said certificate shall state the name of the Parking Facility
Operator, the address of the Parking Facility, the date upon which the certificate was issued, and
such other information to facilitate the collection of the tax as the Tax Administrator may
require. The Parking Facility Registration Certificate shall be signed by the owner if a natural
person; in the case of an association or partnership, by a member or partner; in the case of a
corporation, by an executive officer or some person specifically authorized by the corporation to
sign the Parking Facility Registration Certificate. The Tax Administrator shall within thirty days
afler such registration issue without charge a certificate of authority to each registrant to collect
the tax from the Occupant, together with a duplicate certificate and the duplicate shall state the
place of business to which it is applicable. Such certificates shall be non-assignable and non-
transferable and shall be surrendered immediately to the Tax Administrator upon cessation of
business at the location named or upon its sale or transfer.

Section 3.15.080 Reporting and Remitting

A.	Every Parking Facility Operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following
the close of each calendar quarter, tender a return to the Tax Administrator comprised of an

Page 3 of 7

1195811.1

accounting of the total Parking Fees charged and received together with the amount of Parking
Taxes collected during the preceding quarter. At the time the return is filed, the full amount of
the Parking Taxes shall be remitted to the city.

B.	Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business of the Parking
Facility for any reason.

Section 3.15.090 Penalties and Interest

A.	Original Delinquency. Any Parking Facility Operator who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of
the Parking Taxes due in addition to the amount of said taxes due.

B.	Continued Delinquency. Any Parking Facility Operator who fails to remit any
delinquency remittance on or before a period of thirty (30) days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of ten percent (10%)
of the amount of the Parking Taxes due in addition to the amount of said taxes due and the ten-
percent penalty first imposed.

C.	Fraud. If the Tax Administrator detennines that the nonpayment of any remittance due
under this chapter is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the
tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in subsections (A) and (B) of this
section.

D.	Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any Parking Facility Operator who fails to
remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one-half of one percent per
month or fraction thereof on the amount of the Parking Taxes due, exclusive of penalties, from
the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.

E.	Penalties Merged with Tax. Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under
the provisions of this section shall become a part of the Parking Taxes required to be paid in this
chapter.

Section 3.15.100 Failure to Collect and Report Tax; Determination of Parking Tax Due

If any Parking Facility Operator fails or refuses to collect the Parking Taxes and to submit to
city, within the time provided in this chapter, any report and remittance of said taxes or any
portion thereof required by this chapter, the Tax Administrator shall proceed in such manner as
the Tax Administrator may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to base an
estimate of the taxes due. As soon as the Tax Administrator procures such facts and information
upon which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter and payable by any
Parking Facility Operator who has failed or refused to collect the same and to make such report
and remittance, the Tax Administrator shall proceed to determine and assess against such
Parking Facility Operator the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this chapter, hi case
such determination is made, the Tax Administrator shall give a notice of the amount so assessed
by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed
to the Parking Facility Operator so assessed at his last known place of address. Such Parking
Facility Operator may within ten days after the serving or mailing of such notice make

Page 4 of 7

1195811.1

application in writing to the Tax Administrator for a hearing on the amount assessed. If
application by the Parking Facility Operator for a hearing is not made within the time prescribed,
the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the Tax Administrator shall become final
and conclusive and immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the Tax
Administrator shall give not less than five days' written notice in the manner prescribed herein to
the Parking Facility Operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in said notice why said
amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest and penalties. At such
hearing, the Parking Facility Operator may appear and offer evidence why such specified tax,
interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such hearing the Tax Administrator shall
determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the Parking
Facility Operator in the manner prescribed herein of such determination and the amount of such
tax, interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen days
unless an appeal is taken as provided in Millbrae Municipal Code Section 3.15.110.

Section 3.15.110 Appeal

Any Parking Facility Operator aggrieved by any decision of the Tax Administrator with respect
to the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the city council by filing a
notice of appeal with the city clerk within fifteen days of the serving or mailing of the
determination of tax due. The council shall fix a time and place for hearing such appeal, and the
city clerk shall give notice in writing to such Parking Facility Operator at his last known place of
address. The findings of the council shall be final and conclusive and shall be served upon the
appellant in the manner prescribed above for service of notice of hearing. Any amount found to
be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the service of notice.

Section 3.15.120	Records; Audit

It shall be the duty of every Parking Facility Operator liable for collection and payment to the
city of any Parking Taxes imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of three
years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such taxes for which the
Parking Facility Operator may have been liable to collect and remit to the city. The Tax
Administrator shall have the right to inspect such records at all reasonable times. The Tax
Administrator also shall have the right to audit the records of a Parking Facility Operator at all
reasonable times.

Section 3.15.130	Tax Refund

A.	Whenever the amount of any Parking Taxes, interest or penalties has been overpaid or
paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city under
this chapter, it may be refunded as provided in subsections (B) and (C) of this section, provided a
claim in writing therefor, stating under penalty of perjury the specific grounds upon which the
claim is founded, is filed with the Tax Administrator within three years of the date of payment.
The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Tax Administrator.

B.	A Parking Facility Operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected
and remitted the amount overpaid, paid more than once, or erroneously or illegally collected or
received when it is established in a manner prescribed by the Tax Administrator that the person

Page 5 of7

1195811.1

from whom the tax has been collected was not an Occupant; provided, however, that neither a
refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either been
refunded to the Occupant or credited to Parking Fees subsequently payable by the Occupant to
the Parking Facility Operator.

C.	An Occupant may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than once or
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by filing a claim in the manner provided
by subsection (A) of this section, but only when the tax was paid by the Occupant directly to the
Tax Administrator, or when the Occupant having paid the tax to the Parking Facility Operator
establishes to the satisfaction of the Tax Administrator that the Occupant has been unable to
obtain a refund from the Parking Facility Operator who collected the tax and who actually
remitted the amount of tax collected to the city.

D.	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant
establishes his right to such a refund by written records showing entitlement thereto.

3.15.140	Action to Collect

Any tax required to be paid by any Occupant under the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed a debt owed by the Occupant to the city. Any such tax collected by a Parking Facility
Operator which has not been paid to the city shall be deemed a debt owed by the Parking Facility
Operator to the city. Any person owing money to the city under the provisions of this chapter
shall be liable therefor in any action brought in the name of the city for the recovery of such
amount.

3.15.150	Prohibited Acts

A.	Any Parking Facility Operator or other person who fails or refuses to register as required
in this chapter, or to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a
supplemental return or other data required by the Tax Administrator, or who renders a false or
fraudulent return or claim, is guilty of a violation of this code.

B.	Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any report or claim who makes any
false or fraudulent report or claim with intent to defeat or evade the determination of any amount
due required by this chapter to be made, is guilty of a violation of this code.

SECTION 2. EFFECTIVE DATE; PUBLICATION

This Ordinance shall go into effect ten (10) days after the date on which the City Council
declares that the parking tax measure was approved by a majority vote of the Millbrae electors
pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217. At least five days prior to its adoption and within
fifteen days after its adoption, a summary of this Ordinance shall be published once in a
newspaper of general circulation printed and published in the County of San Mateo and
circulated in the City of Millbrae.

Page 6 of 7

1195811.1

INTRODUCED at a regular meeting of the city council of the City of Millbrae held on
June 28	2005.

PASSED and ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the city council of the City of Millbrae held
on_________Jul	y	12________,	2005	by	the following roll call vote:

AYES: Hershman, Gottschalk, Holober, Larson, Quigg
NOES: None

ABSENT: None

W.

(/

Z\U(/

M\^

MAYOR

ATTEST:

Page 7 of 7
1195811.1

RESOLUTION 05-46

CITY COUNCIL, CITY OF MILLBRAE
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

CALLING A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
FOR THE SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS OF MILLBRAE
APPROVAL OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PARKING TAX AS A GENERAL
MUNICIPAL TAX, REQUESTING THE COUNTY CLERK
TO CONSOLIDATE THIS SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION WITH THE
NOVEMBER 8, 2005 GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION, AND RESCINDING

RESOLUTION NO. 05-44

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Millbrae desires to submit to the voters at a
Special Municipal Election an ordinance enacted by the Millbrae City Council which adds
Chapter 3.15, entitled “Parking Tax,” to Title 3 on “Finance” in the Millbrae Municipal Code;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council is required by law to submit this ordinance establishing a
new municipal parking tax for general revenue purposes to the City electors at a general
municipal election for a majority vote approval; and

WHEREAS, the County of San Mateo will be conducting a General Municipal Election
in Millbrae on November 8, 2005, for the purpose of electing two persons to the Millbrae City
Council and a City Treasurer, each for regular four year terms; and

WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the City of Millbrae to consolidate the Special
Municipal Election on the approval of the Parking Tax measure with the General Municipal
Election to be conducted on November 8, 2005.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Millbrae
as follows:

1197282.2

1.

A Special Municipal Election hereby is called on November 8, 2005, for the

purpose of submitting to the voters the following proposed ordinance:

Shall the ordinance adopted by the City Council establishing a 10% parking tax on the vehicle occupant for the privilege of parking in any private off-	Yes	
street parking facility, but not applicable to any parking privilege that is included in a room rate on a hotel bill, be approved?	No	

2.	The text of the ordinance submitted to the voters adding Chapter 3.15 to Title 3 of
the Millbrae Municipal Code is attached and incorporated herein as Exhibit A.

3.	The ballots to be used in the election shall be in the form and content as required

by law.

4.	Pursuant to applicable law, the City Council hereby requests the County Clerk of
San Mateo County to consolidate this Special Municipal Election with the General Municipal
Election already scheduled for November 8, 2005.

5.	The City Clerk hereby is directed to forward a certified copy of this resolution to
the San Mateo County Clerk together with any other Agreements or documents that may be
required to give effect to and carry out the purposes of this resolution.

6.	Resolution No. 05-44 is hereby rescinded.
Regularly passed and adopted this 26th day of July, 2005.

CITY CLERK

2

1197282.2

Resolution 05-46

I do hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was duly and regularly passed and adopted by
the City Council of the City of Millbrae on this 26th day of July, 2005, by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:	I-Iershman, Gottschalk, Holober, Larson, and Quigg
NOES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:	None
ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBERS:	None
ABSTAIN:	COUNCILMEMBERS:	None

RESOLUTION 05-44

CITY COUNCIL, CITY OF MILLBRAE
COUNTY OF SAN MATEO
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

•k k k

CALLING A SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
FOR THE SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED VOTERS OF MILLBRAE
APPROVAL OF THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A PARKING TAX AS A GENERAL
MUNICIPAL TAX AND REQUESTING THE COUNTY CLERK
TO CONSOLIDATE THIS SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION WITH THE
NOVEMBER 8, 2005 GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Millbrae desires to submit to the voters at a
Special Municipal Election an ordinance enacted by the Millbrae City Council which adds
Chapter 3.15, entitled “Parking Tax,” to Title 3 on “Finance” in the Millbrae Municipal Code;
and

WHEREAS, the City Council is required by law to submit this ordinance establishing a
new municipal parking tax for general revenue puiposes to the City electors at a general
municipal election for a majority vote approval; and

WHEREAS, the County of San Mateo will be conducting a General Municipal Election
in Millbrae on November 8, 2005, for the purpose of electing two persons to the Millbrae City
Council and a City Treasurer, each for regular four year terms; and

WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the City of Millbrae to consolidate the Special
Municipal Election on the approval of the Parking Tax measure with the General Municipal
Election to be conducted on November 8, 2005.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Millbrae
as follows:

11972S2.1

1.

A Special Municipal Election hereby is called on November 8, 2005, lor the

purpose of submitting to the voters the following proposed ordinance:

Shall the ordinance adopted by the City Council establishing a 10% parking tax on the vehicle occupant for the privilege of parking in any private off-	Yes	
street parking facility, but not applicable to any parking privilege that is covered in a hotel bill, be approved?	No	

2.	The text of the ordinance submitted to the voters adding Chapter 3.15 to Title 3 of
the Millbrae Municipal Code is attached and incorporated herein as Exhibit A.

3.	The ballots to be used in the election shall be in the form and content as required

by law.

4.	Pursuant to applicable law, the City Council hereby requests the County Clerk of
San Mateo County to consolidate this Special Municipal Election with the General Municipal
Election already scheduled for November S, 2005;

6.	The City Clerk hereby is directed to forward a certified copy of this resolution to
the San Mateo County Clerk together with any other Agreements or documents that may be
required to give effect to and cany out the purposes of this resolution.

Regularly passed and adopted this 12th day of July, 2005.

2

1197282.1

Resolution 05-44

I do hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was duly and regularly passed and adopted by the
City Council of the City of Millbrae on this 12th day of July, 2005, by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:
NOES:	COUNCILMEMBERS:
ABSENT:	COUNCILMEMBERS:
ABSTAIN:	COUNCILMEMBERS:

Hershman, Gottschalk, Holober, Larson, Quigg

None

None

None