This is an archive of a past election.

See http: //www. smartvoter.ora/ca/ed/ for current information.

League of Women Voters of California Education Fund

El Dorado County, CA	November	8,	2005	Election

Measure R

Snow Removal Tax
County Service Area 3 Snow Removal City of South Lake Tahoe

2/3 Approval Required
9 Fail: 1518/45.6% Yes votes.1810/54.3% No votes

See Also: Index of all Measures

Results as of Jan 28 2:40pm, 100.0% of Precincts Reporting (10/10)

Information shown below: Impartial Analysis I Arguments I Full Text

Shall the current $20.00 annual benefit assessment imposed to fund
snow removal services within the City of South Lake Tahoe, be
replaced by a $40.00 annual special tax upon all improved parcels,
with specified exceptions, subject to an annual inflation adjustment
not to exceed 3%, to be used exclusively for purchasing, operating
and maintaining snow removal equipment?

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

Passage of Measure R will authorize an increase in the sum paid per
improved parcel for snow removal services from $20.00 to $40.00
within the municipal boundaries of the City of South Lake Tahoe.

If Measure R is approved by two-thirds (2/3) of those voting on the
measure, property owners in the City of South Lake Tahoe would pay
a $40.00 annual fee per improved parcel to be used exclusively for
purchasing, operating and maintaining snow removal equipment
beginning with the 07/01/06 — 06/30/07 property tax cycle. If
approved, this $40.00 parcel tax will replace the current $20.00 benefit
assessment. This $40.00 parcel tax will increase annually by July 1st
by an amount equal to the lesser of 3% or the change in the San
Francisco/Oakland/San Jose All Urban Consumer Price Index
published by the U.S. Bureau of I^abor Statistics, or any successor to
the index, between the previous April and March of the year in which
the calculation is performed. This measure exempts cemeteries,
seasonal or summer cabins leased from the U.S. Forest Service and
time share interests in time share units.

Suggest a link related to
Measure R

Links to sources outside of Smart Voter
are provided for information only and do
not imply endorsement.

It is projected that the additional approximate sum of $217,800 will be
raised in the first year the measure is enacted, based upon the amount
collected laster year from the current $20.00 per parcel benefit

assessment. Thereafter, the amount raised would be subject to a cost of
living adjustment not to exceed 3% each year.

The measure is a special tax. The use of the proceeds is specifically
limited to the purchase, operating, and maintaining of snow removal
equipment. This measure requires a two-thirds (2/3) majority to pass.

The special tax imposed by this resolution shall appear as a separate
item on the tax bill of each such taxable parcel and shall be collected
at the same time and manner as county property taxes are collected as
set forth in the applicable provisions of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same
procedure and sale in case of deliquency as provided for such taxes.

All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county
property taxes shall be applicable to such tax.

Upon approval of the voters as set forth in this Resolution, the current
annual benefit assessment imposed in the portion of County Service
Area No. 3, which lies within the municipal boundaries of the City of
South Lake Tahoe, in the sum of $20.00 per improved parcel, would
be replaced by this special tax of $40.00 per improved parcel. In the
event this special tax is not approved by the voters, the current benefit
assessment of $20.00 per improved parcel, which was enacted in
1989, will continue to be imposed in the same manner and in the same
amounts as currently authorized. If Measure R is not approved, no
additional funding will be made available from parcel assessments for
snow removal equipment used within the City of South Lake Tahoe.

This impartial analysis is submitted to the voters as required by
Section 9280 of the Elections Code. The above statement is an
impartial analysis of Measure R. If you desire to have a copy of the
Resolution Establishing a Special Tax for the Purpose of Purchasing,
Operating, and Maintaining Equipment for Enhanced Snow Removal
Services, please call the City Clerk at (530) 542-6004 and a copy will
be mailed to you at no cost.

s/ Catherine L. DiCamillo, City Attorney

Arguments For Measure R	Arguments	Against Measure R

Reliable snow removal is a matter of public health No argument against this measure was submitted.

and safety. Measure R provides funds to replace

aging graders and blowers, maintaining reliable

snow removal service in the City of South Lake

Tahoe. Allowing older equipment to fail, without a

plan for replacement, compromises safety in our

neighborhoods. In an emergency, an ambulance, fire

engine, or police officer cannot reach your home if

equipment has broken down and your road remains

unplowed.

These are the facts: Measure R is an increase in the
city's snow removal parcel tax from $20
(established in 1989) to $40, with a provision for no
more than 3% per year consumer price index (CPI)
increase.

The costs of graders and blowers have each doubled
since 1989: $20 cannot adequately replace
equipment.

Measure R buys equipment only. The city spends an
additional $90 per improved parcel providing snow
removal services, for drivers, maintenance workers,
fuel, and repair parts.

Measure R funds can only be used for snow
removal, and not for any other city needs.

If Measure R is approved: The city will maintain its
current "front line service" grader replacement
cycle.

The city will replace three snow blowers, averaging
31 years in age. The average age of "front line"
blowers will be reduced from over 24 years to only
3 years.

The city will be able will sustain an average fleet
age of about 9 years and maintain reliable snow
removal service for the foreseeable future.

Adding $20 for the entire winter of snow removal is
a minimal cost with maximum benefit, providing
increased safety and a continuing long-term
equipment replacement program.

Your Yes vote is important. This is a special tax that
requires 2/3 voter approval. Please vote Yes on
Measure R to help our community maintain reliable
snow removal services.

s/ John E. Upton, City Council Member
s/ Michael Chandler, Former City Fire Chief
s/ Carol Drawbaugh, Former City Public Works
Director

s/ Del Faine, Former Council Member, City of
South Fake Tahoe

s/ Kevin Cole, Former Mayor and Council Member,
City of South Fake Tahoe

Full Text of Measure R

WHEREAS, a Consolidated Special Statewide Election is to be held on Tuesday, November 8,2005; and
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to submit to the voters at the election a measure pursuant to
Government Code Section 50077 and Elections Code Section 9222; NOW THEREFORE, THE CITY
COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DECLARE,
DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Pursuant to Government Code Sections 50075 and 37100.5, the City Council proposes to levy
a special tax on each improved parcel of property, residential and non-residential, within that portion of
County Service Area No. 3 which lies within the municipal boundaries of the City of South Lake Tahoe, in
the sum of FORTY DOLLARS ($40.00) per improved parcel commencing with fiscal year 2006-2007 and
continuing each fiscal year thereafter, except for parcels of land developed with cemeteries and seasonal or
summer cabins located on Forest Service land pursuant to lease. The proposed resolution is attached hereto
and incorporated herein by this reference as "Exhibit A." This proposal shall be presented to the voters of the
City of South Lake Tahoe at the Consolidated Special Statewide Election to be held on November 8,2005.

SECTION 2. This Resolution was unanimously approved by all members of the City Council at their regular
meeting held on Tuesday, July 19,2005.

SECTION 3. Pursuant to City Code Section 2-2.4, the City Council hereby consolidates with El Dorado
County, the measure to be included on the ballot for the Consolidated Special Statewide Election to be held
on November 8,2005.

SECTION 4. Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9222, the City Council hereby orders the
following question be submitted to the voters at the November 8, 2005 Consolidated Special Statewide
Election: "Shall the current $20.00 annual benefit assessment imposed to fund snow removal services within
the City of South Lake Tahoe, be replaced by a $40.00 annual special tax upon all improved parcels, with
specified exceptions, subject to an annual inflation adjustment not to exceed 3%, to be used exclusively for
purchasing, operating and maintaining snow removal equipment?"

SECTION 5. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the election shall be held and conducted as
provided by law for holding municipal elections. SECTION 6. Notice of the time and place of holding the
election is hereby given, and the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or
additional notice of the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

SECTION 7. Pursuant to California Elections Code Section 9280 the City Attorney shall prepare an
impartial analysis of the measure, not to exceed 500 words in length, showing the effect of the measure on
the existing law and the operation of the measure, and transmit such impartial analysis to the City Clerk
within ten (10) days of the adoption of this Resolution.

SECTION 8. The City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Resolution and enter it into the
book of original Resolutions.

EXHIBIT A CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE RESOLUTION NO. 2005-44 A RESOLUTION OF THE
CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE ESTABLISHING A SPECIAL TAX FOR
THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING, OPERATING, AND MAINTAINING EQUIPMENT FOR
ENHANCED SNOW REMOVAL SERVICES FOR THAT PORTION OF COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO.
3 WHICH LIES WITHIN THE MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES OF THE CITY OF SOUTH LAKE TAHOE

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors of the County of El Dorado formed County Service Area No. 3
pursuant to Title 3, Division 2, Part 2, Chapter 2.2. of the California Government Code; and WHEREAS, on

July 19,1983, by Ordinance 3373, the Board of Supervisors established a benefit assessment of TWENTY
DOLLARS ($20.00) per improved parcel in the unincorporated area of County Service Area No. 3 to
acquire new additional snow removal equipment, for the period up to June 30, 1993; and WHEREAS, on
September 20,1989, the City Council approved the Joint Powers Agreement with the County of El Dorado
for the purpose of proving expanded snow removal services within the municipal boundaries of South Lake
Tahoe, which established a benefit assessment of TWENTY DOLLARS ($20.00) per improved parcel within
the City of South Lake Tahoe; and WHEREAS, on April 30,1991, by Ordinance No. 4158, the Governing
Board found that it was in the public interest to repeal the provisions of Ordinance No. 3373 limiting the use
of the benefit assessment to equipment acquisition only, and deleting the termination date of the benefit
assessment of June 30,1993, to instead allow for the continued imposition of the benefit assessment of
TWENTY DOLLARS ($20.00) per improved parcel to be used for providing equipment and maintenance of
equipment for snow removal purposes; and WHEREAS, the cost of replacement of snow removal
equipment has escalated significantly while the benefit assessment has not been increased in sixteen years,
limiting the ability of the assessments collected pursuant to the Joint Powers Agreement Providing Snow
Removal Services to maintain services at the current levels; and WHEREAS, on December 9,2003, the City
Council adopted Resolution 2003-92 supporting the County of El Dorado in pursuing increasing the current
parcel assessment within County Service Area No. 3 for purchase of snow removal safety equipment; and
WHEREAS, Government Code Sections 50075 and 37100.5 authorize the City Council to levy a special tax
to fund services such as snow removal services; and WHEREAS, the City Council proposes to levy a special
tax for the purpose of replacing the existing benefit assessment and to provide the additional funding
necessary to enhance the current level of service.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the City Council of the City of South Lake Tahoe finds,
determines, declares, and orders as follows:

1.	Upon approval by the voters, as set forth in this Resolution, there shall be levied and assessed a special
tax on each improved parcel of property, residential and non-residential, within that portion of County
Service Area No. 3 which lies within the municipal boundaries of the City of South Lake Tahoe, in the sum
of FORTY DOLLARS ($40.00) per improved parcel commencing with fiscal year 2006-2007 and
continuing each fiscal year thereafter, except for those parcels outlined herein as follows: A. Parcels of land
developed with cemeteries shall be exempt. B. Seasonal or summer cabins located on Forest Service land
pursuant to lease shall be exempt. This special tax for snow removal equipment and services shall increase
annually on July 1 by an amount equal to the lesser of three percent (3%) or the change in the San Francisco-
Oakland-San Jose All Urban Consumer Price Index published by the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of
Labor Statistics, or any successor to that index, between the previous April and March of the year in which
the calculation is performed.

2.	"Parcels of improved property," as used in this resolution shall mean any unit of real property held in
separate ownership, which is capable of sale or transfer without further action under the Subdivision Map
Act (Government Code Section 66410, et seq.), and which is improved with a permanent structure, except
time share interests in time share units. "Time share interest" means a legally transferable interest in a Time
Share Unit. "Time share unit" means a residential unit for which (a) the right to occupy such unit is divided
into specified periods of time on a periodic basis and (b) the right to occupy such unit for a particular period
of time on a periodic basis is legally transferable.

3.	The special tax imposed by this resolution shall appear as a separate item on the tax bill of each such
taxable parcel and shall be collected at the same time and manner as county property taxes are collected as
set forth in the applicable provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and shall be subject to the same
penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for such taxes. All laws
applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes shall be applicable to such tax.

4.	Upon approval of the voters as set forth in this Resolution, the current annual benefit assessment imposed
in the portion of County Service Area No. 3 which lies within the municipal boundaries of the City of South
Lake Tahoe, in the sum of TWENTY DOLLARS ($20.00) per improved parcel, would be replaced by this
special tax of FORTY DOLLARS ($40.00) per improved parcel. In the event this special tax is not approved

by the voters, the current benefit assessment will continue to be imposed in the same manner and in the
amounts as currently authorized.

El Dorado Home Pa2e II Statewide Links II About Smart Voter II Feedback

Created: January 28, 2006 14:40 PST
Smart Voter <http://www.smartvoter.org/>

Copyright © League of Women Voters of California Education Fund http://www.lwvc.org
The League of Women Voters neither supports nor opposes candidates for public office or political parties.