CITY OF DELANO
TAX MEASURE H

Shall there be enacted in the City of Delano a
temporary sales tax rate increase of one-half of one
percent (0.50%) which will end after twenty (20)
years, the proceeds of which shall be used for street
and road improvements?

oYes
oNo


IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF DELANO
MEASURE H

This ballot measure, if adopted by the voters, would enact a temporary
twenty-year one-half percent (.5%) increase to the sales tax rate in the City of
Delano. The sales tax is also referred to as a “transactions and use tax.” The cur-
rent sales tax rate in the City of Delano is seven and one-quarter percent (7.25%).
Accordingly, if this ballot measure is adopted, the sales tax rate would increase to
seven-and-three-quarter percent (7.75%) for the next twenty years. The pro-
posed increased sales tax, like the current sales tax, would be imposed upon the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail within the jurisdictional limits of
the City as well as upon the storage, use or other consumption of tangible per-
sonal property purchased from any retailer in the jurisdictional limits of the City.

All revenue generated from the proposed sales tax increase would be used by the
City to pay for street and road repairs. As such, this ballot measure proposes a
“special purpose tax” rather than a “general purpose tax” and requires a 2/3 ma-
jority vote for adoption.

This wording applies to Measure H:

This is an impartial analysis of Measure H. If you want a copy of the City’s resolu-
tion ordering the election to vote on Measure H, please call Kern County Elections
at (661) 868-3590 or 1 -800-452-8683 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

IMPMS-City of Delano

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT
CITY OF DELANO
MEASURE H

The total sales tax rate in the City of Delano is currently 7.25% or Seven & a quar-
ter cent for every dollar. Of this amount the City receives 1% or 1 cent for every
dollar in sales. This is deposited in the general fund which is used to pay for gen-
eral City services such as Police, fire, park maintenance, recreational facilities,
street repair engineering and administration.

This measure if approved by voters will increase the total tax rate to 7.75% and
would raise the local City portion to 1,5%. The current sales tax generated
$2,857,388 for the annual period from July 2004 to June 2005, including amounts
withheld by the State. Based on that amount, the proposed half cent increase
would generate an additional $1,428,694 to be earmarked exclusively for street
and road improvements. This is an approximation of the amount that can be ex-
pected annually during the twenty year period the tax would be in effect. Actual
collections can vary from year to year depending upon economic conditions.

Note: The breakdown of the 7.25% total sales tax is as follows:

6% - State
1% - City of Delano

1/4% - County wide Transportation Fund

Currently, the State has reduced the City portion by 1/4%, thereby getting 6-1/4%
instead of 6%, A Compromise Agreement between the State and Local Govern-
ments guarantees payment of this 1/4% City portion of the sales tax temporarily
taken by the State by means of a property tax backfill,

s/Narciso P. Aguda
Finance Director
City of Delano







RESOLUTION NO. 2005-58

CITY OF DELANO
MEASURE H

ELECTION DATE 11-8-2005


RESOLUTION NO. 2005 -	58

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DELANO, CALIFORNIA,
CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF A CONSOLIDATED SPECIAL
STATEWIDE ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2005, FOR A
MEASURE RELATING TO THE IMPOSITION OF AN ADDITIONAL TRANSACTION AND
USE TAX

WHEREAS, under provisions of the laws relating to general Jaw cities in the State of California, a
Consolidated Special Statewide Election shall be held on November 8,2005;

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City Council of the City of Delano, California, does
authorize and determines as follows:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of California relating to General
Law Cities, there is called and ordered to be held in the City of Delano, California, on Tuesday,
November 8, 2005, a Consolidated Special Statewide Election for the purpose of determining the passage
of a measure relating to the imposition of an additional transaction and use tax.

SECTION 2. That the ballots to be used at the election shall be in form and content as required by law.

SECTION 3. That the City Clerk is authorized to furnish any and all official ballots, notices, printed
matter and all supplies, equipment and paraphernalia that may be necessary in order to properly and
lawfully conduct the election.

SECTION 4. That the polls for the election shall be open at seven o’clock a.m. on the day of the election.

SECTION 5. That in all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election shall be held and conducted
as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

SECTION 6. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City Clerk is
authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the election, in time, form and
manner as required by law.

SECTION 7. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Resolution and enter it
into the book of original Resolutions.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Delano at a regular meeting held on the
18th day of July, 2005, by the following vote:

AYES: Hill, Ramirez, Rios, Vallejo
NOES: none
ABSENT: Velasco
ABSTAIN: none

ATTEST:

Phyllis-^A. Kraft, City Cmrk

) RESOLUTION NO. 2005 - 59

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DELANO,
CALIFORNIA, REQUESTING THE KERN COUNTY CLERK RENDER
SPECIFIED SERVICES TO THE CITY RELATING TO THE CONDUCT OF A
CONSOLIDATED SPECIAL STATEWIDE ELECTION TO BE HELD ON
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2005

WHEREAS, a Consolidated Special Statewide Election is to be held in the City of
Delano, California, on November 8,2005; and

WHEREAS, in the course of conduct of the election it is necessary for the City to
request services of the county; and

WHEREAS, all necessary expenses in performing these services shall be paid by the
City of Delano;

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the City Council of the City of Delano
does hereby determine as follows:

SECTION 1. That pursuant to the provisions of subsection 10002 of the Elections Code
of the State of California, the City Council requests the County Clerk to prepare and
furnish to the City for use in conducting the election, the computer record of the names
and address of all eligible registered voters within the City, printed indices of the voters
to be used by the precinct board at the polling place; and will also make available to the
City additional election equipment and assistance according to state law.

SECTION 2. That the City shall reimburse the County for services performed when the
work is completed and upon presentation to the City of a properly approved bill.

SECTION 3. That the City Clerk is directed to forward without delay to the County
Clerk and to the County Election Department, each a certified copy of the resolution.

SECTION 4. That the City Clerk shall certify as to the passage and adoption of this
resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Delano at a regular
meeting held on the 18th day of July, 2005, by the following vote:

AYES: Hill, Ramirez, Rios, Vallejo
NOES: none
ABSENT: Velasco
ABSTAIN: none

ATTEST:

RESOLUTION NO. 2005-60

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF DELANO,
CALIFORNIA ORDERING THE SUBMISSION TO THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS
OF THE CITY OF A CERTAIN MEASURE RELATING TO THE IMPOSITION OF
AN ADDITIONAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX (“SALES TAX”) IN THE
AMOUNT OF ONE HALF OF ONE PERCENT (0.50%) AT THE CONSOLIDATED
SPECIAL STATEWIDE ELECTION TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY NOVEMBER 8th,
2005 AS CALLED BY RESOLUTION NO. 2005- 58

WHEREAS, a Consolidated Special Statewide Election on Tuesday, November 8th, 2005 has
been called by Resolution No. 2005-58 adopted on July 18th, 2005; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Delano (“City Council”) desires to submit to the
voters at the election a question relating to the imposition of an additional transaction and
Use Tax (“Sales Tax”) in the amount of one half of one percent (0.50%); and

WHEREAS, under the provisions of California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.91
and the laws relating to general law cities in the State of California, a special election may be
held on November 8th, 2005, for the consideration of the imposition of a sales tax, the
proceeds of which may be used for the street improvements in the City of Delano.

NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Delano does hereby resolve, declare,
determine and order as follows:

Section 1. That the City Council, pursuant to its right and authority, does order
submitted to the voters at the General Municipal election the following question:

City of Delano Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance for Street and Road
Improvements

Shall there be enacted in the City of Delano a	YES

temporary sales tax rate increase of one-half of one percent
(0.50%) which will end after twenty (20) years, the proceeds
of which shall be used for street and road improvements.	NO

Section 2. That the proposed measure, which will amend the City of Delano
Municipal Code, submitted to the registered electors to be voted on is attached as Exhibit

“A”.

Section 3. The City Attorney is directed to prepare an impartial analysis
concerning the measure to be voted on.

Section 4. The Finance Director is directed to prepare an Impartial Fiscal Impact
Statement to be included on the ballot concerning the measure to be voted on.

Section 5.
be hd^ksid conducted

That in all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the
as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

election shall

)

Section 6. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and
the City Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the
election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

Section 7. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this
Resolution and enter it into the book of original Resolutions.

DATED: July 18, 2005

I hereby certify that the foregoing Resolution was duly passed and adopted by the City of
Delano on this 18th day of July, 2005, by the following vote:

AYES: Hill, Ramirez, Rios, Vallejo

NOES: none

ABSENT: Velasco

By:

ABSTAIN: none



ORDINANCE NO. 2005 - 1129

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DELANO IMPOSING AN ADDITIONAL
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR STREET IMPROVEMENTS TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The City Council of the City of Delano does ordain as follows:

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Delano
Transactions and Use Tax for Street and Road Improvements Ordinance. The City of
Delano hereinafter shall be called the “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the
date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the
provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which
shall be operative if a two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for
that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the
State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and
Use Tax.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

E.

To allow the City to issue bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax.

Section 4.	CONTRACT WITH STATE.	Prior to the operative date, the City

shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all function incident to the
administration and operation of the transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if
the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall
be the first date of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5.	TRANSACTION TAX RATE.	For the privilege of selling tangible

personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
territory of the City at the rate of one half of one percent of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales
are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a
common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place
or places at which the retailer sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use
or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of one half of one percent of the sales prices of
the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part
1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTIONS OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Whenever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of

Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of the substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather
than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing
the functions incident to the administration or operation of the
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result
of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not be subject to tax by the state under the said
provision of that code.

4.	In Section 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797, or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s
permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California
or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums
Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-
administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the City
in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers or persons or property under the authority of
the laws of the State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside of the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point
by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purpose of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000 of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code),
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out of City
address and by declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out of City and declaration under penalty of
peijury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

5.	For the purpose of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sales or lease
of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any part to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,

use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the
use of such aircraft as common carriers or persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemption provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purpose of subsection (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party
to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of
tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property
into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City
or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who
registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the
City.

Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax

any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district

imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of

Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the

person of the property, the storage, use or other consumption of which is

subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of
this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales
and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become apart of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. CITIZEN REVIEW COMMITTEE. In order to provide a broad
perspective and assist in the effective, wise and efficient use of this additional funds
generated as a result of this ordinance, an independent Citizens Watchdog Committee
(hereinafter “Committee”) shall be created hereby.

The Committee shall review all the collection and expenditure of revenues generated as a
result of the adoption of this ordinance.

A.	The Committee shall do all of the following:

1.	Hold at least one public hearing annually to discuss and report on the
collection and uses of the revenues generated by this transactions and use
tax measure.

2.	Prior to holding such hearing, the Committee shall have access to all
audits performed for the City by independent auditors.

3.	Prepare a report on how the revenues collected pursuant to this ordinance
are spent by the City of Delano.

4.	Make available to the general public copies of the report and publish a
notice of the availability of such report as soon as it becomes available.

5.	The Committee shall be subject to the Ralph M. Brown Act and all
meetings of the Committee shall be duly noticed.

B.	Each member of the Committee shall be appointed by the Council as a whole.

In order to qualify for appointment (and to continue) as a member of the

Committee, a person must meet the following minimum requirements:

1.	Cannot be a current elected official of any Federal, State or Local
government agency.

2.	Must live within the City limits of the City of Delano and be a registered
voter.

3.	The Committee shall consist of five residents.

C.	The initial term of the Committee members term shall be three years.

D.	In making the appointments to the Committee, the Council shall consider the
following:

The committee members will be selected to reflect a balance of viewpoints across the
City. This includes appointing a Committee that will provide a balance of viewpoints,
geography, age, gender and ethnicity to represent the different perspectives of taxpayers
throughout the City of Delano.

E.	Notwithstanding any other provision herein contained, should the City
establish any committee by ordinance for the review of any tax measure
approved by the electorate, that committee may be used to perform the
requirements of this ordinance in lieu of creating the committee as described
herein.

Section 14 ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ
of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding
in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 15. IMPLEMENTING POLICIES. Upon approval of this ordinance by a
two-thirds majority of the electors voting on the measure, the City may adopt policies and
take such other action as may be necessary for the implementation of the transactions and
use tax authorized by this ordinance.

Section 16:	BONDING AUTHORITY. Upon voter approval of the Measure, the

City shall have the authority to issue bonds payable from the proceeds of the tax to
accelerate the construction of needed street and road improvements. The maximum
bonded indebtedness which may be outstanding at any one time shall be an amount equal
to the sum of the principal of, and interest on, the bonds, but not to exceed the estimated
proceeds of the tax. The amount of bonds outstanding at any one time does not include
the amount of bonds, refunding bonds, or bond anticipation notes for which funds
necessary for the payment thereof have been set aside for that purpose in a trust or escrow
account.

Section 17. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and
the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this ordinance is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have passed this ordinance and any section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more section, subsection,
sentence, clause or phrase be declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid.

Section 18. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting
of the City transactions and use tax and shall take effect immediately if a two-thirds
majority of all electors voting on the tax imposed by this ordinance at the November 8,
2005 election vote to approve the tax.

Section 19. CODIFICATION. Upon voter approval as referenced in Section 3, the
City Clerk in consultation with the City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to
codify this ordinance in the Delano Municipal Code as Chapter 3.18.

Section 20. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
ordinance shall expire April 1, 2026. The City shall give the Board written notice of the
repeal of the City ordinance not less than 110 days prior to the operative date of the
repeal.

Section 21. EXPENDITURE PLAN. Attached hereto as Exhibit “A” as if fully set
forth herein, is Expenditure Plan describing specific projects for which the revenue from
the tax may be expended.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Delano, State of
California, on this 8th day of August, 2005, by the following vote:

AYES: Hill, Ramirez, Rios, Vallejo, Velasco

NOES: none

ABSENT: none

ABSTAIN: none

Ruben Hill, Mayor

Attest:

/Z&y Q/& /l.JJ'
Phylli/A. Kraft	$

City Clerk