COMPOSITE SAMPLE BALLOT

and Voter Information Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED DISTRICTS &
SPECIAL STATEWIDE ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2005

Philip Adam © 1996 "Hillside, Cantelow Road, Vacaville”

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR ABSENT VOTER BALLOT ON BACK COVER
POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 PM.

COMPOSITE FACSIMILE BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED DISTRICTS AND SPECIAL STATEWIDE ELECTION

County of Solano

State of California	c

Tuesday. November 8.2005

PROPOSITION 75

PUBLIC EMPLOYEE UNION
DUES. RESTRICTIONS ON
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS.
EMPLOYEE CONSENT
REQUIREMENT. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Prohibits using public
employee union dues for political
contributions without individual
employees' prior consent.
Excludes contributions benefiting
charities or employees. Requires
unions to maintain and, upon
request, report member political
contributions to Pair Political
Practices Commission. Fiscal
Impact Probably minor state and
local government implementation
costs, potentially offset in part by
revenues from fines and/or fees.

PROPOSITION 78

DISCOUNTS ON
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Establishes discount prescription
drug program for certain low- and
moderate-income Californians.
Authorizes Department of Health
Services to contract with
participating pharmacies for
discounts and with participating
drug manufacturers for rebates.
Fiscal Impact State costs for
administration and outreach in the
millions to low tens of millions of
dollars annually. State costs for
advance funding for rebates.
Unknown potentially significant
savings for state and county
health programs.

PROPOSITION 80

ELECTRIC SERVICE
PROVIDERS. REGULATION.
INITIATIVE STATUTE.. Subjects
electric service providers to
regulation by California Public .
Utilities Commission. Restricts
electricity customers' ability to
switch from private utilities to
other providers. Requires all
retail electric sellers to increase
renewable energy resource
procurement by 2010. Fiscal
impact Potential annual
administrative costs ranging from
negligible to $4 million, paid by
fees. Unknown net impact on
state and local costs and
revenues from uncertain impact
on electricity rates.

CD YES

CD YES

CZ5 YES

CD> NO

PROPOSITION 76

STATE SPENDING AND
SCHOOL FUNDING LIMITS.
INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Limits state
spending to prior year's level plus
three previous years’ average
revenue growth. Changes
minimum school funding
requirements (Proposition 98).
Permits Governor, under
specified circumstances, to
reduce budget appropriations of
Governor's choosing. Fiscal
Impact State spending likely
reduced relative to current law,
due to additional spending limit
and new powers granted to
Governor. Reductions could
apply to schools and shift costs to
other local governments.

CD YES

CD NO

PROPOSITION 77

RESTRICTING. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Amends state
constitution's process for
^redistrteting California's Senate,
Assembly, Congressional and
Board of Equalization districts.
Requires tnree-member panel of
retired judges selected by
legislative leaders. Fiscal
Impact One-time state
redistricting costs totaling no
more than $1.5 million and county
costs in the range of $1 million.
Potential reduction in future costs,
but net impact would depend on
decisions by voters.

CD NO,

PROPOSITION 79

PRESCRIPTION DRUG
DISCOUNTS.
STATE-NEGOTIATED
REBATES. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Provides drug
discounts to Californians with
qualifying incomes. Funded by
state-negotiated drug
manufacturer rebates. Prohibits
Medi-Cal contracts with
manufacturers not providing
Medicaid best price. Fiscal
Impact: State costs for
administration and outreach in low
tens of millions of dollars
annually. State costs for advance
funding for rebates. Unknown
potentially significant: (1) net
costs or savings for Medi-Cal and
(2) savings for state and county
health programs.

CD	YES
CD	NO

CD NO

VACAVILLE UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT MEASURE F

For the abolition of trustee areas
in the Vacaville Unified School
District

O YES

For the abolition of trustee areas
in the Vacaville Unified School
District

CD NO

CITY OF FAIRFIELD
MEASURE E

"The Fairfield Vital Public
Services Restoration and
Protection Measure"

To improve the safety of Fairfield
and preserve the funding of
essential services such as police,
fire, street and park maintenance,
as well as other general city
services, shall an ordinance be
adopted increasing the City sales
tax by one-half cent, subject to
independent annual financial
audits, an independent Fairfield
taxpayer's committee to review
expenditures, and an expiration
date of June 30, 20167

CD	YES
CD	NO

CD YES
CD NO

>

+	COMPOSITE	FACSIMILE	BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED DISTRICTS AND SPECIAL STATEWIDE ELECTION

CITY OF VACAVILLE MEASURE
G

Inorder to comply-with a recent
court decision interpreting the
Right to Vote on Taxes Act, shall
the City of Vacaville replace its
existing in-lieu franchise fee and
property tax fee on City-water and
sewer operations with an
equivalent general tax on City
water and sewer operations to
avoid reductions in City services
such as police services, fire and
medical emergency response,
street lighting, street and park
maintenance, and programs for
youth and seniors?

CZ5 YES
O NO

END OF BALLOT

MEASURE E
CITY OF FAIRFIELD

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E
ORDINANCE NO._____________

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FAIRFIELD
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The People of the City of Fairfield Do Ordain as Follows:

, Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Fairfield Vital Public Services Restoration and Protection Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.
The City of Fairfield hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of
this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted
in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizesthe City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the
electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by
the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same
time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such .a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one half of one percent (0.50 %) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property
sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. Forthe purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of businessof the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the
retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased
from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one half of one percent (0.50
%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the
place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor.. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization,
State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than
by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	in those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the
result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisionsof Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject
to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. .

B.	The word "City” shall be substituted for the word “State" in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED, If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor's permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State
of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority
of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery
to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a earner for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated
to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to
be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal

property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use

tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of

this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any

right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative,
agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities.
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any pu rchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax
paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the
person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the. Revenue andTaxation Code, and all amendments to Part

1.6	and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the'rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoirr the collection under this ordinance, or Part

1.6	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the
ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 15. INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL AUDIT. By no later than October 31 of each year, the City's independent auditors shall complete a Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance Compliance and Internal Control Audit Report. Such report shall review whether the tax revenues collected pursuant to this ordinance are
collected, managed and expended in accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.

Section 16. FAIRFIELD TAXPAYERS COMMITTEE. By no later than June 30,2006, the City Council shall establish a Fairfield Taxpayers Committee to
review the expenditure of revenues collected pursuant to this ordinance. The Committee shall consist of at least five members appointed by the City Council. The
Committee members shall be residents in the City. The terms of the Committee members and their specific duties shall be established by resolution of the City

Council.

Section 17. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect
immediately.

Section 18. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire on June 30,2016.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the People of the City of Fairfield, State of California, on_______________________________.

Mayor

Attest:

(signature)

City Clerk

i

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

Ballot Measure E asks the voters to approve a transactions and use tax ordinance (the “sales tax ordinance") that would increase the City’s sales and use tax
rate by 0.50% or one- half cent for every dollar of goods purchased. State law permits cities to impose a local sales and use tax. If Measure E is approved by the
voters, the local sales and use tax rate in the City of Fairfield will increase from 1 % to 1.5%. The total sales and use tax rate currently paid by purchasers of goods
in the City of Fairfield, which includes the sales tax rate paid to the State of California and the Solano County Library, is 7.375%. The sales tax ordinance would
have the effect of increasing the total sales and use tax rate in the City of Fairfield to 7.875%. The sales and use tax is imposed on the price paid for the purchase
of tangible personal property at retail.

The proposed tax is a general tax that may be used for any municipal purpose. The City Council unanimously voted to place this sales tax measure on the ballot in
order to fund essential public services such as police, fire, street and park maintenance as well as other general city services.The tax is subject toan independent
annual financial audit that will review whether the tax is collected, managed and expended in accordance with the requirements of the proposed ordinance. In
addition, an independent Fairfield taxpayer’s committee is required to be established by the City Council to review the expenditure of the tax revenues raised by •
the proposed tax. If adopted by the voters, the tax would be in effect for ten years and terminate on June 30,2016.

Article XIIIC of the California Constitution, commonly known as Prop. 218, requires that the proposed tax be approved by a majority of the voters voting on
the ballot measure. A “yes" vote on Measure E enacts the sales tax ordinance. It is estimated by the City’s Finance Department that this measure will raise an
additional $7.4 million in general fund revenue for the City beginning in the 2006/2007 fiscal year. A “no” vote will result in the tax not being adopted..

s/ Greg Stepanicich
City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Vote Yes on Measure E to Keep Fairfield Safe and Sound - safe from crime
and financially sound!

Like many California cities. Fairfield faces permanent deficits or unacceptable
budgetary cuts.

State takeaways are the main cause of our deficits. If the State had never
begun these long-term raids, Fairfield would have $7.8 million more in revenues
this year alone, out of a $63 million budget.

Look around: Vallejo, Suisun, Vacaville, and Davis are all financially pinched.
Passage of State Proposition 1A last year will prevent future raids, but does
not reverse any past grabs.

Of course, costs are rising, too. The City is hiring 40 new police officers and
support staff to make Fairfield safer.

Historically Fairfield has been run in a frugal manner. Our costs are well below
similar-sized cities. And Fairfield has only one low local tax compared to two
or three in neighboring cities.

We have been actively addressing our deficit. Three years ago, Fairfield started
a painful austerity plan that improved our bottom line by $9 million this year.
City staff levels are low. Even so, we will be faced with unacceptable deficits
in about three years. This will necessitate massive layoffs and reduced city
services unless we raise more revenues. This sales tax will raise $7.4 million
to address the problem.

Measure E has safeguards. It sunsets in 10 years, and a citizens' oversight
committee will make annual reports to you. An independent audit will be
performed too.

Local government gives citizens the best value for their tax dollar. Police
and fire service, roads, parks, senior and youth programs, economic and job
development, and tourist promotion impact vou directly.

Help ensure Fairfield’s continued quality of life by voting “Yes” on Measure E.
Keep Fairfield safe and sound.

si Karin MacMillan, Mayor, City of Fairfield
si Harry T. Price, Vice-Mayor, City of Fairfield
si Jack Batson, Councilmember, City of Fairfield
si Marilyn Farley, Councilmember, City of Fairfield

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

The City Council’s entire argument is a blatant excuse to continue their out-of-
control spending habits. VOTE NO.

They want taxpayers to bail them out of the mess they created
when they foolishly bestowed outrageous salary and retirement benefits on
city workers. This City Council approved plans to allow some workers to retire
with 90% of their salaries for life and others to enjoy retirement at 81% of their
salaries. In addition, they continue to receive full medical benefits until eligible
for Medicare. VOTE NO.

The City Council says Fairfield "has only one low local tax" and
conveniently avoids mentioning numerous taxes masquerading as “fees”.
Check your PG&E, phone, cell phone, or cable T.V.bills. Garbage and recycling
users pay a hidden franchise tax and water users pay approximately three
million dollars in hidden taxes into the general fund. VOTE NO.

The City Council asks us to trust them with our taxes. But can
we? Remember the Allan Witt Park stealth deal and the bowling alley fiasco?
VOTE NO.

There is no guarantee that new tax money would be spent on
public safety. In fact, the added tax revenue ($7.4 million) would go into the
general fund to be spent at the whim of the City Council. Is that what taxpayers
want?

Do you wonder why NO ordinary taxpayers signed the argument in

favor?

VOTE NO on E

Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group
si Vern F. Van Buskirk, President

s/ Murray T. Bass, Certified Financial Planner
si Fred G. Valles, Ret. Sgt. LAPD
si Lorine Patton, Taxpayer Advocate
sI John Takeuchi, Taxpayer Advocate

Solano County 48 / 27

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

“There they go again".....President Ronald Reagan

Despite increasing.revenues from existing sales taxes, property
taxes and dozens of other fees, Fairfield's politicians and bureaucrats are
asking for more. They want you to pay an additional half cent on top of
the 7 3/8% you’re already paying on all taxable sales. Don't be duped by a
so-called “sunset" clause. We all know this outrageous tax increase would be
FOREVER. When was the last time the City of Fairfield rescinded a tax?

Fairfield's spending is out of control. The City pays extravagant
salaries and offers huge pensions to government bureaucrats; By voting NO
on this measure we can send a message to force the City to cut spending and
live within its means.

While not hesitating to ask Fairfield's taxpayers to pay ever higher taxes and
fees, Fairfield's City Council has lavished huge pay increases and retirement
benefits on city workers. Vacaville Reporter reveals that 22 Fairfield employees
make more than $100,000 a year... far out of tine when compared with'
salaries In the ordinary world - and three times the average wage In
Fairfield.

A policeman or fireman retires with 90 percent of active pay for the rest of his
life while other city workers must survive with “only” 81 percent. How many
taxpayers can hope for such a lucrative retirement?

Taxpayers shouldn’t be asked to give up more of their hard-earned
income while waste and inefficiencies exist, e.g.: thousands of dollars for a
city newsletter read by only 5% of the voters and frequent taxpayer paid travel
by bureaucrats and politicians.

As for the proposed citizens’ oversight committee, we already have one. It's
called the City Council.

Let’s stop this nonsense and tell the politicians, Use the money you're
already taking from us and tighten your belts.

NOonE

Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group
s/Vern F. Van Buskirk, President

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E

Let's face it - we have a crime problem. Fairfield is now a Bay Area city with
Bay Area problems. But we simply don’t have enough money to deal with this
new challenge.

City leaders are taking dramatic steps to reduce crime by hiring 40 new
police staff. They’ve also beefed up emergency medical services. But these
commitments come with a price tag that Fairfield can't afford without new
revenues.

We also don’t want to lose the services we already have. We get a great
return now for our tax dollar. Our street conditions are excellent. Our garbage
services are cheap. Our water quality is exceptional. Our sewer rates are low.
Fairfield attracts more new businesses than anv other city in Solano Countv.
Fairfield works!

But our need for more police can't be postponed. In the past, we had difficulty
attracting qualified officers. Fairfield now offers competitive salaries and
benefits, a necessity in government as well as in private enterprise. Now we
can hire and deploy police aggressively to target our drug and gang-impacted
areas and to attack violent street crime.

Even though the State has plundered our coffers, we want to retain our present
services, and add more police. Our crime statistics simply aren’t acceptable
for a city looking to attract the quality jobs, industry, and citizens we want to
attract and retain. We must come down hard on aanos and hoodlums!

We need Measure E. It has touah citizen oversight provisions and an annual
audit. Vote YES to keep Fairfield Safe and Soundl

sI Mayrene Bates, Educator
s/ Ron Marlette, Pastor
s/ Jon Monson, Business Executive
si Gretchen Shifts, Hospice Chaplain
s/ Charles B.Wood III, Business Attorney

si Murray! Bass, Certified Financial Planner
si Fred G. Valles, Retired Sgt. L.A.P.D.
sI Lorine Patton, Taxpayer Advocate
si John F. Takeuchi, Taxpayer Advocate