VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

OLD ADOBE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE G

To keep school libraries open, to restore programs for

G struggling readers, to restore an enriching music
program, and to support small class sizes, shall the Old
Adobe Union School District be authorized to levy an
annual parcel tax of $75 for four years, beginning July 1,2005,
with public review by a citizens’ oversight committee, offering
exemption to parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of
age or more?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE G

The Old Adobe Union School District has called an election on a special tax mea-
sure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a
school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $75.00 per year per parcel for each parcel
of land within the District's boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1, 2005, and would remain in effect for no
more than four years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
the purposes set out in the measure, which include providing intensive reading in-
struction, keeping school libraries open, maintaining smaller class sizes when
possible, and providing a music enrichment program. Each year, beginning with
the year ending December 31,2006, the measure requires the Superintendent or
Chief Financial Officer of the District to have an independent auditor prepare a re-
nort, stating the amount received and expended from the tax for that year, and the
tus of any projects, and description of any programs, funded from the proceeds
ut the tax.

' The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and occupied
by a person who will be 65 years of age or older on or before May 1,2005, or May 1
of any subsequent year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemp-
tions based on ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for
this exemption the first year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps
must be followed to appeal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a
refund of the tax, if appropriate.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

Measure G will afford all students better opportunities to learn to read.

Measure G will allow the schools of the Old Adobe Union School District to rein-
state special reading support programs, providing focused instruction to more indi-
vidual students, especially those children most at risk.

Measure G will ensure that the schools will keep their libraries open; an important
component of a strong literacy program and another factor in developing positive
reading skills and habits for all students.

Measure G will reinstate an enriching music program including instrumental music
instruction. There are clear indications that children who learn to read and play mu-
sic show academic gains beyond their peer group. Students who study music in el-
ementary school are more likely to continue their musical training by participating in
the quality programs available in the upper grades and on into adulthood.

Measure G also provides support for smaller class sizes. Smaller class size allows
teachers to spend more time with individual students offering more personalized
attention and instruction to each.

Measure G comes with financial safeguards! A Citizens’ Oversight Committee will
conduct regular public audits to make sure that Measure G dollars are used appro-
priately. None of the money raised by Measure G will be spent on administrative
costs. Every Measure G dollar will go to the students by directly supporting librar-
ies, music instruction, reading assistance and keeping class sizes small.

Senior citizens aged 65 and above may exempt themselves from Measure G.

Please join classroom teachers, police officers, business owners, retirees, par-
ents, and community leaders in voting Yes on Measure G.

Measure G is a local solution to the statewide problem of limited education funding.
Measure G will help maintain excellence in the Old Adobe Union School District
and give our children the quality education that has benefited past generations and
that they need to succeed, today.

si Elaine Boling	si	Karen	L.	Tribble

Retired Board Member	Teacher

s/James Kimball
Businessperson

s/Angelo “Paur Accomero
Police Officer

sI Don Bennett
Columnist/Retired Board Member

If two-thirds of the voters in the Old Adobe Union School District who vote on this
measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied. The
tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes starting with
the 2005-2006 fiscal year.

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE G

STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE G

OLD ADOBE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
EXCELLENCE IN SCHOOLS ACT OF 2005 TAX

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Old Adobe Union
School District Excellence in Schools Act of 2005 Tax" or as “Measure G.”

TERMS OF EXCELLENCE IN SCHOOLS ACT OF 2005 TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on
this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of
$75 peryearon each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no more
than four years, commencing July 1,2005. The qualified special tax shall be
known and referred to as the “Excellence in Schools Act of 2005 Tax.” To the
extent such funds are available, proceeds of the Excellence in Schools Act of
2005 Tax shall be authorized to provide intensive reading instruction, to keep
school libraries open, to maintain smaller class sizes when possible, and to
provide an enriching music program.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citi-
zens in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years
of age or older shall be exempt from the Excellence in Schools Act of 2005
Tax upon proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption
must apply to the District on or before May 1,2005 or May 1 of any succeeding
assessment year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide
an exemption forthe parcel forthe remaining term of the assessment so long
as such applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the
xcellence in Schools Act of 2005 Tax, the Board of Tmstees shall cause an account
/ be established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of
the Excellence in Schools Act of 2005 Tax remain unexpended, the Superinten-
dent or chief financial officer of the District shall cause an independent financial
auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of Education and the Commu-
nity Oversight Committee no later than December 31 of each year, commencing
December 31,2005, stating (1) the amount of Excellence in Schools Act of 2005
Tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or
description of any programs funded from proceeds of the tax. The report may relate
to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the
Superintendent shall determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the
annual budget, audit; or other appropriate routine reportto the Board ofTrustees.

Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Board of Trustees shall appoint a
Citizens’ Oversight Committee which shall, on an annual basis, review both
the Excellence in Schools Act of 2005 Budget and the Excellence in Schools
Act of 2005 Independent Audit.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the Excellence in Schools Act of 2005
Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Excellence in Schools Act of 2005 Tax shall be collected by the
Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and
shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected
by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same
rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection
of the Excellence in Schools Act of 2005 Tax shall not decrease the funds available
from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
.operty taxes from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. Ail
property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem
property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Excellence in Schools
Act of 2005 Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years

of age or older are exempt from the Excellence in Schools Act of 2005 Tax as de-
scribed above.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District
has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Excellence in Schools Act of
2005 Tax as described above to the Sonoma County tax collection officials. The
Sonoma County Assessor's determination of exemption or relief for any reason
other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be final and bind-
ing forthe purposes of the Excellence in Schools Act of2005Tax. Taxpayers wishing
to challenge the County Assessor's determination must do so under the procedures
for correcting a misclassificaiion of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers
seeking a refund of Excellence in Schools Act of 2005 Tax paid shall follow the
procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue
and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent
value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision
hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure
by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect
to the fullest extent allowed by law.