HARMONY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE L

To prevent elimination of library services, technology,

L music and the arts, and to maintain adequate staffing, and
to provide instructional assistance for math and reading,
shall the Harmony Union School District be authorized to
levy an annual parcel tax of $52 for eight years, beginning July 1,
2005, with annual audits and an exemption for parcels owned and
occupied by persons 65 years of age or more?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE L

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

The Harmony Union School District must make immediate cuts of over $100,000 in
programs and staff unless this parcel tax passes. Library services, technology, mu-
sic and the arts, and instructional staff, including math and reading aides, face
permanent reduction or elimination. For only $52 a year - yes, just $1 a week -
the programs that our children deserve can be restored. Measure L provides a
stable source of local funds to offset the uncertainty of state funding. The funds
will be audited annually.

The District is currently sharing services with other districts, including transportation
and special education, and is researching further ways of sharing administrative
costs and services.

The Harmony Union School District has called an election on a special tax mea-
sure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a
school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $52.00 per year per parcel for each parcel
of land within the District’s boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1, 2005, and would remain in effect for no
more than eight years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
the purposes set out in the measure, which include continuing to provide library
services, supporting technology, continuing to provide instruction in music and the
arts for all students, maintaining staff, and providing instructional assistance for math
and reading. State law establishes additional accountability measures which re-
quire filing of an annual report by the chief fiscal officer of the district stating the
amount of funds collected and expended, and the status of any project required
or authorized to be funded by the tax measure.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Multiple parcels that are contiguous and are
part of one economic unit under the same name and ownership will be charged as
one parcel. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or on which no property
tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The measure also exempts
from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and occupied by a person who will be
65 years of age or older on or before June 30,2005, or May 1 of any subsequent
year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemptions based on owner-
ship by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for this exemption the
first year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps must be followed to
appeal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a refund of the tax, if ap-
propriate.

Measure L also provides an exemption for any parcel owned and occupied by a
person 65 years of age or older, since many seniors survive on a fixed income.

We all hear daily news reports about the assault on public education from the state
and federal governments. Mandates for testing and programs continue to increase,
while funding to meet these requirements does not. Local communities are left to
determine what value to place on public education. The question Measure L poses
is: Do we value literacy, the arts, and technological readiness for 21st century
jobs? If we do not, the losers are our children and our entire community.

Please vote Yes on Measure L.

si Susan McGovern	si	Mark P. Jacobsen

Teacher	Business Executive

si Lori K. Ford	si	Gene Gaffney

Camp Meeker Resident	Occidental Business Owner

OCCIDENTAL COMMUNITY COUNCIL
s/ Jennifer Nichols, President

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE L

If two-thirds of the voters in the Harmony Union School District who vote on this
measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied. The
tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes starting with
the 2005-2006 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

49-504

9405

49504



SEVERABILITY

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE L

HARMONY UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

HARMONY PARCEL TAX OF 2005

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Harmony Un-
ion School District PARCEL TAX OF 2005” or as “Measure L”

TERMS OF HARMONY PARCEL TAX OF 2005 SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting
on this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax
of $52 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no
more than eight years, commencing July 1,2005. The qualified special tax
shall be known and referred to as the “HARMONY PARCEL TAX OF 2005.” To
the extent such funds are available; proceeds of the HARMONY PARCEL
TAX OF 2005 shall be authorized to prevent elimination of library services,
technology, music and the arts, and to maintain adequate staffing and in-
structional assistance for math and reading.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citi-
zens in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years
of age or older shall be exempt from the HARMONY PARCEL TAX OF 2005
upon proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption must
apply to the District on or before June 30,2005 or May 1st of any succeeding
assessment year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide
an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long
as such applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the HARMONY PARCEL TAX OF 2005,
and proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The HARMONY PARCEL TAX OF 2005 shall be collected by the
Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and
shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected
by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same
rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection
of HARMONY PARCEL TAX OF 2005 shall not decrease the funds available
from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date
hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office.
All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad
valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the HARMONY
PARCEL TAX OF 2005 in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons
65 years of age or older are exempt from the HARMONY PARCEL TAX OF
2005 as described above.

Multiple parcels, which are contiguous and are part of the one eco-
nomic unit under the same name and ownership, shall be charged as one
parcel.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District
has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the HARMONY PARCEL
TAX OF 2005 as described above to the Sonoma County tax collection officials.
The Sonoma County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any
reason other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be
final and binding for the purposes of the HARMONY PARCEL TAX OF 2005.
Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must
do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property
pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or
other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of HARMONY
PARCEL TAX OF 2005 paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property
tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

The Board of Trustees hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has
independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof.
Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining
parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed
by law.

49-505

9405

49505