FOR MORE INFORMATION VISIT OUR WEBSITE http://www.MontereyCountyElections.us or http://www.smartvoter.org

COUNTY OF MONTEREY

CONSOLIDATED SPECIAL
STATEWIDE ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2005

Samefe ial®t

& Voter Information Pamphlet

** NOTICE **

NEW POLLING PLACES

NEW PRECINCT
CONSOLIDATIONS

^ SEE LABEL ON BACK
COVER FOR POLLING
PLACE LOCATION

POLLS ARE OPEN FROM 7 A.M. TO 8 P.M.

KEEP THIS PAMPHLET FOR ASSISTANCE
ON ELECTION DAY

YOU MAY VOTE BY MAIL:

ABSENT VOTER BALLOT APPLICATION ON BACK COVER



mm

"	'l% fW*	AX/IQO IMPORTAMTF	^

AVIoU IMrUK IAN I t

-

: Unadraduccidn al espanol de esta Muestra de Balota y Folleto Informative) al Votante puede
:obtenerse oompletando y regresando la tarjeta de solicitud (porte postal pagado) que se le
propofeiona en la cubierta de atras de este folleto. Escriba su nombre y direccion con letra
de molde y enviela por correo lo mas tardar una semana antes del Dfa de Eleccion.

Sample Ballot/Muestra de Balota

■r

m

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS i
MEDIDAS PRESENTADA ANTE EL
______________ELECTORADO_____________I

STATE/ESTADO J

7Q DISCOUNTS ON PRESCRIPTION
I O DRUGS. INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Establishes discount prescription drug
program for certain low- and moderate-income
Californians. Authorizes Department of Health
Services to contract with participating pharmacies for
discounts and with participating drug manufacturers
for rebates. Fiscal Impact: State costs for
administration and outreach in the millions to low tens
of millions of dollars annually. Stale costs for
advance funding for rebates. Unknown potentially
significant savings for state and county health
programs.

DESCUENTOS PARA MEDICAMENTOS
RECETADOS. INICIATIVA DE LEY PARA
PROMULGARUNESTATUTO. Estableceun
programa de descuentos en medicamenlos
recetados para beneficio de determinados
californianos con bajos ingresos o ingresos
moderados. Auloriza at Departamento de Servicios
de Salud para que celebre conlratos con las
farmacias participates con el fin de obtener
descuentos y con fabricates de medicamentos
participates con el fin de obtener reintegros.

Impaclo fiscal: Costos para el estado en concepto de
admlnlstracidn y servicio social de millones a un poco
mSs de decenas de millones de ddlares por ario.
Costos para el eslado en concepto de financiamienlo
previo de reintegros. Ahorros
desconocidos potencialmenfe
significativos para los programas de
salud del estado y del condado.

YES/Si

NO/NO

7Q PRESCRIPTION DRUG DISCOUNTS.

I STATE-NEGOTIATED REBATES.

INITIATIVE STATUTE. Provides drug
discounts td Californians with qualifying incomes.
Funded by slate-negotiated drug manufacturer
rebates. Prohibits Medi-Cal contracts with
manufacturers not providing Medicaid best price.
Fiscal Impact: State costs for administration and
outreach in low tens of millions of dollars annually.
State costs for advance funding for rebates.

Unknown potentially significant: (1) net costs or
savings for Medi-Cal and (2) savings for state and
county health programs.

DESCUENTOS PARA MEDICAMENTOS
RECETADOS. REINTEGROS NEGOCIADOS POR
EL ESTADO. INICIATIVA DE LEY PARA
PROMULGAR UN ESTATUTO. Dispone descuentos
en medicamentos para los californianos con ingresos
que califiquen. Financiadomediante reintegros por
parte de los fabricantes de medicamentos
negociados por el estado. Prohibe los contratos de
Medi-Cal con fabricantes que no brinden el major
precio pagado por Medicaid. Impacto fiscal: Costos
para el estado en concepto de administracidri y
servicio social de un poco mds de decenas de
millones de ddlares por afto. Costos para el estado
en concepto de financiamiento previo de reintegros.
(1): Ahorros o costos netos desconocidos y
potencialmente significativos para Medi-Cal y (2)
ahorros desconocidos y
potencialmente significativos para
los programas de salud del estado y
del condado.

NO/NO

YES/SI

QA ELECTRIC SERVICE PROVIDERS.

OU REGULATION. INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Subjects electric service providers to
regulation by California Public Utilities Commission.
Restricts electricity customers’ ability to switch from
private utilities to other providers. Requires all retail
electric sellers to increase renewable energy
resource procurement by 2010. Fiscal Impact:
Potential annual administrative costs ranging from
negligible to $4 million, paid by fees. Unknown net
impact on state and local costs and revenues from
uncertain impact on electricity rates.

PROVEEDORES DE SERVICIO EliCTRICO.
REGULAClON. INICIATIVA DE LEY PARA
PROMULGAR UN ESTATUTO. Somete a los
proveedores de servicio eidctrico a regulacidn por
parte de la Comisidn de Servicios Publicos de
California. Restringe la capacidad de los
consumidores de electricidad de cambiar de
proveedores de energla etectrica privados a otros
proveedores. Requiere que todos los vendedores
minorislas de electricidad aumenten la energla
proveniente de recursos renovables para el afto
2010. Impacto fiscal: Posibles costos administralivos
anuales que varian entre insignificante y $4 millones,
pagados a trav6s de aranceles. Impacto nelo
desconocido sobre los costos e
ingresos estatales y locales debido
al impacto incierto sobre las tarifas
de electricidad.

NO/NO

YES/Sf

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS
MEDIDAS PRESENTADA ANTE EL
__________ELECTORADO___________

COUNTY/CONDADO

MONTEREY COUNTY
MEASUREC
CONDADO DE MONTEREY
MEDIDA C

APPROVAL OF RESOLUTION NO. 04421
RELATING TO RANCHO SAN JUAN

Shall Resolution No. 04-421 amending

Cthe Monterey County General Plan and
the Greater Salinas Area Plan, Including
amending the Rancho San Juan Area of
Development Concentration Development Guidelines
and Principles, be approved?

APROBACI6N DE LA RESOLUCltiN NO. 04421
TOCANTE A RANCHO SAN JUAN
iHa de aprobarse la Resolucidn No. 04-421, que
enmendarfa el Plan General del Condado de
Monterey y el Plan General de la Ciudad de Salinas y
su Area Metropolitana, incluyendo la enmienda del
plan titulado "Rancho San Juan Area
of Development Concentration
Development Guidelines and
Principles’'?

NO/NO

YES/Si

CITY/CIUDAD

CITY OF SALINAS
MEASURE V
ORDENANZA V
MUNICIPIO DE SALINAS

EMERGENCY RESTORATION AND PROTECTION
OF PUBLIC SERVICE MEASURE
fGENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAXI

VTo address an existing emergency
related to Salinas' ability to fund all
general public services, including basic
services such as police, fire safety, paramedics,
libraries, recreation, crossing guards, graffiti removal,
anti-gang programs, and street and park
maintenance, shall an ordinance be adopled to levy a
transactions and use tax of a half cent, which would
sunset in 10 years and include an independent
citizens oversight committee?'1

ORDENANZA DE EMERGENCIA PARA LA
RESTITUCION Y LA PROTECClON DE LOS
SERVICIOS PUBLICOS
tIMPUESTO SOBRE LAS VENTAS Y LOS
SERVICIOS!
iHade adoptarse una ordenanza que impone un
gravamen de medio centavo sobre las ventas y Ids
servicios, ordenanza que inclulria una cteuslila de
explracidn transcurridos diez aflos y un comity
independiente de supervisidn integrado por
ciudadanos, con el fin de afrontar una situacldn de
emergencia tocante a la capacidad de Salinas de
financiar los servicios generates al publico,
incluyendo los servicios bdsicos como policla,
bomberos, paramSdicos, bibliotecas, recreacidn,
guardias de cruce, eliminacidn de
graffiti, programas contra pandillas y vc e /c i
mantenimiento de calles y parques? YES/SI

NO/NO

CA27-2-L1

VOTE BOTH SIDES
VOTE AM BOS LADOS

Sample Ballot/Muestra de Balota

CITY OF SALINAS
MEASURE V

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF SALINAS

IMPOSING A GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO
SUNSET IN 10 YEARS WITH ANNUAL REVIEW BY AN
INDEPENDENT CITIZENS OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF SALINAS:

SECTION 1. FINDINGS. The voters of the City of Salinas hereby find
as follows:

a.	The City is experiencing an existing and immediate funding crisis, which
is the result of factors largely outside of its control, including national
economic trends, rapid and disproportionate increases in the cost of
employee health insurance and retirement benefits, unpredictable
decreases in revenue from existing taxes and fees, increases in charges
by the County of Monterey, and State takeaways of local revenue.

b.	The City has taken significant steps to reduce its operational costs.
It has eliminated over 123 staff positions and dramatically reduced
services, resulting in a 24% decrease in the City's General Fund
budget, or $15.3 million.

c.	The City has used its available General Fund reserves to bridge the
structural budget deficit, meaning it has used all available financial
resources and will have none available in case of emergency or
future capital facilities needs.

d.	Because of changes in State law, particularly the approval of Propositions
62 and 218, the City has very few means available for increasing General
Fund revenue. The Council has previously asked the voters to increase
some taxes, with very limited success. The revenue from increased
business license taxes helped close the structural deficit but only
prevented some cuts; it was not sufficient to restore services.

e.	Absent a new source of General Fund revenue, the City’s ability to
restore service levels is uncertain. Despite the dramatic decreases
in services and staffing, as well as the use of the City’s existing
reserves, the 2005-06 budget contains a $1.5 million structural deficit
that, absent new General Fund revenue, may only be met by
decreasing police and fire services.

f.	Unless staff and service levels are at least partially restored, public
facilities and property will not be properly maintained, public safety
standards will degrade, crime and violence will increase, the City’s
children will not have adequate and safe educational and recreational
opportunities, businesses and families will be discouraged from
moving to or remaining in Salinas, and the health, safety, and welfare
of the residents of Salinas will be endangered.

g.	Because of that threat to the public health, safety, and welfare, an
emergency exists in the City, as the term “emergency" is used in Article
XIIIC, section 2(b) of the California Constitution. The City must
immediately address that emergency by ensuring that the City has the
resources necessary to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare.

h.	The identified emergency necessitates that the City Council submit
another tax measure to the voters of Salinas at the November 8,
2005 election, even though such an election would not be consolidated
with a general election for a member of the Council.

i.	Article XIIIC, section 2(b) of the California Constitution permits the City,
in emergency situations unanimously declared by the Council, to seek
voter approval for a general tax at an election that is not consolidated
with an election for a member of the Council.

SECTION 2. AMENDMENT OF CODE. “Article VII. Transactions and Use
Tax” shall be added to of the Salinas City Code and shall read as follows:
“Section 32-64. Title. This ordinance shall be known as the City of
Salinas Temporary Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Salinas
hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the City.

Section 32-65. Operative Date. “Operative date” means the first day of
the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption
of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.
Section 32-66. Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the
following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof

be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

a.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with
the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which
shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote
to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

b.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law
of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent
with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

c.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes
a tax and provides a measure therefor that can be administered and
collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts
itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the
State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California
State Sales and Use Taxes.

d.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record, keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.
Section 32-67. Contract with State. Prior to the operative date, the City
shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use
tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the
State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day
of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.
Section 32-68. Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in
the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent
(0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative
date of this ordinance.

Section 32-69. Place of Sale. For the purposes of this ordinance, all
retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless
the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent
to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery- to an
out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include
delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event
a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more
than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 32-70. Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the
storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance
for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-
half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the property. The sales
price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
Section 32-71. Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 32-72. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of
Use Taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code:

a. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the
taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However,

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED "AS SUBMITTED" AND
PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.

27507

the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken
by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather
than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the
functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California,
where the result of the substitution would be to:

A.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage,
use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

B.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject
to.tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof),
6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

b. The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the
phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and
in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 32-73. Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been issued
to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an
additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.
Section 32-74. Exemptions and Exclusions.

a.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax
and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the
State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to
the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount
of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

b.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum
products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally
outside the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively
in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property
under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped
to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery
to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer
to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes
of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

A.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and
by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating
that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

B.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated
to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered
into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the
sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be

obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

c.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the
storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject
to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use
tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators
of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively
in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for
hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and
necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States,
or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over,
the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any
right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be
obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which
any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers
the property into the City or participates within the City in making the
sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving
the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer
in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include
any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant
to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers
or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

d.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit
against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions
tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax
pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 32-75. Amendments to State Law. All amendments subsequent
to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become
a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall
operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.
Section 32-76. Enjoinino Collection Forbidden. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action
or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any
officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under
this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 32-77. Oversight Committee. The Mayor and City Council shall

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED "AS SUBMITTED" AND
PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.

27508

each annually appoint one member of the public to serve as an oversight
committee for the revenue that the City receives from the tax enacted by
this article. The committee shall prepare an annual report on the revenue
received and recommend the use thereof. The City Manager shall provide
staff for the committee, and the Finance Director shall provide all relevant
data regarding revenue from the tax and expenditure thereof.

Section 32-78. Refunds and credits: suits and legal proceedings.

a.	Refunds of and credits for any tax paid pursuant to this article
may be made only as provided for in Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

b.	Suits and proceedings for the recovery of any amount alleged to have
been erroneously or illegally determined or collected pursuant to this article
may be maintained in any court only as provided for in Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. A
judgment shall not be rendered in favor of the plaintiff in any action brought
against the State Board of Equalization to recover any amount paid when
the action is brought by or in the name of an assignee of the person paying
the amount or by any person other than the person who paid the amount.
Section 32-79. Termination Date. The authority to levy the tax imposed
by this ordinance shall expire on the tenth anniversary of the operative
date, unless extended by a majority vote of the voters of the City.”
SECTION 3. USE OFTAX REVENUE. The tax approved by this ordinance
is a general tax. The City may use the revenue from the tax for any
general governmental purpose, including without limitation police, fire
safety, paramedics, libraries, crossing guards, graffiti removal, anti-gang
programs, and street and park maintenance.

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the ordinance and the
application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not
be affected thereby. The voters of the City of Salinas hereby declare
that they would have adopted each and every provision of this ordinance
irregardless of the invalidity of any other provision.

SECTION 5. CODIFICATION. Upon adoption of this ordinance pursuant
to the voter approval referenced in Section 2, the City Clerk, in consultation
with the City Attorney, is hereby authorized and directed to codify this
ordinance in the Salinas City Code.

SECTION 6. EFFECTIVE DATE. If this ordinance is approved by a
majority of the voters voting on the issue at the November 8,2005 election,
pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217, this ordinance shall become
effective ten (10) days after the Council declares the results of the election,
and the tax shall become operative on the "operative date,” as defined
in Section 2 of this ordinance.

SECTION 7. PUBLICATION. The Clerk of the City of Salinas is hereby
directed to cause the following summary of the ordinance to be published
by one (1) insertion in The Salinas Californian, a newspaper of general
circulation published and circulated in the City of Salinas:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance adopts a
half-cent transactions and use tax on the sale or consumption of
tangible personal property within the City of Salinas. The tax shall
terminate automatically upon the tenth anniversary of the State
beginning to collect it, unless extended by the voters.

APPROVED by the following vote of the Voters of the City of Salinas
on November 8, 2005:

ADOPTED by Declaration of the vote by the City Council of the City
of Salinas on___________,	200_:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAINED:

ANNA M. CABALLERO, Mayor

ATTEST:

ANN CAMEL, City Clerk

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE V

City of Salinas

Emergency Restoration and Protection of Public Services
Measure (General Transactions and Use Tax)

The City Council of the City of Salinas has placed this measure
on the November 8, 2005 ballot to ask the voters to approve an
ordinance that would enact a temporary ten (10) year, one-half of
one percent (0.50%) transactions and use tax within the City of
Salinas. This would be the equivalent of a half-cent tax on an item
that costs a dollar or fifty cents on an item that costs $100.

The current sales and use tax rate in the City is 7.25%. The
City receives the equivalent of one percent (1%) of the current tax
rate. The transactions and use tax, like the sales and use tax, would
be levied on the sale or use of tangible personal property sold at
retail. Accordingly, the total tax rate for most purchases in the City
would increase to 7.75%, 1.5% of which would go to the City, if the
voters approved the measure.

As proposed, the tax would sunset on its 10th anniversary, on
or about April 1, 2016, unless extended by the voters.

The revenue generated from the proposed tax would be deposited
in the City’s general fund and, accordingly, all monies collected
would be used by the City to pay for the usual and current City
general public services such as police, fire safety, paramedics,
libraries, recreation, and street and park maintenance. As such,
this ballot measure is a “general tax,” rather than a “special tax.”

The ballot measure also provides for an independent oversight
committee. The Mayor and City Council shall each annually appoint’
one member of the public to serve as an oversight committee for
the revenue that the City receives from the proposed tax and to
report and recommend the use thereof to the City Council.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve the ordinance levying the one-
half of one percent (0.5%) transactions and use tax for 10 years,
with oversight by an independent committee of Salinas residents.
A “no” vote is a vote against the tax. Measure V would be approved
if it received a majority (over 50%) of “yes” votes.

s/VANESSA W.VALLARTA
City Attorney

Dated: August 5, 2005

BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED “AS SUBMITTED" AND
PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.

27509

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V  Our libraries are closing, street crime and gang violence are serious concerns and our streets need repair. Salinas has drastically slashed city services because of state government raids on local funding.  Measure V will restore vital services, includina police, fire, libraries, street maintenance, recreation centers and anti-aana and vouth violence Droarams.  A Chamber of Commerce-sponsored group of top local business executives reviewed the city’s finances. All agreed: there is a real fiscal emergency in Salinas. The state has grabbed over $30 million from Salinas in the last ten years. The money just isn’t here. All cuts that could reasonably be made have already been made. Libraries have been closed, and there are no funds to hire additional police officers, support youth programs or increase gang violence prevention.  Yes on V will keep our three libraries open.  Yes on V will put more police officers on the street to reduce and prevent crime.  Yes on V will reopen recreation centers and keep kids off the street. Yes on V will begin to repair our streets and sidewalks and keep Salinas clean.  A citizens’ oversight committee will ensure Measure V funds are spent as approved by voters on the vital services we’ve lost. Every penny will stay in Salinas and cannot be taken by the state - ever. Measure V sunsets automatically in ten years and there will be independent annual audits.  Measure V is a bargain - it will only cost pennies a day. But the value of safe neighborhoods, libraries and other vital services for families, senior citizens and all of us can’t be calculated.  Our community already came together once. Rally Salinas/ Vital Salinas raised money to postpone library closure through the end of 2005. Let’s come together again and vote YES on Measure V. si Chris Steinbruner, Chairman, Salinas Valley Chamber of Commerce si Lynne Steele, President, Friends of the Salinas Public Library si Lucy Pizarro, Owner, Chapala Restaurant s/ Michael J. Miller, Reverend; Pastor - Sacred Heart Catholic Church si Simon Salinas, Assemblymember  REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V  There is NO “emeraency.” This claim bv citv officials and their followers is deceitful.  Measure V needlessly raises your tax rate and hurts poor families. It's the same as a blank check and supports mismanagement.  •	Measure V does NOT restore or Dreserveanv citv service. The “oversiaht” committee is useless since it’s controlled by city officials.  Measure V allows city officials to continue to waste your money on increasing salaries and enriched benefits for city employees at the expense of your services.  •	Mismanagement by city officials overspending on excessive employee costs is why Salinas residents are receiving less services:  Budget reports show a fulltime city employee now costs Salinas taxpayers over $111,000 on average, and rising. This is among the highest in the county and higher than in county government. It was about $75,000 five years ago, so it’s risen by 48%, more than triple the cost of living trend. In a real emergency, city officials would reign in salary and benefit costs. There is NO revenue shortaae:  The city budget shows spending at $114 million. Voters approved Prop 1A last year which protects state revenue for cities. Previously lost revenues are now being restored.  •	Citv officials arosslv underestimated revenue last vear. Due to skyrocketing property values, new businesses, higher prices, etc., revenue for general services is rising by nearly three times the cost of living trend. It’s time to reign in mismanagement, greed and deceit of city  officials:  Vote NO on Measure V.  Read also: noblankchecks.svtu.org si Mark Carbonaro, Salinas Radio Commentator si Thomas Tessier, Salinas Merchant si Margaret Sanchez, Retired Home Healthcare Worker si Stan Soroken, Salinas Merchant si Ray M. Cadena, Salinas Resident	ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE V A BLANK CHECK TAX INCREASE  Vote NO on Measure V: It’s a tax increase with no auarantee other than a higher tax rate, which is very dangerous because it’s the same as a blank check  Voters rightfully rejected the sales tax increase last year. City officials are misusing their office by returning it to the ballot as an “emergency” measure.  There is NO “emergency.” Salaries are increasing for many employees, including upper management. In a real emergency, they’d not be accepting pay increases.  City financial records show revenue rising for general government services by 8% this year. The city budget shows $114 million in spending from all funds this year.  City officials have more money now per family to spend on city services than they had just a few years ago. The difference is they’re spending more of your money now on higher salaries and enriched benefits.  The average cost for a fulltime city employee was about $100,000 last year, now it’s over $111,000! This average is among the highest of any city in Monterey County and higher than that of county government!  This measure is estimated to cost taxpayers $11 million the first year. With a workforce of 574 fulltime employees, this new revenue is at risk of providing $19,000 more for each employee.  Remember, you have good reasons not to trust city officials with more of your money:  •	City officials are misleading you by calling this tax an “emergency;”  •	This tax increase is a blank check for city officials to misuse; and.  •	Increasing revenues continue to go for higher salaries and  enriched benefits.  Raising the tax rate will not give us better government, but will reward wasteful and self-serving management.  It’s vour monev. “Vote No on Measure V”... it’s a blank check  and supports mismanagement.  si Brett Landon s/ Esther Barba  Salinas Valley Taxpayers Union (svtu.org) Salinas Resident s/ Roy V. Alsop Jr. s/ David Lopez  Retired Businessman Salinas Resident si Emilio “Joe” Ratto, Retired Businessman  REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE V  Police won’t be hired, libraries will close and fire safety will suffer if Measure V fails. Measure V opponents don’t deny this.  State raids on city funding have caused a real emergency. Local businesspeople examined the city’s books and agreed. Salinas’ per capita revenue is $423, compared to $1,454 in City of Monterey - that’s $1,000 less per resident for public services. 24% of the budget has been cut, including 123 jobs.  Police and firefighters cost more than other public employees. Salinas spends 65% of its budget on public safety, compared to 35% in Monterey. Still, Salinas struggles to recruit and retain police officers. Ten urgently needed new police won’t be hired if Measure V loses. If crime and gangs concern you, please support Measure V.  Measure V is no blank check. Citizens’ oversight and independent annual audits will assure it. Every penny will be spent on vital services for Salinas - no funds can be taken by the state.  The cost of Measure V is minimal. Those who shop here but live elsewhere will pay their fair share. Food and medicine are not taxed, sparing struggling families.  Kids need libraries, not gangs. Concerned citizens demanded Measure V to save libraries, add police officers and restore vital services. Rally Salinas temporarily saved our libraries, but it will be wasted if Measure V fails. All Salinas residents lose if Measure V loses.  We need to invest in our community. Please vote yes on Measure V. si Vic Collins, Retired Assistant Police Chief si Brian K. Contreras, Executive Director, Second Chance Youth Program si Delores Badham, Retired Educator si Mary E. Castillo, Retired Teacher Alisal Union School District si Bruce Taylor, Chairman & CEO, Taylor Farms
BALLOT MEASURE INFORMATION HAS BEEN PRINTED "AS SUBMITTED" AND PROOFED BY THE PUBLIC AGENCY SUBMITTING THE MEASURE PRIOR TO PRINTING.	

27-510

27510