Measure C: Special Tax Measure, Piedmont Unified School District

To maintain the quality of Piedmont's public education and to prevent further reductions in current special academic instructional programs including advanced placement, foreign language, fine arts, library and counseling services, technology upgrades and to continue to provide competitive compensation, professional training and curriculum improvements, shall the Piedmont City Unified School District be authorized to levy a special tax of up to the amounts specified in the voter pamphlet for a period of four years?

Impartial Analysis
Measure C, a Piedmont Unified School District ("the District") special parcel tax measure, seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy a special parcel tax on each parcel of taxable real property located wholly or partly in the District for four years, commencing on July 1, 2006, for the purposes set forth in the measure.
 A school district, following notice and public hearings, has the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by twothirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and sections 50075-77, 50079, and 53722 et seq. of the California Government Code.
 If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, a special tax will be imposed on each parcel of land within the District for a period of four years. The special tax rate would be based on the parcel size and its development. The rates per parcel are set forth in full in the measure printed in this voter pamphlet; parcels with single family dwellings would range from $418 to $710 annually. The tax will be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax collector at the same time and in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are collected. The Board of Education annually may increase the rates by not more than five percent (5%) above the previous year's rates.
 If approved, these tax funds could only be used by the District for the purposes set forth in the measure, which include preventing reductions in the current academic program, attracting and retaining qualified teachers, providing technology improvements and curriculum development, and maintaining student services in counseling and academic support.
 If less than two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the measure will fail and the District will not be authorized to levy the special tax as proposed by this measure.
s/RICHARD E. WINNIE  County Counsel

Arguments For Measure C
Our existing school parcel taxes provide primary funding for a wide range of important programs at the elementary, middle and high schools: library and counseling services; specialists in reading, math, and science; electives and advanced placement courses; music and art programs; computer technology; and much more. In total, they provide local funding for 65 full-time teaching positions.
 If Measures B and C are not approved, the schools will be forced to make drastic program cuts and layoff many outstanding teachers.
 Measure "B" would replace and extend the current parcel taxes which expire next year, and does not change the current tax rates. However, it only provides for partial funding for existing programs and even with its passage, significant program cuts and layoffs will be necessary.
 Measure "C" provides the additional funding required to maintain essential academic programs at current levels. Together, these measures do not expand the educational program but provide the minimum funding needed to maintain academic programs.
 Existing parcel taxes provide approximately 21% of the school district's total budget. In recent years, parents and other supporters have dramatically increased the amount of private fundraising for the schools, contributing over $1.6 million last year or 7% of the total budget.
 Additionally, the school district has made difficult budget cuts totaling a cumulative amount of $1.3 million over the past few years. Teachers and staff have agreed to limit cost-of-living adjustments to 1/2% per year and have accepted higher medical co-payments to help reduce health care costs.
 Measure "C" is needed just to maintain existing programs. All money from BOTH Measures will stay in Piedmont and keep our local schools among the best in California. Both measures are necessary to fill the increasing budget gap caused by ongoing problems with state funding. Please vote Yes on Measures B and C.
s/RONNIE CAPLANE  President, Board of Education
s/WARD LINDENMAYER  Vice President, Board of Education
s/GRIER GRAFF  Member, Board of Education
s/CATHIE GLETTNER  Member, Board of Education
s/JUNE MONACH  Member, Board of Education

(No arguments against Measure C were submitted)



Full Text of Measure C

INTRODUCTION 
To maintain the quality of Piedmont's public education and to prevent further reductions in current special academic instructional programs including advanced placement, foreign language, fine arts, library and counseling services, technology upgrades and to continue to provide competitive compensation, professional training and curriculum improvements, shall Piedmont City Unified School District be authorized to levy a special tax of up to the amounts below for four (4) years beginning as of July 1, 2006, assessed against each parcel of taxable land in the District? This measure provides the additional funding required to maintain a quality Piedmont educational program and avoid further reductions.

PURPOSE  To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain the quality of Piedmont's public education that has benefited all students and citizens, shall the Piedmont Unified School District be authorized to levy a qualified special tax to:  a. Prevent reductions in the current academic program  b. Attract and retain highly qualified teachers and professional staff  c. Provide curriculum development and professional training  d. Provide services in technology for necessary upgrades and network improvements  e. Maintain student support such as counseling and academic support services
The Board of Education will fund all of the programs listed above, unless the Board of Education determines in any given year that changes in student population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the Board of Education will not fund any program or reduction other than those listed above from the proceeds of the special taxes.
The special tax would be in effect for a period of four (4) years, beginning July 1, 2006, at the rates shown below on each assessor's parcel located wholly or partly within the school district.

PROCEDURES
Each year as part of the annual budget adoption process, the Board of Education will determine the total amount of expenditures necessary to provide a superior educational program including the specialized services and programs enumerated above and deduct therefrom the projected revenue to be gathered from sources other than this special tax. The difference, if any, shall be the maximum amount of funds to be derived from the tax authorized by this measure for such year. If the necessary funds are such that the maximum rates set forth below are not needed, then the Board of Education shall reduce these rates proportionately so that only the necessary amount of funds are raised.
Prior to the levying of the special tax in any given year, the Board will conduct a public hearing on the matter. Notice of the time, date, and place of hearing shall be published pursuant to Government Code Section 6061 at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the District, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. Following said hearing each year, the Board shall adopt a resolution establishing the amount of tax to be raised for that year and the rate per parcel, not to exceed the amounts enumerated below, including a maximum annual increase of five percent. Any tax levied shall become a lien upon the properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible as herein provided.

RATES
The special tax shall be assessed at the following rates:
Parcel with Single Family Dwelling
0-4,999 sq. ft. lot $418/parcel  5,000-9,999 sq. ft. lot $475/parcel  10,000-14,999 sq. ft. lot $542/parcel  15,000-19,999 sq. ft. lot $622/parcel  more than 20,000 sq. ft. lot $710/parcel
 Parcel with Multi-Family Dwellings  Multi-family dwellings/unit, all lot sizes) $278/unit
 Multiple Parcel Dwellings $457/dwelling
 Commercial Property  0-10,000 sq. ft. lot $710/parcel  Commercial lots greater than 10,000 sq. ft. $1062/parcel
 Undeveloped Parcel $212/parcel
 The uses and sizes of all parcels shall be determined according to the records of the Alameda County Tax Assessor. For parcels divided by Tax Code Area lines, the payment for the portion of the parcel within the Piedmont Unified School District shall be the same as the above square footage rates.
 The Board of Education annually may increase the rates by not more than five percent (5%) above the previous year's rates and shall round the resulting rates to the nearest full dollar amounts.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES
In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the special taxes levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the special tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the special taxes must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Education of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special taxes and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the special taxes, as identified above.
 PROTECTION OF FUNDING
Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the District's adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.