CITY OF TULARE

CITY OF TULARE
MEASURE I

(Required to Pass: majority of votes cast)

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE I
BALLOT TEXT
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL

THE TULARE VITAL CITY SERVICES MEASURE. To maintain and improve vital city services
such as Police, Fire, and paramedic services, 911 response times, anti-gang programs, street
and pothole repair, parks, recreation, library, tree trimming, code enforcement and other
services, shall the sales tax be increased by a maximum of one-half of a cent with citizens=
oversight and independent annual financial audits?

YES

NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE I

THE TULARE VITAL CITY SERVICES MEASURE

The Tulare Vital City Services Measure proposes to raise revenue by authorizing a general
transactions and use tax ("sales tax") of one-half of a cent (.50 percent), and approving an
ordinance adding Chapter 5.78 to Title 5 of the Tulare Municipal Code. The tax would be paid in

m051108I.htm[l/5/2015 7:54:19 AM]

CITY OF TULARE

addition to the current state and local sales taxes and would be collected at the same time and
in the same manner as existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 authorizes the City to levy or increase a
transactions and use tax (i.e. "sales tax") at a rate of .25 percent or multiple thereof, for the
general purposes of the city, if the ordinance proposing the tax is approved by a majority of the
qualified voters of the city voting in an election on that issue. If approved by the voters, the sales
tax will become effective no sooner than April 1, 2006.

The revenues from this tax are not designated for any specific purpose. The revenues may be
used for general city functions, such as police protection including anti-gang programs, fire
suppression and paramedic services, street and pothole repair, city park maintenance and
repairs, the library, recreation, tree trimming, code enforcement and other services.

The sales tax increase will be subject to certain conditions. The revenues and expenditures shall
be independently audited on an annual basis. Additionally, an independent citizen’s oversight
committee shall review the revenues and expenditures, and the findings of the auditor and
oversight committee shall be reviewed by the City Council and made available to the public. The
City Council may, by resolution and after public notice and a public hearing, reduce said tax to
one-quarter of a cent (.25 percent).

s/ Julia M. Lew

Deputy City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE I

Tulare needs your help.

Since 1999, Tulare grew 20% and demands on our firefighters and police personnel increased
dramatically. Like most Valley cities, we have an increase in gangs and criminal activity. To
prevent and investigate crimes, and provide rapid treatment to victims, we need more firefighters
and police officers - and updated equipment. Firefighters and Police Officers are critical to
our security and well-being. Without personnel to respond to 9-1-1 calls, we cannot keep
response times under the four minute timeframe.

We also need improvements to our city streets. Without adequate funding, we cannot properly
repair our streets, and citizens pay more for vehicle maintenance and insurance. What we don’t
repair now will cost more to fix later.

For several years the State of California has taken money from cities to balance its budget.

Tulare has lost over $9 million to the state since 1992. There is little chance the city will be

m051108I.htm[l/5/2015 7:54:19 AM]

CITY OF TULARE

repaid so we must take matters into our own hands. A local sales tax stays here for our use;
Sacramento cannot take it from us.

To meet public safety and street repair needs, we are asking you to approve a local sales tax
increase, which over half of California’s tax districts have done. This adds a half-percent on the
purchase of taxable goods, which means that 5 cents would be added to a $10 purchase. Sales
tax is paid by everyone, including those who live outside our city.

Measure I will: put more police on the street, add more firefighters and paramedics, provide
improved and safer streets, and improve our quality of life.

Approving the half-percent sales tax increase is critical to maintaining a wholesome, unique
community.

PLEASE JOIN US IN SUPPORTING MEASURE I.

s/ Richard Anderson, Business Owner
s/ Phil Plascencia, Retired Accountant
s/ Don Hillman, Former County Supervisor
s/ Brian Martinho, Business Owner
s/ Pat Hillman, Business Owner

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

m051108I.htm[l/5/2015 7:54:19 AM]