VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET  MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
Special Tax to Support Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Facilities in County Service Area No. 11, McGregor Community Zone of Benefit. Shall the County of Santa Cruz be authorized to acquire and develop the McGregor Property for park property, and to operate and maintain such park property to the extent funds are available, for children, adults, and seniors in County Service Area No. 11, McGregor Community Zone of Benefit, by levying a special tax of $98.00 per residential unit effective July 1, 2005, through June 30, 2035?	special tax: (a) the specific purposes of the special tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate account shall be created into which the proceeds of the special tax must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Supervisors showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special tax and (ii) the status of any projects required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the special tax, as identified above.  BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED AND ORDERED that a special County election is called and ordered to be held within CSA No.11 “M” on Tuesday, May 3, 2005, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of the CSA No.11 “M” the following special tax measure:  Special Tax to Support Parks. Recreation, and Cultural
FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE V  RESOLUTION NO. 6-2005  NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Cruz resolves and orders that a special tax be levied within CSA No.11 “M” for the primary purpose of acquisition and partial development of the “McGregor Property” in the Seacliff area for recreation and park purposes, and for all other purposes authorized in CSA No.11 “M,” subject to approval of the special tax measure set forth in this Resolution by two-thirds of the registered voters in CSA No. 11 “M” voting in a special election, as follows:  1.	Commencing with the 2005-2006 fiscal year on July 1, 2005, a special tax is to be levied against all improved parcels within CSA No.11 “M" in the annual amount of ninety-eight dollars ($98.00) per residential unit;  2.	The special tax shall expire at the close of June 30, 2035, unless the voters approve an extension of the special tax beyond that date in accordance with the law then in effect;  3.	The proceeds of the special tax shall be used only for the following purposes, in accordance with the scope of the facilities and services authorized in such CSA No.11 “M”: To acquire, operate and maintain the McGregor Property to supplement the Countywide Recreation and Park Plan; and  4.	The special tax shall be collected on the property tax roll in the same manner and at the same time as County property taxes, and shall be subject to all the laws pertaining to the levy, collection, and enforcement of County property taxes; and  5.	If any provision of this Resolution or of the special tax measure contained herein or the application of any such provisions to any persons or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any other provision or application that can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this extent the provisions thereof shall be severable.  BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED AND ORDERED that, in accordance with the requirements of California Government Code Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures shall apply to the	
	Facilities in Countv Service Area No. 11. McGreqor
	Communitv Zone of Benefit. Shall the Countv of Santa Cruz be authorized to acquire and develop the McGregor Property for park property, and to operate and maintain such park property to the extent funds are available, for children, adults, and seniors in County Service Area No. 11, McGregor Community Zone of Benefit, by levying a special tax of $98.00 per residential unit effective July 1,2005, through June 30, 2035?  Yes No  BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED AND ORDERED that:  The Board does hereby submit the special tax measure to the qualified electors of CSA No.11 “M” at said special election, and hereby designates and refers to said measure in substantially the form set forth above as the measure to be set forth on the ballot for use at said special election;  The Board hereby authorizes the use of mailed ballots for the special election, and establishes the County Elections Office, 701 Ocean Street, Room 210, Santa Cruz, California, 95060, as a drop off center for the in-person return of mail ballots;  Said special election shall be held and conducted, and the votes received and canvassed, and the returns thereof made and the result thereof ascertained and determined in accordance with law;  Said special election hereby called shall be and is to be held on Tuesday, May 3, 2005, in all respects as required by and pursuant to law;  In accordance with the provisions of Section 9160 of the California Elections Code, the County Counsel is hereby directed to prepare an impartial analysis of this measure;  In accordance with the provisions of Section 9160 of the California Elections Code, the County Auditor is hereby directed to prepare a fiscal impact statement of this measure;

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET  MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
Arguments for and against this measure may be submitted in conformance with California Elections Code Section 9161 and following; and  The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors shall file a copy of this Resolution with the County Clerk.  PASSED AND ADOPTED this 11th day of January, 2005, by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Santa Cruz by the following vote:  AYES: SUPERVISORS Beautz, Wormhoudt, Campos, Stone and Pirie NOES: SUPERVISORS None ABSENT: SUPERVISORS None ABSTAIN: SUPERVISORS None	FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT BY COUNTY AUDITOR MEASURE V  COUNTY SERVICE AREA 11M (ALSO KNOWN AS McGregor Community Zone of Benefit)  Measure V would establish an annual special tax levy of $98 per residential unit within the district boundaries. There are 1,694 residential units within the district. A residential unit includes each single-family house, townhouse, condominium, apartment and multiplex unit, and every modular home park unit. This special tax would produce approximately $166,012 each fiscal year. This special tax would sunset on June 30, 2035.  The special taxes would be deposited into a separate fund in the County Treasury and used only to finance the acquisition and some of the initial development costs of the McGregor park property. These costs would include the principal amount borrowed, interest expense, and cost of bond issuance. It is not anticipated that this levy would be sufficient to pay for the maintenance or operating costs. This special tax would be collected in two equal installments of $49 on the Property Tax Bill.  It is estimated that the park acquisition and initial development cost would be approximately $2 million. When the borrowing costs are included the cost would be approximately $4.9 million. Currently, it is planned to use $250,000 from Proposition 12 State Park Funds to build a roadway. To complete the next park development phase it is estimated that an additional $800,000 will need to be provided in future years. After the park is developed it is estimated that the annual cost to maintain and operate the park will be in the range of $50,000 to $60,000. Historically, the County has acquired available park sites and developed them in phases, as other financial resources are identified and available.  Respectfully Submitted  s/ Gary A. Knutson Auditor-Controller
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE V  If this measure is approved by at least two-thirds of those voting on it, the County of Santa Cruz will be authorized to levy a special tax on real property within the McGregor Community Zone of Benefit of County Service Area No. 11 (which is also referred to as CSA No. 11 “M”). The tax would be imposed for thirty (30) years at an annual rate of $98.00 on each residential unit within the McGregor Community Zone of Benefit.  The proceeds of the tax, if approved, may be used only for the following purposes: to acquire and develop the McGregor Property for park purposes and, to the extent funds are available, to operate and maintain such park property. The “McGregor Property” is an unimproved property located at the northwest corner of Sea Ridge Road and McGregor Drive in Aptos.  In accordance with State law, the following accountability measures will apply to the special tax: a separate account shall be created into which the proceeds of the special tax must be deposited; and an annual written report shall be made to the County Board of Supervisors showing the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special tax and the status of any projects required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the special tax.  If approved, the special tax will be collected by the Santa Cruz County Tax Collector in the same manner and subject to the same laws pertaining to enforcement as those property taxes which are based upon property value.  A “yes” vote is to approve imposition of the special tax.  A “no” vote is against imposition of the special tax.  DANA McRAE, COUNTY COUNSEL.  By Jane M. Scott, Assistant County Counsel	

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V

A MYes" vote on Measure V will provide you with a
wonderful park for your family and friends to gather and
play. This is our last chance for a county park in our
neighborhood. The alternative is a large hotel that will
subject our village to more noise, congestion and traffic.

With a "Yes" vote on Measure V, the County of Santa
Cruz will buy the land, build a park and provide for
maintenance and all public safety services, protecting your
community investment.

Measure V:

•	Creates a neighborhood park in Seacliff

•	Preserves open space areas for our families, pets, and
future generations to enjoy

•	Provides a safe play area for our children

•	Gives the area an identity that says, "We are a
residential neighborhood"

•	Preserves the peaceful character of our village

•	Increases property values (See "The Public Value of
Urban Parks" at www.wallacefoundation.org)

The park will include play areas, lawn, benches and other
park amenities as decided by Seacliff residents.

Low-income seniors and the disabled will not be
negatively affected because California offers a property
tax-deferral program (http://www.sco.ca.qov/col/taxinfo/).

Please ask yourself, what is the best use for the 2.9-acre
McGregor property? Together, we can vote YES to retain
the peaceful character of our village and say NO to the
imminent commercial growth that will change the face of
our village forever.

Local residents and environmental and business leaders
all agree that a park, as described in the Seacliff Village
Plan, is good for our community.

Contact "Residents for Seacliff Park" member, Rick
Stoker, at (831) 345-1402 for more information.

Residents for Seacliff Park
s/ Niki Derby, Chair

Seacliff Improvement Association
s/ Rebecca Downing, President

s/ Harold J. Vaughn

Past President, Seacliff Improvement Association

s/ Francine Badagliacca
Merchant

s/ Rick Stoker

Member, Residents for Seacliff Park

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE V

VOTE "NO” because Measure V takes $3,000 of your
money to buy land for which there is no money to
develop or maintain a park. The alternative MAY BE
modest commercial use of the land and $98-a-year more
in your pocket for 30 years.

It's a flat-out falsehood to say, "the County of Santa Cruz
will buy the land, build a park and provide for maintenance
and all public safety services." And proponents know it's
not true.

They heard Parks Director Barry Samuel testify Jan. 11
that even with this tax, the County will be $800,000 short
of funds to develop a park and has no source for the
$50-60,000 needed to maintain it.

Check for yourself:

http://sccountv01 .co.santa-

cruz.ca.us/bds/Govstream/archive/Archivelndex.asp

The specter of a "large hotel . . . noise, congestion and
traffic" is a cynical attempt to manipulate your vote.

No hotel has ever been approved for this site!

If one were proposed, it would have to adhere to the 2-
story height limit and would be subject to public hearings
on its size and impact.

We're grateful that children in Seacliff have thousands of
acres of parks. This tax is a waste of your money. And
that "property-tax deferral" just slaps your heirs with a
death tax.

•	There's NO tax exemption for seniors

•	There's NO money to develop a park

•	There's NO money to maintain a park

•	Businesses are NOT assessed

•	Anyone can vote but ONLY property owners pay

BE SENSIBLE:

VOTE "NO" ON MEASURE V

Senior Coalition

s/Tom Walsh, Executive Director

s/ Jeanell Martin

Former Santa Cruz County Parks Commissioner-
Aptos Area

s/ Ronald Brown

Retired Pharmaceutical Representative

s/ Deborah Williams Trounstine
Psychotherapist

s/ Winstead W. Coleman
Businessman

VOTER INFORMATION PAMPHLET  MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE V We urae vou to vote "NO" on Measure V.	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE V Vote “Yes” on Measure V!  THESE ARE THE FACTS:  •	Yes, residential property owners will pay a total of $2,940 over the next 30 years, or 270 a day. Measure V is a small investment in your community that will benefit all residents and property owners.  •	Yes, Seacliff is surrounded by parks, but none are within walking distance. Different parks meet the needs of different groups of people. Seacliff Park will provide clean play areas for children (with play structures) and easy access for seniors.  •	Yes, County officials set the $98/year amount, enough money to build the park. The County has also agreed to maintain the park.  •	Yes, Seacliff residents already rejected a strip mall on the same site. Seacliff residents want this site preserved as a park for future generations. If a hotel is built, it will be lost forever.  •	Yes, the Seacliff Park site is open, highly visible, and will be protected by local law enforcement.  •	Yes, business properties that contain residential units will be assessed.  •	Yes, property owners will immediately profit from increased property values. A fact substantiated by numerous studies.  •	Yes, low-income seniors and the disabled are eligible for a 100% tax deferral.  Before you mark your ballot, ask yourself, “Do 1 want to see a 100-room hotel, parking lot, and cars at the corner of Searidge and McGregor, or do 1 want to see green grass, benches, neighbors strolling, and children playing?”  Vote YES on Measure V for a Seacliff neighborhood park!  Residents for Seacliff Park s/ Niki Derby, Chair  s/ Ellen Pirie  County Supervisor, 2nd District  Seacliff Improvement Association s/ Rebecca Downing, President  s/ Harry Vaughn  Past President, Seacliff Improvement Association s/ Rick Stoker  Member, Residents for Seacliff Park
The proponents of this special tax argue that Seacliff desperately needs another park and that you should pay about $3,000 per household over 30 years to make it happen.  We think that's nonsense.  We already have the Polo Grounds, Aptos Village, Hidden Beach and Seascape parks, not to mention Nisene Marks, the Porter-Sesnon property and New Brighton, Seacliff and Rio Del Mar beaches.  We live in the midst of thousands of acres of parkland and open space.  But proponents of this measure want to impose a new $98-per-year tax to buy about 3 acres for another park. Even though the County admits it would take another $800,000 to develop a park and up to $60,000 a year to maintain it -- money that is not available.  Don't be bullied by calculated scare tactics. Your choice is not between a massive hotel and a lovely little park -- it's between modest commercial use of the land and an unnecessary $3,000, 30-year tax levy on your property.  Better our community should have a few more jobs and a bit more tax base than a magnet for derelicts or a staging area for out-of-town RVs waiting for their spot at the beach.  Consider some actual facts:  •	There's no money to develop a park  •	There's no money to maintain a park  •	Businesses are not assessed  •	Anyone can vote but only property owners pay  •	There's no tax exemption for seniors  Sure, lots of us signed petitions supporting the IDEA of a park. But that was before we knew about the scheme to charge every residential unit $3,000!  This new tax is a waste of your money for a park we don't need.  Just sav "NO" to Measure V.  Senior Coalition  s/Tom Walsh, Executive Director si Phil Trounstine  Director, Survey & Policy Research Institute  si Janice DiCiuccio  Teacher, Pajaro Valley Unified School Dist.  si John C. Randall  Retired Sales Manager  si Patricia Buffone  Special Education Teacher, Soquel School Dist.	

44-5