Measure A: Special Tax Measure, Palo Alto Unified School District

To preserve small class sizes; maintain educational programs that enhance student achievement; and restore some essential educational programs-including elementary literacy, math, and art support, and middle and high school class offerings-shall the Palo Alto Unified School District replace its current parcel tax with a $493 yearly assessment for six years with an optional examption for senior citizens and an independent oversight committee?

Meaning of Voting Yes/No
A YES vote on this measure means:
A "yes" vote is a vote to approve an increase and extension of the currents special tax on parcels within Palo Alto Unified School District.

A NO vote on this measure means:
A "no" vote is a vote not to approve the special tax.

Impartial Analysis by County Counsel
California law permits a school district to levy a special tax on parcels of land within the district if the tax is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting in an election.
The Board of Education of the Palo Alto Unified School District proposes replacing a special tax approved on June 5, 2001 with a new special tax in the amount of $493 per year per parcel beginning on July 1, 2005 for 6 years.
The purpose of the special tax is to: (1) restore some of the programs and replace some of the funds lost or reduced due to budget cuts; (2) sustain achievement in reading, writing and mathematics for all students at all grade levels by preserving smaller class sizes, while maintaining the ability to attract and retain quality teachers; (3) maintain essential academic programs, including science, reading, math, music and art; and (4) protect the taxpayers' investment in education and ensure the shcool district's accountability by providing for oversight and independent financial audits of revenues and expenditures.
The proceeds of the special tax will be applied only to the specific purposes listed above and will be deposited into a special account. The school district will also produce an annual report on the special tax. Furthermore, the Board of Education will appoint an independent Community Oversight Committee to advise the Board and ensure that the funds from the special tax are spent for the purposes approved by the voters. The Community Oversight Committee will report on an annual basis to the Board and community on how the funds have been spent.
The school district will make available an optional exemption from the special tax, upon annual application, for each individual in the school district who will attain 65 years of age before July 1, 2005 or July 1 of any succeeding tax year, owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, and uses the parcel as his or her principal place of residence.
A "yes" vote is a vote to approve an increase and extension of the currents special tax on parcels within Palo Alto Unified School District.
A "no" vote is a vote not to approve the special tax.
ANN MILLER RAVEL
County Counsel
By: Lisa Herrick
Deputy County Counsel

Argument For Measure A
Community leaders agree: our Palo Alto Unified School District is threatened. Without Measure A, deep cuts are unavoidable, including: as many as 100 teacher layoffs, increased class sizes, limited course offerings, and the possible closure of an elementary school.
Since 2003 PAUSD has made over $6.5 million in cuts to educational programs.
Four major factors contributed to this crisis:
	•	For years PAUSD received more than $1.2 million each year in "Basic Aid" funds from the State. Starting in 2003 the State took away these funds. 
	•	PAUSD does not receive additional funding when additional students enroll. In three years, PAUSD has grown by 594 students. PAUSD is expected to grow by over 900 students over the next five years. 
	•	The district's costs for healthcare benefits, insurance and utilities have increased sharply. When revenues increase slower than expenses, educational programs must be curtailed to cover increasing costs. 
	•	Seventy percent of PAUSD's funding comes from local property taxes. Commercial property values have declined significantly. While residential property values have increased, total property tax revenues have not kept pace with the cost of operating schools and educating children.
Without Measure A PAUSD will lose an additional $5.5 million each year when the existing parcel tax automatically expires next year. Deep cuts to teachers and core academic programs will be necessary.
With Measure A, PAUSD will have $9.3 million each year to avoid teacher layoffs; prevent significant increases in class sizes; and restore critical cuts to instructional programs including: secondary class offerings; elementary literacy, math and art programs; counseling services; and instructional materials. No funds will pay for central administration or salary increases.
John Barton 
President, Board of Education
Barbara H. Spreng
President, Palo Alto Council of PTAs
Sam H. Webster
Real Estate Investor and 64 year resident
Gary Fazzino
High Technology Executive
Veronica S. Tincher
President, League of Women Voters of Palo Alto

Rebuttal to Argument For
The Measure A Ballot Argument claims there will be dire consequences without this specific parcel tax. Don't believe this scare tactic.
The current parcel tax does not expire unitl June of 2006, far enough away to allow for at least one more election cycle. This attempt, to INCREASE the tax from the current $293 per year per parcel to an unsubstantiated demand for $493, deserves to fail. When it does, expect the District to return in November with the figure it can actually live with.
That figure needs to be a lot more reasonable than this one. Palo Alto Unified School District enrollment is growing, but so is property tax revenue. Last year, PAUSD received $17 million in "excess property tax revenue" in response to this growing enrollment.
PAUSD can't blame its current financial crisis wholly on "outside circumstances." In fact, PAUSD practiced poor money management by ignoring the volatility of its unsecured property tax revenue. We need better money management, not a bigger license to over-spend.
Here is your chance to inform the District: If you believe that public education is sacred, that it deserves access to a bottomless public purse, and that feel-good management should be rewarded, this inflated and expensive Parcel tax is for you.
But if you believe that it's time that the District behaved like a responsible member of the community, reduced its financial demands to a level it could live with, and tightened its financial management, you'll agree with us.
Vote NO on Measure A.
Allen Hacker
Chair & CEO, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County
Dennis Umphress
President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association
Jack E. Davis
President - Santa Clara County Republican Assembly
J. William Copeland
District Resident, Democrat
Wayne E. Martin

Argument Against Measure A
EVERYONE supports quality education - ESPECIALLY US. However, we oppose using "the children card" to extract every penny from local homeowners.
Last November Measure I proposed increasing taxes $521 per parcel. It was defeated. Less than six months later, they're "back" demanding "only" $493.
Homeowners are already assessed three different property taxes to support the Palo Alto Unified School District:
	•	Its portion of the 1% ad valorem tax maximum
	•	The current $293 parcel tax
	•	Tax to repay $143 million in bonds approved in 1995.
Now it wants another!
Contrary to what the Palo Alto Unified School District may say, local assessments CONTINUE to increase.
Higher Home Prices = Higher Assessments = Higher Revenues for the Palo Alto Unified School District; 86% higher in the last seven years!
Consider:
	•	Palo Alto Unified School District receives more revenue than most other California school districts. 
	•	Palo Alto Taxpayers pay an unnnecessary $1.2 million for 103 non-resident students (children of Palo Alto Unified School District employees) to attend their schools. 
	•	The Palo Alto Unified School District's Superintendent draws an annual salary of over $225,000 plus benefits. 
	•	40 administrators of Palo Alto Unified School District draw compensation in excess of $100,000 per year, including $175,000 for a "Business Manager". 
	•	This special election will cost approximately $250,000; money that could have been spent on our kids. 
	•	Oakland-based Tramutola, a professional political consultancy, is working this campaign for the Palo Alto Unified School District, having already raised billions in taxes and bonds throughout California. (http://www.tramutola.com/clients.html)
Clearly, the Palo Alto Unified School District, and experienced, high-powered political outsiders aren't happy to spend your money in anything less than an extravagant manner.
Who loses? Our Children
Even if you're an "exempted senior", do you really want to contribute to this?
Governor Schwarzenegger wants to put a stop to this kind of nonsense. You can help by voting NO on Measure A.
Please go to http://www.VoteNoOnA.us to find out more.
Allen Hacker
Chair & CEO, Libertarian Party of Santa Clara County
Dennis Umphress
President, Silicon Valley Taxpayers' Association
Jack E. Davis
President - Santa Clara County Republican Assembly

Rebuttal to Argument Against
The authors of the argument against Measure A don't live in our community and have not visited our schools. They've submitted similar arguments against school measures throughout the county, regardless of the needs or specifics.
If they did live here they'd know that without Measure A, PAUSD will be forced to consider closing an elementary school and laying off as many as 107 teachers - meaning class sizes would increase and course offerings would be cut. They'd also understand that our home values are directly linked to the quality of local schools.
Please consider the facts:
FACT: $6.5 million in cuts have already been made. The current school parcel tax expires next year. Without Measure A to replace it, PAUSD will make an additonal $5.5 million in cuts - meaning significant teacher layoffs, increased class sizes, reduced middle and high school course offerings, and possibly a school closure.
FACT: 66% of voters approved Measure I last November, but 67% is required for passage. Following community input, PAUSD reduced the proposed parcel tax from $521 to $493 and shortened the duration from 8 to 6 years. The scope of programs to be funded was curtailed to focus only on preventing the most devastating cuts to classroom instruction.
FACT: Over the last two years, PAUSD has cut administration by 13%, reducing these positions to just 4.9% of PAUSD staff. Future cuts will directly impact core classroom instruction.
Join parents, teachers, seniors, business leaders, Realtors and residents community-wide by voting Yes on A.
Sandra Pearson
Retired Teacher & Principal
Tony Carrasco
Architect & Tall Tree Award Recipient
Zita Macy
Chair, Palo Alto District Council Silicon Valley Association of Realtors
Michael W. Kirst
Professor of Education, Stanford
Frances M. Codispotti
Parent & Co-chair, Housing Option for Teachers

Full Text of Measure A
Palo Alto Unified School District Quality Public Education Preservation Act of 2005
INTRODUCTION 
To maintain exceptional public education in our neighborhood schools, avoid deeper cuts to classroom instruction, preserve smaller class sizes, keep educational programs that attract the best teachers and school employees and enhance student achievement in order to maximize learning by our community's children, shall the Palo Alto Unified School District be authorized to levy a qualified special tax in an amount not to exceed $493 per year for 6 years beginning as of July 1, 2005, assessed against each parcel of taxable land in the District, with an optional exemption annually available, upon application, for senior citizens? Said qualified special tax would replace the qualified special tax approved by the voters of the District on June 5, 2001.
PURPOSE 
To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain exceptional public education in our neighborhood schools, the Palo Alto Unified School District proposes to levy a qualified special tax for a period of 6 years, beginning July 1, 2005, at the rate of $493 per year on each assessor's parcel located within the School District, with an optional exemption annually available, upon application, for senior citizens, and to implement accountability measures in connection with the special tax to provide oversight and accountability to ensure that funds are used to:
	•	Restore some of the programs and replace some of the funds lost or reduced due to budget cuts; 
	•	Sustain achievement in reading, writing, and mathematics for all students at all grade levels by preserving smaller class sizes, while maintaining the ability to attract and retain quality teachers; 
	•	Maintain essential academic programs, including science, reading, math, music, and art; 
	•	Protect the taxpayers' investment in education and ensure District accountability by providing for oversight and independent financial audits of revenues and expenditures.
The Board of Education will fund all of the programs listed above, unless the Board of Education determines in any given year that changes in student population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the Board of Education will not fund any program or reduction other than those listed above from the proceeds of the special taxes.
OPTIONAL SENIOR CITIZEN EXEMPTION AVAILABLE 
An optional exemption from the special tax will be made available annually to each individual in the District who will attain 65 years of age prior to July 1 of the tax year, and who owns a beneficial interest in the parcel, and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence, and who applies to the School District on or before July 1, 2005, or July 1 of any succeeding tax year. Any application for such exemption must be renewed annually.
ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES 
In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the special taxes levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the special tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the special taxes must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Education of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special taxes and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the special taxes, as identified above.
In addition to the accountability measures required by State law, an independent Community Oversight Committee shall be appointed by the Board of Education to advise the Board on the expenditures funded by the measure in order to ensure that said funds are spent for the purposes approved by the voters. The Community Oversight Committee will monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and will report on an annual basis to the Board and community on how these funds have been spent.
PROTECTION OF FUNDING 
Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the District's adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.