BOARD OF EDUCATION
OF THE

WALNUT CREEK SCHOOL DISTRICT
COUNTY OF CONTRA COSTA, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

Resolution No. 04-05-19
Resolution of the Governing Board of the Walnut Creek School District

In the Matter of a	)	RESOLUTION AND ORDER

Special Tax Election )	OF ELECTION

f WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government
/ Code Section 50079 authorize a school district, upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate
voting on the measure, to levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Education (the “Board”) of the Walnut Creek School District
(the “District”) is committed to preserving quality in educational programs and providing the
best possible education to our students in all grades; and

WHEREAS, the Walnut Creek School District is committed to quality education for
every student and high standards of academic achievement and performance; and

WHEREAS, a high quality public education is vital to the community’s well-being and
fosters the growth of society’s greatest natural resource - the minds of children; and

WHEREAS, the investment in children’s education is beneficial to the economic well-
being of our community and our country and state allocations for education are not adequate to
support the high-quality schools our children need; and

WHEREAS, volunteer fund raising efforts by parent organizations and the Walnut
Creek Education Foundation, while noteworthy, have not produced sufficient funds to offset
inadequate state funding.

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that in order to continue meeting the educational
needs of all of the District’s students and to provide stable local funding for area schools, it is
necessary to authorize a special tax; and

WHEREAS, this Board has held a public hearing after due notice regarding the proposed
authorization of the parcel tax;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Board of Education of the Walnut
Creek School District, as follows:

1.	Recitals. This Board hereby finds and determines that the foregoing recitals
are true and correct.

2.	Order of Election. This resolution shall stand as the order to the Contra Costa
County Superintendent of Schools to call an election within the boundaries of the District on.
March 8, 2005 for approval of the measure contained in Section 3 hereof, /ihe authority for the

®ifications of this election order is contained in Sections 5304 and 5322 of the California
nation Code and Section 50079 of the California Government Code.

i.	3.	Specifications of Ballot Measure. This Board hereby requests the Registrar of

Voters of the County of Contra Costa (the “Registrar of Voters”) to submit to the voters of the
District on March 8, 2005, the following ballot measure:

MEASURE__________

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on this measure, the
District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $82 per year, replacing the existing
special tax of $41 on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no more than six
years, commencing July 1, 2005. Proceeds of the special tax shall be used to provide funds for
the purpose of attracting and retaining quality teachers, maintaining small class sizes, keeping
classroom computers and technology up to date and secure; and preserving school library
funding.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the
community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be exempt
from the tax upon proper application to the District. Anyone claiming a new exemption must
apply to the District on or before May 1, 2005 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any
one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption for the parcel for the
remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.
Anyone currently exempted from the existing parcel tax will not be required to reapply for a new
exemption so long as such applicant continues to qualify for the exemption. The District shall
establish an administrative review process to grant such exemptions.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the tax, the Governing Board
shall cause an account to be established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds
of the Tax remain unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District shall
cause an independent financial auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Governing Board
no later than December 31 of each year, commencing December 31, 2005, stating (1) the amount
of tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or description of any
programs funded from proceeds of the tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal
year, or other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and may be
incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the
Governing Board.

Citizens’ Oversight Committee. The Governing Board shall appoint a Citizens’
Oversight Committee which shall, on an annual basis, review both the parcel tax budget and the
Independent Audit. A report on their findings shall be presented to the Governing Board.

-2-

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall constitute the specific
purposes of the Tax, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Tax shall be collected by the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector at
the same time and manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property
taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate
as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the Tax shall not
decrease the funds available from other sources of the District in any period from the effective
date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property in
the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Contra
Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or
on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Tax
in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older are exempt from
the Tax as described above.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has
approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption to the Contra Costa County tax collection officials.
The Contra Costa County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason other
than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be final and binding for the purposes
of the Tax. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so
under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of
the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a
refund of Taxes paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to
the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving this
measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independent value, and the Board
of Education and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other
provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall
remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

4.	Summary of Measure. The measure contained in Section 3 hereof shall be
summarized in the following form, and the Registrar of Voters is requested to cause this
summary of the measure to appear on the ballot:

To attract and retain quality teachers; maintain small class sizes; keep classroom
computers and technology up to date and secure; and preserve school library
funding; shall the Walnut Creek School District be authorized to replace its
existing $41 parcel tax with a new qualified special tax of $82 per parcel for six
years, beginning July 1, 2005, offering a senior exemption and with expenditures
monitored by a Citizens’ Oversight Committee?

Resolution 04-05-19

-3-

5.	Filing of Order of Election. The Secretary of this Board is ordered to cause
certified copies of this resolution and order to be delivered not later than December 10, 2004, to
the Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools, the Registrar of Voters, and the Clerk of the
Board of Supervisors of the County.

6.	Formal Notice. The Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools is hereby
requested to prepare and execute a Formal Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order
in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the “Formal Notice”), and to call the
election by causing the Formal Notice to be posted in accordance with Section 5362 of the
Education Code no later than December 8, 2004, or to otherwise cause the notice to be published
as permitted by law. The Secretary of this Board, on behalf of and as may be requested by the
County Superintendent of Schools, is authorized to cause all notices required by law in
connection herewith to be published and posted, as the case may be.

7.	Conduct of Election, (a) Request to Registrar of Voters. Pursuant to
Section 5303 of the Education Code, the Registrar of Voters is requested to take all steps to hold
the election in accordance with law and these specifications.

(b)	Voter Pamphlet. The Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to reprint the
measure in its entirety (that portion of Section 3 hereof which is printed in bold-face type) in the
voter information pamphlet to be distributed to voters pursuant to Section 13307 of the Elections
Code. In the event the measure in Section 3 will not be reprinted in the voter information
pamphlet in its entirety, the Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to print, immediately below
the impartial analysis of the measure, in no less than 10-point boldface type, a legend
substantially as follows:

“The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure ________.	If	you

desire a copy of the measure, please call the Contra Costa County
Registrar of Voters at {phone number} and a copy will be mailed at no
cost to you.”

(c)	Consolidation. The Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools and the
Board of Supervisors of the County are requested to order consolidation of the election with such
other elections as may be held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part
the same.

(d)	Canvass of Results. The Board of Supervisors of the County is authorized to
canvass the returns of the election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

8.	Appropriations Limit. The Board of Education shall provide in each year
(pursuant to Section 7902.1 of the Government Code or any successor provision of law) for any
increase in the District’s appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that proceeds of the
Tax may be spent for the authorized purposes.

-4-

9.	Ballot Argument. The President of this Board, or any member or members of
this Board as the President shall designate, is hereby authorized, but not directed, to prepare and
file with the Registrar of Voters a ballot argument in favor of the proposition contained in
Section 3 hereof, within the time established by the Registrar of Voters, which shall be
considered the official ballot argument of this Board as sponsor of the proposition.

10.	Effective Date. This resolution shall take effect from and after its adoption.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 6th day of December 2004, by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSTAIN:

ABSENT:

Borchardt, Clarke, Pennington, Walden, Pena

None

None

None

President of the Board of Education
Walnut Creek School District

ATTEST:

Secretary of the Board of Education
Walnut Creek School District

Resolution 04-05-19

-5-

EXHIBIT A

FORM OF

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Walnut Creek
School District of Contra Costa County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the
Education Code and the Government Code of the State of California, an election will be held on
March 8, 2005, for the purpose of submitting to the qualified electors of the District the
proposition summarized as follows:

To attract and retain quality teachers; maintain small class sizes; keep
classroom computers and technology up to date and secure; and preserve
school library funding; shall the Walnut Creek School District be authorized to
replace its existing $41 parcel tax with a new qualified special tax of $82 per
parcel for six years, beginning July 1, 2005, offering a senior exemption and
with expenditures monitored by a Citizens’ Oversight Committee?

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the Contra Costa County
Superintendent of Schools orders consolidation of the election with such other elections as may
be held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The Contra Costa County Superintendent of Schools, by this Notice of Election,
has called the election pursuant to a Resolution and Order of the Board of Education of the
Walnut Creek School District adopted December 6, 2004, in accordance with the provisions of
Education Code Sections 5302, 5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this day, December 7,

2004.

County Superintendent of Schools
Contra Costa County, California

-i-

SECRETARY'S CERTIFICATE

I,	Michael De Sa, Secretary of the Board of Education of the Walnut Creek
School District, County of Contra Costa, California, do hereby certify as follows:

The attached is a full, true and correct copy of a resolution duly adopted at a
regular meeting of said Board of said District duly and regularly held at the regular meeting
place thereof on December 6, 2004, and entered in the minutes thereof, of which meeting all of
the members of said Board of Education had due notice and at which a quorum thereof was
present, and said resolution was adopted by the following vote:

AYES:	Borchardt,	Clarke,	Pennington, Walden, Pena

NOES:	None

ABSTAIN:	None

ABSENT:	None

At least 24 hours before the time of said meeting, a written notice and agenda of
the meeting was mailed and received by or personally delivered to each member of the Board of
Education not having waived notice thereof, and to each local newspaper of general circulation,
radio, and television station requesting such notice in writing, and was posted in a location freely
accessible to members of the public, and a brief description of the resolution appeared on said
agenda.

I have carefully compared the same with the original minutes of said meeting on
file and of record in my office. Said resolution has not been amended, modified or rescinded
since the date of its adoption, and the same is now in full force and effect.

WITNESS my hand this 6th day of December 2004.

Secretary of the Board of Education
Walnut Creek School District

Resolution 04-0549

1