“Only if, Town of Portola Valley Proposition H, adjusting the Town’s appropriation limit passes, shall the Town additionally adjust the appropriations
limit each fiscal year commencing July 1, 2006 by the amount of money collected from imposition of the 2% Utility Users Tax (for open space
purposes only) during the time of its levy and collection, provided that authorization to adjust the appropriations limit shall not exceed four years from
the end of Fiscal Year 2005-2006?”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

The Council of the Town of Portola Valley has called for a municipal
election to be combined with the general election to be held on
November 8, 2005, for the purposes of presenting to the Town's qualified
electors a ballot measure, which if approved by more than 50% of the
voters voting on the measure, and if Ballot Measure H authorizing an
adjustment in the Town’s appropriations limit is approved, will authorize
an additional adjustment in the Town’s appropriations limit for each of the
next four fiscal years starting on July 1, 2006, by the amount of money
raised from the imposition of the current 2% utility user’s tax to fund
open-space projects during the time of its levy and collection. Following
the final fiscal year of these four fiscal years, the Town's appropriations
limit will revert to the amount it would have been had this ballot measure
not received a favorable vote.

If the measure receives a favorable vote and if Ballot Measure H is
approved, the special utility user’s tax will continue to be levied and
collected at a rate not to exceed 2%. Money collected from this tax levy
will be placed in a special Town account to fund open-space projects
selected by the Town. If the measure does not receive a favorable vote
and/or Measure H does not receive a favorable vote, the special utility
user’s tax may not be levied, collected and expended in an amount that
would cause the Town to exceed its current appropriations limit.

/s/ Margaret A. Sloan

Town Attorney for

Town of Portola Valley

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure I. If
you desire a copy of the measure, please call the Town Clerk’s
office at (650) 851-1700 extension 10 and a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE I

VOTE YES ON MEASURE I to protect the Town of Portola Valley’s rural
ambiance and undeveloped open space.

In 1964, the Town of Portola Valley residents voted to incorporate, thereby
providing local control to protect the community’s natural environment.
Our largely volunteer Town government has been remarkably successful in
accomplishing this task, allowing reasonable development while protecting
Portola Valley’s essential rural character. In 1997 and 2001, Town residents
voted overwhelmingly in favor of a 2% tax on utilities for a four-year
period with the funds dedicated to open space.

To be successful in protecting the critical remaining vistas and corridors,
our Town must continue to have adequate financial resources to purchase
key pieces of undeveloped land and easements as they become available.
Toward this goal, in 2005 the Town completed the purchase of the second
of two parcels of the Spring Down Equestrian Center for open space. The
purchase left the Open Space Fund at a level where additional resources are
needed to acquire and save open space as it becomes available.

Measure I will accomplish this at a modest cost to Portola Valley Residents
of about $10.70 per month on average per household. This is a small price
to pay for providing permanent protection for some of Portola Valley’s
open spaces and scenic vistas—precious amenities that enrich our lives and
add value to everyone’s property.

Measure I will continue the 2% tax on our utility bills, with the proceeds
dedicated to the protection of open space.

We strongly urge all residents to support Measure I to protect the beauty of
our Town. It is important that we invest in open space funding now to
safeguard the Town’s rural character for ourselves and future generations.

On November 8, vote YES ON MEASURE I.

/s/ Nancy Vian	August 19, 2005
Former Councilmember	
/s/ Nancy Lund	August 19, 2005
Town Historian	
/s/ Gary Nielsen	August 19, 2005
Former Mayor/Open Space Comm.	
/s/ Craig S. Taylor	August 19, 2005
Open Space Comm. Chair	
/s/ Lea Zaffaroni	August 19, 2005
Planning Commissioner	

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE I SUBMITTED

Compiled by the Town of Portola Valley Town Clerk Angela Howard

39