COMPOSITE SAMPLE BALLOT

and Voter Information Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED DISTRICTS &
SPECIAL STATEWIDE ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 2005

Philip Adam © 1996 "Hillside, Cantelow Road, Vacaville”

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR ABSENT VOTER BALLOT ON BACK COVER
POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 PM.

COMPOSITE FACSIMILE BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED DISTRICTS AND SPECIAL STATEWIDE ELECTION

County of Solano

State of California	c

Tuesday. November 8.2005

PROPOSITION 75

PUBLIC EMPLOYEE UNION
DUES. RESTRICTIONS ON
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS.
EMPLOYEE CONSENT
REQUIREMENT. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Prohibits using public
employee union dues for political
contributions without individual
employees' prior consent.
Excludes contributions benefiting
charities or employees. Requires
unions to maintain and, upon
request, report member political
contributions to Pair Political
Practices Commission. Fiscal
Impact Probably minor state and
local government implementation
costs, potentially offset in part by
revenues from fines and/or fees.

PROPOSITION 78

DISCOUNTS ON
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Establishes discount prescription
drug program for certain low- and
moderate-income Californians.
Authorizes Department of Health
Services to contract with
participating pharmacies for
discounts and with participating
drug manufacturers for rebates.
Fiscal Impact State costs for
administration and outreach in the
millions to low tens of millions of
dollars annually. State costs for
advance funding for rebates.
Unknown potentially significant
savings for state and county
health programs.

PROPOSITION 80

ELECTRIC SERVICE
PROVIDERS. REGULATION.
INITIATIVE STATUTE.. Subjects
electric service providers to
regulation by California Public .
Utilities Commission. Restricts
electricity customers' ability to
switch from private utilities to
other providers. Requires all
retail electric sellers to increase
renewable energy resource
procurement by 2010. Fiscal
impact Potential annual
administrative costs ranging from
negligible to $4 million, paid by
fees. Unknown net impact on
state and local costs and
revenues from uncertain impact
on electricity rates.

CD YES

CD YES

CZ5 YES

CD> NO

PROPOSITION 76

STATE SPENDING AND
SCHOOL FUNDING LIMITS.
INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Limits state
spending to prior year's level plus
three previous years’ average
revenue growth. Changes
minimum school funding
requirements (Proposition 98).
Permits Governor, under
specified circumstances, to
reduce budget appropriations of
Governor's choosing. Fiscal
Impact State spending likely
reduced relative to current law,
due to additional spending limit
and new powers granted to
Governor. Reductions could
apply to schools and shift costs to
other local governments.

CD YES

CD NO

PROPOSITION 77

RESTRICTING. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Amends state
constitution's process for
^redistrteting California's Senate,
Assembly, Congressional and
Board of Equalization districts.
Requires tnree-member panel of
retired judges selected by
legislative leaders. Fiscal
Impact One-time state
redistricting costs totaling no
more than $1.5 million and county
costs in the range of $1 million.
Potential reduction in future costs,
but net impact would depend on
decisions by voters.

CD NO,

PROPOSITION 79

PRESCRIPTION DRUG
DISCOUNTS.
STATE-NEGOTIATED
REBATES. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Provides drug
discounts to Californians with
qualifying incomes. Funded by
state-negotiated drug
manufacturer rebates. Prohibits
Medi-Cal contracts with
manufacturers not providing
Medicaid best price. Fiscal
Impact: State costs for
administration and outreach in low
tens of millions of dollars
annually. State costs for advance
funding for rebates. Unknown
potentially significant: (1) net
costs or savings for Medi-Cal and
(2) savings for state and county
health programs.

CD	YES
CD	NO

CD NO

VACAVILLE UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT MEASURE F

For the abolition of trustee areas
in the Vacaville Unified School
District

O YES

For the abolition of trustee areas
in the Vacaville Unified School
District

CD NO

CITY OF FAIRFIELD
MEASURE E

"The Fairfield Vital Public
Services Restoration and
Protection Measure"

To improve the safety of Fairfield
and preserve the funding of
essential services such as police,
fire, street and park maintenance,
as well as other general city
services, shall an ordinance be
adopted increasing the City sales
tax by one-half cent, subject to
independent annual financial
audits, an independent Fairfield
taxpayer's committee to review
expenditures, and an expiration
date of June 30, 20167

CD	YES
CD	NO

CD YES
CD NO

>

+	COMPOSITE	FACSIMILE	BALLOT

CONSOLIDATED DISTRICTS AND SPECIAL STATEWIDE ELECTION

CITY OF VACAVILLE MEASURE
G

Inorder to comply-with a recent
court decision interpreting the
Right to Vote on Taxes Act, shall
the City of Vacaville replace its
existing in-lieu franchise fee and
property tax fee on City-water and
sewer operations with an
equivalent general tax on City
water and sewer operations to
avoid reductions in City services
such as police services, fire and
medical emergency response,
street lighting, street and park
maintenance, and programs for
youth and seniors?

CZ5 YES
O NO

END OF BALLOT

MEASURE G

VACAVILLE CITY ATTORNEY'S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF BALLOT MEASURE G

Background

The City of Vacaville owns and operates a water and sewer utilities system, which provides water and sewer service to businesses and residents within the City. The
City currently imposes an in-lieu fee on these utilities. The fee consists of two parts: (i) an in-lieu property tax fee of one percent of the net book value of the utilities’
physical assets, and (ii) an in-lieu franchise fee of five percent of user service and volume charges. The first of these represents the property tax revenue the City
would receive if these utilities were privately owned. The second represents the franchise fee that the City could receive from a privately-owned utility for the privi-
lege of using or installing facilities within City streets and rights of way, similar to the franchise fee charged to the cable television company and garbage company.

The revenue received from the in-lieu fee is placed in the City’s General Fund and is used to fund general municipal services. The fee is an internal charge on the
City’s own water and sewer utilities and is not a direct charge to water and sewer users. However, as a cost to the utilities, the fee is reflected in the water and sewer
rates since the rates are based on the cost of providing water and sewer service. The fee currently generates approximately $3.5 million per year for the City’s
General Fund, or 7% of that Fund’s total revenue. Eighty percent of the Fund is used to pay for police and fire services and the maintenance of streets, parks, and
other public facilities.

The Measure

This Measure proposes to replace the existing in-lieu fee with an equivalent general tax on water and sewer operations. The general tax will be at the same rate
and collected in the same manner as the existing in-lieu fee. Like the fee, the tax will not be a direct charge to water and sewer users but will be an internal charge
on the City's water and sewer operations and will continue to be used to fund general City services, as described above. The Measure allows the City Council to
lower or modify the tax rate, but prohibits the Council from increasing the rate above the one percent and five percent limits. Thus, the tax rate can never be greater
than the current fee rate.

Fiscal Impact

The tax rate will be the same and will not modify or affect existing water and sewer charges. Thus, water and sewer users will see no change in their water and
sewer rates as a result of the tax. If the Measure fails, the tax will not take effect and funding for City services will b.e reduced by $3.5 million or 7% of the General
Fund’s total revenue.

This Measure requires a majority vote for passage. A “yes" vote means you are in favor of the tax. A “no” vote means you oppose the tax.

Dated: August 22,2005	S/	Gerald	L.	Hobrecht,	City	Attorney

if you desire a copy of the measure, please call the election official’s office at 707-449-5100 and a copy will be
mailed to you at no cost.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G
A “Yes” vote will not increase your taxes.

This measure simply replaces a longstanding fee with an identical tax. The
City of Vacaville operates two utilities (water and sewer), and for more than
twenty years has collected a fee from these utilities and used the fee to help
fund City services. Now, based on recent court decisions, such “fees” can no
longer be collected unless they are approved by the voters as a “tax.”

A “Yes” vote will continue to fund local public safety services.

The $3.5 million per year that comes from this fee goes directly to fund the City
services that contribute to Vacaville's excellent quality of life: police services,
fire and emergency medical response, street lighting, street and park mainte-
nance, and programs for youth and seniors.

A “Yes” vote will not increase your water and sewer bill.

Because this measure replaces an existing fee with an equivalent tax, it won’t
affect your bill. Vacaville’s water and sewer rates are among the lowest in the
area. Residents of Fairfield, Vallejo, Benicia, and Napa pay average water and
sewer bills that are 36% higher than Vacaville.

A “Yes” vote will not change the fact that Vacaville is a low-tax city.

Vacaville has been hit hard by State raids on City revenues, but the City has
shown fiscal responsibility by making the spending cuts needed to live within
its means, without draining emergency reserves or adding new taxes. But after
years of belt-tightening, the City cannot continue to maintain current service
levels if $3.5 million in existing revenue is lost.

A “Yes” vote will maintain local control of these revenues. A “Yes" vote
will preserve your City services without any additional cost to you. Protect
Vacaville’s quality of life. Vote Yes on MeasureG.

s/Len Augustine, Mayor, City of Vacaville
si Pauline Clancy, Vice Mayor, City of Vacaville
s/ Chuck Dimmick, Councilmember, City of Vacaville
sI Steve Hardy, Councilmember, City of Vacaville
s/ Steve Wilkins, Councilmember, City of Vacaville

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G
Measure G WILL increase taxes.

The tax is 1% of utility property values, plus 5% of their budgets. Property
values have skyrocketed. Higher property values mean a highertax. California
operating costs are bloated. Bigger budgets mean a bigger tax. The property
tax is then added to the budget so it's taxed twice! No other city has a two-
tiered utility tax tied to property appreciation. It’s inhumane!

Measure G WILL increase utility bills.

When proponents say it won’t, they mean not more than you would have paid
when the City was charging fees you didn’t owe! Imagine your accountant
was embezzling from you, and when caught, asked for a raise instead so he
could continue providing “excellent service." His rationale? “It won’t cost you
any more." What nerve!

Don’t reward greed.

For years Vacaville overcharged struggling seniors and single moms for
essential water and sewer while City officials raked in $200,000/year salaries!
That the City grew accustomed to the extra money is no excuse for continuing
the injustice. Have pity on others.

They think we have short memories.

The City says it needs the tax because of “State raids on City revenues.” But
last November California voters passed Proposition 1 A, which “Ensures local
property tax and sales tax revenues remain with local government thereby
safeguarding funding for public safety, health, libraries, parks, and other local
services.” if the State can't raid Vacaville's tax base anymore, why do we need
Measure G? We don’t. Send it back. Vote NO.

si Laurie Mann, Vacaville utility customer

si Vern Van Buskirk, Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group, President

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

You should be angry. Since 1997, Proposition 218 required cities to limit
utility rates to the actual cost of providing service. Vacaville, however, con-
tinued padding rates and sending the excess to its General Fund to spend at
Council's discretion.

Overcharging for essential utilities like water and sewer is unconscio-
nable when seniors, military families, and single moms are struggling
to pay their bills.

In 2002 Roseville was successfully sued for padding its utility rates. But Va-
caville didn’t stop. Then Fresno was successfully sued. Vacaville didn’t, stop.
Finally, the organization that enforced the law in Roseville and Fresnp maneu-
vered to sue Vacaville.

Vacaville' response? Put this new taxon the ballot to replace the money being
skimmed from utilities. Great. If this tax is passed, struggling families will
continue paying too much for utilities. So will you.

The City is threatening to cut police and fire if voters don’t pass this tax. But
the California Constitution says, “The protection of the public safety is the first
responsibility of local government and local officials have an obligation to give
priority to the provision of adequate public safety services." The City should
instead stop wasting millions moving overpasses and redecorating City Hall.

The City says this tax won't raise utility bills. Maybe not this year, but brace
yourself after that! The tax Is 1% of the value of utility property, plus 5%
of utility budgets. Property values are soaring. As property climbs, so.
does the tax! New state regulations, energy hikes, union pay raises-as utility
budgets grow, so does the tax! In fact, the rising property tax Is added to
the budget so you’ll be taxed on a tax!

This deceptive new tax can increase every year, not bv some limited percent-
age. but at the rate property values rise! Send it back. Vote NO!

Central Solano Citizen/Taxpayer Group
s/Vern F. Van Buskirk, President

si Laurie Mann, Vacaville utility customer

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

Opponents to Measure G say you should be angry. We agree. You should be
angry - angry with their flagrant misrepresentation of facts!

Let's get the facts straight. A vote for Measure G is a vote to keep things
the way they are. Measure G will not cause your water and sewer rates
to go up and will protect the city services that make Vacaville a great
community.

The city is not asking you to pay a penny more. Measure G simply
continues our support for city services - it is not a new payment. It's been
part of the water and sewer costs for years. Even so, our water and sewer
bills are $20 per month LESS than nearby communities like Fairfield and
Vallejo.

Unlike other cities, your City Council chose the high road by working
cooperatively with the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers’ Association in putting the
issue to the voters.

Vacaville’s City Council has never “cried wolf.” They've never run to the
voters for more money and are not doing so now. Faced with millions in state
cuts of city revenues, they responded by cutting'costs - not by raising your
taxes. In fact, Vacaville has a statewide reputation as a low-tax city.

It’s ironic that a FAIRFIELD RESIDENT signed the argument opposing
Measure G. If he lived in our community, he'd understand how important it is to
Vacaville residents to maintain public safety and our quality of life.

“YES” ON MEASURE G IS CRITICAL TO YOUR CITY’S FUTURE.

s/Gary Tatum, President/CEO
Vacaville Chamber of Commerce

s/Garland Porter, City Treasurer
Chair, Commission on Aging

si Brian Moore, President
Vacaville Firefighters’ Association

s/ Matt Lydon, President
Vacaville Police Officers' Association

si Lou Franchimon, Business Manager
Napa-Solano Building & Construction Trades Council