
City of South Pasadena
Measure L

Shall the ordinance extending the Library Special Tax to June 30,2011 in order to
provide funding of the maintenance and operations of the South Pasadena Public
Library at the current level of library services be adopted?

Impartial Analysis from City Attorney

This measure would extend the effective date of the current Library special tax to June
30, 2011, a six-year period. The amount of the tax would continue at the same level
approved by the voters in March of 1999. That effective date of the special tax can only
be extended by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of those voting on the measure.

Currently, pursuant to Section 2.89-4 of the South Pasadena Municipal Code, any
revenue generated by the special tax can only be used for maintenance, operating, and
administrative costs of the Library. That restricted use of the special tax revenue would
continue to apply if the measure is adopted.

The annual rate by category for the special tax would also continue at the current rates,
which are:

1.	Single family residences and condominiums pay $24.00 if they are less than 2,000
square feet; $36.00 if between 2,001 and 4,000 square feet; $48.00 if over 4,000 square
feet. "Square feet" refers to square feet of Building Areas as determined by the Los
Angeles County Assessor.

2.	Multi-family residential units, such as apartment buildings, pay $12.00 per Dwelling
Unit on the parcel.

3.	Non-residential parcels pay $24.00 per parcel if one-quarter (1/4) acre or less; $48.00
per parcel if over one-quarter (1/4) acre but one-half (1/2) acre or less; $72.00 per
parcel if over one-half (1/2) acre but three-quarters (3/4) acre or less; $96.00 per parcel
if more than three-quarters (3/4) acre.

4.	The following types of property would remain exempt from the tax:

1.	Parcels owned by charitable or community service organizations or churches that
qualify for an exemption from ad valorem taxation under California law.

2.	Vacant parcels.

3.	Parcels owned by the federal, state or local government, or any state or local agency.

4.	Any owner who has income, adjusted for family size, at or below eighty percent (80%)
of the area median income as determined under the Section 8 Income Limits for Los
Angeles County. (These limits are published by the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development.)

In addition to the foregoing, the following restrictions would also continue:

If in any year the City Council does not budget and appropriate sufficient funds for the
basic level of library services, the special tax would be fixed at a reduced level in relation
to any reduction in the budget.

Any surplus amounts raised by the special tax in any one year may only be used for the
purposes described in South Pasadena Municipal Code Section 2.89-4, and must be
carried over to the following fiscal year. The existence of a surplus in one year must be
considered by the City in levying the special tax for the next year.

The term of the special tax, if approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on the
measure, will be extended for six (6) years (from June 30, 2005 through June 30, 2011)
and any further extension must be approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on
such extension at another municipal election.

The special tax will continue to be collected by the Los Angeles County Assessor in the
same manner as property taxes.

Stephen P. Pfahler, City Attorney

Arguments For Measure SouthPasadena—L

YOUR YES VOTE IS ABSOLUTELY NECESSARY TO PROTECT LIBRARY SERVICES IN SOUTH
PASADENA.

Without this measure, our library faces drastic cuts in library staff and hours, such as
closing the library two days a week, including Sunday - the busiest day of the week.
There would be substantial reductions in reference services, internet access and
children's programming like storytimes, classroom visits and homework assistance.
THIS MEASURE IS NOT A NEW TAX.

It is simply a continuation of funding authorized by South Pasadena voters in 1994 and
1999 (last time by an 87% margin). The library parcel tax, less than $40.00 per year for
most South Pasadena homes, will expire in June 2005. Measure L will continue the
existing library tax for six years and ensure the current availability of quality library
programs and services.

FUNDING PROVIDED BY THE CURRENT TAX HAS MAINTAINED AND ENHANCED
IMPORTANT LIBRARY SERVICES.

The library tax has covered about 20 percent of the library's annual budget since 1994.
So far, our community has not had to face the variety of cuts, reductions and long
waiting lists for limited materials and services that other local libraries have endured.
Funding our library at existing levels enables our community to keep the library's doors
open seven days a week and to invest in new books and computers to keep South
Pasadenans abreast of today's ever-changing world of information technology.

KEEP OUR LIBRARY STRONG.

Reflecting on our library's proud history since 1895, a concerned South Pasadena
citizen has said, "To maintain our public library is essential if we want to continue the
quality of life we have been known for." Vote YES on Measure L to ensure our library's
future.

Mike Ten

Mayor, City of South Pasadena
Dorothy M. Cohen

Former Mayor and Past President of Library Board of Trustees,

City of South Pasadena
Philip Swan

Chair, Community Facilities Task Force,

City of South Pasadena
Rose Barron

President, Friends of the South Pasadena Public Library, Inc.

(for identification purposes only)

Robert Kwan

Chair, Committee to Keep Our Library Strong + for Measure L

(No arguments against Measure SouthPasadena—L were submitted)





ORDINANCE NO. 2133

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL
OF THE CITY OF SOUTH PASADENA, CALIFORNIA,
AMENDING SECTION 2.89-6 OF THE
SOUTH PASADENA MUNICIPAL CODE TO EXTEND THE
LIBRARY SPECIAL TAX THROUGH JUNE 30,2011

The People of the City of South Pasadena, California, DO HEREBY
ORDAIN, as follows:

SECTION 1. Section 2.89-6 of the South Pasadena Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read:

Section 2.89-6 Term.

The library special tax provided for herein may be levied annually until June 30,
2011. Such levy may only be extended with the approval of two-thirds of the
electors of the city voting upon the extension at a municipal election.

SECTION 2. This Ordinance shall take effect the date the results of the March 8,
2005 Municipal Election are certified, no more than 17 days following the election, but
only if the Ordinance receives approval from two-thirds of the electors voting on the
ballot measure regarding this Ordinance.

I HEREBY CERTIFY the foregoing ordinance was passed by 84% of voters
(3,717 voting yes and 728 voting no) at the General Municipal Election held in the City
of South Pasadena on March 8,2005.

Sally Kilby, City Cler]