This is an archive of a past election.

See http: //www. smartvoter.ora/ca/ed/ for current information.

League of Women Voters of California Education Fund

El Dorado County, CA	November	8,	2005	Election

Measure S

County Tax for Snow Removal
Service Area 3 South Shore Snow Removal Zone of Benefit

2/3 Approval Required
^?Fail: 1386 / 52.7% Yes votes  1243 / 47.2% No votes

See Also: Index of all Measures

Results as of Jan 28 2:40pm, 100.0% of Precincts Reporting (14/14)

Information shown below: Impartial Analysis I Arguments I Full Text

Shall the current $20.00 annual benefit assessment imposed to fund
snow removal service within the South Shore Snow Removal Zone
of Benefit within County Service Area No. 3 be replaced by a $50.00
special tax to be imposed annually upon all improved parcels, with
specified exceptions, within the Zone commencing in the fiscal year
2006/2007, to be used exclusively for maintaining snow removal
services?

Suggest a link related to
Measure S

Links to sources outside of Smart Voter
are provided for information only and do
not imply endorsement.

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel

This measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on the measure,
would authorize a special tax on improved real property located within
the South Shore Snow Removal Zone of Benefit of County Service
Area No. 3, to be used solely for snow removal services within that
zone of benefit. The South Shore Snow Removal Zone of Benefit
consists essentially of the El Dorado County portion of the Lake
Tahoe basin excluding the Meeks Bay area and the City of South Lake
Tahoe, which have their own snow removal taxes or assessments.

The annual special tax would be at the rate of $50.00 per improved
parcel of land, residential and non-residential, except that the special
tax will not be imposed upon parcels of land developed with
cemeteries, and seasonal or summer-use cabins located on Forest
Service land pursuant to lease. This special tax is intended to replace
the existing annual benefit assessment of $20.00 on improved parcels
currently imposed to fund snow removal services. In the event that
this special tax is not approved by the voters, the existing annual
benefit assessment will continue to be imposed in the same manner
and in the same amount as currently authorized.

If the special tax is approved by the voters, the special tax will be

collected beginning in fiscal year 2006-2007. It will be listed as a
separate item on the county property tax bill for each parcel of land,
and will be collected in the same way as the general property tax. All
laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county
property taxes, including provisions for penalties and procedure for
sale of the property in case of delinquency, shall also apply to the
special tax.

This measure requires an affirmative vote of 2/3 or more of all voters
voting on the measure in order to pass.

A "YES" vote is a vote in favor of the special tax provided in the
measure.

A "NO" vote is a vote against the special tax provided in the measure,
s/ Louis B. Green, County Counsel

Arguments For Measure S	Arguments	Against	Measure S

Snow removal is a matter of public health and	NO	ARGUMENT	AGAINST	THIS MEASURE

safety, plain and simple.	WAS	SUBMITTED

Measure S will add $30 per year as a special tax to
help purchase snow removal equipment and replace
aging graders and blowers. These funds will be used
strictly for snow removal equipment and will
specifically benefit the county portion of the south
shore.

The original parcel fee of $20 was established in
1983, but, in the last 20 years, the cost of equipment
has increased more than 200%. In addition to the
amount each owner already pays, El Dorado County
is putting more than $200 per improved parcel
toward snow removal services.

While the county had a long-term equipment
replacement plan, it is no longer possible to stretch
the existing dollars. With the passage of Measure S,
the county can continue this plan and better assure
reliable snow removal services.

If we allow older equipment to fail, ambulance, fire
and Sheriffs deputies may experience delayed
response times when attempting to reach your home
in an emergency: Getting to work and school
becomes more of a challenge. And, public
transportation is compromised.

Adding $30 for snow removal is a minimal cost
with maximum benefit, providing increased safety
and continuing a long-term program for equipment
upgrades.

Every vote counts. This is a special tax that requires
two-thirds voter approval.

Please vote yes on Measure S to help our
community retain reliable snow removal services.

s/ David Kelly
Community Advocate

s/ Jeff Neves
Sheriff

s/ Sue Novasel

Meyers Community Member

s/ Michael B. Clark
TPRID Director

s/ Michael M. Chandler
Fire Chief, Retired

Full Text of Measure S

RESOLUTION NO. 185-2005 OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF EL
DORADO PROPOSING A SPECIAL TAX FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING, OPERATING, AND
MAINTAINING EQUIPMENT FOR ENHANCED SNOW REMOVAL SERVICES FOR SOUTH SHORE
SNOW REMOVAL ZONE OF BENEFIT WITHIN COUNTY SERVICE AREA NO. 3

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors of the County of El Dorado formed County Service area
No. 3 pursuant to Title 3, Division 2, Part 2, Chapter 2.2 of the California Government Code;
and

WHEREAS, on July 19, 1983, by Ordinance 3373, the Governing Board established a benefit
assessment of twenty dollars ($20.00) per improved parcel in the unincorporated area of County
Service Area No. 3 to acquire new additional snow removal equipment, for the period up to
June 30,1993; and

WHEREAS, on April 30,1991, by Ordinance No 4158, the Governing Board found that it was
in the public interest to repeal the provisions of Ordinance No. 3373 limiting the use of the
benefit assessment to equipment acquisition only, and deleting the termination date of the
benefit assessment of June 30, 1993, to instead allow for the continued imposition of the benefit
assessment of $20.00 per improved parcel to be used for providing equipment and maintenance
of equipment for snow removal purposes; and

WHEREAS, on August 9, 1993, by Resolution 249-93, the West Shore Snow Removal Zone of

Benefit was formed with boundaries consistent with the Meeks Bay Fire Protection District, and
the South Shore Snow Removal Zone of Benefit was thereby adjusted to exclude said West
Shore Zone; and

WHEREAS, the cost of replacement snow removal equipment has escalated significantly while
the benefit assessment has not been increased, limiting the ability of the South Shore Removal
Zone of Benefit to maintain services at the current levels; and

WHEREAS, Government Code section 25210.6a expressly authorizes the Board of Supervisors
to levy a special tax to fund services such as snow removal services; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors proposes to levy a special tax for the purpose of
replacing the existing benefit assessment and to provide the additional funding necessary to
continue the current enhanced service level.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Supervisors finds, determines, declares, and
orders as follows:

1.	That upon approval by the voters, as set forth in this Resolution, there shall be levied and assessed a
special tax on each improved parcel of property, residential and non-residential, within the South Shore
Snow Removal Zone of Benefit within County Service Area No. 3 in the sum of $50.00 per improved parcel
commencing with the fiscal year 2006-2007 and continuing each fiscal year thereafter, except for those
parcels outlined herein: A. Parcels of land developed with cemeteries shall be exempt. B. Seasonal or
summer cabins located on Forest Service land pursuant to lease shall be exempt.

2.	"Parcels of improved property," as used in this resolution shall mean any unit of real property held in
separate ownership, which is capable of sale or transfer without further action under the Subdivision Map
Act (Government Code section 66410, et seq.), and which is improved with a permanent structure.

3.	The special tax imposed by this resolution shall appear as a separate item on the tax bill of each such
taxable parcel and shall be collected at the same time and manner as county property taxes are collected as
set forth in the applicable provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and shall be subject to the same
penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for such taxes. All laws
applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes shall be applicable to such tax.

4.	Upon approval by the voters as set forth in this Resolution, the current annual benefit assessment imposed
in the South Shore Snow Removal Zone of Benefit within County Service Area No. 3 in the sum of $20.00
per improved parcel would be replaced by this special tax. In the event this special tax is not approved by the
voters, the current benefit assessment will continue to be imposed in the same manner and in the same
amounts as currently authorized.

El Dorado Home Page II Statewide Links II About Smart Voter II Feedback

Created: January 28, 2006 14:40 PST
Smart Voter <http://www.smartvoter.org/>

Copyright © League of Women Voters of California Education Fund http://www.lwvc.or2
The League of Women Voters neither supports nor opposes candidates for public office or political parties.