01

SCHOOL

SAN RAFAEL HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
AND SERVICES
MEASURE A

A To maintain and improve quality education at San Rafael and
Terra Linda High Schools, improve reading and mathematics;
technology and science programs, preserve small class sizes,
and attract and retain quality teachers, shall San Rafael High
School District continue the current parcel tax with a levy of $98.90
per developed or undeveloped parcel beginning 7/1/06 for eight
years with subsequent 5% annual cost of living adjustments and
including exemptions for those 65 and older and annual citizen
oversight?

SAN RAFAEL HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
AND SERVICES
FULL TEXT OF RESOLUTION
MEASURE A

RESOLUTION NO. 1154, 2004-05
BEFORE THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE
SAN RAFAEL HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

In the Matter of a	)	* RESOLUTION AND ORDER

Parcel Tax Election	)	OF ELECTION

WHEREAS, the San Rafael City Schools are committed to providing the
highest quality education for every student while providing each student
the opportunity to master challenging academic standards; and

WHEREAS, a high quality public education is vital to the community’s
well-being and fosters growth of society’s greatest resource, the minds
of children; and

WHEREAS, the investment in children’s education is beneficial to the
economic well-being of our community and country; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and
Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079, and 53720 et.
Seq. authorize school districts to levy a special tax to raise funds for the
purpose of conducting its business upon the approval of two-thirds of the
votes cast by voters voting upon such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article X1IIB of the California Constitution
allows the apportionment limit of school districts to be increased by
electors. Such approval is required for the District to use the revenues
generated by the tax.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the Governing Board of the
San Rafael High School District resolves to conduct a special all-mail
election on August 30, 2005 at which time will be submitted to qualified
voters of the San Rafael High School District a measure to continue and
extend a special tax for the purpose of maintaining and enhancing
enriched educational programs, while also maintaining reduced class
sizes in the San Rafael High Schools and to request election services by
the Registrar of Voters.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED as follows:

Section 1:	Said	election	is hereby, called to be held within the

boundaries of the San Rafael High School District at which election shall
be submitted to the qualified voters within the San Rafael High School
District the following measure, to wit:

MEASURE 1154

Shall the San Rafael City Schools, serving the children of the San Rafael
High School District, provide funds for the purpose of maintaining and
enhancing rigorous, challenging academic classes and high quality,
enriched educational programs, while also maintaining reduced class
sizes in the San Rafael High Schools by continuing its current special tax
based upon the use or right of use of each assessor’s parcel within the
boundaries of the San Rafael High District for a period of eight (8) years,
beginning July 1,2006?

The special tax for the San Rafael High District wilLbe a continuation of
the current structure. Therefore, the tax would be imposed in the
amount of $98.90 for each assessor's parcel for the tax year of 2006-
2007. Also consistent with the current structure, in each successive
year, the amount of the previous year’s tax would be increased by 5%.

The proceeds "Of the taxes shall be deposited in a special fund to be
used for the purpose of maintaining and enhancing rigorous, challenging
academic classes and high quality enriched educational programs, while
maintaining reduced class sizes in the San Rafael High School District.
Exemptions from the tax will be made as follows:

To each individual in the District who will attain 65 years of age on or
before May 1 of the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year
in which the assessment would apply, and who owns a beneficial
interest in the parcel, or a divided or undivided portion of each parcel,
and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence.

Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before
May 1, 2006 or on or before the May 1 immediately preceding any
subsequent tax year.

A qualified applicant will receive an exemption for the parcel for the
remaining term of the tax so long as such applicant continues to qualify
for the exemption as verified by an annual application due on or before
May 1. The District shall establish an administrative review process to
grant such exemptions.

Section 2: The text of the measures as displayed on each individual
ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows:

SAN RAFAEL HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL TAX FOR EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
AND SERVICES

To maintain and improve quality education at San Rafael and Terra
Linda High Schools, improve reading and mathematics, technology and
science programs, preserve small class sizes, and attract and retain
quality teachers, shall San Rafael High School District continue the
current parcel tax with a levy of $98.90 per developed or undeveloped
parcel beginning 7/1/06 for eight years with subsequent 5% annual cost
of living adjustments and including exemptions for those 65 and older
and annual citizen oversight?

_____YES	 NO

Section 3: Commencing on July 1, 2006 the special tax collected
annually on all assessor’s parcels at the rates specified above shall be
collected and administered in the same manner as ad valorem property
taxes are fixed and collected under the provisions of the California
Revenue and Taxation Code.

________________________ MEASURE	A	CONTINUED	ON	NEXT	PAGE_________________

21-551

21551

Section 4: The Superintendent of Schools of Marin County is hereby
requested to call a special all-mail election of the said special tax to be
held on August 30, 2005. The County Registrar of Voters is hereby
requested and authorized to: 1.) Set forth all ballots relating to said all-
mail election to be mailed to qualified voters of the San Rafael High
District in the manner provided by law. 2.) Collect and count all ballots
as of August 30,2005.

Section 5: If any section, subsection, phrase, or clause of this
resolution is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portion of this resolution. The
Governing Board declares that it would have adopted this resolution
and each section, subsection, phrase, or clause thereof irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, subsections, phrases, or
clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 6: The Secretary of the San Rafael High School District’s
Governing Board is hereby authorized and directed to certify to the
due adoption of this resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so
certified to the Superintendent of Schools of Marin County, the Marin
County Board of Supervisors, and to file a copy hereof to certify with
the County Clerk of Marin County.

The foregoing resolution was introduced by Board Member Natu
Tuatagaloa who moved its adoption, seconded by Board Member
Greg Knell and adopted on roll call on May 23, 2005 by the following
vote:

Member: Jenny Callaway
Member: Jon Loberg
Member: Norman Hering
Member: Greg Knell
Member: Natu Tuatagaloa

AYES: 5 NOES: 0 ABSENT OR NOT VOTING:

SO ORDERED:	si	Jenny	Fowler	Callaway

President

CERTIFIED:

si Laura D. Alvarenga
Secretary, Board of Education

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE A

If this measure is approved by a two thirds vote, the San Rafael High
School District will, be authorized to levy a special tax of Ninety-Eight
Dollars and Ninety Cents ($98.90) on each developed or undeveloped
parcel of land within the District each year for eight (8) years, beginning
July 1, 2006, with Five Percent (5%) annual cost of living increases,
beginning July 1, 2007. The tax measure adopted by the District
provides exemptions for parcel owners who are 65 and older.

Dated: June 9,2005

PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Vote Yes on Measure A for Terra Linda and San Rafael high
schools.

«

Providing quality education for our public high school students has been
a consistent priority for our community. Since 1998, San Rafael and
Terra Linda residents have provided, financial support for our high
schools with parcel tax funds, which have been used to maintain quality
education and high academic standards.

The current parcel tax will expire next year unless renewed with a
YES vote on Measure A. Without these critical funds, good teachers,
small class sizes and important programs will be eliminated at
Terra Linda and San Rafael high schools.

Measure A simply RENEWS the exact same parcel tax funding
method for our high schools that voters put into place in 1998 •
nothing more.

A Citizen’s Advisory Committee will be established to provide public
oversight, review financial audits and ensure accountability.

Renewing Measure A will allow our high schools to:

• Improve reading and math achievement;
o Enhance science and technology programs;
o Attract and retain quality teachers and staff;
s Maintain small class sizes;

® Improve school library programs;

o Provide services to support safe, healthy and successful student

learning.

$3.6 million in educational funding from Sacramento has been slashed in
the last three years from San Rafael School District budgets. Measure
A guarantees that local funds stay in our community and directly
fund our schools and classrooms without state interference. No

funds may be spent on administrator salaries.

San Rafael property owners 65 and older are eligible for an
exemption from the tax by filling out an exemption form available
through the District.

San Rafael ’ residents recognize the connection between strong
communities and good public schools. We urge you to join us and
continue the tradition of supporting quality education in our local schools.
Please vote Yes on Measure A for our high schools.

si Albert J. Boro, Mayor
City of San Rafael

si Perry Newman, President
Marin County League of Women Voters

si Sue Beittel
Community Volunteer

si Jenny Fowler Callaway, President
San Rafael City Schools Board of Education

si Colin J. Russell, Chairman of the Board
San Rafael Chamber of Commerce

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS
MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

END OF MEASURE A

21-552

21552