This is an archive of a past election.

See http: //www. smartvoter.org/ca/ed/ for current information.

League of Women Voters of California Education Fund

El Dorado County, CA	November	8,	2005	Election

Measure L

Special Tax for Libraries in Placerville-Pollock Pines Area
County Service Area 10 Library Zone H

2/3 Approval Required
^?Fail: 16005 / 55.9% Yes votes. 12603 / 44.0% No votes

See Also: Index of all Measures

Results as of Jan 28 2:40pm, 100.0% of Precincts Reporting (66/66)

Information shown below: Impartial Analysis I Arguments I Full Text

Shall a special tax be levied on real property within County Service
Area 10, Zone H, to fund library services within Zone H, including
the Placerville and Pollock Pines libraries, commencing in fiscal
year 2006/2007 and expiring after 15 years, at the following annual
rates (increasing by the Consumer Price Index up to 3% annually):

Suggest a link related to
Measure L

Links to sources outside of Smart Voter
are provided for information only and do
not imply endorsement.

$15 per parcel of improved property (excluding
churches, cemeteries and schools), vacant residential
property up to 2 5 acres, and vacant multi-residential
property;

$12 per residence for parcels with multiple residences
(excluding time shares);

$7.50 per mobile home for mobile home parks?

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel

This measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on the measure,
would authorize a special tax on real property located within the
Placerville/Pollock Pines Zone of Benefit (Zone H) of County Service
Area No. 10, to be used solely to provide extended library services
within that zone, which includes the Placerville (Main) and Pollock
Pines libraries. A prior voter-approved benefit assessment on real
property in the same area, which had been used for the same purpose
of supporting the libraries within Zone H, expired on June 30,2005.

The expired benefit assessment was in the base amount of $12 per
dwelling unit (with adjustments for apartments and mobile homes).
The annual special tax proposed by this measure would be at the base
rate of $15 on

(1)	each parcel of improved property (both residential and non-
residential),

(2)	each parcel of vacant residential property up to 2.5 acres in size,
and on

(3)	each parcel of vacant multi-residential land, as defined in the
County Assessor's use codes, except that the amount of the tax on
property developed with multi-family residential dwelling units
(excluding time shares) would be calculated at 80% of the base rate
multiplied by the number of units (i.e., $12 per unit), and the tax on
property developed as mobile home parks would be calculated at 50%
of the base rate multiplied by the number of mobile homes (i.e., $7.50
per mobile home). The tax will not be imposed on schools, churches
or cemeteries. The amount of the special tax will be increased
annually in proportion to any increase in the Consumer Price Index,
with the limitation that the annual increase cannot exceed 3% in any
year. The special tax on single family residences shall not exceed
$23.00 per year. The special tax will be imposed for a period of 15
years, after which it will no longer be collected.

The special tax will be collected beginning in fiscal year 2006-2007
and will be listed as a separate item on the county property tax bill for
each parcel of land, and will be collected in the same way as the
general property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and
enforcement of county property taxes, including provisions for
penalties and procedure for sale of the property in case of delinquency,
shall also apply to the special tax.

Beginning in fiscal year 2006-2007, if the special tax is approved by
the voters, the Board of Supervisors is required annually to budget and
allocate from the county's general funds a sum equal to or greater than
the special tax collected annually, to be used for the operation of the
county library system.

This measure requires an affirmative vote of 2/3 or more of all voters
voting on the measure in order to pass.

A "YES" vote is a vote in favor of the special tax provided in the
measure.

A "NO" vote is a vote against the special tax provided in the measure,
s/ Louis B. Green, County Counsel

Arguments For Measure L	Arguments	Against	Measure	L

Measure L keeps our libraries open and fully
operating - so our kids can read, learn and access
new technology.

Libraries are among our most cherished institutions.
The ballot measure before us is how our libraries
should be funded. Answer this question:

Why is our library so far down on the priority list
for funding from the taxes we now pay?

Measure L is not a new tax. It simply replaces a

small parcel fee that's been in place for the past ten
years, which expired six months ago, hurting our
libraries.

Measure L provides the funding to keep our County
Main Library and Pollock Pines Branch Library
open and operating. It lets us:

-	Buy new books and learning materials

-	Provide "story times" and summer reading
programs for our children

-	Restore adult literacy programs

-	Provide homework help for local students

-	Purchase computers for public use

Measure L funds can only be used to improve and
operate our libraries — guaranteed. They cannot be
diverted to other programs. Measure L only applies
to improved parcels and vacant residential parcels,
and requires the county to match 100% of the
revenue raised.

Measure L's small $15 assessment is no more than
other county property owners pay for their libraries.
El Dorado Hills and Cameron Park residents pay
$25 per parcel, while Georgetown and South Lake
Tahoe residents pay $15.

Without Measure L, our libraries will suffer. Since
the assessment ended this year, our library's hours
have already been cut by over half and no new
books have been purchased. This is not a threat to
punish or scare voters, is economic reality. Our
libraries need Measure L.

Measure L is a good investment in our community.
Libraries enrich the quality of our lives, increase
local property values and are a wonderful resource
for our children, seniors and all the people of El
Dorado County.

Please make sure our children have a place to read
and learn. Keep our libraries open by voting Yes on
Measure L.

s/Doug Veerkamp, Doug Veerkamp General
Engineering, Inc.

s/Jeff Neves, El Dorado County Sheriff

s/Joe Harn, El Dorado County Auditor-Controller

s/Vicki Barber, President, El Dorado County

Chamber of Commerce

s/Greg Boeger, Boeger Winery, Inc.

Before deciding this issue, look at the 2006 property
tax bill you just received. Many tax bills include
over ten special levies or assessments, everything
from waste disposal to special school building
funds. Whatever happened to the spirit of
Proposition 13?

This ballot measure is just plain wrong for many
reasons! It is nearly the same issue that failed in the
March election that they're running by us again.
Should it pass, however, we'll be stuck with this
inappropriate funding scheme for fifteen years.

Does that make sense?

Again, like the March issue, this tax bill applies to
almost all parcels, even some vacant lots or cattle
grazing land, not just those parcels with homes like
the 1995 measure. The 1995 measure was
effectively a "user fee." Where's the connection here
to library usage? Fair? Of course not!

We urge you to vote "NO" on Measure L and send
this library funding issue back to the Board of
Supervisors where it belongs.

s/Richard E. Akin, Rancher, Property Owner

s/Elwin F. Veerkamp, Retired

s/Ellen Day, President, Taxpayers Association

s/Bemard Carlson, President, Taxpayers for

Responsible Government

s/Byron Mobus, Property Owner

Rebuttal to Arguments Against

Measure L is fair. It directs your tax money right
where you want it to go + to the library. Our
County's General Fund will also match 100% of
your Measure L dollars. Measure L includes
accountability to guarantee your money is spent
wisely and efficiently.

If you truly cherish our libraries, you will vote Yes
on Measure L. Measure L simply replaces a small
parcel fee that's been in place for the past ten years,
so our libraries can stay open and fully operating.
Measure L asks for only $15 per year to keep our
library doors open, no more than other county
property owners already pay for their libraries.
Measure L is a fair way to ensure library funding.
Without Measure L, our libraries cannot operate.

Measure L would affect improved parcels - those

Rebuttal to Arguments For

This is not a simple replacement of the old tax. It is
a new tax, and it's on steroids. The proponents
explain the good features this money will provide.
Virtually everyone supports these services. This is
where the problem starts.

When special parcel taxes are proposed for popular
programs, it allows the taxes already collected to be
diverted to programs many people would never vote
to support. For the proponents of this tax to say that
Measure L monies can only be spent on libraries
begs the question of + where did the original tax
monies go?

This tax begins at $15 per year, but its built-in
yearly escalator can drive it to over $22. The old tax
was a flat $12.00 for the 10-year period which most
of the signers of the argument against Measure L
supported. This measure however goes beyond
fairness when it proposes to tax vacant land for
services they will never use. This shell game should
be stopped to prevent other popular county
programs from being cut back, only to have "special
taxes" imposed to maintain them. Whenever the
voters permit such actions, they are failing to
encourage officials to make wise use of existing
taxpayer money.

Re-authorization of the old tax on improved parcels
probably would have had little or no opposition.

Please vote No and ask the county to come up with
an equitable funding mechanism.

s/ Bernard Carlson, Taxpayers for Responsible
Government

s/ David Davinroy, Foreman, 2004 El Dorado
County Grand Jury

s/ Richard E. Akin, Rancher + Property Owner

s/ John L. Haubner

s/ Byron Mobus, Property Owner

with homes, offices, stores, warehouses and
factories. It would also assess vacant residential
parcels up to 2.5 acres. Vacant parcels zoned for
timber, agriculture or cattle grazing will not be
taxed.

Open libraries improve all property values.
Libraries are a good investment in our community.

That's why Measure L is strongly supported by
farmers, business people, educators, elected
officials, public safety officers, senior citizens and
hundreds of respected community members.

Great communities need great libraries. We should
settle for nothing less.

Please join us in voting Yes for Libraries. Vote Yes
on Measure L.

s/Gael Barsotti, Barsotti Juice Company
s/Patty Borelli, Business Owner
s/Ann B. McQuillen, Real Estate Broker
s/Gordon Vicini, Joe Vicini, Inc.
s/Cecil Wetsel, CJ Enterprises

Full Text of Measure L

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors has previously established the authority for County Service Area No.
10 to provide extended library services and facilities, and did, on August 1,1995, establish the
Placerville/Pollock Pines Zone of Benefit (Zone H) within County Service Area No. 10 for the purpose of
providing such extended services, and

WHEREAS, on August 1,1995 the Board of Supervisors passed and adopted Resolution 222-95 which

established a benefit assessment for extended library services for a period of ten years, and which was
approved by the voters at the general election on November 7, 1995, and

WHEREAS, the benefit assessment expired on June 30, 2005 which will leave the county unable to provide
library services in Zone of Benefit H (Placerville/Pollock Pines), and

WHEREAS, Government Code section 25210.6a expressly authorizes a county service area to levy a special
tax for extended library services subject to voter approval, and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors proposes to levy a special tax for the purpose of funding library
services within the zone according to the methodology as set forth below in order to replace the expired
benefit assessment and to ensure that funding will exist to maintain library hours and operations,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Supervisors finds, determines, declares and
orders as follows:

1.	That upon approval by the voters as set forth in this Resolution, there shall be levied and assessed
annually a special tax to be used solely for extended library services in Zone H on each parcel of improved
property, residential and non-residential, and on each parcel of vacant residential property up to 2.5 acres,
and vacant multi-residential land as defined by Assessor's Use Codes, within Placerville/Pollock Pines Zone
H of County Service Area No. 10, in the sum of $15.00 per parcel commencing with the fiscal year 2006-
2007 and continuing each fiscal year thereafter, except for those parcels as outlined as follows:

A.	The annual amount of the special tax on parcels of land developed with multi-family residential dwelling
units (excluding time shares) shall be eighty percent (80%) of the base tax used for single family dwellings
multiplied by the number of multi-family residential dwelling units on the parcel.

B.	The amount of the special tax on parcels of land developed as mobile home parks shall be fifty percent
(50%) of the base tax used for single family dwellings multiplied by the number of mobile home park
dwelling units on the parcel.

C.	Parcels of land developed with churches, cemeteries, or schools shall be exempt.

2.	"Parcel of property" as used in this resolution shall mean any contiguous unit of real property held in
separate ownership, which is capable of sale or transfer without further action under the Subdivision Map
Act (Government Code section 66410, et seq.).

3.	The tax imposed by this resolution shall appear as a separate item on the tax bill of each such taxable
parcel and shall be collected at the same time and manner as county property taxes are collected as set forth
in the applicable provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and shall be subject to the same penalties
and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided for such taxes. All laws applicable to the
levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes shall be applicable to such tax.

4.	The tax shall be imposed only for a period of fifteen (15) years, at the end of which time the special tax
shall cease to be imposed.

5.	The tax rate shall be increased annually in proportion to the increase in the Consumer Price Index (CPI),
San Francisco Area, all items, most recently available prior to the date of the increase, provided, however,
that this increase shall not exceed three percent (3%) in any year. The base special tax on single family
residences shall not exceed $23.00 per taxable parcel.

6.	The Board, commencing with the fiscal year 2006-2007, shall annually budget and allocate from the
County General Fund for the operation of the county library system an amount equal to or greater than 100%
of the annually collected special library tax for the zone receiving voter approval on November 8, 2005.

Created: January 28, 2006 14:40 PST
Smart Voter <http://www.smartvoter.org/>

Copyright © League of Women Voters of California Education Fund http://www.lwvc.olg
The League of Women Voters neither supports nor opposes candidates for public office or political pdTtlCS.