MEASURE A

Shall Tahoe Truckee Unified School District continue to collect $98/year per taxable parcel for
seven years, with citizen oversight and exemptions for taxpayers aged 65 and older for
classroom supplies, materials, lower 4th-8th grade class size, increased core academic class
offerings in middle and high schools, vocational education, music, computers, technology
support, physical education, playground and field maintenance, nursing, bus replacement
fund, elementary school counseling and librarians?

YES

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY

The Tahoe Truckee Unified School District proposes to
levy a parcel tax of $98.00 per year on each parcel located
within the boundaries of the District. Currently all parcels
in the district are levied a parcel tax of $80.00 per parcel
which was approved by the voters in 2001 and will
terminate by operation of law in July 2005.

The District proposes that this expiring parcel tax be
extended for an additional seven-year period ending in
July of the year 2012 as well as increased to $98.00 per
Darcel. The district proposes to use the funds raised by
his special tax to pay for various programs as described in
the ballot measure, as the district has found that the state
funding alone does not provide sufficient revenues to
provide quality education for children in the district,
implementation costs pertaining to the proposed programs
wilt be subject to approval by the Citizens Review
Committee, and a senior citizen's exemption from the tax
will be available to parcel owners 65 and older.

The continuation and increase in this special tax, which
would be imposed upon the passage of this measure,
would be an annual tax upon parcels of property
commencing with the 2005-2006 tax year. The special tax

NO

lCER county counsel

would continue to be collected in the same manner as the
county collects ad valorem taxes.

Measure A must receive approval by two-thirds (2/3) of the
votes cast by the voters voting upon the measure to be
considered approved by the voters. Reference is made to
Tahoe Truckee Unified School District Resolution No. 8-
04/05 for complete terms of this measure.

A "yes" vote on Measure A means that each
parcel located within the boundaries of the Tahoe
Truckee Unified School District will be taxed at a
rate of $98.00 per year for the 7 year period
ending in the year 2012.

A "no” vote on the Measure A parcel tax means
that the parcel tax will NOT be increased to
$98.00 per year and extended to 2012.

Anthony J. La Bouff
Placer County Counsel

By:	Sabrina	M.	Thompson

Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

California ranks below the national average in educational
funding, placing in the bottom third of all states. Due to
California’s on-going budget crisis, educational funding
has decreased significantly over the past three years in
several key academic areas. As a result, many districts
have been forced to eliminate all but the most basic
programs.

Without adequate state funding, we must look locally to
bridge the gap. In the Tahoe Truckee Unified School
district, Measure A is the difference between
inadequate schools and providing a quality education
for our students. Measure A has supported our local
school district for sixteen years. In order to maintain and
enhance the programs essential to our students’

education, we must renew Measure A. Each parcel would
be assessed $98 per year, to support the following
programs:

‘Classroom equipment and supplies
*Computer labs and curriculum
‘Academic and college prep courses
‘Vocational programs and equipment
‘Music programs and equipment
‘Class size reduction in 4th through 8th grades

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

2

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE A CONTINUED

*Elementaiy Physical Education
*Librarians and Books
"Counseling and Nursing
"Maintenance and Safety projects

Our children get so much for so little. Without renewal,
these programs will be eliminated or severely
reduced.

To ensure Measure A funds are spent as intended, a local
Citizens Review Committee closely monitors spending.
The flat parcel tax would commence on July 1, 2005 and
will require voter renewal in seven years. Exemptions for
senior citizens age 65 and older will be retained.

RESOLUTION

Measure A is necessary to provide a well-rounded,
quality education for the children of our district and is

essential for maintaining a strong, vibrant, safe community.

Please join parents, teachers, community leaders and
senior citizens and vote YES on Measure A.

Erika L. Murphy, Tahoe Truckee Educational Association
(TTEA) President

Dave Ferrari, Sierra College Trustee, Co-founder North
Lake Tahoe Boys and Girls Club, Business Owner
Jan Ganong, Parent, Special Education Teacher,
Excellence in Education Foundation Board Member
Jim Porter, Parent and Attorney
Roger Kahn, Parent and Retired Business Owner

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A
WAS SUBMITTED

NO. 8-04/05

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF
THE TAHOE TRUCKEE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
PROPOSING AN EXTENSION AND ORDERING AN
ELECTION, ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS
OF THE ELECTION ORDER AND REQUESTING
CONSOLIDATION WITH ANY OTHER ELECTION
CONDUCTED ON THE SAME DATE

COUNTIES OF EL DORADO, NEVADA AND PLACER

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has not
provided adequate and necessary funding for the
continued operation of certain programs and services of
the schools of Tahoe Truckee Unified School District
(Tahoe Truckee High, North Tahoe High, Sierra High,
North Tahoe Middle, Alder Creek Middle, Tahoe Lake
Elementary, Creekside Magnet, Kings Beach
Elementary, Truckee Elementary, Glenshire Elementary,
Donner Trait Elementary and Coldstream Alternative
School); and

WHEREAS, the State does not provide sufficient
revenues to maintain quality education within the District
and reliance on State funding alone will result in the loss
of critical education programs; and

WHEREAS, this Board believes that the special
Measure A tax currently being levied should be adjusted
and continued to maintain enhanced educational
opportunities for the students of this district; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public
education program delivers many long-lasting benefits
and advantages to all of the residents of our community;
and

WHEREAS, the Board of Education (Board) of the
Tahoe Truckee Unified School District (District) is
authorized to order special tax elections, after notice and
searing, pursuant to Government Code Section 50079;
and

WHEREAS, this Resolution was presented at a duly
noticed regular board meeting pursuant to Education Code
Section 35144 and Government Code Section 54956 with
notice having been given and with opportunity for public

comment having been provided; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of this Article XIIIA of
California Constitution provides that special districts, by a
two-thirds vote of the qualified electors of such district, may
impose special taxes, and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the
California Constitution provides that the appropriations
limit of any entity of government may be changed by the
electors of such entity, for a period of up to four years
from the date of the vote making such change; and
WHEREAS, the Board and Measure A Citizen's
Review Committee has concluded that the present
revenues of the District are inadequate to meet the
expenses of:

CLASSROOM SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT:

The continued provision of instructional supplies, books,
equipment and programs needed to allow the district to
continue to fund at a level that keeps each school site in
line with state curriculum standards.

REDUCED CLASS SIZE:

Additional teachers will be provided to ensure that
classroom size will be significantly below state maximum
in grades 4-8.

INCREASE COURSE OFFERINGS:

Increase the number of core academic course offerings
at middle schools and high schools.

ACADEMIC. PROGRAMS:

The continued enhancement of middle school and high
school academic programs, such as college preparatory
courses and academic electives, by providing qualified
teachers and acquiring necessary instructional supplies
and equipment.

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE A
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

3

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE A
CONTINUED

VOCATIONAL EDUCATION:

The continued enhancement of high school vocational
education curricula by updating equipment, developing
new programs, maintaining current programs and
classes that address local vocational education needs.

MUSIC:

The continued support of the elementary, middle and
high school music programs with music teachers,
equipment, equipment maintenance and supplies.

COMPUTER AND ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
EQUIPMENT AND CURRICULUM:

Well planned, standardized and coordinated district
technology curriculum to include: the maintenance and
timely replacement of existing computer laboratories,
additional classroom computers, continued development
and implementation of computer literacy curriculum at
each school which will be taught by qualified personnel.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION:

The continued support of elementary physical education
programs and the acquisition of necessary equipment
and supplies at all school sites.

MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY:

Funding for replacement of school buses, which no
longer meet state standards; and the maintenance of
playgrounds and fields to ensure student safety.

LIBRARIES:

The continued staffing of the TTHS and NTHS libraries
with certificated librarians, the continued acquisition of
library books and equipment for all school sites.

COUNSELING AND NURSING SERVICES:

The continued employment of school counselors and
special service personnel as needed; the continued
employment of at least one full time nurse and the
acquisition of necessary equipment, supplies, and testing
material to enable screening, testing, and caring for
pupils as required by state law.

WHEREAS, in the judgment of the Board, following
notice and public hearing, it is advisable to seek to
provide funding for all or part of these special purposes
by means of a uniform fiat rate parcel tax which includes
an exemption from taxes for taxpayers 65 years of age or
older who choose to apply for the exemption, as
permitted by Government Code Section 50079 (b); and
WHEREAS, in the judgment of the Board, it is
advisable to order the Placer County Superintendent of
ichools and the El Dorado, Nevada and Placer Counties
Registrar of the Voters to calf and conduct an election on
the questions of: whether the District shall levy a special

tax within the District for a period of seven years, for the
purposes of raising additional revenue for specific
purposes for the District; and

WHEREAS, Resolution #11-03/04 is hereby
rescinded.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Education of the
Tahoe Truckee Unified School District DOES HEREBY
RESOLVE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

1.	The authority for the specifications of the election
order is contained in Education Code Section 5322.
Section 5322 requires that 88 days prior to the date
set for the election, the Board by resolution deliver to
the Placer County Superintendent of Schools and the
officer conducting the election a resolution specifying
the date and purpose of the election, the authority for
ordering the election, the authority for the
specifications of the election order, and the signature
of the officer of the Board authorized by law to make
the designations.

2.	The date of the election shall be March 8, 2005.

3.	The purpose of the election shall be for the voters in
the District to vote on a proposition (in the form set
forth in paragraph 10 of this resolution) posing the
questions of whether two-thirds of the votes cast by the
voters voting upon the proposition shall approve the
levy of a special tax within the Tahoe Truckee Unified
School District for a period of seven (7) years. Said
election shall also provide for an exemption from the
tax for parcel owners age 65 or older who choose to
apply for the exemption, to be known as the "Senior
Citizens Exemption".

4.	The authority for ordering the election is contained in
Government Code Sections 50079 and 50077.

5.	This Resolution shall stand as the authority for the
order of election and the specifications of election
order to the Placer County Superintendent of Schools
and the officers conducting the election.

6.	The Secretary of the Board is hereby directed to send
two certified copies of this Resolution to each of the
following: EJ Dorado, Nevada, and Placer County
Superintendents of Schools and the El Dorado,
Nevada, and Placer County Clerks and/or Registrars
of Voters so that this Resolution is received by them
on or before Wednesday, December 1,2004.

7.	The County Superintendents of Schools are hereby
requested to deliver the order of election by delivery
of this Resolution and a formal notice of the election
to the official in their county in charge of conducting
elections no later than Tuesday, December 1,2004.

8.	The special tax shall be a school tax levied at a rate
not to exceed ninety-eight dollars ($98.00) a year for
each assessor's parcel within the District, as shown on
the then current local assessment rolls prepared by
the El Dorado, Nevada, and Placer County
Assessors. The special tax shall be levied only in
fiscal years 2005/2006, 2006/2007, 2007/2008,

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE A
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

4

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE A
CONTINUED

2008/2009, 2009/2010, 2010/2011, and 2011/2012
upon approval thereof by this Board, and shall be
collected and enforced in the same manner and
subject to the same penalties and procedures
prescribed by law for the collection of other taxes
fixed and collected on said local Assessment Rolls
and, by agreement with the appropriate counties, the
special tax shall be collected by the counties on
behalf of the District. The revenue derived from the
special tax shall be expended solely (less
implementation costs as agreed to by the Citizens
Review Committee) for the following special
purposes:

CLASSROOM SUPPLIES AND EQUIPMENT:

The continued provision of instructional supplies, books,
equipment and programs needed to allow the district to
continue to fund at a level that keeps each school site in
line with state curriculum standards.

REDUCED CLASS SIZE:

Additional teachers will be provided to ensure that
classroom size will be significantly below state maximum
in grades 4-8.

INCREASE COURSE OFFERINGS:

mcrease the number of core academic course offerings

at middle schools and high schools.

ACADEMIC PROGRAMS:

The continued enhancement of middle school and high
school academic programs, such as college preparatory
courses and academic electives, by providing qualified
teachers and acquiring necessary instructional supplies
and equipment.

VOCATIONAL EDUCATION:	.

The continued enhancement of high school vocational
education curricula by updating equipment, developing
new programs, maintaining current programs and
classes that address local vocational education needs.

MUSIC:

The continued support of the elementary, middle and
high school music programs with music teachers,
equipment, equipment maintenance and supplies.

COMPUTER AND ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY
EQUIPMENT AND CURRICULUM:

Well planned, standardized and coordinated district
technology curriculum to include: the maintenance and
timely replacement of existing computer laboratories,
idditionai classroom computers, continued development
and implementation of computer literacy curriculum at
each school which will be taught by qualified personnel.

PHYSICAL EDUCATION:

The continued support of elementary physical education
programs and the acquisition of necessary equipment
and supplies at all school sites.

MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY:

Funding for replacement of school buses, which no longer
meet state standards; and the maintenance of
playgrounds and fields to ensure student safety.

LIBRARIES:

The continued staffing of the TTHS and NTHS libraries
with certificated librarians, the continued acquisition of
library books and equipment for ail school sites.

COUNSELING AND NURSING SERVICES:

The continued employment of school counselors and
special service personnel as needed; the continued
employment of at least one full time nurse and the
acquisition of necessary equipment, supplies, and testing
material to enable screening, testing, and caring for
pupils as required by state law.

9.	For a parcel owner age 65 or older to be entitled to a
Senior Citizens Exemption from the special fax, such
a parcel owner, as such owner is shown on the latest
current assessment roll, shall submit proof of
entitlement to an exemption from the special tax, in a
manner satisfactory to the District, proving such
parcel is owned individually or in common with
others. Partnerships, corporations, trusts, and other
entities shall not be entitled to an exemption. The
Board, in consultation with the county assessors,
shall adopt, after public hearing, further rules and
regulations governing the within exemption.

10.	The form of the proposition shall read as follows:

MEASUREA
(Continuation of Special Tax for the Tahoe Truckee
Unified School District)

Shall Tahoe Truckee Unified School District
continue to collect $98/year per taxable parcel
for seven years, with citizen oversight and
exemptions for taxpayers aged 65 and older for
classroom supplies, materials, lower 4th-8<h grade
class size, increased core academic class
offerings in middle and high schools, vocational
education, music, computers, technology
support, physical education, playground and
field maintenance, nursing, bus replacement
fund, elementary school counseling and
librarians?

11.	Prior to levying either part or all of the special tax in
any given year, the Board will conduct a public
hearing on the matter. Notice of the time, date, and
place of hearing shall be published pursuant to
Government Code Section 6066 at least twice in a

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE A	I

CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE	I

5

newspaper of general circulation in the District, and
posted commencing at least fifteen (15) days prior
to the hearing. Following said hearing each year,
the Board shall adopt a resolution establishing the
amount of tax to be raised for that year and the rate
per parcel, up to $98.00. Any tax levied shall
become a lien upon the properties against which
taxes are assessed and collectible as herein
provided. The Board shall consider any reports
submitted by the Measure A Citizen’s Review
Committee concerning levying the special tax.

12.	It is not intended that the collection of the special tax
provided for herein decrease the funds available
from other sources of the District for any period from
the effective date hereof. In the event that it does,
the District shall cease to levy said special tax.

13.	Pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA and Section 4 of
Article XIIIB of the California Constitution and
Government Code Section 50077, the special tax
shall become effective only upon the approval of
two-thirds of the votes cast by the voters voting on
the proposition.

14.	The County Superintendent of Schools of the Counties
of El Dorado, Nevada, and Placer and the County
Clerks and/or Registrars of Voters of El Dorado,
Nevada, and Placer Counties are hereby requested to
take all necessary steps to call and hold the election in
their respective counties in accordance with the law.

15.	The District is situated in El Dorado, Placer, and
Nevada Counties. Pursuant to Education Code Section
5303 and for the purposes of this election, Placer
County is the county, which, by mutual agreement,
shall perform the duties of conduction the election. The
Clerk of Placer County is hereby authorized to provide,
at District expense, all necessary election services that
shall include, but not be limited to:

•	Requesting impartial analysis by Placer County
Counsel subject to approval of El Dorado and
Nevada County Counsels

•	Setting the last day to file arguments

•	Preparing ballot layout and election materials

•	Printing and mailing sample ballots and other
election materials

•	Printing official ballots

•	Providing precinct supplies

•	Appointing and training election officers

•	Obtaining and renting polling places

•	Preparing voter indexes

•	Publishing list of election officers and polling
places

•	Mailing appointment notices for polling places
and/or precinct boards

•	Processing absentee ballots

•	Providing voter count by precinct

•	Canvassing the results of the election
Whenever possible, the District's schools shall be
used as polling places.

16.	The Board of Supervisors of Placer County is hereby
requested to authorize the Clerk of Placer County to
be responsible for conducting this election; the
Boards of Supervisors of El Dorado and Nevada
Counties are hereby requested to authorize the clerk
or registrar of voters of their counties to cooperate
with the Clerk of Placer County in conducting this
election. The Boards of Supervisors of Ei Dorado,
Placer, and Nevada Counties are also requested to
authorize consolidation of this election with any other
applicable election conducted on the same day this
election.

17.	If any part of this resolution is for any reason held to be
invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining parts of this resolution.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE GOVERNING
BOARD OF THE TAHOE TRUCKEE UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT THIS 23rd DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2004, BY
THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

AYES:	3

NOES:	0

ABSENT:	2

ABSTENTION: 0

Daniel Collin, Vice President of the Board of Education
of the Tahoe Truckee Unified School District

ATTEST:

Dennis K. Williams, Secretary to the Board of Education
of the Tahoe Truckee Unified School District

6