CITY OF DELANO
TAX MEASURE H

Shall there be enacted in the City of Delano a
temporary sales tax rate increase of one-half of one
percent (0.50%) which will end after twenty (20)
years, the proceeds of which shall be used for street
and road improvements?

oYes
oNo


IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
CITY OF DELANO
MEASURE H

This ballot measure, if adopted by the voters, would enact a temporary
twenty-year one-half percent (.5%) increase to the sales tax rate in the City of
Delano. The sales tax is also referred to as a “transactions and use tax.” The cur-
rent sales tax rate in the City of Delano is seven and one-quarter percent (7.25%).
Accordingly, if this ballot measure is adopted, the sales tax rate would increase to
seven-and-three-quarter percent (7.75%) for the next twenty years. The pro-
posed increased sales tax, like the current sales tax, would be imposed upon the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail within the jurisdictional limits of
the City as well as upon the storage, use or other consumption of tangible per-
sonal property purchased from any retailer in the jurisdictional limits of the City.

All revenue generated from the proposed sales tax increase would be used by the
City to pay for street and road repairs. As such, this ballot measure proposes a
“special purpose tax” rather than a “general purpose tax” and requires a 2/3 ma-
jority vote for adoption.

This wording applies to Measure H:

This is an impartial analysis of Measure H. If you want a copy of the City’s resolu-
tion ordering the election to vote on Measure H, please call Kern County Elections
at (661) 868-3590 or 1 -800-452-8683 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

IMPMS-City of Delano

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT
CITY OF DELANO
MEASURE H

The total sales tax rate in the City of Delano is currently 7.25% or Seven & a quar-
ter cent for every dollar. Of this amount the City receives 1% or 1 cent for every
dollar in sales. This is deposited in the general fund which is used to pay for gen-
eral City services such as Police, fire, park maintenance, recreational facilities,
street repair engineering and administration.

This measure if approved by voters will increase the total tax rate to 7.75% and
would raise the local City portion to 1,5%. The current sales tax generated
$2,857,388 for the annual period from July 2004 to June 2005, including amounts
withheld by the State. Based on that amount, the proposed half cent increase
would generate an additional $1,428,694 to be earmarked exclusively for street
and road improvements. This is an approximation of the amount that can be ex-
pected annually during the twenty year period the tax would be in effect. Actual
collections can vary from year to year depending upon economic conditions.

Note: The breakdown of the 7.25% total sales tax is as follows:

6% - State
1% - City of Delano

1/4% - County wide Transportation Fund

Currently, the State has reduced the City portion by 1/4%, thereby getting 6-1/4%
instead of 6%, A Compromise Agreement between the State and Local Govern-
ments guarantees payment of this 1/4% City portion of the sales tax temporarily
taken by the State by means of a property tax backfill,

s/Narciso P. Aguda
Finance Director
City of Delano



