Shall the Brisbane School District replace its current parcel tax by levying a special tax of not more than $96 annually per parcel to provide reading,
music, and art teachers; and if funds allow, to lower class size and purchase library and instructional resources; provided that senior citizens be eligible
for exemption? Shall the District’s appropriation limit be raised from 7/1/2005 to 6/30/2011 in an amount equal to the levy of said tax each year?

FULLTEXT

Re-Authorization/Replacement of Parcel Tax to
Maintain Reading, Art, and Music Instruction

Shall the Brisbane Elementary School District replace its current parcel tax
by levying a special tax of not more than ninety-six dollars ($96) per year
per parcel of land as of July 1 of each year (with exemptions for parcels
owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older, upon application,
and with a partial exemption for resident homeowners living on multiple
[up to 3] parcels, and for certain property exempted by law) to facilitate (1)
providing a reading teacher to assist primary grade students with special
reading help, (2) providing a music teacher and an art teacher; and if funds
allow, (3) providing extra reading help to upper elementary and junior high
students; (4) helping lower class size for upper elementary and junior high
classes; and (5) providing additional library and instructional resources to
schools; provided, however, that none of the proceeds from this measure
shall be used to pay for District administration; in connection therewith,
shall the appropriations limit of the District be raised each year beginning
July 1, 2005 and ending June 30, 2011, in an amount equal to the levy of
said tax for said year?

A parcel will be defined as any unit of land which now receives a separate
tax bill from the Assessor’s Office. All property which would otherwise be
exempt from the property tax will also be exempt from the imposition of
this tax. An exemption from this special tax shall be granted annually by
the District on any parcel owned by one or more persons aged sixty-five
(65) or over on July 1 of the tax year who occupy said parcel as a principal
residence, upon application for exemption supported by proof of age,
ownership and occupancy as the principal place of residence: In addition,
upon application for exemption supported by proof of ownership and
occupancy, resident homeowners whose lot includes up to three contiguous
parcels will be eligible for exemption from parcels additional to the one on
which the residence house is situated, in accordance with regulations
adopted by the Board of Trustees.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE U

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

In 1999, the Brisbane Elementary School District proposed and the
voters approved a special tax levy of up to $72 per parcel. By this measure,
the Board of Trustees of the Brisbane Elementary School District propose
to replace the $72 tax with a special tax that shall be levied at a rate not to
exceed $96 per year on all taxable parcels in the District. The $96 tax
would be levied for a period of six years beginning July 1,2005 and ending
June 30,2011.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District which now
receives a separate tax bill from the County of San Mateo. Any person
65 years of age or older who owns and occupies a parcel may qualify for
an exemption from the special tax. All property which would otherwise be
exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from imposition of this
special tax.

The purposes of the special tax are to provide for: (1) a reading teacher
to assist primary grade students with special reading help; (2) a music
teacher and an art teacher; (3) extra reading help to upper elementary and
junior high students; (4) lower class sizes for upper elementary and junior
high; and (5) additional library and instructional resources. The measure
specifically prohibits the use of the special tax for District administration
costs.

This measure would also increase the District’s appropriations limit per
fiscal year, in an amount equal to the levy of the special tax for that year,
as permitted by Article XIII B, Section 4 of the California Constitution.
Any increase of the appropriations limit after four years will require
another election and approval by the voters.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a replacement
of the special tax to be levied in an amount of up to $96
per year per taxable parcel in the District for a period of six
years. It would also allow the appropriations (spending)
limit of the District to be raised each year for a period of
four years in an amount equal to the levy of the tax for that
year.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the levy of
the $96 replacement special tax and would not allow the
appropriations limit to be raised.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote
“yes.”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE U

In 1999, voters showed their support for our schools by approving a parcel
tax to fund reading, art and music programs. The tax must be renewed to
maintain these programs in all schools in the Brisbane School District:
Brisbane Elementary School, Panorama Elementary School and
Lipman Middle School.

Reading skills are vital to academic success and the parcel tax has allowed
us to provide extra help to the students who need it most. Rising scores on
the reading portion of standardized tests demonstrate the value of our
investment in reading.

Art and music programs provide outlets for student creativity. They boost
confidence and foster thinking skills that enhance learning across
disciplines. The parcel tax pays for certified art and music specialists. Many
of you have enjoyed the fruits of their efforts at school performances.

The measure that has funded our reading, art, and music programs expires
on June 30, 2005. Measure U would maintain these programs by renewing
the parcel tax for another six years, with an adjustment for rising costs.
Without Measure U, the district will be forced to cut these programs.

Measure U would cost property owners no more than $96 per year. No
funds would be used for administration. Seniors who occupy their own
homes will be exempt from the tax upon request. Seniors who have an
exemption for the existing parcel tax will be automatically exempt from the
new tax.

State funding for education remains unpredictable. Measure U will give the
district a stable, ongoing source of funds to support established programs
that provide known benefits.

This measure has been put on the ballot at the urging of Renew the Arts, a
group of citizens from Brisbane and Southern Hills.

We urge you to Vote YES on Measure U.

/s/ Bob Dettmer	December	13,	2004

Trustee, Brisbane School District

/s/ Nancy L. Roeser	December	17,	2004

President, Brisbane Elementary School Parent’s Club

Isl Camille O. Salmon	December	15,	2004

Founder & Artistic Director Brisbane Dance Workshop

/s/ Steven W. Waldo	December	15,	2004

Former Mayor

/s/ Michelle Casey Chan	December	16,	2004

Parent - Panorama Elementary & Lipman Middle School

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE U SUBMITTED