Measure A: School Parcel Tax Replacement, Alameda Unified School District

To improve the education in Alameda schools, retain experienced teachers and attract new qualified teachers, retain teaching specialists in reading, math and science, preserve educational programs in music and art and to maintain small class sizes, shall Alameda Unified School District replace its existing $109 parcel tax with a $189 yearly tax for seven years, providing for an exemption for senior citizens, no money for administrators, and with all money to benefit local Alameda schools?

Impartial Analysis from The County Counsel
Measure A, an Alameda Unified School District ("the District") special parcel tax measure, seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy a special parcel tax in the amount of $189 dollars per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for seven years, commencing on July 1, 2005, for the purposes set forth in the measure.
A school district, following notice and public hearings, has the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by two-thirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and sections 50075-77, 50079, and 53722 et seq. of the California Government Code.
The District currently collects a qualified special tax of $109 per year per taxable parcel; this tax will expire on June 30, 2007. If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the special tax of $189 will be collected instead of $109 commencing on July 1, 2005, and the tax will continue beyond the current tax's expiration and will expire on June 30, 2012. If approved, these tax funds could only be used by the District for the purposes set forth in the measure, which include the prevention of the elimination of teaching positions, of programs in music, the arts and physical education, and of teaching specialists in reading, math and science.
An exemption from the tax will be made to property owners 65 years of age or older upon annual application to the District. The tax will be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax collector at the same time and in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are collected.
If less than two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the measure will fail and the District will not be authorized to levy the special tax as proposed by this measure.
s/RICHARD E. WINNIE  County Counsel

Arguments for Measure A
Of the 18 school districts in Alameda County, Alameda schools receive among the lowest amounts of state education funding. Several school districts receive $1,000 more per student per year than Alameda schools receive.
Continuing and dramatic reductions in state education funding have forced the district to make severe cuts just to maintain a balanced budget. The district has had to increase class sizes and to layoff school librarians, special education teachers and high school counselors. The outlook for next year is even worse; the latest round of state funding cuts will cost Alameda schools approximately $2.4 million.
Without Measure A, teachers and reading specialists will be laid off, critical educational programs in music, art and physical education will be eliminated and schools will be closed.
The Alameda Board of Education has placed Measure A on the June 7th ballot to provide local funding for Alameda schools. Measure A is a temporary, $80 annual increase in existing homeowner assessments. No Measure A revenue will be spent on administration or administrator salaries. Measure A funds will only be spent to prevent teacher layoffs and to preserve the most essential education programs.
The state cannot take this money away; every penny will stay in Alameda to benefit Alameda schools. Homeowners aged 65 or older are eligible for an exemption from Measure A.
Measure A will:
	•	Prevent teacher layoffs and keep quality teachers in our community
	•	Keep teaching specialist positions in reading, math and science
	•	Assure adequate training for teachers supporting children with special needs
	•	Support music, art and other classes 

An independent Citizens' Oversight Committee will monitor Measure A expenditures and ensure that all Measure A funds are spent on our community's most critical education needs.
 Teachers, parents, business leaders, seniors, and community leaders support Measure A.  Please vote YES on Measure A.
s/C. RICHARD BARTALINI  Judge, Superior Court, Retired
s/DENNIS G. PAGONES  Business Owner
s/WILLIAM D. SONNEMAN  Principal Encinal High School
s/GLENDA McDOWELL  Teacher, President Alameda Education Association
s/RONALD MOONEY  Parent

(No arguments against Measure A were submitted)

Full Text of Measure A
"To improve education in Alameda schools, retain experienced teachers and attract new qualified teachers, retain teaching specialists in reading, math and science, preserve educational programs in music and art and to maintain small class sizes, shall Alameda City Unified School District replace its existing $109 parcel tax with a $189 yearly tax for seven years, providing for an exemption for senior citizens, no money for administrators, and with all money to benefit local Alameda schools, by:
 (a) preventing the elimination of teaching positions;  (b) preventing the elimination of many classes, and programs in music, the arts and; physical education;  (c) preventing the elimination of teaching specialists in the area of reading, math and science;  (d) supporting the ability of the District to attract and retain the best and most experienced teachers;  (e) preventing the reduction of the number of teachers who are trained to support children with special needs;  (f) supporting the continuation of student support services such as librarians;  (g) preventing class size increase for all students at each of the District's schools;  (h) supporting the maintenance of existing educational programs at current levels.
 An exemption shall be granted for any parcel owned and occupied as a principal residence by one or more persons 65 years of age, upon completion of an annual application for exemption.
 To ensure additional accountability, an independent volunteer community oversight committee shall be appointed by the Board of Education to oversee all expenditures funded by the measure to ensure that said funds are spent wisely and used only for purposes approved by the voters. This volunteer citizens' committee shall monitor the expenditures of these funds by the District and shall report on an annual basis to the community on how these funds have been spent.
 A parcel is defined as a unit of land in the District which now receives a separate tax bill from the Alameda County Assessor's Office. All property which would otherwise be exempt from property taxes also will be exempt from the special tax."