ORDINANCE NO. 1684

AN ORDINANCE ADDING ARTICLE IIA TO CHAPTER 22 OF THE PORTERVILLE
MUNICIPAL CODE TO PROVIDE FOR AN ADDITIONAL ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO FUND PUBLIC SAFETY, POLICE AND FIRE
PROTECTION SERVICES AND RELATED CAPITAL PROJECTS AND TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF PORTERVILLE DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION I. AMENDMENT OF CODE.

Porterville Municipal Code Chapter 8 is hereby amended by the addition of a new
Article to read as follows:

ARTICLE IIA. TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR PUBLIC SAFETY,

POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTION

Sec. 22-8.1 Title/Purpose:

This ordinance shall be known as the Transactions and Use Tax for Public Safety,
Police and Fire Protection. The City of Porterville hereinafter shall be called “City.” This
ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City. This Ordinance of the
Porterville Municipal Code has been adopted for the following (and other) purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

(a)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if at least two-thirds of the electors voting on the
measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

(b)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(c)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board
of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practical to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by
the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State
Transactions and Use Taxes;

(d)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered
in a mannerthat will, to the degree possible consistent with the provisions of Parts 1.6 and
1.7 of Division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting

City transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions thereof.

(e)	To provide a source of revenue to be used to provide additional public safety,
police, fire protection services and undertake necessary capital projects to support those
services, and to restore and maintain literacy programs and services. The revenue
generated by the tax provided for herein shall be restricted to those uses. The tax is,
therefore, a special tax.

Sec. 22-8.2. Operative Date:

“Operative date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after the adoption of this Ordinance, the date of such adoption being set
forth below.

Sec. 22-8.3. Contract with State:

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation hereof.
If the City has not contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarterfollowing the execution of such a contract. The Council
may make any technical amendments to this ordinance required by the State Board of
Equalization, except for any changes affecting the tax rate, its manner of collection, or the
purpose for which the revenue from the tax may be used.

Sec. 22-8.4. Imposition of Transactions Tax:

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of
one percent (0.50%) of the gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible
personal property sold at retail in the City of Porterville on and after the operative date of
this Ordinance. The City Council is authorized to establish a tax rate of one-half of one
percent by resolution.

Sec. 22-8.5. Presumption as to Place of Sales:

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place
of business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the
retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges,
when such charges are subject to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the
State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales
are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the Board of Equalization.

2

Sec. 22-8.6. Imposition of Use Tax:

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the
City of Porterville of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on orafterthe
operative date of this Ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory, at
the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the property subject to the
tax. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to State
transactions or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. The City Council
is authorized to establish a tax rate of one-half of one percent by resolution.

Sec. 22-8.7. Adoption of Certain Sections of California Revenue & Taxation
Code by Reference:

Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of said Code, as
amended and in force and effect on the operative date of this Ordinance, applicable to use
taxes are hereby adopted and made a part of this section as though fully set forth herein.

Sec. 22-8.8. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use
Taxes:

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

(a)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

(1)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

(A) Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales,
storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

(B) Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject
to tax by the state under the said provision of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(b)	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

Sec. 22-8.9. Permit Not Required:

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
Ordinance.

Sec. 22-8.10. Exemptions and Exclusions:

(a)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city,
city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

(b)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, otherthanfuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the
sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer
or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

(A) With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address
and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

4

(B) With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this Ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised.

(c)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used orconsumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United
States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contact entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business
in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal

5

property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within
the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the
City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the
City under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That
retailer shall be required to collect use taxfrom any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

(d)	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or
other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Sec. 22-8.11. Amendments to Revenue and Tax Code:

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are
not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

Sec. 22-8.12. Enjoining Collection Prohibited:

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any
suit, action, or proceeding in any court against the State or this City, or against any officer
of the State or this City, to prevent or enjoin the collection hereunder, or Parts 1.6 and 1.7
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required
to be collected.

SECTION II:	USE OF TAX PROCEEDS AND EXPENDITURE PLAN.

All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be accounted for and
paid into a special fund or account designated for use for Public Safety Services only. The
City hereby adopts the Program Guidelines and Public Safety Expenditure Plan for the
administration and expenditure of the tax proceeds, attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit
“A.” The Public Safety Expenditure Plan may be amended from time to time by a majority
vote of the City Council, so long as the funds are utilized for public safety, police and fire
protection services. For the purposes of this Ordinance, “Public Safety Services” means
(a) obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining police protection equipment or
apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of police protection personnel, and such other
6

police protection service expenses as are deemed necessary by the City Council for the
benefit of the residents of the City; (b) obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining
fire protection equipment or apparatus, paying the salaries and benefits of fire protection
personnel, and such otherfire protection service expenses, including capital expenses, as
are deemed necessary by the City Council for the benefit of the residents of the City; and

(c)	with the use of no more than 15% of the revenue generated from the special tax,
restoration and maintenance of literacy programs due to the established connection
between illiteracy and crime.

SECTION III:	STATUTORY AUTHORITY	FOR TAX; SEVERABILITY.

This ordinance is adopted pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.91.
In any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance
is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION IV:	ELECTION REQUIRED.

This ordinance shall not become operative unless and until at least a two-thirds
majority of the electors voting on this measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at
the election to be held on November 8, 2005.

SECTION V:	EFFECTIVE DATE.

If this ordinance is approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the issue at the
November 8,2005 election, pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217, the taxshall become
effective ten (10) days after the Council certifies the results of the election.

APPROVED by the following vote of the People of the City of Porterville on
November 8, 2005:

Yes —4362 -70.28%

No — 1845 - 29.72%

ADOPTED by Declaration of the vote by the City Council of the City of Porterville
City on December 6, 2005.

ATTEST

Exhibit “A”

Porterville Police, Fire, and Emergency Response 9-1-1 Measure
Program Guidelines and Expenditure Plan

This measure will provide a secure, local revenue stream to the City of Porterville that will be
used entirely to provide additional public safety police and fire personnel and services to protect
our community. Porterville residents deserve to know how the funds will be spent. Detailed
spending plans have been developed so voters can have a clear understanding of how the
monies will be spent if the Vi cent sales tax is approved. Program guidelines have also been
established to govern how the money can be spent, to specify the accounting, audit and
oversight guidelines that will be implemented to make certain that the funds are spent according
to the voter’s direction, and to ensure the public is well-informed of the progress and process.

Fiscal Accountability Protections

An Independent Auditor will annually review and audit expenditures of funds specifically derived
from the Public Safety Measure, to ensure compliance with the expenditure plans and with
prudent, established accounting regulations and practices.

The City will establish an Independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee to annually review
revenues and expenditures, providing a second independent verification that all expenditures
are being made as promised to Porterville residents. The findings of both the Independent
Citizens Oversight Committee and the Independent Auditor will be reviewed by the City Council
and made available to the public.

Each May or June, as the City’s budget is adopted following public hearings, the City Manager
will re-certify the plan to the City Council, stating what monies have been received, what monies
have been spent and what monies are available. The financial consequences of these changes
will be reflected in the re-certified plan.

Dedicated Accounting Structure

The Expenditure Plan specifies that all revenues from the Measure are to be utilized for the sole
purpose of improving our community’s public safety, with the revenue to be directed to the
police and fire departments respectively, and with a small portion (not more than 15%)
dedicated to the restoration and maintenance of literacy programs due to the established
connection between illiteracy and crime. The funding proportions have been mutually agreed
upon by the Police Chief and Fire Chief.

The City will establish separate funds into which these specific monies shall be deposited.

These accounts shall be separate for police and fire and shall be the source of their respective
expenditures as established in the approved expenditure plans. Any balances in these funds,
positive or negative, shall earn or pay interest accordingly.

Based on public safety needs, the City Council may determine to advance funds from the City’s
General Fund into the individual Public Safety Sales Tax Fund in order to most effectively
accomplish the objectives of the program.

In the event that the contingency/reserve fund is fully funded and all annual planned
expenditures have been implemented, the use of the additional unanticipated sales tax
revenues will be used first to accelerate the implementation of the plan and then to provide
additional public safety facilities, personnel, and new equipment based on specific needs of the
community.

Review and Modification of Expenditure Plan

The proposed Expenditure Plan may be amended from time to time by a majority vote of the
City Council.

9

NOVEMBER 2005 BALLOT MEASURE EXPENDITURE PLAN

Proposed Expenditure Plan for the City of Porterville Public Safety Sales Tax Measure Based on
>2 Cent Sales Tax availability

The City Council has evaluated Porterville’s safety needs with input from the public in developing
the attached Public Safety Expenditure Plan, which shall be amended from time to time, at the
projected/estimated costs shown:

Fiscal Year 2005-06 Sales Tax Revenue available (partial year)

$600,000

Additional Supplemental Resources (General Fund)	$50,903

Total Resources Available
$650,903

Increase Police Sworn by 5 positions to the base and outfit (partial year)

$412,803

Increase Fire Sworn by 7 positions to the base and outfit (partial year)

$148,100

Restore Literacy Programs/hours (partial year)

$90,000

Total 2005-06 Fiscal Year Expenditures	$650,903

Fiscal Year 2006-07 Additional Sales Tax Revenues (First full F/Y)	$1,792,000

Increase Police Sworn by 1 additional position to the base
$85,000

Maintain and Expand Patrol Operations
$405,000

Maintain and Expand Gang Suppression and Narcotics Operations	$215,000

Maintain 7 additional Sworn Fire personnel

$521,156

Purchase additional Fire Rescue Apparatus
$140,000

Purchase Rescue Equipment for new Fire Apparatus	$25,000

Purchase Personal Safety Equipment for additional Fire Fighters

$14,000

Maintain Literacy Program/hours
$180,000

Expand Homework Assistance and Creative Expression Program

$80,000

Establish Capital Reserve Fund for New Fire Station	$126,844

Total 2006-07 Fiscal Year Expenditures	$1,792,000

Fiscal Year 2007-08 Additional Sales Tax Revenues (Second full F/Y)	$1,863,680

Increase Police Sworn by 1 additional position to the base
$87,000

Maintain Expanded Patrol Operations	$508,000

Maintain Expanded Gang Suppression and Narcotics Operations
$255,250

Maintain 7 additional Sworn Fire personnel
$557,637

Hire 1 additional Fire Investigator
$74,167

Station and Equipment

$20,000

Maintain Literacy Programs/hours
$187,200

Expand Homework Assistance and Creative Expression Program
$83,200

Increase Established Capital Reserve Fund for New Fire Station

$91,226

Total 2007-08 Fiscal Year Expenditures	$1,863,680

Fiscal Year 2008-09 Additional Sales Tax Revenues (Third full F/Y)	$1,938,227

Additional Supplemental Resources (General Fund)	$50,000

Total Resources Available	$1,988,227

Increase Police Sworn by 1 additional position to the base
$91,000

Maintain Expanded Patrol Operations	$566,000

Maintain Expanded Gang Suppression and Narcotics Operations

$320,763

Maintain 8 additional Sworn Fire personnel

$676,030

Safety Equipment

$5,000

Maintain Literacy Programs/hours
$194,688

Expand Homework Assistance and Creative Expression Program
$86,528

Increase Established Capital Reserve Fund for New Fire Station
$48,218

Total 2007-08 Fiscal Year Expenditures	$,988,227

Fiscal Year 2009-10 Additional Sales Tax Revenues (Fourth full F/Y)	$2,015,756

Additional Supplemental Resources (General Fund)	$75,000

Total Resources Available	$2,090,756

Maintain 8 additional Sworn Police personnel

Maintain Expanded Patrol Operations	$630,000

Maintain Expanded Gang Suppression and Narcotics Operations	$396,651

Maintain 8 additional Sworn Fire personnel	$723,352

Maintain Literacy Programs/hours
$202,476

Expand Homework Assistance and Creative Expression Program	$89,989

Partial Year Debt Service Payment on New Fire Station Financing	$48,288

Total 2009-10 Fiscal Year Expenditures	$2,090,756

Fiscal Year 2010-11 Additional Sales Tax Revenues (Fifth full F/Y)	$2,096,387

U

Additional Supplemental Resources (General Fund)

Total Resources Available

Maintain 8 additional Sworn Police personnel
Maintain Expanded Patrol Operations

Maintain Expanded Gang Suppression and Narcotics Operations
$413,983

Maintain 8 additional Sworn Fire personnel
$773,352

Maintain Literacy Programs/hours
$210,575

Expand Homework Assistance and Creative Expression Program
$93,589

Debt Service on New Fire Station Financing

Total 2010-11 Fiscal Year Expenditures

* Total Reserve Cash Available for Real Property Acquisition for New
Fire Station in Fiscal Year 2008/09.

$150,000

$2,246,387

$664,000

$90,889

$2,246,387

$266,288

12

1.	Assumes 4% growth rate in annual sales tax revenue.

2.	Current General Fund monies and State and School Subventions provide for 44.5 Sworn
Police Officers. Additional grant funding has provided for 2.5 additional Sworn Police
Officers. Additional positions funded through this sales tax measure will add positions to
the base of 45 Sworn Police Officers.

3.	Additional General Fund Utility User’s Taxes generated from annexation activity during
the course of this expenditure plan will be proposed to be specifically earmarked for
additional Police positions. These additional positions will modify the base above the 45
positions as described in Note 2.

4.	Literacy programs delivered through the Library will annually receive up to 15% of the
new revenue provided by this sales tax measure.

5.	The City will use base budget amounts established and approved under the Expenditure
Control Budget System in determining additional funding for Police, Fire, and Literacy
programs delivered through the Library to prevent erosion of existing General Fund
support for these activities.

13

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

CITY OF PORTERVILLE	)	(SS)

COUNTY OF TULARE	)

I,	JOHN LONGLEY, the duly qualified City Clerk of the City of Porterville do
hereby certify:

THAT the foregoing ordinance is a true and correct copy of Ordinance No. 1684,
passed and approved by the People of the City of Porterville at a Special Consolidated
Statewide Election held on the 8th day of November, 2005, that said ordinance has been
deemed operative pursuant to law, and that by the terms and provisions of Ordinance
1684, said ordinance to become effective on the 16th day of December, 2005, at which
time said ordinance is deemed to be in full force and effect.

THAT said ordinance was adopted by declaration of the vote by the Council on
December 6, 2005, and the same was duly passed and adopted by the following vote:

COUNCIL:	WEST	IRISH	HAMILTON	STADTHERR	MARTINEZ
AYES:	X	X	X	X	X
NOES:					
ABSTAIN:					
ABSENT:					

by: Patrice Hildreth, Deputy City Clerk