Measure B: School Tax, Walnut Creek School District

To attract and retain quality teachers; maintain small class sizes; keep classroom computers and technology up to date and secure; and preserve school library funding; shall the Walnut Creek School District be authorized to replace its existing $41 parcel tax with a new qualified special tax of $82 per parcel for six years, beginning July 1, 2005, offering a senior exemption and with expenditures monitored by a Citizens' Oversight Committee?

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel
The governing board of the Walnut Creek School District has adopted a resolution proposing a parcel tax (a qualified special tax).

The ballot measure asks voters to decide whether a parcel tax should be imposed on parcels of taxable real property within the District. The parcel tax would be levied for no more than six years, beginning July 1, 2005. It would replace the District's existing parcel tax.

The new parcel tax would be $82 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District. A parcel of taxable real property is any unit of real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector's Office. A parcel otherwise exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of the parcel tax.

Any parcel owned and occupied by a person sixty-five years old or older would also be exempt from the parcel tax upon proper application to the District. Persons currently exempt from the existing parcel tax will not be required to reapply for a new exemption if they continue to qualify for the exemption. An exemption will continue for the remaining term of the assessment if the person continues to qualify for the exemption.

The ballot measure states that the proceeds of the parcel tax will be used "for the purpose of attracting and retaining quality teachers, maintaining small class sizes, keeping classroom computers and technology up to date and secure; and preserving school library funding." Proceeds from the qualified special tax may be used only for the specific purposes set forth in the ballot measure and according to constitutional and statutory provisions.

While proceeds from the parcel tax remain unexpended, an independent financial auditor will prepare an annual report stating how much tax was received and expended in the year and the status of any projects or a description of programs funded from the proceeds of the parcel tax.

The parcel tax budget and independent audit will be annually reviewed by a citizens' oversight committee, which will report its findings to the District governing board.

Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve the measure for it to pass.

A "yes" vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax.

A "no" vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax.
The above statement is an impartial analysis of Parcel Tax Measure B. If you desire a copy of the full text of the measure, please call the Walnut Creek School District at (925) 944-6850 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

Arguments For Measure B
The Walnut Creek School District relies on a local parcel tax for part of its funding. The funds raised by this local tax have been used to lower class sizes, strengthen its classroom programs and allow the district to attract and retain quality teachers. A Yes vote on Measure B will replace the existing $41 parcel tax with a new $82 per year parcel tax.
Measure B funds will:
	•	Maintain smaller class sizes in grades 4-8.
	•	Allow the district to continue to improve science classes by offering students more hands-on laboratory experience.
	•	Keep classroom computers and technology up-to-date and secure.
	•	Maintain programs that challenge all students in core academics by attracting and retaining high quality teachers.
	•	Provide extra help and challenges to each student through the individual attention that lower class sizes allow. 
We cannot rely on the State. In fact, insufficient state funding only increases the challenge faced by our local schools. Funds raised by Measure B will provide a stable source of local funds to offset the uncertainty of funding from the state. An Independent Citizens' Oversight Committee will monitor the way all funds are spent.
Without Measure B:
	•	Adequate funds will not be available to provide necessary support to those students struggling with reading and math.
	•	It will become increasingly difficult to attract and retain the best teachers available.
	•	Classroom computers and technology will not be kept up-to-date and secure.
	•	The district will be forced to cut the funding available for library programs and reduce the number of hours school libraries are open for students. 
Measure B provides for a continuation of the currently existing exemption for senior citizens 65 years or older who own and reside in their homes. Please vote Yes on Measure B.
Robert E. Jorgensen Director of School Relations, Graduate School of Education, UC Berkeley
Cindy M. Gershen Owner, Sunrise Bistro, Cafe & Bakery 23 years
Al Hart KCBS News Broadcaster 40 years
Lonnie R. Bristow, MD Former President of the American Medical Association
Gwen Regalia Councilmember, City of Walnut Creek

(No argument against Measure B was submitted.)

Full Text of Measure B