VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

PINER-OLIVET UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE H

In order to retain our award winning music program, keep

Hall four school libraries open, maintain and improve the
instructional assistant programs and strengthen the
computer technology programs shall the Piner-Olivet
Union School District be authorized to levy an annual tax of $72
per taxable parcel for six years only, beginning July 1,2005, with
annual audits and a complete exemption for parcels owned and
occupied by persons 65 years of age or over?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

The Piner-Olivet Union School District has called an election on a special tax mea-
sure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a
school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $72.00 per year per parcel for each parcel
of land within the District's boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1, 2005, and would remain in effect for no
more than six years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
the purposes set out in the measure, which include retaining the District's music
program, keeping all four school libraries open, maintaining and improving the in-
structional assistant programs, and strengthening the District’s computer technol-
ogy programs. Each year, beginning with the year ending December 31,2005, the
measure calls for preparation of a report by the Superintendent or Chief Financial
Officer of the District, stating the amount received and expended from the tax for
;t year, and the status of any projects, and description of any programs, funded
n om the proceeds of the tax.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and occupied
by a person who will be 65 years of age or older on or before May 1,2005, or May 1
of any subsequent year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemp-
tions based on ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for
this exemption the first year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps
must be followed to appeal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a
refund of the tax, if appropriate.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Piner-Olivet Union School District who vote on this
measure vote "yes," the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied. The
tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes starting with
the 2005-2006 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: s/ Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

A yes vote on Measure H will retain the Piner-Olivet Union School District's award
winning music program, keep all four school libraries open, maintain and improve
the instructional assistant programs and strengthen the computer technology pro-
grams. Measure H will directly benefit Piner-Olivet Union School District students
and is our local remedy to the statewide problem qf limited education funding.

Measure H has financial safeguards built in. The funds will be audited annually.
This measure will provide a stable source of local funds to offset the uncertainty of
state funding. Local voters can provide a significant investment in our students with
what equates to only $6.00 a month.

As we all know, the State has cut funding to all school districts. Over the past four
years, our local School District has cut over $2 million dollars from its budget, im-
pacting our school programs. We either cut programs or develop community fund-
ing to retain program quality.

Measure H will be in effect for only 6 years and must be used for the priorities out-
lined. Senior citizens 65 years of age or older may apply for a full exemption from
this assessment for parcels they own and occupy.

Good schools protect property values and attract families to our community. Mea-
sure H will retain our award winning music program, keep all four school libraries
open, maintain and improve the instructional assistant programs and strengthen
the computer technology programs. Measure H is a local solution that will maintain
excellence in our local schools.

Please join our local effort in voting Yes on Measure H.

si Kathy S. Sharp	si Lisa Anderson

Active Parent Volunteer	Former	President	Piner Parents

si Mardi Hinton
Former Governing Board Member

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE H

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE H

PINER-OLIVET UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION ACT OF 2005

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Piner-Olivet
Union School District Excellence in Education Act of 2005” or as “Measure H.”

TERMS OF EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on
this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of
$72 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no more
than 6 years, commencing July 1, 2005. The qualified special tax shall be
known and referred to as the “Excellence in Education Tax.” Proceeds of the
Excellence in Education Tax shall be authorized to be used to retain our
award winning music program. Keep all four school libraries open. Maintain
and improve instructional assistant programs. Strengthen the computer
technology programs.

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior
citizens in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years
of age or older shall be exempt from the Excellence in Education Tax upon
proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to
the District on or before May 1,2005 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment
year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption
for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant
continues to qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Excellence In Education
"^x, the Board of Education shall cause an account to be established for deposit
the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the Excellence in Education Tax
remain unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of the District shall
prepare a report to be filed with the Board of Education no later than December 31 of
each year, commencing December 31,2005, stating (1)the amount of Excellence
in Education Tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any
projects or description of any programs funded from proceeds of the tax. The
report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period,
as the Superintendent shall determine, and may be incorporated into or filed
with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the Board of
Education.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the Excellence in Education Tax, and proceeds
of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Excellence in Education Tax shall be collected by the Sonoma
County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be
subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as
the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the
Excellence in Education Tax shall not decrease the funds available from
other sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property" shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All
property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem
property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Excellence in Education
Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or
older are exempt from the Excellence in Education Tax as described above.

) The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District
has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Excellence in Education
Act as described above to the Sonoma County tax collection officials. The
Sonoma County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason
other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be final

and binding for the purposes of the Excellence in Education Tax. Taxpayers
wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so under
the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to
Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applica-
ble procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Excellence in Education
Taxes paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds
pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has inde-
pendent value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof.
Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining
parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed
by law.