MEASURET

Shall an ordinance of the City of San Carlos, enacting a parcel tax of $59.00 for a period of five years, with proceeds dedicated exclusively to the
S.C.O.O.T. Shuttle Bus Service, be adopted?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE T

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

The initiative proposes a $59.00 per parcel special tax on all parcels of
real property in the City of San Carlos. The parcel tax would commence
July 1, 2005 for the 2005-2006 fiscal year and continue for five (5)
consecutive years terminating June 30, 2010.

The funds received are earmarked to be spent only for the operation of
the SCOOT shuttle bus program, which would be a free public shuttle bus
service in the City of San Carlos.

Parcels owned by church, religious, government and public utilities
would be exempt from the tax.

This initiative requires a two-thirds (2/3) majority vote to pass. If
adopted, the initiative can only be amended by another voter initiative also
requiring a two thirds (2/3) vote.

S.C.O.O.T. is a unique, community-oriented shuttle service that
benefits all who live, work and visit San Carlos by reducing traffic,
decreasing accidents, and providing a safe, convenient transportation
option. It is an award-winning, proven success with a two-and-a-half year
track record.

The S.C.O.O.T. program serves on average 15,000 riders per month.
Residents of all ages use S.C.O.O.T. Seniors rely on the service to take
them throughout the city, including the Senior Center. Students gain
independence by riding S.C.O.O.T. to the Youth Center, afternoon
activities, and school. Commuters take S.C.O.O.T. to the Cal Train station.
Residents of all ages ride the shuttle to downtown destinations, benefiting
local businesses.

S.C.O.O.T.’s benefits extend beyond the actual users of the service to
the community at large. Since the inception of S.C.O.O.T., traffic has been
dramatically reduced throughout the city. Traffic at San Carlos Avenue and
Dartmouth Avenue went from a Service Level F (Impassable and Grid
Locked) to Service Level C (Average) at peak hours. Police Department
records demonstrate that the total number of accidents has decreased by
nearly 40 percent since the SCOOT program began. Air quality has
improved by taking hundreds of cars off the road each day.

Without this $59 per year (five dollars per month) tax, many
intersections will return to a gridlock condition. Since Sam Trans’ budget
reductions eliminated bus routes throughout San Carlos, S.C.O.O.T.
shuttles are now the only public transportation option available within the
city for most residents.

Like other programs that are utilized by only a portion of the population
(libraries, parks, Youth Center, Senior Center, sports fields), residents
recognize that certain services are vital to our community as a whole, even
if not used by all residents at all times.

S.C.O.O.T. improves quality of life for everyone in this very special

community.	
/s/ Jason Mansfield December 17, 2004 Chairman, City of San Carlos Traffic And Transportation Commission	
/s/ Sylvia Nelson  Former Mayor of the City of San Carlos	December 17, 2004
/s/ Eric Von der Porten  Member, San Carlos School Board	December 17, 2004
/s/ Jillian Holden  Chair, San Carlos Youth Advisory Council	December 16, 2004
/s/ Gerry Cristoni  President, Senior Citizens Center Advisory Board	December 17, 2004

Compiled by the City of San Carlos City Clerk, Christine Boland

2

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

EVEN IF NOT USED BY ALL RESIDENTS AT ALL TIMES...” - a
gold medal understatement.

Dear Fellow San Carlans,

They claim 15,000 rides monthly and that sounds terribly impressive, until
you realize it’s really mostly the same 38 people making only one round
trip a day on each route (38 people X 2 rides X 9 routes X 22 weekdays =
15,048 per month).

They also say $59 per year ...” but neglect to tell you that’s on every
parcel, every year and totals $3,250,000 in new taxes.

Are 38 riders on each route worth $3,250,000? Using their own figures
there is simply no way to justify spending so much money for the benefit
of so few people.

As for 40% fewer accidents because of SCOOT, when asked to verify any
connection at all, Police Chief Floyd Sanderson said “no comment”.

Last year there were service cutbacks and this year city employees may be
terminated because the City of San Carlos is facing financial meltdown.
Our City even closed down for eleven days to save money and, if this keeps
up, police and fire protection will be on the chopping block.

Two previous bus services failed because people simply didn’t use them
enough. Proponent Councilman Mike King even stated publically that
SCOOT would also fail if riders had to pay. He’s right - SCOOT is not
worth it. And if riders won’t even pay why should you pay for them?

SCOOT - A NEW $3,250,000 TAX THAT’S NOT WORTH IT!

VOTE NO - IT’S ONLY COMMON SENSE

/s/ Ali Kakavand	December 22, 2004
Sr. Scientist, NASA Ames	
/s/ John Hoffmann	December 22, 2004
Former San Carlos Councilman and School Board President	
/s/ Rosemary Smith	December 22, 2004
Past President and Trustee, Sequoia High School District Board	
/s/ Geoffrey Stern	December 22, 2004
EDAC member and Local Business Owner	
/s/ Matt Grocott	December 22, 2004
Vice Mayor of San Carlos	

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T

Dear Neighbors,

Our City Council has already spent $64,000 - $14,000 on an opinion poll
and another $50,000 for this one-question special election. Why? To ask
you for an additional $3,250,000 in property taxes over the next five years.
What for? Bussing school kids, some commuters and door-to-door service
for occasional day riders - BUT NO WEEKEND SERVICE!

They say this additional new tax would “sunset” in five years but as you
already know “sunset” is government-speak for renewing the tax under the
banner “Not a New Tax” or “No Tax Increase”.

Well-intentioned? Probably. Sensible? No.

In early 1970s San Carlos had a city bus service which flopped and was
folded into SamTrans which recently eliminated its San Carlos route due to
such low ridership that farebox revenue would not even pay for fuel. Both
those systems charged fares, but SCOOT doesn’t charge and runs NINE
different routes.

Wealthy Palo Alto affords only a single fixed route, supplemented at peak
times. CalTrain contributes 25% of Palo Alto’s costs and 8% comes from
their school district.

SCOOT costs more than twice as much as Palo Alto pays yet Palo Alto is
more than double our population. Do we have money to bum?

Where are common sense priorities? Are there no potholes in our streets,
no broken sidewalks, no need to improve our parks or Senior facilities, no
need for better parking or for convenient drive-by drop-off boxes at our
library? With youth obesity a growing problem, couldn’t elementary
students use some exercise twice a day since the great majority live less
than a mile from their school?

There simply is no such thing as a “free ride”. Someone would have to pay
and that someone is you. Riders contribute nothing.

SCOOT - A NEW TAX THAT’S NOT WORTH IT!

VOTE NO.

/s/ Marion McDowell	December	8,	2004

Past President, California State Board of Education

/s/ John Hoffmann	December	8,	2004

Former San Carlos Councilman and School Board President

/s/ Rosemary Smith	December	13,	2004

Past President and Trustee, Sequoia High School District Board

/s/ Geoffrey Stem	December	8,	2004

EDAC member and Local Business Owner

/s/ Matt Grocott	December	9,	2004

Vice Mayor of San Carlos

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T

The argument against this measure does not dispute the tremendous
value S.C.O.O.T. brings to San Carlos. It does not challenge the need for
this service nor does it claim seniors and others who rely on S.C.O.O.T.
would have any other viable options for public transportation. It doesn’t
deny that traffic has been dramatically reduced since the inception of
S.C.O.O.T. Instead it tries to confuse the issue with reference to a
30-year-old defunct bus service and another city’s limited shuttle service.

S.C.O.O.T. serves the entire San Carlos Community, earning the
program local and regional attention and awards for being one of the most
innovative programs in California. Since its inception, S.C.O.O.T. has
shown a steady growth in ridership and the demand for its services
continues to expand.

S.C.O.O.T. has reduced approximately 200,000 vehicle miles on San
Carlos streets per year. Whether you are a S.C.O.O.T. rider, an automobile
driver, a pedestrian, or a bicyclist within San Carlos, you have enjoyed the
benefits of S.C.O.O.T.

The City Council voted to fund this special election after public
opinion polling showed strong community support for the S.C.O.O.T.
program. If reduced traffic, less accidents, cleaner air and improved
quality of life for every resident are priorities, S.C.O.O.T. is clearly a
program worth supporting.

Please vote YES to keep S.C.O.O.T. in San Carlos.

/s/ Donald M. Eaton	December	22,	2004

Member, San Carlos City Council

/s/ Thomas J. Davids	December	23,	2004

Member, San Carlos City Council

/s/ Betsey Schneider	December	23,	2004

President, Friends of the San Carlos Senior Center

/s/ Connie Barton Barba	December	23,	2004

Member, San Carlos Economic Development Advisory Committee

/s/ Jim Granucci	December	27,	2004

Retired San Carlos Police Chief