(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

SEBASTOPOL UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE I

To provide funds to restore educational programs including

I reading assistance for all students, vocal and instrumental
music, library services, art, computer technology and to
maintain student counseling services, shall the Sebastopol
Union School District be authorized to renew and increase its
existing qualified special tax at a cost of $52.00 per parcel for
eight years beginning July 1, 2005, with annual audits and
exemption for parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years
or over?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

The Sebastopol Union School District has called an election on a special tax mea-
sure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a
school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $52.00 per year per parcel for each parcel
of land within the District’s boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1, 2005, and would remain in effect for no
more than eight years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
the purposes set out in the measure, which include restoring educational programs
such as reading assistance for all students; restoring or maintaining vocal and in-
strumental music programs, library services, art and computer technology pro-
grams; and maintaining student counseling services. Each year, beginning with
♦he year ending December 31,2005, the measure calls for preparation of a report
tan independent financial auditor, stating the amount received and expended
ii om the tax for that year, and the status of any projects, and description of any
programs, funded from the proceeds of the tax.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and occupied
by a person who will be 65 years of age or older on or before May 1,2005, or May 1
of any subsequent year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemp-
tions based on ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for
this exemption the first year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps
must be followed to appeal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a
refund of the tax, if appropriate.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE I

The Sebastopol Union School District relies on a local parcel tax for part of its fund-
ing. Funds raised by this local tax, first enacted in 1993, and renewed in 1997, have
been used to support instructional opportunities including counseling and library
services, fine and performing arts, and technology. Because of these funds, stu-
dents have important access to counseling and libraries as well as music and art.
Additionally, the parcel tax has funded important improvements in computer tech-
nology. The existing parcel tax expires in June of this year.

To adequately educate our students, we cannot rely solely on funds from the state.
Measure I will continue to provide a stable source of local funds to offset the uncer-
tainty of state funding. Measure I also provides for an exemption for any parcel
owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older.

In order to provide reading assistance, counseling and library services, technology
and fine and performing art instruction for our students, Measure I will renew the
tax with an increase to $52 per year. Usage of the funds will be audited annually.

Measure I will support access to reading support and counseling services-and stu-
dents will benefit educationally from library and technology resources and partici-
pation in fine and performing arts. With the kind of support provided by the funds
from Measure I, our students can become well rounded, contributing members of
the community. Without it, their educational experience will be compromised.

Passage of Measure I represents an investment in the future of our community as
well as a commitment to the students who need us now. Please join us in voting
Yes on Measure I.

si Melvin K. Davis	si	Larry	Robinson

Retired City Manager	Mayor	of Sebastopol

si Diana Gardner Rich	si	Kim	Caruso, Director

Parent Volunteer .	Sebastopol	Community	Center

si Julie Aiello, President
Sebastopol Elementary Teachers Assn.

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE I

If two-thirds of the voters in the Sebastopol Union School District who vote on this
measure vote “yes," the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied. The
tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes starting with
the 2005-2006 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE I

SEBASTOPOL UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
QUALITY EDUCATION ACT OF 2005

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Sebastopol
Union School District Quality Education Act of 2005” or as “Measure I.”

TERMS OF QUALITY EDUCATION SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds ofthose voting on
this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of
$52.00 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no
more than 8 years, commencing July 1,2005. The qualified special tax shall
be known and referred to as the “Quality Education Tax.”

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior
citizens in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65
years of age or older shall be exempt from the Quality Education Tax upon
proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption must apply
to the District on or before May 1,2005 or May 1 of any succeeding assessment
year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption
for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such ap-
plicant continues to qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Qualify
Education Tax, the Board of Education shall cause an account to be established
for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the Qualify Educa-
tion Tax remain unexpended, the Superintendent or chief financial officer of
the District shall cause an independent financial auditor to prepare a report to
i filed with the Board of Education no later than December 31 of each year,
Jmmenclng December 31,2005, stating (1) the amount of Qualify Education
Tax received and expended in such year, and (2) the status of any projects or
description of any programs funded from proceeds of the tax. The report
may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropriate annual pe-
riod, as the Superintendent shall determine, and may be incorporated into or
filed with the annual budget, audit, or other appropriate routine report to the
Board of Education.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the Qualify Education Tax, and proceeds
of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Quality'Education Tax shall be collected by the Sonoma County
Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be subject to the
same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax
Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for
unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the Quality
Education Tax shall not decrease the funds available from other sources of the
District in any period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District, which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office.
All property, which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad
valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Quality
Education Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65
years of age or older are exempt from the Quality Education Tax as described
above.

Multiple parcels, which are contiguous and are part of the one economic
• nit under the same name and ownership, shall be charged as one parcel.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District
has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Quality Education Act
as described above to the Sonoma County tax collection officials. The
Sonoma County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason
other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be final and

binding for the purposes of the Qualify Education Tax. Taxpayers wishing to
challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures
for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the
California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable procedures. Taxpayers
seeking a refund of Qualify Education Taxes paid shall followthe procedures
applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation
Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has inde-
pendent value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof.
Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining
parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed
by law.