March 8, 2005
Measure A
$189

TD

GOVERNING BOARD
ACALANES UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT

CONTRA COSTA COUNTY, STATE OF CALIFORNIA
RESOLUTION NO. 04-05-09

t L

RESOLUTION CALLING PARCEL TAX ELECTION, SETTING FORTH THE
SPECIFICATIONS THEREOF, AND REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION WITH

OTHER ELECTIONS

WHEREAS, the Acalanes Union High School District ("District") has been forced to cut over $1
million from its budget due to changes in state education funding; and

WHEREAS, the District will be forced to eliminate classroom programs including electives,
college prep courses, Advanced Placement and honors classes, curtail essential education
services; cut technological and vocational classes; and lose experienced teachers due to
inadequate Rinding from the State Legislature; and

WHEREAS, the District’s long-term budget needs have been thoroughly reviewed by a Revenue
Committee of community members and parents; and

WHEREAS, the Revenue Committee has concluded that the District must seek additional
sources of local revenue in order to continue meeting students' basic educational needs by
offering a broad range of college preparatory and elective classes, maintaining and expanding
small class sizes, providing academic support classes, such as college and career counseling
services and well trained librarians, maintaining and upgrading computers and technology to
support student learning, and attracting and retaining highly qualified teachers, and

WHEREAS, the District is determined to meet these goals and sustain classroom and other
services directly related to student educational preparation and performance; and

WHEREAS, funding from the State of California (the "State") has not been adequate to meet
these goals, and the District has no assurance that State funding will in the future permit the
District to meet these goals; and

WHEREAS, funding from the Federal Government does not constitute a significant portion of
the District's budget and is insufficient to meet these goals, and the District has no assurance that
Federal funding will in the future permit the District to meet these goals; and

WHEREAS, the District continues to engage in a variety of efforts to generate funds for the
District's educational programs, including lobbying in the State Legislature, local fund-raising
efforts, and cost-cutting measures, and

WHEREAS, these efforts at efficiency, innovation and fund raising cannot be counted on to
produce sufficient revenues to maintain and expand the classroom programs upon which local
students depend for their academic preparation; and

Page 1

DOCSSF/41463 V2/22000-0001

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government Code
Section 50079 authorize a school district, upon approval of two-thirds of the electorate voting on
the measure, to levy a qualified special tax for specified purposes; and

WHEREAS, the District currently collects a Qualified Special Tax of $85 per year per taxable
parcel which will expire on June 30, 2007; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Education of the District (the "Board") believes that in order to
continue meeting the educational needs of all of the District's students it is necessary to replace
the Qualified Special Tax as recommended by the Revenue Committee in the amount of $189
per year per taxable parcel, to be collected beginning July 1,2005; and

WHEREAS, the use of any local funds raised by such a qualified special tax shall be reviewed
annually by an Citizen’s Oversight Committee in order to ensure that all funds are spent
responsibly and according to the proposal placed before the voters for approval by this
resolution;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Governing Board of the Acalanes Union High
School District, as follows:

1.	This Board hereby finds and determines that the foregoing recitals are true and correct.

2.	This Board hereby proposes to adopt a qualified special tax for such specific purposes as:

(a)	preventing the elimination of teaching positions;

(b)	preventing the dramatic increase in class size in freshman English and history;

(c)	supporting the maintenance of college preparatory courses, Advanced Placement
and honors classes, and electives courses;

(d)	supporting the continuation of student support services such as librarians;

(e)	preventing class size increase for all students at each of the District’s schools.

3.	Pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.1 the Board determines that the proceeds of
the parcel tax shall only be applied for the purposes stated above.

4.	This Board hereby requests the Contra Costa County Clerk ("County Clerk") to submit to
the voters of this District on March 8, 2005, the following ballot measure:

"To strengthen and restore classroom programs that provide local
students with rigorous preparation in math, science, writing, history,
computers, music, art and other subjects and address the negative
impact of state budget cuts, shall the Acalanes Union High School
District be authorized to replace its existing parcel tax with a new
qualified special tax costing $189 per taxable parcel on July 1, 2005, for
six years, offering a senior exemption and with expenditures monitored
by a citizens’ oversight committee?”

DOCSSF/41463v2/22000-0001

Page 2

5.	Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on the measure, the Qualified Special Tax
shall be authorized to be levied and collected in the amount of $ 189 per year on each parcel of
taxable land in the District in each year beginning July 1, 2005, for a period of six years ending
June 30, 2011. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District, which now receives a
separate tax bill from the Contra Costa County Tax Collector's Office. All property that would
otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of the special
tax. An annual exemption for properties owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older
shall be available by application pursuant to procedures to be prescribed by the Board or
otherwise as required by law or by the County Tax Collector.

6.	The authority for the specifications of this election order is contained in Sections 5304 and
5322 of the California Education Code and Section 50079 of the California Government Code.

7.	The County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to prepare and execute a Formal
Notice of Parcel Tax Election and consolidation order in substantially the form attached hereto as
Exhibit A (the "Formal Notice").

8.	This Resolution shall stand as the order to the County Superintendent of Schools to call an
election within the boundaries of the District on March 8, 2005.

9.	The Clerk of this District is ordered, not later than December 9, 2004, to deliver a certified
copy of this resolution and order to the County Superintendent of Schools, a certified copy to the
County Clerk (elections department), and a certified copy to the Clerk of the County Board of
Supervisors.

10.	The County Superintendent of Schools is hereby requested to call the election by causing
the Formal Notice to be posted in accordance with Section 5362 of the Education Code no later
than December 10, 2004, or to otherwise cause the notice to be published as permitted by law.
The Clerk of this Board, on behalf of the County Superintendent of Schools, is authorized to
cause all notices required by law in connection herewith to be published and posted, as the case
may be.

11.	The County Superintendent of Schools and the Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa
County are requested to order consolidation of the election with such other elections as may be
held on the same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

12.	The Board of Supervisors of Contra Costa County is authorized to canvass the returns of
the election pursuant to Section 10411 of the Elections Code.

13.	Pursuant to Section 5303 of the Education Code, the County Clerk is requested to take all
steps to hold the election in accordance with law and these specifications.

14.	Subject to two-thirds approval of the voters, the Qualified Special Tax shall be collected by
the Contra Costa County Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be subject to the
same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Tax Collector. The tax shall bear
interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid.

DOCSSF/41463 v2/22000-0001

Page 3

15.	The collection of the Qualified Special Tax provided for herein shall not decrease the funds
available from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

16.	In the event that the existing parcel tax is rescinded as provided in the March 8, 2005,
ballot, any senior exemption granted to the payment of the existing $85 per parcel tax shall be
continued. Newly qualified seniors would also be exempt from the $189 per parcel tax upon an
application.

17.	The Board shall provide in each year (pursuant to Section 7902.1 of the Government Code)
for any increase in the District's appropriations limit as shall be necessary to ensure that proceeds
of the Qualified Special Tax may be spent for the authorized purposes.

18.	The members of the Board are hereby authorized, but not directed, to prepare and file with
the County Clerk a ballot argument in favor of the proposition contained in Section 2 hereof,
within the time established by the County Clerk.

19.	The Board shall, pursuant to Government Code Section 50075.3 file an annual report as
provided herein accounting for the parcel tax revenues collected and the manner in which they
have been spent.

DOCS SF/41463 v2/22000-0001

Page 4

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Governing Board of the Acalanes Union High School
District on the 6th day of December 6, 2004, by the following vote:

AYES:	_	Carney

Coppersmith

Crews

Tobias______

Whitmore

NOES:

None

ABSTAIN

None

ABSENT

None

DOCS SF/41463 v2/22000-0001

Page 5

Exhibit A

FORMAL NOTICE OF PARCEL TAX ELECTION

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified electors of the Acalanes Union High School
District of Contra Costa County, California, that in accordance with the provisions of the
Education Code and the Government Code of the State of California, an election will be held on
March 8, 2005, at which election the following proposition shall be submitted to the qualified
electors of the District and voted upon:

"To strengthen and restore classroom programs that provide local
students with rigorous preparation in math, science, writing, history,
computers, music, art and other subjects and address the negative
impact of state budget cuts, shall the Acalanes Union High School
District be authorized to replace its existing parcel tax with a new
qualified special tax costing $189 per taxable parcel on July I, 2005, for
six years, offering a senior exemption and with expenditures monitored
by a citizens’ oversight committee?”

By execution of this formal Notice of Election the County Superintendent of Schools of Contra
Costa County orders consolidation of the election with such other elections as may be held on the
same day in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same.

The County Superintendent of Schools of Contra Costa County, by this Notice of Election, has
called the election pursuant to a Resolution of the Board of Education of the Acalanes Union
High School District, adopted December 6, 2004, in accordance with the provisions of Education
Code Sections 5302, 5325 and 5361.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, 1 have hereunto set my hand this day, D<?c.,	,	2004.

DOCSSF/41463v2/22000 0001

Page 6