MEASURE T

PROPOSAL TO ISSUE BONDS AND LEVY SPECIAL TAX FOR THE COMMUNITY
FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2005-1 (COMMUNITY RECREATION CENTER)

Shall the Community Facilities District No. 2005-1 (Community Recreation Center): 1) issue
not more than $22,230,000 of 30-year bonds to build the core of the North Tahoe Recreation
Center on Dollar Hill; 2) levy a special tax which shall escalate at 2% annually to pay bond
debt service and to support the Center’s operation; and 3) have an appropriations limit of
$2,000,000 per year? After bonds are paid off, the tax may continue at a reduced level to fund
only operations, if necessary.

YES_____	NO____

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY THE PLACER COUNTY COUNSEL

The North Lake Tahoe Recreation Center Authority,
Community Facilities District No. 2005-1 (Community
Recreation Center), (“CFD”) proposes through their CFD
Board of Directors (“Board”) (Resolution No. 05-04), that
the CFD be authorized by the voters to impose a special
tax on the taxable property within its boundaries, sell up
to $22.23 million ($22,230,000.00) in bonds, and set the
CFD’s appropriations limit at $2 million dollars.

The special tax and the bond proceeds would be used to
construct and operate the core of the proposed “North
Tahoe Recreation Center", including an indoor
swimming pool, multi-purpose exercise and fitness
areas, and their related support space ("Facility”).

The special tax is comprised of two components, a
facilities tax and a services tax. The facilities tax
component would be used to repay the bond principal
and interest, and would terminate when the principal and
interest of the bonds have been repaid in full. The
services tax component would continue indefinitely, or
until such time as the Facility does not need operational
support.

if approved by the voters, the annual special tax levy
authorized in this election would be (please see table
below):

Residential, per unit	$74 facilities + $24 services = $98 total special tax
Commercial/lndustrial, per 100 sq. ft.	$7.50 facilities + $2.50 services = $10 total special tax
Hotel/Motel, per room	$56 facilities + $18.00 services =$74 total special tax
Timeshare/Vacation Ownership, per unit	$368 facilities + $122 services = $490 total special tax
Restaurant, per seat	$6 facilities +$2 services = $8 total special tax
Other Taxable Properties	$19 facilities +$6 services = $25 total special tax

The bonds sold would bear interest at a rate not
exceeding the statutory limit per annum. The maturity of
any bonds sold would not exceed thirty (30) years.

The special tax would not be collected until the 2007-
2008 tax year or until the Facility has received
environmental and planning approvals, whichever is
later. If approvals cannot be obtained by January 1,

1 2012, the bonds will not be sold and the recording of a
Release of Special Tax Lien on all affected property will
: revoke this special tax. The Facilities portion of the
; special tax may not be levied after Fiscal Year 2042-43.

: The tax will escalate at a rate not to exceed 2%
; annually, beginning July 1, 2008. Senior Discounts of up
; to 50% may be applied for annually, subject to an overall
limit detailed in Resolution 05-04.

A 'YES" vote is a vote in favor of the special tax,
the issuance and sale of up to $22,230,000 of
bonds, and the establishment of a $2 million
dollar appropriations limit for the CFD.

A "NO" vote is a vote against imposing the levy of
the special tax, issuance and sale of bonds, and
establishing the appropriations limit.

Measure T must receive approval by two-thirds (2/3) of the
votes cast by the voters voting upon the measure to be
implemented.

Anthony J. La Bouff
County Counsel

By:	Sabrina	M.	Thompson

Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

While our community is fortunate to have the abundant
outdoor recreational resources nature provides, our
climate compels the need for an indoor pool and other

operating budget analyst, tax consultant, bond counsel,
and wildlife, traffic and scenic experts. Upon approval, a
Citizens Oversight Committee will ensure local control
-and-fisGal-responsibifit-y,---------------------—-—_—_----------

opportunity to fill that gap for about $8.00 per month per
residence.

MEASURE T funds will build the core North Tahoe
Recreation Center; a 26,000 sf. structure with an indoor
swimming pool, fitness area and multi-purpose space,
and provide parking and traffic mitigation.

Outside funds and private donations may expand the
center to include a warm water therapy/swimming lesson
pool, water-slide, children’s, teens’ and seniors’ areas,
climbing wall, gym with indoor running track, trail-head
and a section of the North Tahoe Bike Trail. The NTRC
will be centrally located on Dollar Hill, within walking
distance of the middle and high schools, on the bus
route, 7 miles from Kings Beach and 10 miles from
Tahoma.

An all volunteer citizens group has been working for five
years with independent professionals obtaining expert
advice for every facet of the project. The experts include
a construction cost estimator, five contractors for both
large and small projects, two architects, three kinds of
engineers, an aquatic facility designer, a use and

The North Tahoe Recreation Center will provide far more
than a safe, much-needed place for kids to gather or
take swimming lessons. It will also:

-	Promote our active lifestyle year-round

-	Maintain and attract full-time families while

supporting local businesses

-	Support the physical needs of our increasingly

aging population

-	Become a gathering place for residents of the North

and West Shore

Your YES vote on MEASURE T builds more than a
building; it builds a community.

Duane Whitelaw, Chairman, Placer County Parks
Commission, Kings Beach Resident
Kristy Oik, TTUSD Trustee Area 3
Daniel P. Wilkins, Tahoe Pines Homeowner
Carol Hester, Business Owner, TC Downtown
Association Member

John Walsh, DC, Chiropractor, Tahoe City Resident

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

Measure Ts supporters tell us we can have a
Recreation Center for $8.00 per month. This is true,
UNLESS you actually want to USE the Center. Then it
will cost your family an ADDITIONAL $68.50 per month!
Don't you think these user fees will increase in the
future?

Measure T's supporters have been working with a team
of "independent" professionals. Without plans, there
CANNOT be a solid cost estimate. Don’t you think
government projects often have huge cost overruns?

Measure T's supporters gave us a long list of features
that will NOT be included without private donations or
grants. One is a "warm water therapy/swimming lesson
pool." Does this mean that there will be no swimming
lessons without private donations? Do you really think
that private donations will double the size of the Center ?

Measure T's supporters tell us the Center will "maintain
and attract full time families." Incline Village has a
beautiful recreation center and its population of young
families is DROPPING. Supporters tell us the Center will
help our "increasingly aging population." Our aging
population is increasingly moving away to get out of the
snow, NOT because there is no Recreation Center!

Measure Ts supporters tell us the Center will help local
business. Paying higher taxes NEVER helps business.
The added cost to restaurants, motels, and businesses
will be passed on to all of us, not just to our visitors.
Don't you think the cost of living is high enough already?

VOTE NO ON MEASURE T

Terry Dyer, Commercial Property Owner
Eugene J. Fenech, Motel Owner
Alejandro R. Brambila, Restaurant Manager

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T

i Measure T allows a bond issue of $22,230,000 for the
: building of a Recreation Center on the Firestone
; property. Measure T's supporters claim these bonds will

An additional cost will be USER FEES. Residents will be
charged $44.00 per month or $528.00 per year for 1
adult. The family fee will be $68.50 per month or
_per-yeac---------------------------------------------------

square foot building . No plans have been drawn, no
Environmental impact Reports have been done, and no
solid building estimates have been completed. The
project’s supporters- are relying on private funding and
grants to complete the full project, a 57,136 square foot
building. No one knows how large the center will be or
what it will cost!

The cost to the taxpayer is known. In the 1st year of the
tax, the single family home owner will pay $98.00,
commercial owners will pay $10.00 per 100 square feet,
motels will pay $74.00 per room, restaurants will pay
$8.00 per seat and timeshare/vacation owners will pay
$ 490.00. This tax will increase at the rate of 2% a year
for 30 years. For renters, this tax will be passed on in the
form of higher rents. Measure T states that after 30
years, part of the tax "may" continue indefinitely to pay
for operations. We are being asked to write a blank
check for this project.

The Firestone property is one of the few remaining open
spaces in the area, used by many for outdoor recreation.
It should remain UNDEVELOPED. The population of
young families in our community is declining, due to the
high cost of living here. Do we really want to further
DEGRADE the environment and INCREASE the cost of
living in our community?

VOTE NO ON MEASURE T

Gwen L. Rosser, Tahoe Vista, Environmentalist
Elenita D. Sullivan, Tahoe City, Community Volunteer
Donna L. Anderson, Bookkeeper, West Shore
Homeowner

Dennis L. Schlumpf, Tahoe Pines Contractor
George H. Edmondson, Carnelian Bay, U.S. Navy
Retired

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE T

A major element of the quality of life at Lake
Tahoe is recreation, yet we have an obvious gap in
recreation opportunities. Measure T is our best chance
to fill that gap. A healthy and stable community needs to
renew itself on an ongoing basis through younger people
providing fresh energy, new ideas and a sense of
optimism. However, our community' is not being
renewed.

From our children who need a year-round safe
place to gather to our seniors who need a place to
exercise, building a Recreation Center helps to renew
our community. We must address our year-round
recreational needs to encourage those already here to
stay and attract others to become full-time residents. In a
recent survey, 91% of young families said they want the
Recreation Center. $8.17 a month gives our community
an indoor swimming pool and exercise facility.
Community renewal produces even broader benefits.

Our businesses need a base of full-time
residential customers. Keeping recreation, and the

spending dollars linked to recreation, here in North
Tahoe helps local businesses. North Shore residents
going elsewhere to pursue indoor recreation take their
dollars with them.

We can’t control the forces of change that
challenge the character of our community. But we can
make a smart investment now to encourage a vibrant,
multi-generational population in the future.

A YES vote for MEASURE T is a vote for our
community, our economy and our quality of life. Please
vote YES on MEASURE T.

Jim Backhus, President, Tahoe Rim Trail Association

Mike Me Elravey, Highlands Homeowner

Dave Wilderotter, Business Owner

Heather Segale, Staff, Tahoe Environmental Research

Center

Ken Foster, Carnelian Bay Business Owner

/

15

RESOLUTION NO. 05-04

A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
THE NORTH LAKE TAHOE RECREATION
AUTHORITY OF FORMATION OF COMMUNITY
FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2005-1 (COMMUNITY
-------------—RECREATION CENTER)---------------------------

. RESOLVED, by the Board of Directors (the
"Board") of-theNorth Lake Tahoe Recreation Center
: Authority (the "Authority"), Counties of El Dorado and

; Placer, State of California that:

! . '

WHEREAS, on May 2, 2005, this Board adopted
a resolution entitled "A Resolution of The Board of
Directors of the North Lake Tahoe Recreation Center
Authority of Intention to Establish a Community Facilities
District" (the "Resolution of Intention"), stating its
intention to form the North Lake Tahoe Recreation
Center Authority, Community Facilities Authority No.
2005-1 (Community Recreation Center) (the "CFD"), of
the Authority pursuant to the Mello-Roos Community
Facilities Act of 1982, Chapter 2.5 of Part 1 of Division 2
of Title 5, commencing with Section 53311, of the
California Government Code (the "Act");

WHEREAS, the Resolution of Intention,
incorporating a map of the proposed boundaries of the
CFD and stating the facilities to be provided, the cost of
providing such facilities, and the rate and method of
apportionment of the special tax to be levied within the
CFD to pay the principal and interest on bonds proposed
to be issued with respect to the CFD, is on file with the
Authority Secretary and the provisions thereof are
incorporated herein by this reference as if fully set forth
herein;

WHEREAS, the facilities stated in the
Resolution of Intention are as set forth in Exhibit A
attached hereto and hereby made a part hereof;

WHEREAS, on this date, this Board held a
noticed public hearing as required by the Act and the
Resolution of Intention relative to the proposed formation
of the CFD;

WHEREAS, at the hearing all interested persons
desiring to be heard on all matters pertaining to the
formation of the CFD, the facilities to be provided therein
and the levy of such special tax were heard and a full
and fair hearing was held;

WHEREAS, at the hearing evidence was
presented to this Board on such matters before it,
including a Community Facilities Authority report (the
"Report") as to the facilities to be provided through the
CFD and the costs thereof, a copy of which is on file with
the Authority Secretary, and this Board at the conclusion
■ of said hearing is fully advised in the premises;

WHEREAS, written protests with respect to the
formation of the CFD, the furnishing of specified types of

facilities and the rate and method of apportionment of
the special taxes have not been filed with the Authority
Secretary by fifty percent (50%) or more of the
registered voters residing within the territory of the CFD
or property owners of one-half (1/2) or more of the area
of land within the CFD and not exempt from the
proposed special tax;

WHEREAS, the special tax proposed to be
levied in the CFD to pay for the proposed facilities to be
provided therein, as set forth in Exhibit B hereto, has not
been eliminated by protest by fifty percent (50%) or more
of the registered voters residing within the territory of the
CFD or the owners of one-half (1/2) or more of the area
of land within the CFD and not exempt from the special
tax.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED

as follows:

1.	Recitals Correct. The foregoing recitals
are true and correct.

2.	No Majority Protest. The proposed
special tax to be levied within the CFD has not been
precluded by majority protest pursuant to section 53324
of the Act.

3.	Prior Proceedings Valid. Ail prior
proceedings taken by this Board in connection with the
establishment of the CFD and the levy of the special tax
have been duly considered and are hereby found and
determined to be valid and in conformity with the Act.

4.	Name of CFD. The community facilities
Authority designated "North Lake Tahoe Recreation
Center Authority, Community Facilities District No. 2005-
1 (Community Recreation Center)" is hereby established
pursuant to the Act.

5.	Boundaries of CFD, The boundaries of
the CFD, as set forth in the map of the CFD heretofore
recorded in Maps of Assessment and Community
Facilities Districts in the El Dorado County Recorder's
Office on May 18, 2005, as Document No. 2005-
0041085 and in the Placer County Recorder's Office on
May 18, 2005, as Document No. 2005-0063389 are
hereby approved, are incorporated herein by reference
and shall be the boundaries of the CFD.

6.	Description of Facilities. The type of
public facilities proposed to be financed by the CFD and
pursuant to the Act shall consist of those items listed as
facilities in Exhibit A hereto and by this reference
incorporated herein (the "Facilities").

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

16

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T
CONTINUED

7.	Special Tax.

----------------a-----—Except to the extenUhatiunds

are otherwise available to the CFD to pay for the
Facilities and/or the principal and interest as it
becomes due on bonds of the CFD issued to
finance the Facilities, a special tax (the "Special
Tax") sufficient to pay the costs thereof, secured
by the recordation of a continuing iien against all
non-exempt real property in the CFD, is
intended to be levied annually within the CFD,
and collected in the same manner as ordinary
ad valorem property taxes or in such other
manner as may be prescribed by this Board.

b.	The proposed rate and method
of apportionment of the Special Tax among the
parcels of real property within the CFD, in
sufficient detail to allow each landowner within
the proposed CFD to estimate the maximum
amount such owner wifi have to pay, are shown
in Exhibit B attached hereto and hereby
incorporated herein.

c.	In the case of any Special Tax
to pay for the Facilities and to be levied against
any parcel used for private residential purposes:

(i)	the maximum special tax shall be specified as
a dollar amount which shall be calculated and
thereby established not later than the date on
which the parcel is first subject to the tax
because of its use for private residential
purposes and which amount shall not be
increased over time over two percent per year;

(ii)	the tax year after which no further Special
Tax subject to this sentence shall be levied or
collected shall be as set forth in Exhibit B hereto;
and (iii) under no circumstances will the Special
Tax levied against any parcel subject to this
sentence be increased as a consequence of
delinquency or default by the owner of any other
parcel within the CFD by more than ten percent.
For the purposes hereof, a parcel is used for
"private residential purposes" not later than the
date on which an occupancy permit for private
residential use is issued.

8.	Responsible Official. The Interim Executive
Director of the Authority, whose address is P. 0. Box
5249, Tahoe City, California 96145; telephone number
(530) 583-3796 ext. 33, is the officer of the Authority who
will be responsible for causing the preparation annually
of a current roll of special tax levy obligations by
assessor's parcel number and who will be responsible
for estimating future special tax levies pursuant to the
Act.

9.	Tax Lien. Upon recordation of a notice of
special tax lien pursuant to Section 3114.5 of the Streets
and Highways Code of California, a continuing lien to
secure each levy of the special tax shall attach to all
nonexempt real property in the CFD and this lien shall
continue in force and effect until the special tax

-obligation-is-prepaid-and-peFmanently-satisfiecLandJhe„
lien canceled in accordance with law or until collection of
the tax by the Authority ceases.

10.	Appropriations Limit. In accordance with
the Act, the annual appropriations limit, as defined by
subdivision (h) of Section 8 of Article XIII B of the
California Constitution, of the CFD is hereby preliminarily
established at $2,000,000 and such appropriations limit
shall be submitted to the voters of the CFD as hereafter
provided. The proposition establishing said annual
appropriations limit shall become effective if approved by
the qualified electors voting thereon and shall be
adjusted in accordance with the applicable provisions of
the Act.

11.	Election. Pursuant to the provisions of the
Act, the proposition of the levy of the special tax and the
proposition of the establishment of the appropriations
limit specified above shall be submitted to the qualified
electors of the CFD at an election the time, place and
conditions of which election shall be as specified by . a
separate resolution of this Board.

12.	Effective. This resolution shall take effect
upon its adoption.

PASSED by the Board of Directors of the North
Lake Tahoe Recreation Center Authority at a regular
meeting thereof this 6th day of June, 2005, by the
following vote:

AYES:	Boardmembers:	Treabess,	Winter,

Lanini and Bergman
NOES:	Boardmembers:

ABSENT:	Boardmembers:

ABSTAIN:	Boardmembers:

NORTH LAKE TAHOE RECREATION
CENTER AUTHORITY
By: Ron Treabess
Title: Chairman

ATTEST:

Robert Lourey

Secretary of the Board of Directors

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

17

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T
CONTINUED

EXHIBIT A

NORTH LAKE TAHOE RECREATION
CENTER AUTHORITY
Community Facilities District No. 2005-1
(Community Recreation Center)

DESCRIPTION OF FACILITIES AND SERVICESTO
BE FINANCED BY THE CFD

The Facilities shall consist of the construction
; and/or acquisition of the core portion the North Tahoe
| Recreation Center, to include swimming and multi-
: purpose exercise facilities and related support space,
together with required surveys, plans, specifications, site
work, landscaping and fixtures, to be located in the CFD
on the Firestone Property at the top of Dollar Hill.

The Services shall consist of recreation program
I services, administrative, maintenance and related
j services necessary for the support of any portion of the
j Facilities.

|	EXHIBIT	B

I

NORTH LAKE TAHOE RECREATION
CENTER AUTHORITY
COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2005-1
(COMMUNITY RECREATION CENTER)

RATE AND METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT
OF SPECIAL TAX

! A Special Tax applicable to each Assessor's Parcel in
j Community Facilities District No. 2005-1 shall be levied
j and collected according to the tax liability determined by
; the Board of Directors of the North Lake Tahoe
Recreation Center Authority through the application of
the appropriate amount or rate for Taxable Property, as
described below. All Taxable Property in CFD No. 2005-
j 1 shall be taxed for the purposes, to the extent, and in
; the manner herein provided!

: A. DEFINITIONS

The terms hereinafter set forth have the following
meanings:

"Act" means the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of
1982, as amended, being Chapter 2.5, (commencing
with Section 53311), Division 2 of Title 5 of the
Government Code of the State of California.

"Administrative Expenses" means any or all of the

following: the fees and expenses of any fiscal agent or
trustee (including any fees or expenses of its counsel)

employed in connection with any Bonds, and the
expenses of the Authority in carrying out its duties with
respect to CFD No. 2005-1 and the Bonds, including, but
not limited to, the levying and collection of the Special
Tax, the fees and expenses of legal counsel, charges
levied by the County Auditors' Offices, Tax Collectors'
Offices, and/or County Treasurers' Offices, costs related
to-property-owner-fnquiries-regarding4he-SpeeiaTTax,—
and all other costs and expenses of the Authority in any
way related to the establishment or administration of
CFD No. 2005-1.

"Administrator” shall mean the person or firm
designated by the Authority to administer the Special
Tax according to this Rate and Method of Apportionment
of Special Tax.

"Assessor's Parcel" or "Parcel" means a lot or parcel
shown on an Assessor's Parcel Map with an assigned
Assessor's Parcel number.

"Assessor's Parcel Map" means an official map of the
County Assessor designating parcels by Assessor's
Parcel number.

"Authority" means the North Lake Tahoe Recreation
Center Authority.

"Authorized Facilities" means those facilities that are
authorized to be funded by CFD No. 2005-1.

"Authorized Services" means those services that are
authorized to be funded by CFD No. 2005-1.

"Board" means the Board of Directors of the Authority.

"Bonds" means any bonds or other debt (as defined in
Section 53317(d) of the Act), whether in one or more
series, issued by the Authority for CFD No. 2005-1 under
the Act.

"CFD” or "CFD No. 2005-1" means the North Lake
Tahoe Recreation Center Authority Community Facilities
District No. 2005-1 (Community Recreation Center).

"Commercial/lndustria! Parcels" means, in any Fiscal
Year, all Assessor's Parcels in the CFD that are
designated in that Fiscal Year, or have been designated
in prior Fiscal Years, by the following County Use
Codes:

Placer County: 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 19, 23, 24, 25, 26,

29, 31, 32, 37, 38, 39, 62, 65, 69

El Dorado County: 31, 34, 36, 37, 40, 41,45, 48, 60, 61,
63,3611,3665

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

18

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED

: Commercial/lndustrial Parcels shall also include any
other Parcels of Taxable Property on which it is
determined that a structure has been built and is being
used for commercial or industrial operations.

"Commercial/lndustrial Square Footage" means the
usable square footage within a structure on a
| Commercial/lndustrial Parcel as determined pursuant to
' site visits, or reference to building permits, TCPUD or
' NTPUD databases, or outside data sources.

| Commercial/lndustrial Square Footage shall not include
; outside space used as part of a commercial or industrial
business operation.

"County" means, collectively, Placer and El Dorado
Counties.

"County Use Code" means the numerical code
assigned by the County Assessors' Offices to identify the
land use on an Assessor's Parcel. If an individual County
, Use Code is assigned below to more than one Special
I Tax Category, then such code indicates multiple land
| uses on one Parcel, and the Maximum Special Tax for
j such a Parcel shall be determined pursuant to Section
| C.3 below.

"Exempt Parcels" means, in any Fiscal Year, all
; Parcels exempt from the Special Tax pursuant to law or
! Section G below.

"Facilities Special Tax" means a special tax levied in
any Fiscal Year to pay the Facilities Special Tax
Requirement, as defined below.

"Facilities Special Tax Requirement" means the
amount necessary in any Fiscal Year to (i) pay principal
and interest, including scheduled sinking fund payments,
on Bonds, (ii) pay Administrative Expenses of the CFD
that have not been included in the Services Special Tax
Requirement for the Fiscal Year, (iii) create or replenish
reserve funds, (iv) cure any delinquencies in the
payment of principal or interest on indebtedness of the
CFD which have occurred in the prior Fiscal Year or
(based on delinquencies in the payment of the Facilities
Special Taxes which have already taken place) are
: expected to occur in the Fiscal Year in which the tax will
; be collected, and (v) construct or acquire Authorized
i Facilities. The amounts referred to in clauses (i) and (iii)
i of the preceding sentence may be reduced in any Fiscal
Year by: (i) interest earnings on or surplus balances in
funds and accounts for the Bonds to the extent that such
! earnings or balances are available to apply against debt
service pursuant to a Bond indenture, Bond resolution,
or other legal document that sets forth these terms; (ii)
proceeds received by CFD No. 2005-1 from the
collection of penalties associated with delinquent Annual
Facilities Special Taxes; and (iii) any other revenues

available to pay debt service on the Bonds as
determined by the Administrator.

"Fiscal Year" means the period starting July 1 and
ending on the following June 30.

"Hotel Parcels" means, in anv Fiscal Year, all
Assessor's Parcels in the CFD that are designated in
that Fiscal Year, or have been designated in prior Fiscal
Years, by the following County Use Codes except those
Parcels that are determined to meet the definition of
Timeshare/Vacation Ownership Parcel even if such
Parcels are designated by one of the following County
Use Codes:

Placer County: 18
El Dorado County: 33

Hotel Parcels shall also include any other Parcels of
Taxable Property on which it is determined that a
structure has been built that constitutes a place of
lodging with multiple rooms, all of which are rented out
separately to provide overnight sleeping
accommodations and related facilities for travelers.

"Maximum Facilities Special Tax” means the highest
amount of Facilities Special Tax that can be levied in any
Fiscal Year pursuant to Sections C and D below.

"Maximum Services Special Tax" means the highest
amount of Services Special Tax that can be levied in any
Fiscal Year pursuant to Sections C and D below.

"Maximum Special Tax" means, collectively, the
Maximum Facilities Special Tax and Maximum Services
Special Tax that can be levied in any Fiscal Year
pursuant to Sections C and D below.

"NTPUD" means the North Tahoe Public Utility District.

"Other Parcels" means, in any Fiscal Year, all
Assessor's Parcels in the CFD that are designated in
that Fiscal Year by the following County Use Codes:

Placer County: 00, 07,10, 20, 27,30,55, 56, 61,
63, 64, 66, 67, 84, 99

El Dorado County: 00, 02, 21, 24, 29, 30, 1100

Other Parcels shall also include other Parcels of Taxable
Property that do not fit into any of the other Special Tax
Categories based on the use ot development status of
the Parcel.

"Proportionately" means that the ratio of the actual
Special Tax levied in any Fiscal Year to the Maximum
Special Tax authorized to be levied in that Fiscal Year is
equal for all Assessor's Parcels of Taxable Property.

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

19

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED

"Public Property” means any property within the
boundaries of the CFD that is owned by the federal

NTPUD, or other public agency.

"Residential Parcel" means, in any Fiscal Year, all
Assessor’s Parcels in the CFD that are designated in
that Fiscal Year, or have been designated in prior Fiscal
Years, by the following County Use Codes:

Placer County. 01, 02, 03, 04, 05,16, 28
El Dorado County: 11, 12, 13, 16, 22/23, 1106,
1114,1118, 2206, 2306, 3611

; Residential Parcels shall also include any other Parcels
' of Taxable Property that are determined to have
Residential Units located on the Parcel.

"Residential Unit" means (i) am individual single-family
detached unit, (ii) an individual residential unit within a
; duplex, triplex, fourplex, townhome, or condominium
structure, (iii) an individual mobile home or apartment
unit, (iv) a second unit (granny flat), and (v) a residential
dwelling units above a commercial establishment or
otherwise included in a mixed-use development.

"Restaurant Parcels" means, in any Fiscal Year, all
Assessor's Parcels in the CFD that (i) are designated in
I that Fiscal Year, or have been designated in prior Fiscal
' Years, by Placer County Use Codes 21 and 22 or El
Dorado County Use Codes 65, 67, or 3665, and/or (ii)
contain a structure that is used as an eating or drinking
establishment open to the general public.

"Qualifying Senior" means a resident within the CFD
. who meets all of the following criteria:

|	(1)	The individual is an owner of record of a

!	Parcel within the CFD according to the most

recent secured County tax roil or a
subsequently recorded deed of trust on the
Parcel.

i

(2) The individual resides in a Unit located on
the Parcel for which he/she is a record
owner, which shall be., verified by the
Authority after a review of driver's license or
other state or federal government-issued
identification card, utility bills, or other similar
documentation.

1	(3)	The individual is sixty-five (65) years of age

or older, which shall be verified by the
Authority after review of a driver's license or
other state or federal government-issued
identification card.

4) in the prior calendar year, the individual (or
the individual and the individual's spouse, if
taxes were filed jointly) earned a total gross
annual income that was less than eighty
percent (80%) of the area median income
(AMI) for one or two-person households (as

----~ appropriate) for Placer County. Gross

income shall be verified after review of
federal tax forms from the prior calendar
year, and the County’s AMI shall be
determined by reference to the then-current
Income Limits publication prepared by the
State of California Department of Housing
and Community Development.

"Senior Discount Form" means a form made available
by the Authority and submitted to either the TCPUD or
NTPUD office by a Qualifying Senior no later than June
30 each year that shall cause one Residential Unit on a
Parcel owned by the Qualifying Senior to be designated
as a Senior Discount Unit in the following Fiscal Year.
Only the Residential Unit in which the Qualifying Senior
resides will be subject to the discount. The Senior
Discount Form shall require the Qualifying Senior to
identify (i) the address of the Residential Unit to which
the discount shall apply, (ii) the Assessor's Parcel
number for the Parcel on which the Residential Unit is
located, (iii) the Qualifying Senior's date of birth, which
shall be confirmed by review of the individual's driver's
license or identification card, and (iv) the Qualifying
Senior's gross annual income from the prior calendar
year, which shall be verified by review of tax forms. A
Senior Discount Form must be submitted to the TCPUD
or NTPUD office no later than June 30 each year for the
Parcel to continue to be taxed as a Senior Unit, as
discussed further in Section D below.

"Senior Discount Units" means, in any Fiscal Year, all
Residential Units for which a Senior Discount Form was
submitted to the TCPUD or NTPUD District in the prior
Fiscal Year.

"Services Special Tax" means a special tax levied in
any Fiscal Year to pay the Services Special Tax
Requirement, as defined below.

"Services Special Tax Requirement" means that
amount necessary in any Fiscal Year to (i) pay for
Authorized Services, (ii) pay administrative expenses of
the CFD that have not been included in the Facilities
Special Tax Requirement for the Fiscal Year, and (iii)
cure any delinquencies in the payment of Services
Special Taxes levied in prior Fiscal Years or (based on
delinquencies in the payment of Services Special Taxes
which have already taken place) are expected to occur
in the current Fiscal Year.

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

20

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED

■ "Special Tax” means a special tax levied in any Fiscal
Year that will be used to pay the Special Tax
i Requirement, as defined below. ______________________

|

| "Special Tax Categories" means, collectively,
j Residential Parcels, Timeshare/Vacation Ownership
Parcels, Commercial/lndustrial Parcels, Hotel/Motel
i Parcels, Restaurant Parcels, and Other Parcels.

: "Taxable Property" means, in any Fiscal Year, all
i Parcels within the CFD that are not Exempt Parcels.

j "Taxable Public Property" means, in any Fiscal Year,

| ail Parcels within the CFD that (i) had in any prior Fiscal
i Year been Taxable Property, (ii) and are subsequently
dedicated to or acquired by a public agency, and (iii)
have not had the Facilities Special Tax obligation
prepaid.

"TCPUD" means the Tahoe City Public Utility District.

"Timeshare/Vacation Ownership Parcels" means, in
any Fiscal Year, all Assessor's Parcels in the CFD that
are designated in that Fiscal Year, or have been
designated in prior Fiscal Years, by Placer County Use
Codes 06. Timeshare/Vacation Ownership Parcels shall
also include the following: (i) Parcels of Taxable Property
that are determined to have Residential Units for which
multiple owners may purchase a fractional share of
ownership (also referred to as a timeshare unit by the
California Department of Real Estate), (ii) Parcels of
Taxable Property with Residential Units for which
individuals may purchase a period of time during which
to stay in the Residential Unit during the year, when
such purchase results in a close of escrow and grants
the individuals ownership rights in the Residential Unit,
and (iii) the Parcels identified in Fiscal Year 2005-06 by

Assessor's Parcel numbers 117*140-008/ 117-071-005,
117-071-012,117-072-003, and 117-072-004 unless and
until it is determined that lodging in the Residential Units
on such Parcels is no longer offered for sale. Any Parcel
with a Residential Unit that is determined to meet one of
the criteria set forth above shall be categorized as a
Timeshare/Vacation Ownership Parcel regardless of the
County Use Code assigned to the Parcel.

B. DATA FOR ANNUAL ADMINISTRATION OF
SPECIAL TAX

On or about July 1 of each Fiscal Year, the Administrator
shall (i) obtain the current Assessor's tax roll for the area
within the CFD, (Ii) identify the current Assessor's Parcel
numbers and County Use Codes for Taxable Property
within the CFD, (iii) determine the appropriate Special
Tax Category for each Parcel of Taxable Property, (iv)
determine the Commercial/lndustrial Square Footage for
each Commercial/lndustrial Parcel, (v) determine the
number of rooms for Hotel/Motel Parcels, (vi) determine
the number of seats for each Restaurant Parcel (which
shall not include outside seating on any Restaurant
Parcel), and (vii) determine the Facilities Special Tax
Requirement and Services Special Tax Requirement for
the Fiscal Year. The Administrator shall also identify all
Senior Discount Units in that Fiscal Year, as discussed
further in Section D below.

For Residential Parcels that have more than one
Residential Unit, the number of Residential Units on the
Parcel shall be determined by a site visit to each Parcel,
data available from the NTPUD or TCPUD, or reference
to the condominium plan, apartment plan, site plan or
other development	plan	for the	Parcel.

Commercial/lndustrial	Square	Footage	on a

Commercial/lndustrial Parcel and the number of seats
on a Restaurant Parcel shall be determined pursuant to
site visits, or reference to building permits, TCPUD or
NTPUD databases, or outside data sources.

21

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED

! D. CHANGES TO THE MAXIMUM SPECIAL TAX

: i: -----AnnuahEscatatiorrof-SpeciaHFax---------------

] Beginning in Fiscal Year 2008-09, and each Fiscal Year
] thereafter, the Maximum Special Tax rates shown in
; Section C above, and the Maximum Special Tax
assigned to each Parcel of Taxable Property within the
CFD, shall be increased by an amount equal to two
I percent (2.0%) of the amount in effect for the prior Fiscal
; Year.

2.	Appeals of Special Tax Category or Data Used
to Calculate Special Tax

| At no time shall changes to land uses, County Use
I Codes, Commercial/lndustrial Square Footage,

' hotel/motel rooms, number or restaurant seats, or other
changes to a Parcel in the CFD result in a reduction in
f the total Maximum Special Taxes that can be collected
| within the CFD, with the following exception: if, prior to
j Bonds being issued for the CFD. a written notice is
| submitted to the NTPUD or TCPUD office that appeals
' the County Use Code designation, number of
j Residential Units, Commercial/lndustrial Square
: Footage, number of hotel/motel rooms or restaurant
i seats, or other pertinent data used to determine the
: Maximum Special Tax assigned to a Parcel, a designee
| of the Authority will conduct a site visit and make a final
1 determination as to the correct data that applies to the
Parcel. If the data determined by the Authority's
designee changes the Maximum Special Tax that was
originally determined for the Parcel, the designee shall
provide a written confirmation to the Authority and the
i Administrator as to the correct data that should apply to
| the Parcel. The Administrator shall then recalculate the
; Maximum Special Tax that will apply to the Parcel.

; Once Bonds have been issued, the Facilities Maximum
Special Tax applicable to each Parcel in the CFD shall
: not be reduced, although it may be increased, in future
Fiscal Years due to changes in land use, County Use
Code, Commercial/lndustrial Square Footage, restaurant
seats, hotel/motel rooms, number of Residential Units, or
other criteria that had been used to calculate the
Facilities Maximum Special Tax for the Parcel, with the
: following exception: if the Authority receives a written
appeal and determines that the criteria used to calculate
the Maximum Special Tax should be different, the
Authority may allow a reduction in the Facilities
Maximum Special Tax assigned to the Parcel if anc/
only if the total Facilities Maximum Special Tax
1 revenues that can be collected within the CFD after such
reduction is determined by the Administrator to be
sufficient to provide the debt service coverage to which
the Authority committed in the bond indenture, official

statement, or other such offering document for the
Bonds. In the Authority's sole discretion, the Maximum
Services Special Tax assigned to a Parcel may also be
reduced pursuant to the new criteria assigned to the
Parcel.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the actual Special Tax
leviedorra-Parcel-rn-anjrFiscal-Yearmajrbeiess-than-
the Maximum Special Tax if a lower Special Tax is
calculated pursuant to Section F below.

3.	Senior Discount Units

Notwithstanding the Maximum Special Tax rates
identified in Section C above, each Fiscal Year the
Administrator shall review the Senior Discount Forms
that were submitted to the Authority in the prior Fiscal
Year and identify the Assessor's Parcels on which the
Senior Discount Units are located. The Maximum
Special Tax for all such Senior Discount Units shall be
reduced by fifty percent (50%) of the Maximum Special
Tax that would otherwise apply to the Residential Unit in
that Fiscal Year, with the following exception: if, in any
Fiscal Year, the cumulative total discount for all Senior
Discount Units would exceed $5,000, the Administrator
shall proportionately reduce the amount of the discount
to each Senior Discount Unit until the cumulative
discount equals $5,000. On July 1, 2008 and on each
July 1 thereafter, this cumulative total of allowable
discounts to Senior Discount Units shall be increased by
an amount equal to 2.0% of the amount in effect for the
prior Fiscal Year.

If an Assessor's Parcel has multiple Residential Units
located on it, some of which are Senior Discount Units
and some of which are not, the Administrator shall
calculate the Special Tax for each individual Residential
Unit, then levy the sum of such Special Taxes against
the Parcel.

A Senior Discount Form submitted on or before June 30
in each Fiscal Year will qualify a Parcel for the
associated discount for only the following Fiscal Year. A
new Senior Discount Form must be submitted to the
Authority on or before June 30 in each Fiscal Year for
the Parcel to continue to receive the senior discount.
The Senior Discount Forms shall be kept on file at the
NTPUD or TCPUD office.

4.	Conversion of a Parcel of Exempt Property to
Taxable Property

If, in any Fiscal Year, a Parcel of Exempt Property is
converted to a use that makes the Parcel Taxable
Property, such Parcel shall be subject to the levy of the
Special Tax. The Maximum Special Tax for each such

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

23

after the environmental document has been certified and
the special use permit has been issued for the
Authorized Facilities, if the environmental document has
not been certified or a special use permit has not been
issued for the Authorized Facilities by January 1, 2012, a
Release of Special Tax Lien shall be recorded against all
Parcels in the CFD, thereby revoking the ability to levy
Special" Taxes in any future Fiscar~Year "lf~th&

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED

Parcel shall be determined based on the application of
the appropriate Maximum Special Tax from Section C
-above dependrng“on~
the Parcel should be assigned, as determined by the
Administrator.

5.	Conversion of a Parcel of Taxable Property to
Public Property

If, in any Fiscal Year, a Parcel of Taxable Property
becomes Public Property, such Parcel shall be subject to
the levy of the Facilities Special Tax unless the Facility
Special Tax obligation has been prepaid pursuant to the
steps set forth in Section H below. The Maximum
Special Tax for each such Parcel shall be determined
based on the application of the appropriate Maximum
Special Tax from Section C above depending on the
Special Tax Category to which the Parcel should be
assigned, as determined by the Administrator.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Authority may allow a
release of the Facilities Special Tax lien assigned to the
Parcel if and only //the total Facilities Maximum Special
Tax revenues that can be collected within the CFD after
such release is determined by the Administrator to be
sufficient to provide the debt service coverage to which
the Authority committed in the bond indenture, official
statement, or other such offering document for the
Bonds. In the Authority's sole discretion, the Maximum
Services Special Tax lien assigned to a Parcel that
becomes Public Property may also be released.

6.	Parcels That Prepay the Facilities Special Tax

The Maximum Special Tax assigned to Parcels that
have prepaid the Facilities Special Tax pursuant to the
procedure outlined in Section H below shall be reduced
to include just the Services Special Tax that is in effect
at the time of such prepayment, which shall then
escalate by two percent (2.0%) per year thereafter.

E.	MANNER OF COLLECTION AND DURATION
OF SPECIAL TAX

The Special Taxes for CFD No. .2005-1 shall be
collected in the same manner and at the same time as
ordinary ad valorem property taxes, provided, however,
that prepayments are permitted as set forth in Section H
below and provided further that the Authority may
directly bill the Special Tax, may collect Special Taxes at
a different time or in a different manner, and may collect
delinquent Special Taxes through foreclosure or other
available methods.

I No Special Taxes shall be levied before the later of (i)
| Fiscal Year 2007-08 or (ii) the Fiscal Year beginning

environmental document is certified and special use
permit issued by January 1, 2012, the Facilities Special
Tax shall be levied and collected until principal and
interest on Bonds have been repaid and Authorized
Facilities have been completed. However, in no event
shall a Facilities Special Tax be levied after Fiscal Year
2042-43.

Under no circumstances may the Facilities Special Tax
on one Parcel be increased by more than ten percent
(10%) as a consequence of delinquency or default in
payment of the Facilities Special Tax levied on another
Parcel or Parcels. The Services Special Tax will
continue to be levied and collected unless and until the
Authority determines that the Services Special Tax is no
longer needed to pay for Authorized Services.

F,	METHOD OF LEVY OF THE SPECIAL TAX

1. Facilities Special Tax

Commencing at the earliest in Fiscal Year 2007-08 and
for each following Fiscal Year, the Administrator shall
determine the Facilities Special Tax Requirement for the
Fiscal Year. The Facilities Special Tax shall then be
levied on al! Parcels of Taxable Property in CFD No.
2005-1 as follows:

Step 1: The Facilities Special Tax shall be levied
Proportionately on each Parcel of Taxable
Property within the CFD, not including
Parcels of Taxable Public Property, up to
100% of the Maximum Facilities Special
Tax for each Parcel for such Fiscal Year
until the amount levied on Taxable
Property is equal to the Facilities Special
Tax Requirement for the Fiscal Year;

Step 2: If additional revenue is needed after
applying the first step, the Facilities
Special Tax shall be levied Proportionately
on each Assessor's Parcel of Taxable
Public Property, up to 100% of the
Maximum Facilities Special Tax assigned
to each Parcel of Taxable Public Property.

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

24

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED

i 2. Services Special Tax

| Commencing at the earliest in Fiscal Year 2007-08 and
! for each following Fiscal Year, the Administrator shall
I determine the Services Special Tax Requirement for the
j Fiscal Year. The Services Special Tax shall then be
i levied on all Parcels of Taxable Property as follows:

! Step 1: The Services Special Tax shall be levied
!	Proportionately	on	each Parcel of Taxable

Property within the CFD, not including
Parcels of Taxable Public Property, up to
100% of the Maximum Services Special
Tax for each Parcel for such Fiscal Year
until the amount levied on Taxable
Property is equal to the Services Special
Tax Requirement for the Fiscal Year;

Step 2: If additional revenue is needed after
applying the first step, the Services
Special Tax shall be levied Proportionately
on each Assessor's Parcel of Taxable
Public Property, up to 100% of the
Maximum Services Special Tax assigned
to each Parcel of Taxable Public Property.

G.	EXEMPTIONS

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Rate and
Method of Apportionment of Special Tax, no Special Tax
shall be levied on Public Property, except as otherwise
| provided in Sections 53317.3 and 53317.5 of the Act. In
j addition, no Special Tax shall be levied on Parcels in the
CFD that are identified by the following County Use
; Codes:

Placer County: 68, 71, 72, 76, 77, 81, 84, 87, 88,

89

El Dorado County: 17, 79

H.	PREPAYMENT OF FACILITIES SPECIAL TAX

The following definitions apply to this Section H:

"Future Facilities Cost" means the Public Facilities
Requirement (as defined below) minus public facility
costs funded by Previously Issued Bonds (as
defined below), interest earnings on the construction
fund actually earned prior to the date of prepayment,
Facilities Special Taxes, and/or any other source of
funding.

"Outstanding Bonds" means ajl Previously Issued
Bonds which remain outstanding, with the following
exception: if a Facilities Special Tax has been levied
against, or already paid by, an Assessor's Parcel
making a prepayment, and a portion of the Facilities
Special Tax will be used to pay a portion of the next
principal payment on the Bonds that remain
outstanding, that next principal payment shall be
subtracted from the total Bond principal that remains
Outstanding, and the difference shall be used as the
amount of "Outstanding Bonds" for purposes of
the prepayment formula.

"Previously Issued Bonds" means alt Bonds that
have been issued by CFD No. 2005-1 prior to the
date of prepayment.

"Public Facilities Requirement" means either
$14,000,000 in 2008 dollars, which shall increase by
two percent (2%) on January 1, 2009, and on each
January 1 thereafter, or such other number as shall
be determined by the Board as sufficient to fund
public facilities to be provided by the CFD under the
authorized bonding program for the CFD.

The Facilities Special Tax obligation applicable to an
Assessor's Parcel in CFD No. 2005-1 may be prepaid
and the obligation of the Assessor's Parcel to pay the
Facilities Special Tax permanently satisfied as described
herein, provided that a prepayment may be made only if
there are no delinquent Special Taxes with respect to
such Assessor's Parcel at the time of prepayment. The
Services Special Tax obligation may not be prepaid.

An owner of an Assessor’s Parcel intending to prepay
the Facilities Special Tax obligation shall provide the
Authority with written notice of intent to prepay. Within 30
days of receipt of such written notice, the Authority shall
notify such owner of the prepayment amount for such
Assessor's Parcel. Prepayment must be made not less
than 75 days prior to any interest payment date for
Bonds to be redeemed with the proceeds of such
prepaid Facilities Special Taxes.

The Prepayment Amount shall be calculated as follows
(capitalized terms as defined below):

Bonds Redemption Amount

plus:	Future	Facilities Amount

plus:	Redemption Premium

plus:	Defeasance	Requirement

plus:	Administrative	Fees	and	Expenses

less:	Reserve	Fund Credit

equals Prepayment Amount

As of the proposed date of prepayment, the Prepayment

Amount shall be determined by application of the

following steps:

.

RESOLUTION FOR MEASURE T -
EXHIBIT B CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

Stepl. Compute the Maximum Facilities Special
Tax that could be collected from the
Assessor's'Parcel prepaying the Special
Tax in the Fiscal Year in which
prepayment would be received by the
Authority.

Step 2. Divide the Maximum Facilities Special Tax
from Step 1 by the Maximum Facilities
Special Tax revenues that could be
collected in that Fiscal Year from property
in the entire CFD.

Step 3. Multiply the quotient computed pursuant to
Step 2 by the Outstanding Bonds to
compute the amount of Outstanding
Bonds to be retired and prepaid (the
“Bond Redemption Amount).

Step 4. Compute the current Future Facilities
Costs.

Step 5. Multiply the quotient computed pursuant to
Step 2 by the amount determined
pursuant to Step 4 to compute the amount
of Future. Facilities Costs to be prepaid
(the “Future Facilities Amount”).

Step 6. Multiply the Bond Redemption Amount
computed pursuant to Step 3 by the
applicable redemption premium, if any, on
the Outstanding Bonds to be redeemed
(the “Redemption Premium”).

Step 7. Compute the amount needed to pay
interest on the Bond Redemption Amount
starting with the first Bond interest
payment date after which the prepayment
has been received until the earliest
redemption date for the Outstanding
Bonds. However, if Bonds are callable at
the first interest payment date after the
prepayment has been received, Steps 7, 8
and 9 of. this prepayment formula will not
apply.

Step 8. Compute the amount of interest the
Authority reasonably expects to derive
from the reinvestment of the Bond
Redemption Amount plus the Redemption
Premium from the first Bond interest
payment date after which the prepayment
has been received until the redemption
date for the Outstanding Bonds.

Step 9. Take the amount computed pursuant to
Step 7 and subtract the amount computed
pursuant to Step 8 (the “Defeasance
Requirement”).

Step 10. The administration fees and expenses of
CFD No. 2005-1 are as calculated by the
Authority and include the costs of
computing the prepayment, the costs of
redeeming Bonds, and the costs of
recording any notices to evidence the
prepayment and the redemption (the
"Administrative Fees and Expenses”).

Step 11. A reserve fund credit shall be calculated
as a reduction, if any, in the applicable
reserve fund for the Outstanding Bonds to
be redeemed pursuant to the prepayment
(the “Reserve Fund Credit*1).

Step 12. The Special Tax prepayment is equal to
the sum of the amounts computed
pursuant to Steps 3, 5, 6, 9, and 10, less
the amount computed pursuant to Step 11
(the “ Prepayment Amount).

I.	INTERPRETATION OF SPECIAL TAX
FORMULA

The Authority reserves the right to make minor
administrative and technical changes to this document
that do not materially affect the rate and method of
apportioning Special Taxes. In addition, the
interpretation and application of any section of this
document shall be left to the Authority's discretion.
Interpretations may be made by the Authority by
ordinance or resolution for purposes of clarifying any
vagueness or ambiguity in this Rate and Method of
Apportionment.

26