MILPITAS UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT A To attract and
retain qualified teachers, maintain instructors and equipment for
science and technology education, keep small class sizes in
grades K-3 and 9th grade English and math, and maintain
quality programs in neighborhood schools; shall Milpitas
Unified School District levy an annual tax of $140 per parcel for
5 years only, with annual audits, independent citizens oversight,
no money for administrator salaries, an exemption for senior
citizens age 65 or older, and all money benefiting local schools?
YES NO

Full Text of Measure A

The following is the full ballot text of the proposition to be
presented to the voters by the Milpitas Unified School District in
the ballot pamphlet: To attract and retain qualified teachers,
maintain instructors and equipment for science and technology
education, keep small class sizes in grades K-3 and 9th grade
English and math, and maintain quality programs in neighborhood
schools; shall Milpitas Unified School District levy an annual tax
of $140 per parcel for 5 years only, with annual audits,
independent citizens oversight, no money for administrator
salaries, an exemption for senior citizens age 65 or older, and all
money benefiting local schools? Parcel tax funds shall be used to
support educational programs and projects such as the following:

•	Attracting and retaining quality teachers

•	Maintaining instructors and equipment for science and

technology education

•	Maintaining small class size in grades K-3 to improve basic

reading and writing skills

•	Keeping small class sizes in 9th grade English and math courses

Basis of Tax.

The tax shall be levied on all parcels of taxable real property in the
District. "Parcel of taxable real property" is defined as any unit of
real property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad
valorem property taxes from the Santa Clara County Treasurer-Tax

Collector's Office. All property that is otherwise exempt from or
upon which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year
shall also be exempt from the special tax in such year.

An exemption may be granted on any parcel owned by one or more
persons aged 65 years or older who occupies said parcel as a
principal residence, upon application for exemption.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its
jurisdiction, the Santa Clara County Tax Assessor or other
appropriate County tax official shall make all final determinations
of tax exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be
final and binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of
the special tax, including the Senior Citizen Exemption and
contiguous parcel determination, the decisions of the District shall
be final and binding.

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable
laws, the appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted
periodically by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special
tax.

Accountability Measures

The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific
purposes identified above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be
deposited into a fund, which shall be kept separate and apart from
other funds of the District. No later than January 1 of each year
while the tax is in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the
Board of Trustees a report detailing the amount of funds collected
and expended, and the status of any project authorized to be funded
by this measure.

In addition, an independent Citizen's Oversight Committee shall be
appointed by the Board of Trustees to ensure that the special tax
proceeds are spent for their authorized purposes, and to report
annually to the Board of Trustees and the public regarding the
expenditure of such funds.

Severability

The Board of Trustees hereby declares, and the voters by
approving this measure concur, that every section and part of this

measure has independent value, and the Board of Trustees and the
voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of
every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the
voters, should any part be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof
shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by
law.