VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

WEST SONOMA COUNTY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE K

To provide funds to reduce class sizes, restore electives,

Kand increase funding for technology, crisis counseling,
libraries and school safety, shall West Sonoma County
Union High School District be authorized to renew and
increase its existing qualified special tax at a cost of $26.00 per
parcel for eight years beginning July 1, 2005, with annual audits
and exemption for persons 65 years or over?

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

The West Sonoma County Union High School District and our students have
benefited from local parcel tax revenue since 1993. With these funds Analy, El
Molino and Laguna High Schools have been able to lower class sizes, improve our
libraries, provide new textbooks, and incorporate technology into our schools. Our
high schools have been able to offer a broad range of important college prep and
career/vocationai classes for our students. The tax of $12,08 per parcel has
amounted to nearly $280,000 annually for our educational programs. Without
passage of Measure K these funds will expire on June 30,2005. Over the last four
years our schools have been forced to cut over $1 million from our services,-pro-
grams and teaching positions.

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

The West Sonoma County Union High School District has called an election on a
special tax measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter ap-
proval before a school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $26.00 per year per parcel for each parcel
of land within the District’s boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1, 2005, and would remain in effect for no
more than eight years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
purposes set out in the measure. The purposes specified in the measure are to re-
duce class sizes; to restore electives; and to increase funding for technology, crisis
counseling, libraries, and school safety. Each year, beginning with the year ending
December 31,2005, the measure calls for preparation of a report by an indepen-
dent financial auditor, stating the amount received and expended from the tax for
that year, and the status of any projects, and description of any programs, funded
from the proceeds of the tax.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and occupied
by a person who will be 65 years of age or older on or before June 30,2005, or May
1 of any subsequent year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemp-
tions based on ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for
this exemption the first year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps
must be followed to appeal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a re-
fund of the tax, if appropriate.

Measure K is a renewal of the existing parcel tax at a rate of $26.00 to meet the
growing needs and costs of our high schools. Funds from Measure K will allow the
District.to continue to provide all students with needed technology resources, crisis
counseling, library services, school safety and materials for science and the arts.
Measure K will fund classroom resources that will help all students reach their
potential. None of these funds will be used for raises or administrator salaries.

Analy and El Molino have each been designated as three-time California Distin-
guished Schools while Laguna is a four-time Model Continuation School. Test
scores have exceeded state and national averages.

Property owners 65 years of age or older may apply for an exemption from Measure K.

Measure K is a local investment in our community schools that have a proven track
record of excellence..

s/ Kim Caruso, Executive Director
Sebastopol Community Center

si Merry Edwards, President
Merry Edwards Wines

si Eugene N. Nelson, Jr., Senior Minister
Community Church of Sebastopol

si Herman J. Hernandez
Real Estate Broker

si Mike Reilly
5th District Supervisor

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

The West Sonoma County Union High School District should have learned by now,
like any business or family, how to succeed with less income. Instead, they are
begging for more money which will soon birn a larger hole in their pockets.

If two-thirds of the voters in the West Sonoma County Union High School District
who vote on this measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will
be levied. The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes
starting with the 2005-2006 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE

County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

Supporters of this tax increase ought to send money to the schools if they see a
financial need. Do they really need a measure to force them to pay? Measure K dis-
criminates against property owners and young families struggling to purchase their
own home. It also attempts to trick senior citizens into increasing the tax burden on
families.

If more than thirty million functionally illiterate public high-school graduates are not
evidence of a faulty “education” system, then what is? More money has not and will
not fix these problems.

r

If the schools concentrated on teaching the essential subjects, maybe they would
find financial relief. If all the money that the District already receives went to instruc-
tion instead of to the teacher union’s coffers, then perhaps our schools would again
become scholastically competitive internationally.

Why are the schools seeking to assume more duties? What is “crisis counseling”?
Is it really the school's responsibility to counsel our children? Is it really important
forthe high-schools to offer college prep and vocational classes? We already have
the Santa Rosa Junior College which offers a wide selection of these classes.

As. long as we depend on and bail out the defective schools, no student will reach
their potential.

si Ron Sondergaard

si Donald O. Buttke Jr.

s/Willie D. Miller

49-501

9370

49501

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K  On March 8th, voters rejected this tax increase, but the school board members seem to have chosen to ignore that vote. Holding this special election is expensive for the county, not to mention two special elections this year. The trustees are hoping to sneak this tax increase through without our knowing. What part of “no” do they not understand?  Property taxes are a poor way to finance education. We should require only those who use the schools to pay for them. Not everyone who pays property taxes benefits from the schools, and families that use the schools do not all pay. That is discrimination.  If it is so important for “electives” to be available, parents should pay for them them- selves. This way their children will appreciate those opportunities more. We need to get back to the basics of education. That will save money.  Sebastopol and Forestville already have public libraries. Instead of spending more money for several libraries, all residents would benefit if we combined them into one per community.  Senior citizens, don't let proponents of measure K buy your vote through the exemption offer. Think of young families buying their first home. The initial cost is high enough without the already high property taxes.  Renters, don't be surprised if your rent increases due to higher taxes.  Maybe West Sonoma County High School ,District ought to improve its manage- ment of the money it already receives instead of begging for more. If you think that the schools need more money, no one is keeping you from paying $26, $100, or more if you wish. Look at your last tax bill. Do you really want it raised? All that the schools want is more of your money, and they will never have enough.  Learn more at http://starvingtaxpayers.bravehost.com.  Please vote no on measure K.  si Ron Sondergaard si L.' Nanette McConnell Concerned Citizen Senior Citizen-Homeowner  si Donald 0. Buttke Jr.  Business Owner & Property Owner	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K  Historically, schools have received vital funding through local means such as local parcel taxes. In recent years the legislature and governor hijacked local property tax dollars to Sacramento. Our school districts have been forced to turn to local vot- ers for assistance as under-funded mandates are piled onto the educational mission of schools.  Over the last four years, class sizes in academic areas like math, science, history and English have risen as the state has withheld money that voters intended for schools. Our community benefits from a well-educated workforce and citizenry. Our high schools provide the core education for those people who provide the ba- sic services we rely on such as finance, public safety, retail and medical services.  Measure K is important to us all. The $26.00 measure will assist schools to lower class sizes, provide important technical education, bring outreach counseling to stu- dents in need, help provide students access to college prep courses and continue the rich history of art and music instruction. Measure K will help our schools main- tain safe environments and continue our commitment to a strong, core education.  Thomas Jefferson believed that the strength and vitality of our democracy de- pended on public education. Don't let a small minority turn our community away from the support of our public schools. Support Measure K and support the quality of life and diversity of West County. The value of an educated citizenry far exceeds the cost of Measure K.  Measure K is for our Kids and our future.  si Kim Caruso, Executive Director si Herman J. Hernandez Sebastopol Community Center Real Estate Broker  s/Mike Reilly s/Eugene N. Nelson, Jr., Senior Minister 5th District Supervisor Community Church of Sebastopol  si Merry Edwards, Partner Merry Edwards Wines

49502

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K

WEST SONOMA COUNTY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION ACT OF 2005

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “West
Sonoma County Union High School District Excellence in Education Act of
2005” or as “Measure-K.”

TERMS OF EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on
this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax
of $26.00 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District
for no more than 8 years, commencing July 1,2005. The qualified special
tax shall be known and referred to as the “Excellence in Education Tax.”

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citi-
zens in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years
of age or older shall be exempt from the Excellence in Education Tax upon
proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption must apply
to the District on or before June 30,2005 or May 1 of any succeeding assess-
ment year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an ex-
emption for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such
applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Ex-
cellence in Education Tax, the Board of Education shall cause an account to
be established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of
the Excellence in Education Tax remain unexpended, the Superintendent or
chief financial officer of the District shall cause an independent financial
auditor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of Education no later
than December 31 of each year, commencing December 31,2005, stating (1)
the amount of Excellence in Education Tax received and expended in such
year, and (2) the status of any projects or description of any programs
funded from proceeds of the tax. The report may relate to the calendar year,
fiscal year, or other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall
determine, and may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit,
or other appropriate routine report to the Board of Education.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the Excellence in Education Tax, and
proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District
has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Excellence in Education
Act as described above to the Sonoma County tax collection officials. The
Sonoma County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason
other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be final and
binding for the purposes of the Excellence in Education Tax. Taxpayers wish-
ing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so under the
procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pursuant to Section
4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other applicable proce-
dures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Excellence in Education Taxes paid
shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to
the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that evety section and part of this measure has independent
value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of
this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall remain
in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

The Ha
sure to
school (

This me
of land i
using th
more th

Proceet
the purf
service;
arts for;
and rea
quire fili
amount
orauthc

The tax
separati
part of o
one par
jtax is ot
from the
65 years
year for
ship by
first yeai
appeal;
propriati

If two-th

The Excellence in Education Tax shall be collected by the Sonoma
County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be
subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as
the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the
Excellence in Education Tax shall not decrease the funds available from
other sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

measur;
tax woul
the 200!

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District, which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All
property, which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem
property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Excellence in Edu-
cation Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of
age or older are exempt from the Excellence in Education Tax as described
above.

Multiple parcels, which are contiguous and are part of the one eco-
nomic unit under the same name and ownership, shall be charged as one
parcel.

49503