<impartial> County Counsel’s Impartial Analysis of	Sierra County Auditor’s Impartial Financial Analysis of
Measure A	Measure A
The Sierra County Board of Supervisors has adopted Ordinance No. 967, to amend the provisions of the Sierra County Code pertaining to Transient Occupancy Taxes (referred to as the TOT tax). Under the existing provisions of Chapter 5.20 of the County code, a transient occupancy tax is assessed against persons who stay in lodging in the County for less than 31 consecutive days. The tax applies to guest in hotels, motels, bed and breakfast inns, private campgrounds, recreational vehicle parks and other similar establishments that house people on a transient basis. The current provisions of the County Code exempt people staying in federal and state campgrounds from paying the TOT tax unless the campgrounds are operated by a private concessionaire. Ordinance No. 967, will, if approved by the voters, amend the County Code to require the payment of the TOT tax for people staying in Federal campgrounds owned by the Federal Government, irrespective of whether run by a concessionaire or by the government. <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> /s/ James A. Curtis County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<fiscal> This proposed ordinance equalizes the cost between federally managed campgrounds and private campgrounds. The ordinance would only increase the revenue to the county minimally but if not approved by the voters could affect the county in lost revenue. Currently the county is unable to collect the transient occupancy tax from the federal government. However; when federal government campgrounds are managed by private entities the tax can be collected and is deposited with the county. If private entities are no longer used to manage the federal campgrounds the county would be unable to collect the transient occupancy tax directly from the federal government unless this ordinance is adopted by the voters. The amount of transient occupancy tax collected from federal campgrounds that have been managed by private entities for the past three years has been $36,072.00 in 2002/2003; $41,995.00 in 2003/2004 and $38,657.00 in 2004/2005. The potential loss for Sierra County, if we could not collect TOT from the federal government, would
This measure requires the approval by two-thirds of the voters voting on the measure in order for Ordinance No. 967 to become effective.	be approximately $39,000.00 annually. <fiscalend>






<fiscalsigs> /s/ Van Maddox County Auditor <fiscalsigsend>






<full> BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
COUNTY OF SIERRA
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

ORDINANCE NO. 967

Amending Section 5.20.040 of the Sierra County Code
Pertaining to the Application of Transient Occupancy Taxes to Federal Campgrounds

THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SIERRA ORDAINS as follows:

Ordinance Section One:

Section 5.20.040 of the Sierra County Code is amended to read:

5.20.040 Exemptions

(a)	No tax shall be imposed upon the following transients:

1.	Any person, or upon the privilege of any occupancy, if it is beyond the power of the
County to impose the tax provided in this chapter;

2.	Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason or express
provision of federal law or international treaty.

(b)	No exemption of transients shall be granted except upon a claim for exemption made at the time

rent is collected, and under penalty of perjury, upon a form prescribed by the tax collector.

(c)	No occupancy of the following classifications of lodgings shall be subject to the tax:

1.	An "organized camp" as defined in Section 18897 of the California Health and Safety
Code.

2.	Housing operated by or used exclusively for religious, charitable or educational
purposes by any organization which has obtained exemption from property taxes under
the laws of California for the period the tax would otherwise be imposed.

3.	Any campsite in a unit of the State Park System.

Ordinance Section Two:

The provisions of Section One of this ordinance shall not become effective until approved by a majority vote of
the voters voting thereon at a duly called election, in accordance with the applicable provisions of state law.
The Board shall call a special election on the question of the approval of the extension of said taxes to federal
campgrounds. In calling an election, the Board shall be authorized to submit the question of the approval of
Section One of this Ordinance to the voters as a ballot measure.

Ord. 967

Ordinance Section Three:

Application of Transient Occupancy Taxes to Federal Campgrounds will become effective January 1,
2006 upon acceptance by the Board of the certified election results of the Special Statewide
Consolidated Election to be held November 8, 2005, which results show an affirmative vote of a
majority of the votes cast by the County electorate.

Ordinance Section Four:

This ordinance shall take effect as described in Ordinance Section Three above. Before the expiration of fifteen
(15) days after certification of the aforementioned election results, if this Ordinance is approved by a majority of
the electorate of the County, this Ordinance shall be published once with the names of the members of the Board
of Supervisors, voting for and against the ordinance in the Mountain Messenger, a newspaper of general
circulation published in the County of Sierra, State of California.

Introduced at a regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors held on the 5th day of July, 2005, and passed and
adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Sierra, State of California, on the 19th day of July,
2005 by the following roll call vote, to-wit:

AYES:	Supervisors Gutman, Huebner, Nunes, Mitchell and Whitley

NOES:	None

ABSTAIN: None
ABSENT: None

COUNTY OF SIERRA

BROOKS MITCHELL

CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

ATTEST:
<fullend>