“Shall an ordinance renewing the current Town of Atherton Parcel Tax which provides funding for Town general purposes such as, but not limited to,
police and public safety services and capital improvement projects be adopted?”

FULLTEXT

“AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF ATHERTON
AUTHORIZING THE RENEWAL OF A SPECIAL TAX FOR
MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS AND
FOR THE EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS DERIVED FROM
SUCH TAX

The people of the Town of Atherton do ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. AUTHORITY TO ADOPT MEASURE. This
ordinance and the tax authorized herein are adopted pursuant to the
provisions of the California Constitution, Articles XIIIA §4, XIIIB §4 and
XIIIC §2, and pursuant to Sections 50075, 50076, 50077 and 53722 et.
seq. of the California Government Code.

SECTION 2. AUTHORIZATION TO LEVY SPECIAL TAX. If,
in any fiscal year commencing on or after July 1,2005, the City Council
shall determine that municipal services such as police protection, street
repair and maintenance, drainage facility repair and maintenance are
necessary for the public good, welfare, and safety, and that the cost of
providing such services will exceed the amount of funds generated
through other revenue and income which are counted under the limit of
the Town for such services calculated in accordance with the provisions
of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, as provided for in the
adopted budget, and/or if capital improvements are required, the cost of
which exceeds the amount of funds generated through other revenues and
receipts, and/or if amounts should be required to augment operational and
capital needs of the Town, then it may levy a special tax for such fiscal
year on each parcel of property within the Town in the manner provided
herein. This special tax shall be in addition to the annual tax rate allowed
by law.

SECTION 3.	DETERMINATION OF AMOUNT TO BE RAISED.

Each year following adoption of the Town’s annual budget, the City
Council will determine the total amount of expenditures necessary to
provide adequate levels of municipal services and capital improvements
and deduct therefrom the projected revenue to be gathered from sources
other than this special tax. The difference, if any, shall be the maximum
amount of funds to be derived from the tax authorized by this ordinance
for such year.

SECTION 4. MAXIMUM TAX RATE/METHQD OF
ASSESSMENT. After determining the amount of tax to be raised under
Section 3, the City Council shall apportion said amount among the parcels
of real property within the Town not exempted by law as follows:

MAXIMUM TAX IN GIVEN YEAR

2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10

1.	For each dwelling on
a parcel with an area

of less than 1/4 acre:	450	450	450	450	450

2.	For each unimproved
parcel with an area of

less than 1/4 acre:	225	225	225	225	225

3.	For each dwelling on
a parcel with an area
of 1/4 acre or more, but

less than 1/2 acre:	570	570	570	570	570

For each unimproved parcel with an area of 1/4 acre or more, but less than 1/2 acre: 285	285	285	285	285
For each dwelling on a parcel with an area of 1/2 acre or more, but less than 2 acres: 750	750	750	750	750
For each unimproved parcel with an area of 1/2 acre or more, but less than 2 acres: 375	375	375	375	375
For each dwelling on a parcel with an area of 2 acres or more: 960	960	960	960	960
For each unimproved parcel with an area of 2 acres or more: 480	480	480	480	480
For each private club: 10,000	10,000	10,000	10,000	10,000
. For each parcel available for tax owned by a utility which serves the Atherton community: 450	450	450	450	450
. For each parcel available for tax owned by a utility which does not directly serve the Atherton community: 750	750	750	750	750

The records of the San Mateo County Assessor, as of each year, shall
determine whether or not any particular lot is unimproved for purposes of
this ordinance.

SECTION 5. HEARING. TAX LIEN AND INCLUSION IN
CITY TAXES. Prior to levying a special tax under this ordinance in any
fiscal year, the City Council shall conduct a public hearing on the
proposed tax. Such hearing shall be conducted after the City Council has
adopted an annual budget for that year. Notice of such hearing shall be
posted in at least three public places within the Town of Atherton at least
fifteen days prior to the hearing. All of the information and material
which the City Council intends to consider at such hearing and the
amount of tax to be raised shall be made available to the public by being
on file in the office of the City Clerk for at least fifteen days prior to said
hearing. Following said hearing, the City Council may adopt a resolution
fixing the amount of tax to be raised which shall not exceed the amount
contained in the material on file in the Clerk’s office. Any tax levied
under this ordinance shall become a lien upon the properties against
which it is assessed and collectible in the manner provided by applicable
law and by the levying resolution.

SECTION 6. COLLECTION. The City Council may elect to
have any special tax authorized under this Chapter either collected by the
Town or, in the alternative, by the Tax Collector of San Mateo County. If
the services of the Tax Collector of the County of San Mateo are elected,
the special tax may only be included on the annual tax bill sent out by

such Tax Collector. A certified copy of the resolution electing to use the
service of the Tax Collector of San Mateo County shall be filed with said
Tax Collector prior to September 1 st of the fiscal year for which the tax is
assessed and shall include a list of all parcels of real property to be taxed
and the amount of each parcel.

SECTION 7. INCREASE APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Pursuant
to California Constitution Article XIIIB, the appropriations limit for the
Town of Atherton will be increased by one and one-half times the
aggregate sum authorized to be levied as a special tax in each of the years
covered by this ordinance.

SECTION 8. FUNDING AND EXPENDING PROCEEDS.
Proceeds of any tax levied under this ordinance shall be deposited in a
Special Fund and expended only for the purposes stated in this ordinance.

SECTION 9. UNEXPENDED RESIDUE. In accordance with
Section 2(b) of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, all revenues
received by the Town in a fiscal year and the fiscal year immediately
following it in excess of the amount which may be appropriated by the
Town in compliance with Article XIIIB during that fiscal year and the
fiscal year immediately following it shall be returned by a revision of tax
rates or fee schedules within the next two subsequent fiscal years.

SECTION 10. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance
or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect any other provision or applications, and to
this end the provisions of this ordinance are declared to be severable.

SECTION 11. DURATION AMENDMENT OR REPEAL. The
authorization to levy a tax under this ordinance shall commence with the
Fiscal Year 2005-2006, beginning July 1, 2005 and shall continue through
and including June 30, 2010. This ordinance or any provision thereof may
only be amended or repealed by approval of two-thirds of the voters
voting on the proposition at any initiative or referendum election.

This ordinance shall be adopted if approved as an initiative measure
by two-thirds of the voters voting at a Special Election to be held on
Tuesday, June 7, 2005, and go into effect ten (10) days after the
City Council has, by resolution, declared that such initiative measure was
approved by two-thirds of the voters voting thereon.”

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE W

INITIATIVE-AUTHORIZES RENEWAL OF SPECIAL TAX
TO FINANCE MUNICIPAL SERVICES AND
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS

This initiative Measure proposes to add a new ordinance to the
Ordinance Code of the Town of Atherton that would allow the City Council
to renew a Special Tax on Real Property to finance Municipal Services,
such as police protection, street repair and maintenance, drainage facility
repair and maintenance, and capital improvements where other sources of
revenue are not sufficient because of restraints imposed by Article XIIA of
the California Constitution also known as Proposition 13. The ordinance
would correspondingly increase the appropriations limit under Article
XIIIB of the California Constitution.

The City Council must conduct a duly noticed public hearing on the
proposed tax after adoption of the annual budget. The tax may not exceed
the total amount of expenditures necessary to provide adequate levels of
municipal services and capital improvements, as determined by the City
Council, after deducting the projected revenue to be gathered from sources
other than the Special Tax.

The tax on individual parcels may not, however, exceed in any year the
amounts set forth in Section 4 of the proposed ordinance.

The tax will be a lien on individual parcels and may be collected by the
Town or the County Tax Collector at the option of the City Council.

Any monies raised by this Special Tax may be used only for the
described municipal services and capital improvements. In accordance
with Article XIIIB of the California Constitution, all revenues received in a
fiscal year and the fiscal year following it in excess of the Town’s
appropriations limits during that fiscal year and the fiscal year immediately
following it shall be returned by a revision of tax rates or fee schedules
within the next two subsequent fiscal years.

Authority to levy this tax will commence with the fiscal year 2005-
2006 and will expire with the fiscal tax year 2009-2010, and may only be
amended or repealed by a two-thirds vote of the people.

/s/ Marc G. Hynes	March	21,	2005

City Attorney

Town of Atherton

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE W

For more than two decades since enactment of Proposition 13, Atherton’s
parcel tax has been a critical income source to the Town. Currently $750
for most parcels of property, and fully tax deductible, it annually raises for
the Town approximately $1.8 million. Unlike other property taxes, of
which only 10 percent goes to Atherton, all of the parcel tax goes to the
Town. We ask for renewal of Atherton’s parcel tax at its present level.

Atherton has acted prudently with its residents’ tax revenues, and has
received four consecutive clean financial audits. Wherever possible, state
and federal grants have been sought to supplement Town revenues.
Nonetheless, recognizing early the financial crisis enveloping cities
state-wide, and faced with increasing costs and shifts of local property
taxes to the state, Atherton has made $1.4 million in budget cuts and
adjustments since February 2003. Moreover, in the most recent agreement
with employees, no salary increases were given. The Town has continued
to reduce staff and outsource work. Atherton has fewer employees today,
including in the Police Department, than at any other time in recent years.

While a majority of residents supported the parcel tax last November, a
two-thirds vote is necessary for passage. Atherton now faces a cumulative
$5.9 million budget deficit by 2009, elimination of nearly all its financial
reserves, curtailment of road repair, and further police and other staff
reductions. Failure to renew the parcel tax places in jeopardy continued
essential city services. These are simply the facts.

As The Almanac has editorially observed, while “the town has been
managed frugally during the last year,” nonetheless “Atherton needs the
parcel tax just to keep the doors of local government open.”

Please support renewal of the parcel tax at its present level and vote Yes for
Atherton.

/s/ William R. Conwell

Mayor, Town of Atherton

/s/ Charles Marsala

Vice Mayor

/s/ Alan B. Carlson

Council Member

/s/ James R. Janz

Council Member

/s/ Kathy McKeithen

Council Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE W SUBMITTED