MEASURE B

To improve student achievement and academic performance; to attract and retain highly qualified teachers; and to improve library services, shall the
La Honda-Pescadero Unified School District levy $100 per year per taxable parcel for seven years, with certain exemptions for contiguous parcels and
parcels owned by persons 65 years and older, with funds staying in local schools, and with independent community review of all expenditures?

FULL TEXT

Shall the La Honda-Pescadero Unified School District be authorized to
levy a special tax for $100 per year per taxable parcel for a period of seven
years, beginning July 1, 2006?

The purpose of this tax is as follows:

•	To improve student achievement and academic performance;

•	To attract and retain highly qualified teachers; and

•	To improve library services

A “parcel” shall be defined as any parcel of land in the District that
receives a tax bill from the San Mateo County Assessor’s Office, except that
two contiguous parcels, where at least one of those contiguous parcels is
used for owner-occupied single family residence purposes and both parcels
are held under identical ownership, shall, upon approval of an application
by the owner of such parcel, be taxed as a single parcel for purposes of this
special tax.

A parcel owned and occupied by one or more persons 65 years of age
or over shall be exempted upon approval of an application for exemption by
the owner of the parcel.

To ensure accountability, the proceeds of the special tax will be placed
into a special account. An independent community committee shall be
appointed by the Board of Trustees to review all expenditures funded by
this measure to ensure that the money is spent only for purposes approved
by the voters. In addition, the District shall report on an annual basis to the
community on how these funds have been spent.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school district,
upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the La Honda-Pescadero
Unified School District propose to levy a special tax for a period of seven
years beginning July 1, 2006 and ending June 30, 2013. This tax shall be
at a rate not to exceed $100 per year per parcel on all taxable parcels in the
District.

A parcel, with certain limited exceptions, shall be defined as any unit of
land in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the San Mateo County tax collection officials. Any
property owner aged 65 years or older may qualify for an exemption from
the special tax if that property owner occupies the parcel.

The stated purposes of the special tax are to improve student
achievement and academic performance, attract and retain teachers and
improve library services.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special account. An
independent community committee shall be appointed by the Board of
Trustees to review all expenditures funded by the tax revenues. An annual
report is required that accounts for the parcel tax revenues collected and the
manner in which they have been spent.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be levied on

property within the boundaries of the La Honda-Pescadero Unified

School District in the amount of $100 per year per parcel.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be

levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote
“yes.”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The need for this parcel tax is urgent. The La Honda-Pescadero Unified
School District has done all it can to make up for the decline in funding for
public education in California and the rising costs of operating our small,
rural school system. Without new revenues, the quality of education for our
students is seriously threatened.

This measure asks the voters for $100 per parcel per year—27 cents a
day—to:

•	Improve student achievement and academic performance

•	Attract and retain highly qualified teachers

•	Improve library services

Before calling on the taxpayers for this additional help, we worked hard to
improve the District’s financial health. For example, no employee has
received a salary increase in four years. In addition, we have:

•	Cut jobs. In the last three years we cut several positions, including
reading specialist, library aide, computer technician,
groundskeeper, high school counselor, middle school principal,
facilities director, Special Education coordinator, and assessment
clerk.

•	Reduced some services. In the last two years we cut back on bus
routes and food service, and closed libraries at two of the three
District schools.

•	Become more efficient. Working with no-cost County consultants
on trimming the budget, we reduced operating costs for other
programs and services while maintaining basic service levels.

•	Become better stewards. Using a new County accounting system,
we developed better procedures to monitor and report the District
budget.

•	Sought new funding sources. We obtained federal and state grants,
while District parents donated hundreds of hours and raised
substantial funds.

Now we need your help. Without this tax, the District will have to face
additional cuts to staff, programs and services—cuts that will have a
serious impact on students.

Please vote YES on Measure B. Preserve the chance for our students to
have a decent education.

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

We are impressed with the trustees’ recent attempts to bring the bloated
payroll somewhat closer to a reasonable portion of total school
spending—but now is not the time to stop being thrifty.

The payroll was increased by an imprudent 55% in the space of only
2 years (between 2000 and 2002), and the only rational response now is to
get spending back in line with revenue.

A parcel tax would enable the mismatch to continue for another 7 years.

If this measure were truly about a temporary revenue shortfall, the term
would be only 1 or 2 years—not 7.

There may have been a salary freeze, but this is less impressive when you
realize spending increases have merely been shifted to the benefits
package:

	Revenue	Salaries	Benefits
	per	Per	Per
	Student (ADA)	Student	Student
1994-1995	$5,548	$3,161	$932
-1996	5,617	3,414	870
-1997	6,242	3,661	1,000
-1998	7,051	4,081	1,074
-1999	7,656	4,715	1,196
-2000	8,241	4,606	1,191
-2001	11,398	5,635	1,348
-2002	11,658	7,275	1,556
-2003	11,696	7,045	1,952
-2004	11,418	6,778	2,199

Parents would be better off spending the extra $700 (7 * $100) on their own
children.

/s/ John J. “Jack” Hickey  Candidate, SMCCCD Board of Directors	August 29, 2005
/s/ Christopher VA Schmidt  Retired Computer Professional	August 29, 2005

/s/ Jessica Abbe	August 19, 2005
Member of the Governing Board	
/s/ Mark Graff	August 19, 2005
President, Board of Trustees, LHPUSD	

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

Is our opposition to higher taxes a knee-jerk reaction?

Yes! —but with good reason.

Thanks to revenue growth that has far outpaced inflation, our schools have
plenty of money to work with.

In 2003-2004 (the most recent year for which data is available from Ed-
Data*) the District had $214,000 in revenue for the average class of 18.6
students.

That’s a lot of dough—especially for such small classes!

In round figures, the District employed a staff of 50 to tend 20 classes
averaging 18.6 students.

That’s a lot of employees!

The District has plenty of money. —The bloated payroll proves it.

If the trustees want to increase teacher salaries, they can do so whenever
they want.

They want a parcel tax only to avoid the minimal work of setting priorities
and working within a budget.

Vote 'no’. They have plenty of money already.

* http://www.ed-data.kl2.ca.us/dev/District.asp

Is/ John J. Hickey  Chair, Libertarian Party of San Mateo County	August 19, 2005
Is/ Christopher VA Schmidt  Retired Computer Professional	August 19, 2005

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE B

The argument that our district has “plenty of money” is uninformed and
inaccurate. Inflation and the rising cost of services have far outstripped
state funding. The district must look to the community to maintain a quality
education for our students. Without this first ever parcel tax, this small,
rural district will have to face new cuts to staff, benefits, programs and
sevices—cuts that will have a serious impact on students.

Is the district “setting priorities and working within a budget”? Yes! As
many local people know, in the last few years this district has really cut to
the bone. It has trimmed services, cut all but essential positions, and
adopted County-approved accounting practices. Community volunteers
provide support in the classroom and even help maintain the school
grounds. Board members serve voluntarily with no compensation for their
time. The current district budget doesn’t have an ounce of fat.

“Bloated” payroll? No! For four schools we have 26 teachers, 14 classified
employees, 1.6 principals, and a district office staff of three to manage all
district programs. Many of these positions are part-time. Now that’s lean.

Don’t be fooled by our opposition’s simplistic, uninformed arguments.
There’s so much more to the story! Please, stop us on the street and ask
questions. Call us or attend monthly Board meetings. Join our parents,
students and community in the ongoing effort to support our school district.
And help preserve the quality of our local schools by voting YES on
Measure B.

Is/ Mark G. Graff	August 29, 2005
Trustee, LHPUSD	
Is/ Meredith Reynolds	August 29, 2005
Community Member	
Is/ Chris Brancart	August 29, 2005
Community Member	
/s/ Catherine M. Peery	August 29, 2005
Chair, Pescadero Municipal Advisory Council	
Is/ Robert White	August 29, 2005

Community Member