Measure B: School Parcel Tax Renewal, Piedmont Unified School District

To continue to provide funds for partial support for special academic instructional programs and services, smaller class sizes, technology, and maintenance services commensurate with an excellent educational program, shall the Piedmont City Unified School District be authorized to renew the levy of special taxes up to the amounts specified in the voter informational pamphlet for a period of four years?

Impartial Analysis
Measure B, a Piedmont Unified School District ("the District") special parcel tax measure, seeks voter approval to authorize the District to levy a special parcel tax on each parcel of taxable real property located wholly or partly in the District for four years, commencing on July 1, 2006, for the purposes set forth in the measure.
 A school district, following notice and public hearings, has the authority to levy special taxes upon approval by twothirds of the votes cast on the special tax proposal pursuant to Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and sections 50075-77, 50079, and 53722 et seq. of the California Government Code.
 If two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the special tax would continue for four more years the special taxes approved by the voters of the District on March 6, 2001 as Measures "A" and "B". The special tax rate would be based on the parcel size and its development. The rates per parcel are set forth in full in the measure printed in this voter pamphlet; parcels with single family dwellings would range from $1141 to $1937 annually. The tax will be collected by the Alameda County Treasurer-Tax collector at the same time and in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are collected. The Board of Education annually may increase the rates by not more than five percent (5%) above the previous year's rates.
 If approved, these tax funds could only be used by the District for the purposes set forth in the measure, which include special instructional programs and services, smaller class sizes, technology and maintenance.
 If less than two-thirds of the qualified electors voting on this measure vote for approval, the measure will fail and the District will not be authorized to levy the special tax as proposed by this measure.
s/RICHARD E. WINNIE  County Counsel

Arguments For Measure B
Our Piedmont schools are among the best public schools in California. Exceptional teachers, challenging programs and support from parents and the community all contribute to high student achievement.
 Measures B and C have been placed on the ballot to maintain the high quality of education in our community. Because of state budget cuts, our parcel taxes, (the first passed in 1985 to supplement programs), now pay for teachers, specialists, librarians, counselors and essential educational programs long lost in other districts.
 Measure B does not increase existing tax rates + it will merely reauthorize the current assessments that are set to expire.
 Even if Measure B passes, our schools will be forced to make significant cuts. Measure C is on the ballot to provide additional funding to maintain academic programs at current levels. These measures do not expand the educational program in any way but provide the minimum amount needed to maintain the current program.
 All funds from Measures B and C will stay in our community and cannot be taken by the State. Without passage of both Measures B and C, Piedmont schools will be forced to lay off many outstanding teachers and eliminate specialists for reading, math and science. Passage of Measures B and C is essential to continue to keep and attract the best teachers to our district.
 Measures B and C will keep class sizes small, preserve AP courses that help our students qualify for the best colleges, protect library services and maintain outstanding academic programs at our elementary, middle and high schools. Piedmont's excellent academic programs depend on Measures B and C.
 Good schools help keep our property values high and help maintain the superb quality of life in our community. Please help us to preserve our quality schools. Vote YES on B and C.
s/RONNIE CAPLANE  President, Board of Education
s/WARD LINDENMAYER  Vice President, Board of Education
s/GRIER GRAFF  Member, Board of Education
s/CATHIE GLETTNER  Member, Board of Education
s/JUNE MONACH  Member, Board of Education

(No arguments against Measure B were submitted)

Full Text of Measure B
INTRODUCTION
 To continue to provide funds for partial support for special academic instructional programs and services, smaller class sizes, technology, and maintenance services commensurate with an excellent educational program, shall the Piedmont City Unified School District be authorized to renew the levy of special taxes up to the amounts specified in the voter informational pamphlet for a period of four years beginning as of July 1, 2006 assessed against each parcel of taxable land in the District? Said qualified special tax would continue the special taxes approved by the voters of the District on March 6, 2001 as Measures "A" and "B" but would not provide sufficient revenue to fully fund the programs listed below. Accordingly, program reductions would be required if the companion measure on this ballot is not approved.
 PURPOSE
 To provide local revenue that cannot be taken by the State and to maintain and enhance the quality of Piedmont's public education that has benefited all students and citizens, shall the Piedmont Unified School District be authorized to levy a qualified special tax the proceeds of which would go toward providing the following special instructional programs and services, smaller class sizes, technology, and maintenance services commensurate with an excellent educational program:
 a. Maintain Class Size Reduction Programs in grades K-3  b. Maintain below the State class size average in grades 4-12 to target current class size  c. Elementary classroom instructional aides  d. Reading resource and music specialists at the elementary schools  e. Diverse curriculum and elective opportunities at the middle school level  f. Seven class program offering at the high school including electives and advanced placement courses  g. Core library and counseling services in grades K-12  h. Advisors, directors and coaches for extra-curricular activities  i. Support for technology including personnel, training, software, and equipment purchase and maintenance  j. Maintenance of all school district facilities and grounds
 The Board of Education will fund the programs listed above, unless the Board of Education determines in any given year that changes in student population, fiscal constraints, or other changes in state or federal funding make doing so infeasible or inadvisable. In any event, the Board of Education will not fund any program or reduction other than those listed above from the proceeds of the special taxes.
 The special tax would be in effect for a period of four (4) years, beginning July 1, 2006, at the rates shown below on each assessor's parcel located wholly or partly within the School District.
 PROCEDURES
 Each year as part of the annual budget adoption process, the Board of Education will determine the total amount of expenditures necessary to provide a superior educational program including the specialized services and programs enumerated above and deduct therefrom the projected revenue to be gathered from sources other than this special tax. The difference, if any, shall be the maximum amount of funds to be derived from the tax authorized by this measure for such year. If the necessary funds are such that the maximum rates set forth below are not needed, then the Board of Education shall reduce these rates proportionately so that only the necessary amount of funds are raised.
 Prior to the levying of the special tax in any given year, the Board will conduct a public hearing on the matter. Notice of the time, date, and place of hearing shall be published pursuant to Government Code Section 6061 at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the District, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. Following said hearing each year, the Board shall adopt a resolution establishing the amount of tax to be raised for that year and the rate per parcel, not to exceed the amounts enumerated below, including a maximum annual increase of five percent. Any tax levied shall become a lien upon the properties against which taxes are assessed and collectible as herein provided.

RATES
 The special tax shall be assessed upon each parcel of real property wholly or partly located within the District at the following rates:
 Parcel with Single Family Dwelling  0-4,999 sq. ft. lot $1,141/parcel  5,000-9,999 sq. ft. lot $1,296/parcel  10,000-14,999 sq. ft. lot $1,479/parcel  15,000-19,999 sq. ft. lot $1,697/parcel  more than 20,000 sq. ft. lot $1,937/parcel
 Parcel with Multi-Family Dwellings  Multi-family dwellings/unit, all lot sizes) $758/unit
 Multiple parcel dwellings $1,246/dwelling
Commercial Property  0-10,000 sq. ft. lot $1,937/parcel  Commercial lots greater than 10,000 sq. ft. $2,897/parcel
 Undeveloped Parcel $579/parcel
 The uses and sizes of all parcels shall be determined according to the records of the Alameda County Tax Assessor. For parcels divided by Tax Code Area lines, the payment for the portion of the parcel within the Piedmont Unified School District shall be the same as the above square footage rates.
 The Board of Education annually may increase the rates by not more than five percent (5%) above the previous year's rates and shall round the resulting rates to the nearest full dollar amounts.

ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES
 In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among others, shall apply to the special taxes levied in accordance with this Measure: (a) the specific purposes of the special tax shall be those purposes identified above; (b) the proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to those specific purposes identified above; (c) a separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the special taxes must be deposited; and (d) an annual written report shall be made to the Board of Education of the District showing (i) the amount of funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special taxes and (ii) the status of any projects or programs required or authorized to be funded from the proceeds of the special taxes, as identified above.
 PROTECTION OF FUNDING
 Current law forbids any decrease in State or Federal funding to the District because of the District's adoption of a parcel tax. However, if any such funds are reduced because of the adoption of this parcel tax, then the amount of the special taxes will be reduced annually as necessary in order to restore such State or Federal funding.