This is an archive of a past election.

See http: //www. smartvoter.org/ca/ed/ for current information.

League of Women Voters of California Education Fund

El Dorado County, CA	March	8,	2005	Election

Measure M

Mosquito Abatement special tax
County Service Area Number 7

2/3 Approval Required
See Also: Index of all Measures

Information shown below: Impartial Analysis I Arguments I Full Text

Shall an annual special tax of $5.00 be levied per parcel of real
property within County Service Area Number 7 (west slope of El
Dorado County), to be assessed and collected with other property
taxes commencing with fiscal year 200512006, provided the special
tax may be adjusted annually by the California Consumer Price
Index at the beginning of each fiscal year, beginning on July 1,
2006, and that the proceeds from the special tax shall be used only
for mosquito abatement services?

Impartial Analysis from El Dorado County Counsel

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL OF MEASURE
M

Suggest a link related to

Measure M

Links to sources outside of Smart Voter
are provided for information only and do
not imply endorsement.



This measure, if adopted by a 2/3 vote, would approve a new special
tax on each parcel of real property on the west slope of El Dorado
County in the amount of $5.00 per year, adjusted annually by the
Consumer Price Index, to pay for mosquito abatement services to
control the spread of mosquito-borne diseases including West Nile
Virus.

El Dorado County has created a number of geographic subunits within
the County called "County Service Areas" in order to fund and
administer specified public services in that area. County Service Area
Number 7 (CSA 7) consists of the west slope of El Dorado County
from the Sierra crest to the Sacramento County line, including the
incorporated city of Placerville. Currently the County provides
ambulance services within CSA 7, but because of the new threat
presented by the spread of West Nile Virus, the Board of Supervisors
on October 26,2004 amended the authority of CSA 7 to include
mosquito abatement services.

The measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters in CSA 7, would impose
a new special tax on all parcels within CSA 7 in the initial amount of

$5.00 per year, commencing with fiscal year 2005/2006. The amount
of the special tax may be adjusted annually by the California
Consumer Price Index. The special tax will be added to the annual
property tax bill, and will be collected in the same manner as property
taxes. The proceeds from the special tax can only be used for
mosquito abatement services, which would generally include
surveillance, testing, prevention, abatement and other mosquito
control measures to eliminate or reduce the threat posed by
mosquitoes. Mosquitoes are the primary "vector" (i.e., method of
transmission) which spreads a number of diseases such as viral
encephalitis and West Nile Virus. West Nile Virus is a mosquitoborne
virus which causes life-threatening disease in humans, birds, and
horses.

A "yes" vote would approve the new special tax.

A "no" vote would not approve the special tax.
s/ Louis B. Green County Counsel

Arguments For Measure M	Arguments Against Measure M
No argument was submitted in favor of this measure.	No argument was submitted against this measure.
Full Text of Measure M	

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE M

RESOLUTION NO. 001-2005

OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE

COUNTY OF EL DORADO

Setting for Election a Measure to Establish a Special Tax
for Mosquito Abatement Services Within County
Service Area # 7

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors of the County of El Dorado has formed County Service Area No. 7
pursuant to Title 3, Division 2, Part 2, Chapter 2.2 of the California Government Code; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors of the County of El Dorado adopted a resolution on November 30,
2004 to include additional extended services within County Service Area No. 7 for the purposes of
providing mosquito abatement services on the west slope of the County; and

WHEREAS, funding for said services is to be provided through the establishment of a special tax; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to California state law, the Board of Supervisors is required to place before the voters
the approval of the measure as shown on Exhibit A; and

WHEREAS, such a special tax shall take effect only if approved by a minimum of a 2/3rd majority of the
votes cast; and

WHEREAS, Resolution No. 343-2004 was adopted on November 30,2004 setting for election this special
tax and adopting the ballot measure; and

WHEREAS, it is now necessary to amend Resolution No. 343-2004 to make minor non-substantive
modifications to the ballot measure.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Supervisors of the County of El Dorado hereby

resolves and determines as follows:

1.	Resolution No. 343-2004 is hereby repealed and replaced by this resolution.

2.	The measure shall be presented to the voters within County Service Area No. 7 as shown on Exhibit A.

3.	The Elections Department shall include the measure shown on Exhibit A in the special election to be held
on March 8,2005.

4.	The tax as shown on Exhibit A shall appear as a separate item on the tax bill of each parcel and shall be
collected at the same time and manner as county property taxes are collected as set forth in the applicable
provisions of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and shall be subject to the same penalties and the same
procedure and sale in the case of delinquency as provided for such taxes. All laws applicable to the levy,
collection and enforcement of county property taxes shall be applicable to each tax.

5.	The special tax shown on Exhibit A shall take effect and be imposed only if it is approved by a minimum
of a 2/3rd majority of the votes cast at the March 8,2005 election.

EXHIBIT A

SPECIAL ELECTION BALLOT MEASURE
COUNTY SERVICE AREA #7
MOSQUITO ABATEMENT SERVICES
COUNTY OF EL DORADO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

"Shall an annual special tax of $5.00 be levied per parcel of real property within County Service Area
Number 7 (west slope of El Dorado County), to be assessed and collected with other property taxes
commencing with fiscal year 2005/2006, provided the special tax may be adjusted annually by the California
Consumer Price Index at the beginning of each fiscal year, beginning on July 1,2006, and that the proceeds
from the special tax shall be used only for mosquito abatement services?"

El Dorado Home Page II Statewide Links II About Smart Voter II Feedback

Created: March 29, 2005 12:42 PST
Smart Voter <http://www.smartvoter.org/>

Copyright © League of Women Voters of California Education Fund http://ca.lwv.org
The League of Women Voters neither supports nor opposes candidates for public office or political parties.