r

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
Measure AA- Fire/Police Homeland Protection Act

At its December 1, 2004 meeting, the City
Council decided to submit to the voters Measure AA
which would impose a special fire/police protection levy
on properties in the City of Monterey Park in the amounts
as set forth in the Measure. The special levy can be
used only to pay for (i) capital and financing costs for
improvements to Fire Stations No. 2 and 3, (ii) funding of
current pension program costs, (iii) salary parity for fire
and police personnel, and (iv) increased staffing of 3 fire
and 4 police personnel. Measure AA states that it is the
intent and purpose of this special levy to supplement, not
replace, the City’s current general fund expenditures for
the fire and police departments.

If at least two-thirds of the voters approve Measure
AA, a special annual levy on parcels will be established
and the monies collected shall be deposited in a special
fund to be used by the City only as provided above.
Property owners will pay the levy amounts beginning
with the 2005/2006 property tax year. The City Council
may reduce the levy in any year but cannot increase
the levy greater than as stated in the Measure plus the
consumer price index. The term of this special parcel
levy is twenty-five years. Measure AA exempts property
owners from the fire/police protection levy who (i) are
religious, charitable or community service organizations
which qualify for ad valorem tax exemptions, (ii) are low-
income, or (iii) qualify for the City’s utility user’s life line
program. Further, property owners over the age of 65
years residing in a single-family or condominium unit will
be charged 50% of the special levy amount.

Dated: December 15, 2004

Anthony Canzoneri, City Attorney

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE AA

Please, vote “yes” on Measure AA. A diverse independent
committee of your neighbors recommended Measure
AA after doing a study. On December 1, 2004 the City
Council accepted this recommendation and voted 5
to 0 to approve Measure AA, a special parcel levy, for
the March 8, 2005 ballot. Measure AA, if approved by
a two-thirds vote of the electorate, would apply a $40/
year parcel levy on owners of all single-family residences.
Senior residents would pay $20/year. Indigent residents
would be exempt. Commercial and multiple residential
owners would pay higher rates due to higher use of police
and fire services.

The funds raised by Measure AA will:

Finance bonds to construct two modern fire stations
replacing 50 years old obsolete fire stations that
cannot adequately house paramedic ambulances and
fire engines.

Fund a pension shortfall for Police and Firefighters
adopted by a vote of the residents in 1946. The
pension has first claim on city funds. Failure to pass
Measure AA will result in cuts in city services, such as
Library, Parks and Recreation, and yes Police and Fire
personnel to meet this pension obligation.

Add a fifth police patrol to assure continued prompt
response to 911 calls.

Add three Paramedic Firefighters to meet the increased
call volume for this life saving service.

Measure AA is limited to purposes specified and cannot
be spent on anything else. Measure AA levy will sunset
in 25 years and includes an inflation adjustment at the
legal limit of a 2% per year. An annual audit is required
to assure that the funds are used as specified. The
City Council may lower the tax, but may not raise it.

VOTE “YES” ON MEASURE AA.

Shirley Hwong

Paul G. Perez

Patricia M. Reichenberger

Irving Willner

Luz Maria Ayala

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE AA

(No Rebuttal Argument was Submitted)

Monterey Park/17

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE AA

We all want to support our safety officers and city
employees. I personally support a fair proposal to raise
any needed funds for these services. However, a tax
must be fair. This tax is not.

Approximately 7,000 renters in Monterey Park will pay
over 19% of this tax, while over 12.800 residents in single
family residences which they own, will pay only about
21% of this tax. Commercial interests will pay the rest,
about 59%. This is hardly a fair tax.

Households (owned residences) will pay only $40
yearly, regardless of the size of the home. Rental units,
regardless of the size, will start at $42 yearly and go to
as much as $68 yearly, depending on the number of units
in any one location. The cost of this assessment, levied
on apartment owners, will be passed on to renters! ! It
is a cost of doing business. In addition, home owning
residents over 65 will pay only half of the assessment
while renters over 65 will get no discount.

How can we ask the 7,000 renters to pay 19% of this tax,
while over 12,800 homeowners, who get increasing equity
in their homes every day, pay only 21 % of this tax?

Don’t place this unfair burden on renters. Common sense
says homeowners should at least pay an equal share of
these taxes. Under this proposition they don’t.

Renters don’t traditionally vote in the same numbers
as property owners. The “yes” voters will be property
owners, while the poor renter won’t even know what
happened when the rent goes up. The better off among
us will be reaping the benefits of rising equity every time a
renter pays his/her rent. We shouldn’t do this to them.

Ralph Mitchell

Monterey Park Resident and Homeowner

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE AA

Measure AA must be approved to protect your life and
health as well as protect City services such as library,
parks and recreation programs, street maintenance,
sanitation, and public safety from additional budget
cuts.

Consider 911 calls from each property type.

	911-Call	911-Call	Funding
	Ratios	Proportion	%
Homeowners	1	12%	21%
Rentals	2.4	28%	19%
Commercial	5.2	60%	60%

Safety protection is like insurance. Cost depends on
benefit, risk, and use. Homeowners make 12% of the
911-calls, rentals 28%, and commercial properties 60%.
Rental properties’ 19% share of Measure AA funding is
fair considering higher risk and usage. Homeowners
shouldering 21% recognizes the benefit of increasing
property values. Every resident will benefit fairly with
Measure AA. Vote “yes” on Measure AA. A “yes” vote
will prevent cuts in library, parks and recreation, street
maintenance, sanitation and public safety services. Who
will you call if the police, firefighters, and paramedics
take longer to get to you because of budget cuts? In
the future Measure AA can be lowered or suspended as
revenues allow, but the levy cannot be increased by the
City Council.

Measure AA assures that police, firefighters, and
paramedics will get to you under 4 minutes which is
faster than the LAPD’s 11 minutes. Delays can make
things worse. Measure AA protects lives; the cost is fair;
and the benefits are equally shared.

Save lives, not risk lives.

Vote “Yes” on Measure AA.

Paul G. Perez
John Y. Gee

Monterey Park / 18

ORDINANCE NO.

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MONTEREY PARK, CALIFORNIA, ADDING
CHAPTER 3.44, ENTITLED FIRE/POLICE HOMELAND PROTECTION ACT TO THE MONTEREY
PARK MUNICIPAL CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF MONTEREY PARK, CALIFORNIA ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The People hereby amend the Monterey Park Municipal Code (MPMC) to establish a Fire/Police Homeland Protec-
tion Act, by adding Chapter 3.44 thereto, to read as follows:

Chapter 3.44

Fire/Police Homeland Protection Act

Sections:	
3.44.010	Short title.
3.44.020	Definitions.
3.44.030	Exemptions.
3.44.040	Special Levy.
3.44.050	Purpose.
3.44.060	Special Fund.
3.44.070	Levy rate; contingency.
3.44.080	Annual report.
3.44.090	Term.
3.44.100	Adjustments and refunds.
3.44.110	Amendments.
3.44.120	Severability.
3.44.130	Effective date.
3.44.010	Short title.

The Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Monterey Park Fire/Police Homeland Protection Act.”

3.44.020	Definitions.

The following words and phrases whenever used In this chapter shall be construed and defined in this section:

a)	“Condominium project” means a condominium, a community apartment project, or a stock cooperative, all as defined in
Section 1351 of the Civil Code.

b)	“Dwelling unit” shall have the same meaning as Section 21.04.245 of the MPMC.

c)	“Fire stations” means those stations operated by the Monterey Park Fire Department.

d)	“Single-family residential” shall have the same meaning as Section 21.04.235 Dwelling, Single Family of the MPMC.

e)	“Pension Plan” shall have the same meaning as authorized plans in which the city has contracted with the California Public
Employee Retirement System for its police and fire department employees.

344.030

Exemptions.

Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a levy upon any person when imposition of such levy upon that person
would be in violation of either the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of California.

b)	The levy imposed by this chapter shall not be levied upon the federal government, the state government, any state agency, or
any local governmental agency.

c)	The levy imposed by this chapter shall not be levied upon a parcel of property, which is owned by a house of worship, or
charitable, or community service organization, which qualifies for an exemption from ad valorem taxation under California
Law.

d)	The levy imposed by this chapter shall not be levied upon any owner if such owner receives a low income/life line exemption
pursuant to Resolution No. 9663 from the utility user’s tax imposed by Chapter 3.38 of this Municipal Code.

Monterey Park /19

e)	The levy imposed by this chapter shall not be levied upon any owner who has income, adjusted for family size, at or below
eighty percent of the area median income as determined upon the Section 8 Income Limits for Los Angeles County as published
by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and applicable to the Community Development Block Grants
Programs.

f)	The levy imposed by this chapter shall be reduced by 50% upon any owner over the age of 65 years, who owns and resides in
the single-family or condominium unit.

344.040	Special Levy.

a)	There is imposed a special levy on each residential dwelling unit and nonresidential parcel within the City of Monterey Park for
the purpose set forth in this chapter at the rate specified herein.

b)	This levy is enacted under the authority of Sections 50075-50077.5 and 53970-53979 of the California Government Code.

3.44.050	Purpose.

a)	The purpose of this special levy is to provide funds to the City to assist it to pay for:

1)	Capital improvements, primarily consisting of reconstruction of Fire Stations No. 2 and No. 3, and the associated financing,
including interest on such financing, for the improvements;

2)	Funding of any currently obligated city employee pension program costs that have been identified by an annual Independent

audit review;

3)	Provide salary parity for fire and police sworn personnel;

4)	Increase city employee staffing of 3 fire-paramedics and 4 police officers.

b)	The intent and purpose of this special levy is to supplement, not replace, the City’s general fund budget appropriation for fire
and police departments. The special levy funds are to be used for the above purposes and the City shall not reduce its current
level of General Fund funding for Fire/Police protection services as a consequence of the additional funding provided by this
initiative.

c)	The City Council may provide for the collection of the special levy in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as,
or with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the City, or by the County of Los Angeles on behalf of the City. If the
County on behalf of the City collects the levy, the County may deduct its reasonable costs incurred in such service.

d)	City costs of enforcement and administration of the levy, including refunds, shall be paid from the levy revenue.

e)	Priority of expenditures shall be as follows: (1) for the financing for the capital improvements and interest thereon, (2) pension
shortfall, (3) salary parity and (4) increase staffing.

3.44.060	Special	Fund.

a)	There is hereby established a special fund entitled, “Fire/Police Homeland Protection Act" (hereafter the “special fund”).
Revenue collected pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited into said special fund and shall be used exclusively as provided
in this chapter for the purposes for which the levy is imposed, and for no other purposes. Nothing in this section shall prevent
disbursements from this special fund to reimburse the general fund or retirement fund if, and only if, money has been advanced
from either of those funds to pay for the uses provided for in this chapter. Advancement as used in this section shall mean only
those general funds necessary to pay for services or goods authorized by this chapter but for which insufficient funds have yet
to be collected in the special fund due to cycle of collection.

b)	Any money raised by the levy, including any interest accrued thereon, that remains unencumbered at the end of any fiscal year
may be used in succeeding fiscal years for only the purposes stated in this chapter.

3.44.070	Levy	rate;	contingency.

a) A levy shall be placed annually on the following classification of property in the City at the following rates:

1)	$40.00	on	each	single-family	residential	dwelling	unit	or	each	dwelling	unit	in a residential condominium project.

2)	$42.00 on each unit improved with two residential units, which is not a condominium project.

3)	$48.00 on each unit improved with three to five residential units, which is not a condominium project.

4)	$54.00 on each unit improved with six to 10 residential units, which is not a condominium project.

Monterey Park / 20

5)	$60.00	on	each	unit	improved with 11 to 15 residential units, which is not a condominium project.

6)	$65.00	on	each	unit	improved with more than 15 residential units, which is not a condominium project.

7)	$390.00	on each parcel which is 0.14 acres or less and improved with a non-residential building.

8)	$1,150.00	on each parcel, which is more than 0.14 acres and less than 0.50 acres and improved with a non-residential

building.

9)	$2,400.00	on each parcel, which is 0.50 acres and greater, but less than 1.0 acres and improved with a non-residential

building.

10)	$4,800.00 on each parcel, which is 1.0 acres and greater, but less than 5.0 acres and improved with a non-residential
building.

11)	$6,000.00 on each parcel, which is 5.0 acres and greater, and improved with a non-residential building.

12)	$40.00 on vacant residential zoned parcel.

13)	$390.00 on vacant commercial or industrially zoned parcel.

b)	The levy rates shall be increased annually only pursuant to the consumer price index (CPI) prepared by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics of the United States Government for all urban consumers for the Los Angeles Anaheim-Riverside statistical area or
any successor index, to reflect changes in such index during the twelve months which ended on March 31 preceding each
such fiscal year, but in no case shall any annual adjustment be greater than 2% which is the same maximum provided under
the State Constitution (Article XIII A) for ad valorem taxes.

c)	The annual levy shall be at the rate set forth in subsection (a) above plus CPI increase set forth in subsection (b) above, unless
the City Council upon a minimum vote of three (3) City Council members in the affirmative reduces the annual levy scheduled
to be implemented in any given year. Notwithstanding any other provisions herein except Section 3.44.090, if in any fiscal year
there is any outstanding financing issued on reliance on the revenue of this ordinance, the annual levy shall not decrease below
the amount necessary for payment of that outstanding financing and interest thereon, like bonds, certificates of participation or
other legally permissible funding mechanism issued for long-term debt.

3.44.080	Annual Report.

The Director of Management Services shall file an independent audited report done by a qualified professional firm with the
City Council no later than March 1, 2006 and at least once a year thereafter. The annual report/audit shall contain both of the
following:

a)	The amount of funds collected and expended.

b)	The status of any project required or authorized to be funded under this ordinance.

c)	Any other customary findings and/or findings associated with an independent audit.

The city shall cause the findings contained in the annual report to be published consecutively for 14 days or two publications in the
officially adjudicated newspaper for such public notices, whichever is longer. The City Council shall be required to receive and act
upon the report at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting occurring after the published noticing period. The agenda shall
notice the item as a public hearing item and City Council action item.

3.44.090	Term.

The annual levy provided for herein shall be levied in each of twenty-five (25) consecutive fiscal years, commencing with the first
fiscal year in which there is a levy pursuant to this chapter.

3.44.100	Adjustments and refunds.

a) Requests for adjustments involving imposition of this special levy shall be filed with the Director of Management Services.
Upon applicant’s production of reasonably sufficient evidence of error in the computation of the levy or exemption therefrom,
the Director of Management Services or his/her designee shall cause the tax to be recalculated; and shall so advise the Los
Angeles County tax collector or other appropriate official.

Monterey Park/21

b)	Whenever it is alleged that the amount of any levy has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or received by the city under this chapter, the refund procedure shall be as follows:

1)	No claim for refund of levy payment shall be allowed in whole or in part unless filed with the city clerk within a period of one
year from the date of the claimed overpayment. All such claims for refund of the amount of the overpayment must be filed
on forms furnished, and in the manner prescribed by the Management Services Department of the city. Refunds may be
made solely from the levy revenues collected under this chapter.

2)	In the event the Director of Management Services denies this claim, he/she shall notify the claimant pursuant to Government
Code section 913.

c)	The Director of Management Services shall have the power to settle claims involving the levy, and the power to accept and
record underpayments or overpayments of such levy. The Director of Management Services shall have the authority to make
refunds of this levy.

d)	If the County of Los Angeles does not collect any levy due under this chapter, then the Director of Management Services shall
have the power and duty to enforce all of the provisions of this chapter. In such cases, an assessment may be made against
the owner of a parcel in the manner provided by law. Any unpaid levy due under this chapter shall be subject to all remedies
provided under the Municipal Code and as provided by law.

e)	The special levy shall be due in two equal installments in accordance with collection procedures of the Los Angeles County
tax collector, with the first installment due November 1st and the second installment due in the next succeeding February 1st,
in each fiscal year. The owner of land, at the time set forth in California Revenue and Taxation Code section 405 and 2192 for
each fiscal year shall have a personal obligation to the City until the levy is paid for such fiscal year.

f)	The Director of Management Services may prepare a questionnaire to be served on the owner of a parcel subject to this
ordinance. The questionnaire may request information that would be useful to the Director of Management Services in the
enforcement or administration of this chapter. The failure by an owner to provide the information requested within thirty days
of receipt of the request, or the act of an owner knowingly providing false information, shall be a misdemeanor.

3.44.110	Amendments.

Procedural provisions of this chapter may be amended by ordinance duly enacted by the City Council.

3.44.120	Severability.

If any section, subsection, part, clause, sentence, or phrase of this chapter or the application thereof is for any reason held to
be invalid or unconstitutional by a decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter, the application thereof, and the tax imposed shall not be affected thereby but shall remain in full force and effect, it being
the intention of the City Council and the voters to adopt each and every section, subsection, part, clause, sentence, or phrase
regardless or whether any other section, subsection, part, clause, sentence, or phrase or the application thereof is held to be invalid
or unconstitutional.

3.44.130	Effective date.

The ordinance enacting this chapter as a part of the Monterey Park Municipal Code and levying the special levy described herein
shall be effective ten days after the date on which the City Council has declared the voters of the City of Monterey Park have
approved said ordinance by the electors voting on the special levy proposal set forth in said ordinance.

Monterey Park / 22