VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

WEST SONOMA COUNTY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE B

To provide funds to reduce class sizes, restore electives,

Band increase funding for technology, crisis counseling,
libraries and school safety; restore funding for equipment
and materials for fine and performing arts and sciences,
shall West Sonoma County Union High School District be
authorized to renew and increase its existing qualified special tax
at a cost of $26.00 per parcel for eight years beginning July 1,
2005, with annual audits and exemption for parcels owned and
occupied by persons 65 years or over?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

The West Sonoma County Union High School District has called an election on a
special tax measure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter ap-
proval before a school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $26.00 per year per parcel for each parcel
of land within the District's boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1, 2005, and would remain in effect for no
more than eight years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
purposes set out in the measure, which include reducing class sizes, restoring
electives, and providing equipment and materials for fine and performing arts and
sciences. Each year, beginning with the year ending December 31,2005, the mea-
sure calls for preparation of a report by an independent financial auditor, stating the
amount received and expended from the tax for that year, and the status of any
pjects, and description of any programs, funded from the proceeds of the tax.

The tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax'. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and occupied
by a person who will be 65 years of age or older on or before May 1,2005, or May 1
of any subsequent year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemp-
tions based on ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for
this exemption the first year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps
must be followed to appeal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a
refund of the tax, if appropriate.

If two-thirds of the voters in the West Sonoma County Union High School District
who vote on this measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will
be levied. The tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes
starting with the 2005-2006 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

The West Sonoma County Union High School District has benefited from local par-
cel tax revenue since 1993 that has provided Analy, El Molino and Laguna High
Schools with 12 years of local funds which have improved our libraries, provided
new textbooks, enriched classroom materials and technology. Our high schools
have been able to offer a broad range of elective classes including the arts, leader-
ship and vocational courses. The tax of $12.08 per parcel has amounted to nearly
$280,000.00 per year in needed educational resources for our high schools. We
are about to lose those funds during a tough fiscal time.

Measure B of 2005 is a renewal of the existing parcel tax at a rate of $26.00 to meet
the increasing costs and needs of our high school education. Funds from Measure
B will provide ail students with new technology resources, crisis counseling, library
services, school safety and materials for fine and performing arts. Measure B
funded classroom resources will help all students reach their highest potential in
West Sonoma County Union High School District. None of the funds will be used
for administrator salaries or pay raises.

Analy and El Molino have been designated as three-time California Distinguished
Schools, while Laguna has been recognized as a four-time model continuation
school. Test scores have exceeded state and national averages. Teachers have
been recognized for their educational excellence and dedication to our students.

Property owners 65 years of age or older may apply for an exemption from Mea-
sure B.

Measure B is an investment in the quality education and programs we provide our
students as we prepare them for their careers, advanced study and contributions to
our communities.

si Herman J. Hernandez	si Rev. Eugene N. Nelson, Jr.

Realtor-Owner	Minister-Community Church of Sebastopol

si Kim Caruso, Executive Director si Merry Edwards
Sebastopol Community Center	Merry Edwards Wines

si Mike Reilly
County Supervisor

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE B

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B

WEST SONOMA COUNTY UNION HIGH SCHOOL DISTRICT
EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION ACT OF 2005

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “West Sonoma
County Union High School District Excellence In Education Act of 2005” or
as “Measure B.”

TERMS OF EXCELLENCE IN EDUCATION SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on
this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of
$26.00 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no
more than 8 years, commencing July 1,2005. The qualified special tax shall
be known and referred to as the "Excellence in Education Tax.”

Senior Citizen Exemption. In order to provide tax relief to senior citi-
zens in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years
of age or older shall be exempt from the Excellence in Education Tax upon
proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption must apply
to the District on or before May 1,2005 or May 1 of any succeeding assess-
ment year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an ex-
. emption for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as
such applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Excel-
lence in Education Tax, the Board of Education shall cause an account to be
established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the
Excellence in Education Tax remain unexpended, the Superintendent or
<ef financial officer of the District shall cause an independent financial au-
...tor to prepare a report to be filed with the Board of Education no later than
December 31 of each year, commencing December 31,2005, stating (1) the
amount of Excellence in Education Tax received and expended in such year,
and (2) the status of any projects or description of any programs funded from
proceeds of the tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or
other appropriate annual period, as the Superintendent shall determine, and
may be incorporated into or filed with the annual budget, audit, or other ap-
propriate routine report to the Board of Education.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the Excellence in Education Tax, and pro-
ceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Excellence in Education Tax shall be collected by the Sonoma
County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be
subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as
the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the
Excellence in Education Tax shall not decrease the funds available from
other sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District, which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All
property, which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valo-
rem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Excellence in
Education Tax in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65
years of age or older are exempt from the Excellence in Education Tax as de-
scribed above.

Multiple parcels, which are contiguous and are part of the one eco-
.mic unit under the same name and ownership, shall be charged as one
parcel.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District
has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the Excellence in Educa-

tion Act as described above to the Sonoma County tax collection officials.
The Sonoma County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any
reason other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be
final and binding for the purposes of the Excellence in Education Tax. Tax-
payers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do
so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property pur-
suant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or other
applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Excellence in Educa-
tion Taxes paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax re-
funds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has inde-
pendent value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof.
Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining
parts hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed
by law.