FORMATION AND SPECIAL TAX MEASURE Z
KNIGHTSEN TOWN COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT

Shall the Knightsen Town Community Services District be formed upon
an affirmative vote by two-thirds of the voters and become effective July
1, 2005 and include the territory shown in Exhibit A of the Board of
Supervisors Resolution and be authorized to levy up to a $200 annual
tax for developed parcels and up to a $100 annual tax for undeveloped
parcels for the purpose of constructing, operating, maintaining, and
servicing flood control and water quality improvements?

CONTRA COSTA LOCAL AGENCY FORMATION COMMISSION
(LAFCO) EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
FORMATION AND SPECIAL TAX MEASURE Z

>

A "yes” vote on this measure will form the Knightsen Town Community
Services District, a local governmental agency governed by a five-
member board of directors who are elected by registered voters residing
within the proposed District. If approved by the voters the District will be
created on the date the formation is recorded following a canvas of the
votes cast.

The purpose of the proposed District is to construct, operate, maintain
and service water quality and flood control improvements within the
proposed District. The proposed District includes approximately 5,019
acres encompassing the Town of Knightsen and nearby areas which are
believed to contribute to the flooding problems in the community and
general area of Knightsen.

In addition to deciding on whether to form the District the voters will at
the same time choose the initial five members of the Board of Directors.
All Directors must be residents of the District,

In addition to forming the district, the voters are being asked to authorize
the district to be able to levy a special tax on parcels within the district.
The actual tax rate levied each year determined by the District board of

directors ‘within the voter approved limits.

The maximum amount of the annual tax cannot exceed $200 in the first
fiscal year of the District’s existence for each developed parcel and $100
for each undeveloped parcel. In subsequent years the District cannot
increase the special tax by more than inflation, as measured by the
annual change in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for Urban Wage
Earners and Clerical Workers in the San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose

area.

A "no” vote on the measure means there will be no change in the status
quo and a special district will not be formed fo address local drainage or**
other unmet needs.

A petition of registered voters residing within in the proposed District
initiated the formation. LAFCO approved the formation on May 12, 2004
and approved this impartial analysis on December 1, 2004.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
FORMATION AND SPECIAL TAX MEASURE Z

The Knightsen Community, over the last 40 years, has
experienced significant flooding during periods of heavy rainfall. The
flooding has affected roadways, water wells, septic systems and flooded
residences and: outbuildings.

Members of the Knightsen Town Advisory Council have been
working with the County for years to solve the flooding problems. Every
project the County has designed has been too costly ($3.0 to $7,5
million) because the County is mandated to design for the worst case
scenario. If the Knightsen Town Community Services District (KTCSD) is
formed, it can establish its own design standards that are within the
means of the community. The district will be able to apply for grant funds
for capital improvements, however, it must be able to show that it can
pay for design, operation and maintenance of flood control and water
quality facilities constructed with grant funds.

The issue before the voters of Knightsen is to form a district that
will oversee the design and construction of flood control and water
quality improvements. Once constructed the district will be responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the flood and water control
systems. A parcel tax for the proposed district will be established to
operate and maintain the improvements. The initial proposed tax will be
levied at $50/developed parcel and $25/undeveloped. In subsequent
years the parcel tax is proposed to be increased gradually up to the
maximum parcel tax. The maximum tax is $200/developed and
$100/undeveloped. The maximum tax may be adjusted each fiscal year
based on the change in the consumer price index for the area. This
proposed parcel tax will generate approximately $840,000 over the next
ten years.

Alvin J. Simas Jr.

ARGUMENT AGAINST
FORMATION AND SPECIAL TAX MEASURE Z

None filed.

FULL TEXT OF
FORMATION AND SPECIAL TAX MEASURE Z

RESOLUTION NO. 03-13

(Gov.C.Sec. 568811

RESOLUTION OF THE LOCAL AGENCY FORMATION COMMISSION
OF THE COUNTY OF CONTRA COSTA MAKING DETERMINATIONS
AND APPROVING THE FORMATION OF THE KNIGHTSEN TOWN
COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT	'

RESOLVED, by the Local Agency Formation Commission of the
County of Contra Costa, State of California, that:

WHEREAS, on April 9, 2003, a registered voter petition of application
was filed with the Executive Officer of this Commission pursuant to Title
5, Division 3, commencing with Section 56000 of the Government
Code, requesting the formation of the Knightsen Town Community
Services District (KTCSD) and the concurrent establishment of a
sphere of influence boundary for said District; and

WHEREAS, the Executive Officer reviewed the proposal and prepared

a report and recommendation thereon; the proposal and report, having
been presented to, and considered by, this Commission; and

WHEREAS, the Commission called for and held a public hearing on the
proposed CSD formation on January 14, 2004. At the hearing,, the
Commission heard and received all oral and written protests and
evidence which were made, presented or filed, and all persons present
were given an opportunity to hear and be heard with respect to the
proposal and the report and recommendation of the Executive Officer.
At the conclusion of the public hearing, the Commission denied, without
prejudice, the proposed formation; and

WHEREAS, on February 12, 2004, the Knightsen Town Advisory
Council requested reconsideration of LAFCO Resolution No. 03-13,
and the matter was set for hearing on April 14, 2004; it was continued
to this Commission’s May 12, 2004 meeting. At the meeting, the
Commission again heard and received all oral and written protests and
evidence which were made, presented or filed, and all persons present

3

were given an opportunity to hear and be heard with respect to the
proposal.

WHEREAS, at the conclusion of the public hearing, the Commission
reversed its previous determination to deny without prejudice and
approved, the proposed CSD formation and establishment of a sphere
of influence boundary; and

WHEREAS, the Commission made a finding that the proposed CSD
formation and the establishment of a sphere of influence boundary is
exempt from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality
Act.

NOW, THEREFORE, the Local' Agency Formation Commission of the
County of Contra Costa DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DETERMINE,
AND FIND AS FOLLOWS:

1)	The formation of the Knightsen Town Community Services
District is approved subject to confirmation at. an election and
subject to the condition of a 2/3 voter approval of a special tax
of $200 per parcel for improved parcels and $100 per parcel
for unimproved parcels (Gov.C.Sec. 56886(s));

2)	If the formation of the District is approved by majority vote,
and if the special tax is approved by a 2/3 vote, the effective
date of the proposed formation will be July 1, 2005, and that
will be the date of recordation with the Contra Costa County
Clerk by LAFCO. If either the formation of the District fails to
pass by majority vote or the special parcel tax fails to pass by
a 2/3 vote, the proposed formation will terminate;

3)	The boundary of affected territory is amended to delete a +/-
70-acre portion located within the sphere of influence of the
City of Oakley, as described in attached Exhibit A;

4)	The sphere of influence for the new District is established to be
consistent with the District's boundary as amended;

5)	The name of the new District will be the Knightsen Town
Community Services District;

6)	The Knightsen Town Community Services District will be
governed by a five-member board of directors directly elected
from registered voters that have filed candidacy and reside
within the boundaries of the proposed district. The three

4

directors with the highest number of votes shall serve four-
year terms, and the other two will serve two-year terms.
Subsequent elections will be for four-year terms and governed
by the Uniform District Election Law. The election for directors
wifi take place at the same time that registered voters, within
the same boundaries, vote their choice on the proposed
District and the aforenoted special tax;

Furthermore, the Local Agency Formation Commission of the County
of Contra Costa;

7)	finds the affected territory to be legally inhabited;

8} adopts the Statement of Determinations with Respect to
Factors required pursuant to Sections 56425 and 56430 of the

Government Code;

9)	advises the Contra Costa County Board of Supervisors of the
Commission's approval of the proposed CSD and requests the
Board to direct the Registrar of Voters to conduct the

necessary election; and

10)	designates the Contra Costa LAFCO as the conducting
authority for protest, proceedings, the authority for which has
been delegated to its Executive Officer, who shall give notice
and conduct a public hearing on the matter pursuant to Gov.C.
Secs. 57025, 57026, 57051,

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 12th day of May 2004 by the following
vote:

AYES: Allen, Glover, Kurrent, Meadows, Schroder, Uilkema
and Jameson

NOES: None

I hereby certify that this is a correct copy of a resolution passed and

adopted by this Commission on the date aforesaid.

Date 5/25/04

Annamaria Perrella, Executive Officer

SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTION NO. 03-13

RESOLUTION OF THE LOCAL AGENCY FORMATION
COMMISSION OF THE COUNTY OF CONTRA COSTA MAKING

DETERMINATIONS AND APPROVING THE FORMATION OF THE
KNIGHTSEN TOWN COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT

RESOLVED, by the Local Agency Formation Commission of
Contra Costa County, State of California, that:

WHEREAS, on May 12, 2004, the Commission adopted
Resolution No.' 03-13 making determinations and approving the
formation of the Knightsen Town Community Services District subject
to voter approval of a special tax of $200 per parcel for improved
parcels and $100 per parcel for unimproved parcels; and

WHEREAS, Resolution No. 03-13 is by reference included
herein and is made a part of hereof, and to the extent there is a
difference between the two resolutions the language contained herein
shall control; and

WHEREAS, the Commission wishes to revise and modify the
terms and conditions as approved on May 12 for the formation of the
district and authorization of a special tax as specified herein:

NOW, THEREFORE, the Local Agency Formation Commission
of the County of Contra Costa, DOES HEREBY RESOLVE,

DETERMINE, AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

1)	The formation of the Knightsen Town Community
Services District is approved subject to confirmation by
the voters within the proposed district,

2)	The formation is subject to the approval of a special tax
by not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the voters of an
amount not to exceed $200 per parcel for improved
parcels and $100 per parcel for unimproved parcels for
the fiscal year in which the district first exists.

3)	For each subsequent fiscal year the amount of the

authorized maximum tax may be increased or
decreased based upon the prior year's change in the
Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and
Clerical Workers in the San Francisco-Oakland-San
Jose area.

6

I

4)	The Executive Officer shall provide a copy of this
resolution to the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors and
hereby request the Board to direct the Registrar of
Voters to conduct the necessary election.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 15th day of September 2004 by the
following vote:

AYES: Aden, Schroder, Glover, Uilkema, Kurrent, Jameson,
Meadows.

NOES: None

I hereby certify that this is a correct copy of a resolution passed and
adopted by the Local Agency Formation Commission of Contra Costa
County on the date stated above.

Date 09/15/04	Bob	Braitman,	Executive	Officer

7