OFFICIAL STATEWIDE SPECIAL ELECTION BALLOT

NOVEMBER 8, 2005
PLUMAS COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

1.	To vote you must completely darken the oval • next to the candidate or measure of your choice.

If you mismark an oval or change your mind, exchange your ballot for a new one.

2.	To write in a name, you must completely darken the oval • to the left of the line provided and write in the name on the line provided.

3.	No voter shall place any mark upon a ballot that will make that ballot identifiable. VOTE LIKE THIS:

S

A

M

P

L

E

B

A

L

L

O

DISTRICT

Sierra Valley Fire Protection District
Directors
Two Year Term - Vote for One

/—\ Edward Stephenson

^—' Appointed Incumbent
/—\ Lawrence F. Pederson

'—' Equipment Operator

o

Write-in

Sierra Valley Fire Protection District
Directors
Four Year Term - Vote for Two

OTeri L. Honea
Retired
/—\ James Ball

^— Carpenter, Firefighter, Paramedic

o

o,

Or

Vicki Anderson

CNA-Firefighter-EMT 1

DISTRICT MEASURE SUBMITTED TO
THE VOTERS

Sierra Valley Fire Protection District
Measure B

"Shall the Sierra Valley Fire Protection District
be authorized to adopt a special tax of: One
hundred ($100.00) per year on each legal parcel
with a primary residence and two hundred
dollars ($200.00) per year on each legal parcel
with a commercial structure, under the following
conditions.

No parcel shall be charged a special tax
greater then ($500.00) even if the parcel
contains more than five primary residential
dwellings, this includes trailer parks.

b)	If a parcel contains both residential and
commercial structure(s), the parcel shall be
charged the rate for a commercial
structure:

c)	A commercial structure shall be defined
as a building used for office, professional,
service or retail transactions;

d)	This tax shall be collected with the
Plumas County property taxes beginning in
fiscal year 2006-2007; and

All revenue from the special tax shall be
ad solely for the purposes of the District
;luding fire protection and prevention and
lergency medical services?"
qYES	Ono

STATE MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE
VOTERS

PROPOSITION 73
Waiting Period and Parental Notification
Before Termination of Minor's Pregnancy.

Initiative Constitutional Amendment.

Amends California Constitution, defining and
prohibiting abortion for unemancipated minor
until 48 hours after physician notifies minor's
parent/guardian, except in medical emergency
or with parental waiver. Mandates reporting
requirements. Authorizes monetary damages
against physicians for violation. Fiscal Impact:
Potential unknown net state costs of several
million dollars annually for health and social
services programs, the courts, and state
administration combined.

o

YES

o

NO

PROPOSITION 74
Public School Teachers. Waiting Period for
Permanent Status. Dismissal.

Initiative Statute.

Increases probationary period for public school
teachers from two to five years. Modifies the
process by which school boards can dismiss a
teaching employee who receives two
consecutive unsatisfactory performance
evaluations. Fiscal Impact: Unknown net effect
on school districts' costs for teacher
compensation, performance evaluations, and
other activities, impact would vary signficantly
by district and depend largely on future district
personnel actions.

O YES	q	NO

PROPOSITION 75
Public Employee Union Dues.
Restrictions on Political Contributions.
Employee Consent Requirement. Initltative
Statute.

Prohibits using public employee union dues for
political contributions without individual
employees' prior consent. Excludes
contributions benefitting charities or employees.
Requires unions to maintain and, upon request,
report member political contributions to Fair
Political Practices Commission, Fiscal Impact:
Probably minor state and local government
implementation costs, potentially offset in part
by revenues from fines and/or fees.

0YES	3	NO

PROPOSITION 76
State Spending and School Funding Limits.
Initiative Constitutional Amendment.

Limits state spending to prior year's level plus
three previous years' average revenue growth.
Changes minimum school funding requirements
(Proposition 98). Permits Governor, under
specified circumstances, to reduce budget
appropriations of Governor's choosing, Fiscal
Impact: State spending likely reduced relative
to current law, due to additional spending limit
and new powers granted to Governor.
Reductions could apply to schools and shift
costs to other local governments.

CD YES	CD N0

PROPOSITION 77
Redistricting. Initiative
Constitutional Amendment.

Amends state Constitution's process for
redistricting California's Senate, Assembly,
Congressional and Board of Equalization
districts. Requires three-member panel of
retired judges selected by legislative
leaders. Fiscal Impact: One-time state
redistricting costs totaling no more than
$1.5 million and county costs in the range
of $1 million. Potential reduction in future
costs, but net impact would depend on
decisions by voters.

Q YES	CDN0

PROPOSITION 78
Discounts on Prescription Drugs.
Initiative Statute.

Establishes discount prescription drug
program for certain low- and moderate-
income Californians. Authorizes
Department of Flealth Services to contract
with participating pharmacies for discounts
and with participating drug manufacturers
for rebates. Fiscal Impact: State costs for
administration and outreach in the millions
to low tens of millions of dollars annually.
State costs for advance funding for rebates.
Unknown potentially signficant savings for
state and county health programs.

o

YES

ON0

PROPOSITION 79
Prescription Drug Discounts.

State-Negotiated Rebates.

Initltative Statute.

Provides drug discounts to Californians with
qualifying incomes. Funded by state-
negotiated drug manufacturer rebates.
Prohibits Medi-Cal contracts with
manufacturers not providing Medicaid best
price. Fiscal Impact: State costs for
administration and outreach in low tens of
millions of dollars annually. State costs for
advance funding for rebates. Unknown
potentially significant: (1) net costs or
savings for Medi-Cal and (2) savings for
state and county health programs.

CDves	on0

PROPOSITION 80
Electric Service Providers.

Regulation. Initiative Statute.

Subjects electric service providers to
regulation by California Public Utilities
Commission. Restricts electricity
customers' ability to switch from private
utilities to other providers. Requires all
retail electric sellers to increase renewable
energy resource procurement by 2010.
Fiscal Impact: Potential annual
administrive costs ranging from negligible to
$4 million, paid by fees. Unknown net
impact on state and local costs and
revenues from uncertain impact on
electricity rates.

qYES	ON0

FRONT Card 6

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE B

SIERRA VALLEY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

Upon adoption by a two-thirds vote, this measure will
authorize the Board of Commissioners of the Sierra
Valley Fire Protection District to establish a special
tax to raise revenue to support fire protection and
prevention services, rescue services, and emergency
medical services. Revenue will be collected through
the Plumas County property tax process beginning in
FY 06-07.

The annual rate of the special tax will not exceed one
hundred dollars per year for each legal parcel of land
within the district with a primary residence and two
hundred dollars per year for each legal parcel of land
within the district with a commercial structure.

Although the measure indicates that “no parcel shall
be charged a special tax greater than ($500.00) even
if the parcel contains more than five primary residential
dwellings. . .”, the measure does not specifically state
that a special tax of $100.00 will be imposed for each
primary residence on the parcel. Thus, this measure
only expressly authorizes a special tax of $100.00 for
residential structures even if the parcel contains more
than one primary residence.

Commercial structures are defined as buildings used
for office, professional, service or retail transactions.
Parcels containing both residential and commercial
structures will be charged the rate for a commercial
structure.

Pursuant to Government Code Sections 50075.1 and
50075.3, proceeds from the special tax are subject to
statutory accountability measures which include, but
are not limited to, an annual report by the local agency
detailing the amount of funds collected and expended.
To authorize a special tax, an affirmative vote must
be received from two-thirds of those voting on this
measure.

A YES vote favors imposing the special tax. A NO vote
opposes imposing the special tax.

/s/ Barbara Thompson, County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

SIERRA VALLEY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

We the members of the Sierra Valley Volunteer Fire
Department have requested a election to help finance
the fire district. Residents of the Sierra Valley Fire District
could face a real danger of a devastating fire as well as
life threatening health emergencies. As our population
grows and more homes and businesses are being built,
threats are even larger.

To keep abreast of the growth of this area and the increase
in traffic on our highways, we need this special tax to
help finance the Sierra Valley Fire Protection District over
and above what Plumas County gives us to operate the
district.

Our expenses have increased by 41 % at the same time
our budget has increased by only 9%. Our fire district
is in a low tax area and due to proposition 13 cannot
be increased. Our district has had to borrow $20,000 to
complete fiscal year 2004-2005.

The passage of the measure is essential to maintain
current levels of response capability and continue
to upgrade. We are concerned about the age of the
equipment, protective clothing, fire hoses and breathing
apparatus. Over the years, through fundraisers, we have
obtained some safety and communications equipment.
But the ability to acquire the needed equipment is much
greater than our capabilities. While our volunteers go far
beyond their required time, they do need assistance from
the voters to get them the protection they are entitled
to.

We believe our fire district services are essential to our
community and additional funds must be provided. If
this measure does not pass, response time and quality of
service could be impaired and possibly raise insurance
rates.

We urge your “YES” vote on this measure.

/s/	Richard Wiggin

/s/	Edward M. Stephenson

/s/	Dave Goss

32/2