Sample Ballot

OFFICIAL BALLOT

Consolidated Special Statewide Election
Riverside County
November 8, 2005

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter

MEASURE(S) SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

DISTRICT

PALO VERDE HEALTH CARE DISTRICT

Ye* «—l

No

?merqer>cy and

33-C065

TURN CARD OVER

This page was intentionally left blank.
Examine both sides of each card for
voting opportunities

33-N999

TURN CARD OVER

N



Riverside County

33--SB035

Sample Ballot

33SB035

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “I”

Measure 1,” if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
measure, would authorize the Board of Directors of the Palo Verde
Health Care District (“District”) to levy a special tax in the amount of $32
per year per parcel of taxable land within the boundaries of the District.
The tax would be effective on Novembers, 2005. Proceeds from the tax
would be used to ensure the continued operation of the Palo Verde
Hospital and the provision of emergency room and hospital related
services to the communities served by the District.

This measure would also increase the District's appropriations limit per
fiscal year, in an amount equal to the levy of the special tax for that year,
as permitted by Article XIIB, section 4, of the California Constitution.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be levied on
property within the boundaries of the Palo Verde Healthcare District at a
rate of $32 per parcel per year.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be levied
and would not allow the appropriations limit to be raised.

By:	Jeffrey	G. Scott,

General Counsel

Palo Verde Health Care District

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “I”

Palo Verde Hospital is at a critical point in its survival. In July of this year
LifePoint, the company that recently took over operating the hospital
notified the District that it was terminating the lease and its relationship
with the hospital. Measure “I” has been placed on the ballot to prevent the
closure of the hospital and ensure the hospital’s continued ability to
provide modern emergency room and health care services to the
residents of Blythe and the surrounding area.

For victims of automobile accidents, heart attacks and other traumatic
injuries, receiving emergency care within the critical first 60 minutes can
mean the difference between life and death. Having a full-service hospi-
tal and emergency room in Blythe avoids forcing patients and their
families to travel over 100 miles for hospital care or even to deliver a
baby.

Local doctors, nurses and employees of the Palo Verde Hospital urge
support of Measure “I." No one knows when a life-threatening
emergency will strike or when you will need to use the hospital. Measure

1" ensures that medical care will be here locally when you need it.

Please vote YES on Measure “I.”

By:	David	Brooks, M.D.

President, Board of Directors
Palo Verde Healthcare District

NO ARGUMENT FILED AGAINST MEASURE “I”

33-M6

i ilium (in