PROPOSAL TO AUTHORIZE A SPECIAL TAX IN THE
PLACER HILLS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

To ensure reliable funding for our schools, provide programs to aid students with their
reading skills, preserve small class sizes, maintain academic excellence in math, science,
library and music programs, retain qualified teachers, provide students with computer literacy
skills, shall the Placer Hills Union School District levy a parcel tax of $48 for four years with
annual audits and public review with no money for administrative salaries?

YES_____ NO________

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLACER COUNTY COUNSEL

The Placer Hills Union School District proposes to
impose a special tax to "ensure reliable funding for our
schools, provide programs to aid students with their
reading skills, preserve small class sizes, maintain
academic excellence in math, science, library and music
programs, retain qualified teachers, provide students
with computer literacy skills." The District has
determined that none of the proposed special parcel tax
would be spent for administrative salaries.

The District is proposing to tax all assessor's parcels
within the District $48.00 for a period of 4 years
commencing July 1, 2005. This increased special parcel
tax would be an annual tax upon parcels of property
commencing with the 2005-2006 tax year and continuing
through the 2008-2009 tax year. The special tax would
be collected in the same manner as the County collects
property ad valorem taxes.

Pursuant to state law, the District has agreed to provide
accountability measures that include insuring that the
proceeds of a voter-approved special tax be applied only
to the specific purposes identified in the measure,

separate accounting, and an annual report. This annual
report would detail the amount of special parcel tax
funds collected and expended, and the status of any
project identified in the measure.

A ’YES" vote is a vote in favor of the
Placer Hills Union School District special
parcel tax for a period of 4 years.

A "NO" vote is a vote against imposing the
Placer Hills Union School District special
parcel tax.

Measure D must receive approval by two-thirds (2/3) of
the votes cast by the voters voting upon the measure for
the special parcel tax to be imposed.

Anthony J. La Bouff
County Counsel

By:	Sabrina	M.	Thompson

Deputy County Counsel

D1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Our schools have done a good job of providing a quality
educational program in our community, and student test
scores have improved steadily. However. State budget
cuts have severely impacted schools across California,
and Placer Hills Union School District is no exception.
The State continues cutting funds to support local
education. We have an opportunity to protect our
students from some of these cuts.

Measure D will allow the District to ensure reliable
funding for local schools in order to maintain current
science and library programs and small class sizes. It
will help minimize some of the effects of the State cuts
from impacting our students' education. As taxpayers,
we all agree in the importance of an excellent education
and the value of good schools. This measure is
necessary to preserve the quality of education in our
community.

MEASURE D WILL ALLOW US TO:

•	Maintain library and science programs

•	Provide programs to aid students with their
reading skills

•	Maintain music programs through retention of
quality music teachers

•	Retain computer and technology programs to
provide students with computer skills and smai.

--------group-instruction--------------------------

•	Continue extra-curricular activities and physical
education courses

Measure D is a local measure with local control. ALL
revenue raised from Measure D will be invested in our
schools and cannot be taken by the State. Funds raised
will be subject to public audits to protect taxpayer funds
and to ensure that dollars raised through this measure
will be used for the specific purposes promised to voters.
The Measure would levy the tax for a limited period of
four years and would provide for an exemption for senior
citizen property owners age 65 and older.

INVEST IN OUR COMMUNITY AND PROTECT OUR
SCHOOLS.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE D.

George Lay, Community Activist/Town Historian
Craig Wheaton, School Board President, Placer Hills
Union School District
Mike Mulligan, MD

Ann Linkugel, Teacher, Placer Hills Elementary School
Randall Hensley

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

The Placer Hills Union School District (PHUSD) has
alleged that their primary fiscal woes have been a result
of "State budget cuts" that "have severely impacted" the
district.

The State has NOT cut education funding statewide nor
to the PHUSD.

In fact, the State has DRAMATICALLY increased

education spending from $35 billion to $50 billion in the
past 7 years, which includes a 7% increase Governor
Schwarzenegger is proposing to ADD to education in
next year's budget.

And PHUSD has shared in this new bounty; District
revenues for 2000 were under $7,500,000, while its
budget for the current year is approaching $9,000,000.

There are clearly adequate funds to maintain all of our
district's valuable programs.

The problem isn't lack of revenues ... it's a spending
problem, which Measure D only compounds.

This Special Election will cost our district over
$30.000.

The PHUSD is using State required reserves for this
special election, knowing there will be much lower voter
turnout than for a general election. This was the
recommendation of the district’s high-priced political
consulting firm, which will be paid $50,000 by PHUSD
if Measure D passes.

Measure D represents irresponsible government. It is not
a wise investment in our schools.

Our district's unwillingness to accept financial reality
convincingly demonstrates that PHUSD is not suffering
from a shortage of revenues, but financial
mismanagement.

Can you afford to give even more of your hard-earned
money to a public agency that won't accept reality?

Please vote NO on this unnecessary and unfair tax
increase

Wally Reemelin, President, League of Placer County
Taxpayers

Clifford R. Ramos, Retired Meadow Vista Postmaster
Gene R. Hinkle, Meadow Vista Property Owner
Thomas E. Nunley, Former PHUSD Board Member (17
Years)

Norma M. Harris, Norma M. Harris Lim ptn.ship

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

Measure D will INCREASE PROPERTY TAXES we

currently pay for schools by $48/year. The primary
justification is to compensate the Placer Hills Union
School District (PHUSD) for lost revenues due to
declining student enrollment

While this tax increase may sound small, it cumulates
upon all other property taxes we pay, including several
fire, park, and high school assessments. Moreover,
Measure D is a REGRESSIVE TAX, charging property of
any value the same amount, even vacant and open-land
parcels.

The primary reason for declining enrollment isn't lack of
growth, it's the inability of young families with children to
be able to afford to live here, which another parcel tax
will only exacerbate.

The REAL REASON why the District is proposing
increasing our taxes instead of living within their means
is to cover 20% PAY INCREASES awarded to the
teachers union over the past 5 years.

And they have rushed this proposal to a COSTLY
SPECIAL ELECTION with very LITTLE COMMUNITY
INPUT.

Declining enrollment began in 1996 and deficit spending
shortly thereafter. But that didn't stop the District from
dramatically increasing teacher salaries ABOVE the

union's automatic, collectively bargained salary schedule
increases.

When a past PH USD Board of Trustees tried to put the
brakes on deficit spending, the teachers union
successfully campaigned against the two most fiscally
responsible Board members.

Not a month following their November 2000 defeat, the
teachers union was awarded a 13% RETROACTIVE
INCREASE in their salary schedule.

And the	union	has received	TWO MORE

UNSCHEDULED INCREASES since, amounting to
$3,100,000 just in salary INCREASES since the 2000/01
school year.

Our teachers are worth it. But in a period of declining
enrollment and deficit spending, everyone at the District
must first tighten their own belts before requiring
taxpayers to shoulder a greater load.

Vote NO on Measure D.

Fred Jones, PH USD Past Board President

Ken Campbell, Chairman, Placer County Republican

Party

Aaron Park, President Placer CRA
Richard Hoopes, Parent & Taxpayer

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

PH USD has superior schools. Two of our three schools
received a perfect "10" on the (API); only two other
schools in Placer County achieved the same. All of our
schools exceeded the goals set by the State.

To continue its academic performance, the District must
retain and attract qualified teachers. To achieve this, the
District compensates its teachers fairly, and ranks 8 out
of 13 when compared to the salary schedules of other
Placer County Districts. Our teachers are worth it; the
proof is in skyrocketing test scores.

Opponents of Measure D cite unreasonable teacher
salary demands and the current Board's financial
mismanagement compared with the "fiscally
responsible" prior Board members. Untrue on both
counts. PH USD teachers haven't received a raise in two
years. Over the last four years the Board approved
raises totaling 6.04%. The prior Board approved raises
totaling 20.85% over a four-year period.

This District has cut over $2,000,000 the past four years
by reducing staff, teachers and administration. Further
cuts will compromise the quality of PHUSD's education.

Measure D will provide a reliable source of funding to
maintain our quality education system.

in addition to retaining teachers, Measure D will:

•	Retain library and science programs

•	Continue programs that aid students with their
reading skills

•	Protect the music programs

•	Retain computer and technology programs

•	Continue extra-curricular activities

Let's invest in our community's greatest assets - our
children. -Measure D ensures that our children will
continue to excel. That’s a small price to pay.

George Lay, Community Activist/Town Historian
Craig Wheaton, School Board President, Placer Hills
Union School District
Mike Mulligan, M.D.

Ann Linkugel, Teacher, Placer Hills Elementary School
Randall Hensley, D.C.

RESOLUTION NO. 10:04/05

BOARD OF EDUCATION
PLACER HILLS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL ELECTION TO
BE HELD ON TUESDAY, JUNE 7, 2005 FOR THE
PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO THE QUALIFIED
ELECTORS OF THE DISTRICT THE QUESTION OF
LEVYING A QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX UPON EACH
PARCEL IN THE DISTRICT FOR EDUCATIONAL
PURPOSES AND ESTABLISHING THE
SPECIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, the Board of Education (the "Board") of
the Placer Hills Union School District (the “District”) has
determined that the present revenues of the District are
inadequate to fund the cost of education within said
District, and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and California Government Code Sections
50079 et seq. and 50075 et seq. (the “Law”) authorize a
school district, upon approval by two-thirds (2/3) of the
electorate voting on the measure, to levy a qualified
special tax for specified purposes following notice and a
public hearing; and

WHEREAS, the Board held a public hearing on
February 10, 2005, which was duly noticed where all
interested persons have been heard on the matter of
holding an election in the District on the matter of levying a
qualified special tax on each parcel in the District; and

WHEREAS, the Board of Education desires at this
time to order an election to be held on June 7, 2005 in the
District for the purpose of submitting to the voters in the
District the matter of levying a qualified special tax on each
parcel in the District for educational purposes and to
designate the specifications thereof, pursuant to Education
Code Section 5320 et seq.; and

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BOARD OF EDUCATION
OF THE PLACER HILLS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, ORDER AND DETERMINE
AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Call for Election. The Board hereby
orders an election and submits to the electors of the
District the question of whether a qualified special tax
shall be levied and collected in the District for the
purposes as set forth more fully in the ballot proposition
approved below. This Resolution constitutes the order of
the District to call such election and shall constitute the
“specifications of the election order” pursuant to
Education Code Section 5322.

Section 2. Election Date. The date of the election
shall be June 7, 2005, and the election shall be held
solely within the boundaries of the District.

Section 3. Purpose of Election; Ballot
Proposition. The purpose of the election shall be for
the voters in the District to vote on a proposition, a full
copy of which is attached hereto and marked Exhibit “A”,
containing the question of whether the District shall levy
a qualified special tax in the District for the purpose
stated therein, together with the accountability
requirements of Government Code Section 50075.1. As
required by Elections Code Section 13247, the
abbreviated form of the measure to appear on the ballot
is attached hereto and marked as Exhibit “B”. The
Superintendent or his designee is hereby authorized and
directed to make any changes to the text of the
proposition as required to conform to any requirements
of the Law or the Placer County Registrar of Voters.

Section 4. Authority for Election. The authority
for ordering the election is contained in Section 4 of
Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and California
Government Code Sections 50079 et seq. and 50075 et
seq. The authority for the specification of this election
order is contained in Section 5322 of the Educatior
Code.

Section 5. Type of Tax, Rate and Method of
Collection. Said qualified special tax shall be levied in
an amount not to exceed $48 per parcel for four (4)
years assessed against each parcel of taxable land in
the District. A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land
in the District that receives a separate tax bill from the
Placer County Tax Collector. All property that would
otherwise be exempt from property taxes will also be
exempt from the qualified special tax.

Section 6. Accountability Requirements. The

members of the Board, the Superintendent and officers
of the District are hereby requested and directed,
individually and collectively, to provide accountability
measures pursuant to Government Code Section
50075.1 that include, but are not limited, to the following:
(a) a statement indicating the specific purposes of the
special tax, (b) a requirement that the proceeds be
applied only to the specific purposes identified, (c) the
creation of an account into which the proceeds shall be
deposited, and (d) an annual report pursuant to
Government Code Section 50075.3 as provided in
Section 7 hereof. Such accountability measures shall be
set forth on the ballot in the form of Exhibit A attached
hereto and incorporated herein by reference.

D4

MEASURE D RESOLUTION
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

Section 7. Annual Report. Pursuant to
Government Code Section 50075.3, the Board directs
the chief fiscal officer of the District to file a report with
the Board each year containing (a) the amount of funds
collected and expended and (b) the status of any project
required or authorized to be funded as identified in
Section 6(a) hereof.

Section 8. Delivery of this Resolution. The Clerk
of the Board is hereby directed to send a copy of this
Resolution to the Placer County Superintendent of
Schools, the Placer County Registrar of Voters (the
"County Registrar”) and the Placer County Clerk of the
Board of Supervisors.

Section 13. Agreement Services. The Board
hereby appoints Jones Hall as Legal Counsel in
connection with the parcel tax proceedings. The
agreement for such services on file with the District is
hereby approved.

Section 14. Election Pursuant to Law. In all

particulars not recited in this Resolution, said election
shall be held and conducted as provided by law for
holding school district elections in the District.

Section 15. Certification by Clerk of the Board.

That the Clerk of the Board shall certify to the passage
and adoption of and shall make minutes of the passage
and adoption therefore in the records of the proceedings
of the Board of Education of the District, in the minutes
of the meeting at which the same is passed and
adopted.

Section 9. Consolidation of Election. The County ADOPTED, SIGNED AND APPROVED this 17th day of
Registrar and the Placer County Board of Supervisors February, 2005.
are hereby requested to consolidate the ejection ordered

hereby with any and all other elections to be held on BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE

June 7, 2005, within the District.	PLACER	HILLS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT

Section 10. Ballot Arguments. Any and all

members of this Board are hereby authorized to act as
an author of any ballot argument prepared in connection
with the election, including a rebuttal argument. The
Superintendent, President of the Board, or their
designees, are hereby authorized to execute any
document and to perform all acts necessary to place the
bond measure on the ballot.

Section 11. Notice of Election. That the Placer
County Registrar of Voters is hereby requested to
prepare a formal Notice of Qualified Special Tax Election
in time, form and manner as required by law. The
suggested form of notice of the election is as follows:

PLACER HILLS UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
SPECIAL ELECTION NOTICE

NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the qualified
electors of the Placer Hills Union School District (the
"District") of Placer County, that in accordance with
law, an election will be held on Tuesday, the 7th of
June, 2005 in the District, at which election there will
be submitted the question of levying a qualified
special tax of $48 on each nonexempt parcel of land
in the District for the purpose of raising money for
the cost of public education.

Section 12. Reimbursement for Services
Performed. The Placer Hills Union School District
agrees to reimburse Placer County Registrar of Voters
for services performed when work is completed on the
election upon presentation of a bill.

By:	Craig	Wheaton

President

ATTEST: Chris Rydell

Clerk of the Board of Education

EXHIBIT A

BALLOT MEASURE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

“To ensure reliable funding for our schools,
provide programs to aid students with their
reading skills, preserve small class sizes,
maintain academic excellence in math, science,
library and music programs, retain qualified
teachers, provide students with computer
literacy skills, shall the Placer Hills Union School
District levy a parcel tax of $48 for four years
with annual audits and public review with no
money for administrative salaries?"

PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least two-thirds
(2/3) of the registered voters voting on the proposition,
the District will be authorized to levy a qualified special
tax of $48 per parcel for the specific school facilities
projects listed in the Project List described below,
subject to all the accountability requirements specified
below.

MEASURE D RESOLUTION
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

D5

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS

The provisions in this section are specifically
included in this proposition in order that the voters and
taxpayers in the District may be assured that their
money will be spent wisely. As required by the laws of
the State of California, the proceeds of the qualified
special tax will be deposited into a special account
established by the District and will be applied only to the
specific purposes identified below. The District has
covenanted to file with its governing board each year a
report stating the amount of the funds collected and
expended and the status of any project authorized to be
funded.

PROJECT LIST

The Project List shown below is a part of the ballot
proposition and must be reproduced in any official
document required to contain the full statement of the
proposition.

The proceeds of the parcel tax will be expended on
the following projects. The specific projects which are
described below include ail related and incidental costs.

• Provide programs to aide students with their
reading skills

•	Preserve small class sizes throughout the
District

•	Maintain K-8 music programs through thr
retention of quality music teachers

•	Retain computer/technology personnel who
provide computer literacy skills and flexible
scheduling for small group instruction

•	Maintain programs, such as Remediation and
Practice (RAP) which provides assistance for
academic problems

•	Retain quality personnel, such as teachers and
classroom support-aides

•	Providing extra-curricular activities and physical
education courses

EXHIBIT B

BALLOT MEASURE
ABBREVIATED FORM

“To ensure reliable funding for our schools,
provide programs to aid students with their
reading skills, preserve small class sizes,
maintain academic excellence in math, science,
library and music programs, retain qualified
teachers, provide students with computer
literacy skills, shall the Placer Hills Union School
District levy a parcel tax of $48 for four years
with annual audits and public review with no
money for administrative salaries?”

D6