MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

A Yes vote on Measure F will continue to provide Oak Grove Elementary and
Willowside Middle Schools with local funds to support our fine arts, music and for-
eign language programs. Ourschools offer an outstanding academic program. Our
test scores exceed state and county averages and our students are recognized for
their outstanding work. We are proud of these great accomplishments. Renewal of
this parcel tax will allow our students to continue to excel.

The parcel tax passed in 2000, which expires this year, allowed us to provide rich
experiences in the fine arts, music and foreign language. Measure F will allow us to
continue our progress for only a dollar a week. The $16 increase will allow us'to
keep up with costs and expenses until 2013 and will be used solely to support
these essential programs.

To lessen any burden on seniors, property owners 65 years of age or older may ap-
ply for an exemption. Also, multiple parcel owners with contiguous parcels pay only
one tax.

OAK GROVE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE F

To continue to provide our students with courses in art,

F music, drama, and foreign language, all essential for
student growth and development, shall the Oak Grove
Union School District be authorized to levy an annual
parcel tax of $52 for eight years, beginning July 1, 2005,
exempting parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of
age or more?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F

The Oak Grove Union School District has called an election on a special tax mea-
sure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a
school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $52.00 per year per parcel for each parcel
of land within the District's boundaries.The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1, 2005, and would remain in effect for no
more than eight years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
the purposes set out in the measure, which include retaining music and art pro-
grams, and making Spanish language instruction available to all students. State
law establishes additional accountability measures which require filing of an an-
nual report by the chief fiscal officer of the district stating the amount of funds col-
lected and expended, and the status of any project required or authorized to be
funded by the tax measure.

e tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a

parate tax bill for property taxes. Multiple parcels that are contiguous and are
part of one economic unit under the same name and ownership will be charged as
one parcel. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or on which no property
tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The measure also exempts
from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and occupied by a person who will be
65 years of age or older on or before May 1,2005, or May 1 of any subsequent year
for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemptions based on ownership
by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for this exemption the first
year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps must be followed to ap-
peal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a refund of the tax, if
appropriate.

Measure F will continue to provide our students with courses in art, music, drama,
and foreign language for the next eight years. These courses are essential for stu-
dent growth and development. Research shows that art, music, and studying a for-
eign language enhance a student’s ability to learn math and language arts. There
is a direct correlation between improved SAT scores and the length of time study-
ing the arts. Recent parcel tax surveys identified art and music programs as the
highest priorities.

Measure F is an investment in the quality education that we provide our students
as we prepare them for their future. A Yes vote on Measure F continues our com-
mitment to quality education, enhancing our community as a whole.

si Lesa Tanner	si Steve Dutton

Parent Organization President	Parent/Farmer

si Gus Bonta	si Maureen Bonta

Resident	Resident

s/Terri Thiessen
School Board Member

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE F

If two-thirds of the voters in the Oak Grove Union School District who vote on this
measure vote “yes,” the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied. The
tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes starting with
the 2005-2006 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE
County Counsel

By: si Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE F  OAK GROVE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF 2005  This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Oak Grove Union School District MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF 2005”or as “Measure F."  TERMS OF MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF 2005 SPECIAL TAX  Terms and Purposes. UDon aooroval of two-thirds of those votina on this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $52 peryearon each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no more than eight years, commencing July 1,20Q5. The qualified special tax shall be known and referred to as the “MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF 2005." To the extent such funds are available; proceeds of the MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF 2005 shall be authorized to keep music and art programs, and to provide for Spanish instruction available for all students.  Senior Citizen Exemntion. In order to provide tax relief to senior citizens in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years of age or older shall be exempt from the MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF 2005 upon proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption must apply to the District on or before May 1,2005 or May 1 of any succeeding as- sessment year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an exemption forthe parcel forthe remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.  ACCOUNTABILITY PROVISIONS  Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall constitute the specific purposes of the MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF P5, and proceeds of the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.  LEVY AND COLLECTION  The MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF 2005 shall be collected by the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF 2005 shall not decrease the funds avail- able from other sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.  “Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the Sonoma Counly Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office. All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem property taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF 2005 in such year. Multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part of one economic unit under the same name and ownership may be charged as one parcel. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or older are exempt from the MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF 2005 as described above upon proper application to the District.  The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District has approved for a Senior Citizen Exemption from the MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF 2005 as described above to the Sonoma County tax collection officials. The Sonoma County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason other than the Senior Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall be final and binding for the purposes of the MEASURING UP PARCEL TAX OF 2005. Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of prop- erty pu rsuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of MEASURING PARCEL TAX OF 2005 paid shall follow the procedures applicable to property tax refunds pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.	SEVERABILITY  The Board of Trustees hereby declares, and the voters by approving this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has inde- pendent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, ail remaining parts hereof shall re- main in full force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.

49-512

9405