Shall the ordinance adopted by the City Council establishing a 10% parking tax on the vehicle occupant for the privilege of parking in any private off-
street parking facility, but not applicable to any parking privilege that is included in a room rate on a hotel bill, be approved?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q

If passed by a majority of the voters, this measure would put into effect
Ordinance No. 702 enacted by the City Council on July 26, 2005.
Ordinance No. 702 adds a new Chapter 3.15 to the Millbrae Municipal
Code that establishes a 10% parking tax. This parking tax is a new tax not
currently provided for in existing law.

The purpose and intent of Ordinance No. 702 is to tax airport parking.
Under this Ordinance, a parking tax is imposed on the occupant of a
vehicle for the privilege of parking in an off-street facility operated by a
private party. The parking facility operator will collect the parking tax in
the amount of 10% of the parking fee charged, and remit the tax revenues
to the City on a quarterly basis. The ordinance calls for penalties and
interest assessed on parking facility operators for delinquent tax payments
and requires the parking facility operator to register with and provide
periodic accounting reports to the City. The ordinance also allows for
informal hearings, appeals, and tax refunds when claims of overpayment or
erroneous payment of parking tax revenues are validated. The ordinance
exempts from the parking tax any parking privilege connected with a hotel
stay in the City where the charge for the parking privilege is added to the
room bill. The Ordinance would not apply to parking facilities of
apartments or condominium complexes where tenants or owners of units
may be charged fees to utilize parking spaces.

The City estimates that the parking tax will generate approximately
$50,000 in revenues each year. These revenues go into the City’s general
fund, which is used for general governmental purposes such as police, fire,
public works, parks and recreation, library, code enforcement, and capital
improvements.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure Q. If you
desire a copy of Ordinance No. 702, please call the elections official’s
office at 650-259-2334 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you. In
addition, you can review the text of Ordinance No. 702 on the City of
Millbrae’s web site which can be accessed at www.ci.millbrae.ca.us
under “Parking Tax Measure on November Ballot,” or obtain a copy
of the Ordinance by contacting the Office of the City Clerk at
650-259-2334.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Q

The purpose of this initiative is to establish a 10% tax on fees paid to park
vehicles in off-street private parking spaces. This tax would not apply to
vehicles parked at hotels by overnight guests, whose parking is included in
the room rate. This tax would be competitive with the comparable taxes
already established and being charged in the cities adjacent to Millbrae and
to the San Francisco International Airport, including San Bruno and
Burlingame. The proceeds of the tax would be used by the City to help
fund general services including streets, police, parks, and fire.

/s/ Marc Hershman

Mayor of Millbrae

/s/ Daniel F. Quigg

Vice Mayor of Millbrae

/s/ Janet Fogarty

Former Mayor of Millbrae

/s/ Mimi Lin

Member, Millbrae Senior Advisory Committee

/s/ Arthur Lepore

Former Mayor of Millbrae

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q SUBMITTED

Compiled by the City of Millbrae City Clerk Deborah Konkol

55