Board of Directors, Ponderosa Community Services District
Tulare County, California

Resolution 2005- 10-S

Resolution Board of Directors
Adopting Modification to Annual Snow Removal Fee and Increasing the Fee in Accordance
with the Los Angeles Engineering News Record

WHEREAS, the Ponderosa Community Services District, a Community Services District
duly organized under the laws of the State Of California, is authorized to provide Snow
Removal Service to the community known as Ponderosa, an unincorporated area in the
County of Tulare,

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the District has determined that the current fee
imposed on the property owners within the district does not currently cover the cost of
providing the snow removal service,

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors has identified the parcels upon which the modifications
to the existing fee would apply, and has identified the process by which the fee will be
automatically increased annually, and the reason for the fee increase,

WHEREAS, at least forty five days prior to the public hearing concerning this modification,
the District mailed notice to each affected property owner of date and time for the public
hearing and describing the property owners’ right and method for protesting said
modification, and further published said notice of the public hearing in accordance with the
law, and

WHEREAS, the District has held the public hearing and has determined that there is no
majority protest by the property owners concerning the modifications.

NOW THEREFORE, the Board of Directors of the Ponderosa Community Services District
does hereby RESOLVE and ORDER as follows:

1.	The rates currently established and applicable to property owners - $126.00
per year for unimproved residential lots, $299.00 per year for improved
residential lots, $161.00 per year for unimproved commercial lots, $345.00
per year for improved commercial lots, and $531.00 for two other specific lots
- shall be increased annually in accordance with the Los Angeles Engineering
News Record, as specified in the first week of June annually.

2.	The adjustment shall go into effect beginning with the 2006-2007 fiscal year
upon the District’s compliance with all requirements in accordance with State
law.

3.	The District Board shall have ability to suspend the collection of the automatic
annual adjustment portion to the annual Snow Removal Fee in any year, if the
annual adjustment would result in collection of an amount that is more than
the cost of providing the snow removal service. However, the District will
resume collection of the automatic annual adjustment for the following year
after a suspension of collection in accordance with the current years’ index

(unless said increase would result in the collection of an amount exceeding the
cost of providing the service).

4.	The adjustment shall be effective only upon receiving voter approval in

accordance with State law the requirements of Proposition 218 as related to
Fees.

Passed on June 30, 2005

Ayes:

Nays:

Absent:

Abstentions:

Attest:

Jennifer Robertson
Secretary