MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FORESTVILLE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASUREC

To provide funds to reduce class size, restore classroom

C music and art instruction, and provide counseling and
student support services, shall the Forestville Union School
District be authorized to renew and increase its existing
qualified special tax at a cost of $76.34 per parcel for eight years
beginning July 1, 2005, with annual audits and exemption for
parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or more?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE C

The Forestville Union School District has called an election on a special tax mea-
sure to fund educational programs. State law requires voter approval before a
school district can impose a special tax.

This measure proposes a special tax of $76.34 per year per parcel for each parcel
of land within the District's boundaries. The tax would be based on the privilege of
using the parcel, would begin on July 1,2005, and would remain in effect for eight
years.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund and could only be used for
purposes set out in the measure, which include reducing class sizes, restoring
classroom music and art instruction, continuing existing sports programs, and pro-
viding counseling and student support services. Each year, beginning with the year
ending December31,2005, the measure calls for preparation of a report by an in-
dependent financial auditor, stating the amount received and expended from the
tax for that year, and the status of any projects, and description of any programs,
mded from the proceeds of the tax.

.e tax would be applied to each unit of real property in the District that receives a
separate tax bill for property taxes. Parcels which are exempt from property tax, or
on which no property tax is otherwise levied, are also exempt from this tax. The
measure also exempts from the tax parcels owned or partially owned and occupied
by a person who will be 65 years of age or older on or before May 1,2005, or May 1
of any subsequent year for which the tax is assessed. Persons claiming exemp-
tions based on ownership by a senior citizen would need to apply to the District for
this exemption the first year it applied to them. The measure describes what steps
must be followed to appeal any decision regarding exemption, and apply for a
refund of the tax, if appropriate.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Forestville Union School District who vote on this
measure vote "yes," the measure will pass and the special tax will be levied. The
tax would be collected in the same manner as regular property taxes starting with
the 2005-2006 fiscal year.

STEVEN WOODSIDE

County Counsel

By: s / Kathleen Larocque
Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

A Yes vote on Measure C will provide the funds the Forestville Union School Dis-
trict needs to eliminate classroom overcrowding, restore the K-8 art and music pro-
grams, and provide student counseling services and other student support
services. The entire cost to fund these programs is less than twenty-five cents a
day ($6.36 per month). Our students’ test scores exceed both state and county av-
erages. Our arts programs have been recognized as exceptional by the state.

We need the parcel tax because quirks, in the state funding formula make our State
funding inequitable. Over 93% of elementary districts in the state receive higher
funding than our district; Because of this inequity, the district has had to lay off
teachers, freeze salaries, completely eliminate band, instrumental music, sports,
drama, the student support program, and K-3 art from the district budget, and re-
duce K-6 classroom music instruction, art instruction, and library services by over
40%.

All employees (including administration) have had their salaries frozen for three
years. The assistant principal position has been eliminated and custodial services
cut by forty percent. Without passage of Measure C, we will also lose the remain-
der of our K-8 art and music programs.

To lessen the tax burden on senior citizens, resident property owners 65 years of
age or older may apply for an exemption. Owners of contiguous parcels will pay for
only one parcel.

With Measure C we will regain the means to eliminate overcrowded classrooms in
addition to providing a comprehensive core curriculum which includes fine arts and
music and provides strong student support.

Measure C is a sound investment in the comprehensive quality education provided
to our students to prepare them for the future! We must continue the commitment to
quality education and the quality of our community. Vote Yes on Measure C!

si David Henry	si Cristi McMahan

Pharmacist-Business Owner	Parent/Marketing Program Manager

si Steven A. Pearson	si Vesta Copestakes

Home Inspector	Publisher

si Mike Reilly
County Supervisor

NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE C

VOTER’S PAMPHLET
MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

FORESTVILLE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
EDUCATIONAL EXCELLENCE ACT OF 2005

This Proposition may be known and referred to as the “Forestville Union
School District Educational Excellence Act of 2005” or as “Measure C.”

TERMS OF THE EDUCATIONAL EXCELLENCE ACT OF 2005 SPECIAL TAX

Terms and Purposes. Upon approval of two-thirds of those voting on
this measure, the District shall be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of
$76.34 per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District for no
more than eight years, commencing July 1,2005. The qualified special tax
shall be known and referred to as the “Educational Excellence Tax.”

Senior Citizen Exemption. In orderto provide tax relief to senior citi-
zens in the community, any parcel owned and occupied by a person 65 years
of age or older shall be exempt from the Educational Excellence Tax upon
proper application to the District. Anyone claiming an exemption must apply
to the District on or before May 1,2005, or May 1 of any succeeding assess-
ment year. Any one application from a qualified applicant will provide an ex-
emption for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as
such applicant continues to qualify for the exemption.

ACCOUNTABLILITY PROVISIONS

Independent Annual Audit. Upon the levy and collection of the Edu-
cational Excellence Tax, the Board of Trustees shall cause an account to be
established for deposit of the proceeds. For so long as any proceeds of the
Educational Excellence Tax remain unexpended, the Superintendent or chief
financial officer of the District shall cause an independent financial auditor
' prepare a report to be filed with the Board of Trustees no later than
icember 31 of each year, commencing December 31,2005, stating (1) the
amount received by the District from the Educational Excellence Tax and the
amount expended from those receipts in such year, and (2) the status of any
projects or the description of any programs funded from the proceeds of the
tax. The report may relate to the calendar year, fiscal year, or other appropri-
ate annual period, as the Superintendent may determine, and may be incor-
porated into or filed with the annual budget, audit or other appropriate
routine report to the Board of Trustees.

Specific Purposes. All of the purposes named in the measure shall
constitute the specific purposes of the Educational Excellence Tax, and pro-
ceeds from the tax shall be applied only for such purposes.

LEVY AND COLLECTION

The Educational Excellence Tax shall be collected by the Sonoma
County Treasurer-Tax Collector at the same time and manner and shall be
subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes collected by the
Treasurer-Tax Collector. Unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the same rate as
the rate for unpaid ad valorem property taxes until paid. The collection of the
Educational Excellence Tax shall not decrease the funds available from
other sources of the District in any period from the effective date hereof.

“Parcel of taxable real property” shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District which receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Sonoma County Treasurer-Tax Collector’s Office.
All property which is otherwise exempt from or on which are levied no ad valorem
taxes in any year shall also be exempt from the Educational Excellence Tax
in such year. Parcels owned and occupied by persons 65 years of age or
older are exempt from the Educational Excellence Tax as described above.

Multiple parcels which are contiguous and are part of the one economic
- -nit under the same name and ownership shall be charged as one parcel.

The District shall annually provide a list of parcels which the District
has approved fora Senior Citizen Exemption from the Educational Excellence
Tax as described above to the Sonoma County tax collection officials. The
Sonoma County Assessor’s determination of exemption or relief for any reason
other than the Senior Citizen Exemption of any parcel from taxation shall

be final and binding for the purposes of the Educational Excellence Act.
Taxpayers wishing to challenge the County Assessor’s determination must
do so under the procedures for correcting a misclassification of property
pursuant to Section 4876.5 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code or -
other applicable procedures. Taxpayers seeking a refund of Educational Excel-
lence Taxes paid shall followthe procedures applicable to property tax refunds
pursuant to the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SEVERABILITY

The Board of Trustees hereby declares, and the voters approving this
measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has independ-
ent value, and the Board of Trustees and the voters would have adopted each
provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof. Upon approval
of this measure by the voters, should any part be found by a court of compe-
tent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts hereof shall
remain in hill force and effect to the fullest extent allowed by law.