1

:

VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLO

Containing
MEASUREC
JOHN SWETT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
TUESDAY, JUNE " ?005

Arguments in favor of or against the proposed measure are the opinions of the authors.

If you would like to receive this information in Spanish please call (925)
846-4166; if you have already requested voting information in Spanish,
the information will be mailed to you automatically.

Si desea recibir esta informacion en espartol, por favor iiame al (925)
646-4166, si ya solicits informacion para votar en espartol, esta sera
enviada automaticamente por correo. 2

2

PARCEL TAX MEASURE C
JOHN SWETT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

To improve student reading, writing, math and science skills by recruiting
and retaining highly qualified teachers and staff, restore programs and
positions lost due to budget cuts, and benefit local schools, shall the
John Swett Unified School District levy an annual special tax of $70 per
residential parcel and a tax on commercial property in the amounts
described in the voter pamphlet, for 5 years, with annual audits,
independent oversight, and an exemption for homeowners 65 or older?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
PARCEL TAX MEASURE C

The governing board of the John Swett Unified School District
has adopted a resolution proposing a parcel tax (a qualified special tax).

The ballot measure asks voters to decide whether a parcel tax
should be imposed for five years on parcels of taxable real property
within the District. A parcel of taxable real property is any unit of real
property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for property taxes
from the Contra Costa County Tax Collector. The parcel tax will be $70
per year on each parcel of taxable real property in the District, but
aggregated heavy industrial property (more than 600 acres) under
common ownership will be taxed at a higher rate. A parcel otherwise
exempt from property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of
the parcel tax.

if approved by voters, the parcel tax will be collected by the
Contra Costa County Tax Collector at the same time, in the same
manner, and subject to the same penalties as ad valorem property taxes.

The ballot measure includes a senior citizen exemption. Any
parcel owned and occupied as a principal residence by a person sixty-
five years of age or older will be exempt from the parcel tax upon proper

application to the District.

The ballot measure is aimed at improving student reading,
writing, math, and science skills. According to the ballot measure, the
proceeds of the parcel tax will be used for the following purposes in all of
the District’s K-12 schools: to retain and attract highly qualified teachers
and support staff by making salaries in the District more competitive with
salaries in other Bay Area districts; to restore where feasible programs
and positions lost in budget cuts; to maintain class sizes as small as
possible; and to maintain safe, supportive, and quality schools.

Proceeds from the parcel tax may be used only for the specific purposes
set forth in the ballot measure and according to constitutional and
statutory provisions.

The District will annually report to the governing board the
amount of parcel tax proceeds collected and expended, and the status of
any authorized projects funded by the parcel tax.

The use of proceeds from the parcel tax will be annually
monitored and reported by a citizens' oversight committee to ensure that
the proceeds from the parcel tax are spent for their authorized purposes.

Two-thirds of those voting on the ballot measure must approve
the measure for it to pass.

A ■‘yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the parcel tax.

A “no" vote is a vote against authorizing the parcel tax. * *

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF

PARCEL TAX MEASURE C

Your local schools and the children they serve need your Yes vote on
Measure C.

Budget cuts over the last few years have had a negative impact on the
schools that serve our community. The John Swett School District has
been forced to eliminate 22 teaching positions and more than 20% of all
of the jobs in the district. For example, all of the district's librarians have
been dismissed and the custodial staff has been cut in half.

Measure C will allow our school district to offer its teachers and staff
salaries that are more competitive. It will help the district avoid future
budget cuts and restore lost positions as feasible.

The facts are clear;

*	Teachers in the John Swett Unified School District are among
the lowest paid in the entire Bay Area.

*	The district loses qualified teachers and staff to other districts
because it cannot offer competitive salaries.

*	All of the funds raised by Measure C will be spent in our

community.

2

A volunteer citizen's oversight committee will monitor the way Measure C
funds are used. Once a year, these private citizens will report to the
district and the community to make sure Measure C funds are spent
wisely and according to the will of the voters of the school district.

The cost is reasonable. Measure C will cost homeowners $70 per year. It
will cost Conoco Phillips $200,000 per year. Measure C will sunset in five
years. An exemption will be offered to all those who are 65 or older and
who own and live in a home in the district.

Measure C is for our children and for our community. Measure C is an
investment in our future - a future we can control with our YES votes.

Join us in voting YES on Measure C.

Jim Delgadillo

John Swett School District Board Member
Janet Callaghan

John Swett School District Board Member

Dennis Salmi
Ret. Fire Chief

Richard Luchini

Parent

Marie Colombo

Senior citizen resident

ARGUMENT AGAINST
PARCEL TAX MEASURE C

None filed.

FULL TEXT OF

PARCEL TAX MEASURE C

EXHIBIT “B”

FULL BALLOT TEXT

The full text of the ballot measure shall read as follows:

To improve student reading, writing, math and science skills by recruiting
and retaining highly qualified teachers and staff, restore programs and

positions lost due to budget cuts, and benefit local schools, shall the
John Swett Unified School District levy an annual special tax of $70 per
residential parcel and a tax on commercial property in the amounts
described herein, for 5 years, with annual audits, independent oversight,
and an exemption for homeowners 65 or older, in order to:

a)	retain highly qualified teachers already teaching in the district by
making teacher salaries in the John Swett Unified School District
more competitive with the salaries offered by other districts in the
Bay Area,

b)	attract additional highly qualified teachers by making teacher
salaries in the John Swett Unified School District more
competitive with the salaries offered by other districts in the Bay
Area,

c)	retain and attract members of the district's highly qualified and
dedicated support staff by making staff salaries in the John Swett
Unified School District more competitive with the salaries offered
by districts in the Bay Area

d)	restore programs and positions lost due to budget cuts as
feasible,

e)	maintain class sizes that are as small as possible,

f)	maintain safe, supportive, quality schools.

The revenues shall be fairly and equitably distributed to all K-12
schools operated by the District.

The expenditure of revenues shall be monitored by a volunteer,
independent Citizens Advisory Committee. The number of Committee
members and the procedure for their selection shall be established by
Board resolution. This Committee shall provide an annual monitoring
report to the Board and this report shall be posted on the District website.

Basis of Tax.

The tax shall be levied on all parcels of taxable real property in the
District, as defined below, as follows:

Type of Parcel/Land Use Classification Amount of Annual Tax

Residential

$70 per parcel

Commercial, excluding Heavy Industrial $70 per parcel

Heavy Industrial

Less than 600 acres	$70	per	parcel

More than 600 acres	$200,000	per parcel

"Parcel of taxable real property" is defined as any unit of real
property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the Contra Costa County Treasurer-Tax Collector's
Office. All property that is otherwise exempt from or upon which, no ad
valorem property taxes are levied in any year shall also be exempt from
the special tax in such year.

For purposes of the tax, "Heavy Industrial" property means
property classified as such for taxation purposes by the Contra Costa
County Assessor as Use Code 54. For purposes of determining the
acreage classification of Heavy industrial property, acreage shall be
determined by aggregating all Heavy Industrial property in the District
under common ownership. For Heavy Industrial property exceeding 600
acres, the aggregated parcels shall comprise one parcel for purposes of
determining the amount of tax owed.

An exemption may be granted on any parcel owned by one or
more persons aged 65 years or older who occupies said parcel as a

principal residence, upon application for exemption.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its
jurisdiction, the Contra Costa County Tax Assessor or other appropriate
County tax official shall make all final determinations of tax exemption or
relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and binding. With
respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax, including the
Senior Citizen Exemption determination, the decisions of the District
shall be final and binding.

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable
laws, the appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically
by the aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax.

Accountability Measures

The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific
purposes identified above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be
deposited into a fund, which shall be kept separate and apart from other
funds of the District. No later than January 1 of each year while the tax is

5

in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board of Education a
report detailing the amount of funds collected and expended, and the
status of any project authorized to be funded by this measure.

In addition, an independent Citizen's Oversight Committee shall be
appointed by the Board of Education to ensure that the special tax
proceeds are spent for their authorized purposes, and to report annually
to the Board of Trustees and the public regarding the expenditure of
such funds.

Severability

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by
approving this measure concur, that every section and part of this
measure has independent value, and the Board of Education and the
voters would have adopted each provision hereof regardless of every
other provision hereof. Upon approval of this measure by the voters,
should any part of the measure or taxing formula be found by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of
the measure or taxing formula hereof shall remain in full force and effect
to the fullest extent allowed by law.

6