

<full> FULLTEXT

San Mateo County 1/8 Cent Sales Tax Measure for Parks and Recreation

This measure authorizes the enactment of a one-eighth (1/8) cent retail
transaction and use (sales) tax to fund park acquisition, improvements,
maintenance, programs and operations, including recreation and recreation
programs, within the incorporated and unincorporated areas of San Mateo
County, with the following requirements:

•	The tax will be levied for a period of twenty-five (25) years.

•	Revenues from the tax may only be used for park acquisition,
improvements, maintenance, programs, and operations, including
recreation and recreation programs, within the incorporated and
unincorporated areas of the County, and shall be used only in accordance
with the expenditure plan set forth below.

•	During the first year that the tax is levied, net tax revenues, after
deduction of administrative expenses, will be apportioned among the
County, all cities within the County (“Cities”), and the MidPeninsula
Regional Open Space District, the Highlands Recreation District, and the
Ladera Recreation District (collectively, “Districts”) on the following
basis:

1.	The County will receive 42% of net tax revenues.

2.	Districts will receive 6% of net tax revenues. Of the amounts
allocated to the Districts, the MidPeninsula Regional Open Space
District will receive 70%, the Highlands Recreation District will
receive 20%, and Ladera Recreation District will receive 10% of
such amounts.

3.	Cities will receive 52% of net tax revenues, with each city to receive
a portion of the total Cities’ allocation calculated on a per capita
basis, using yearly population figures published by the State
Department of Finance. Notwithstanding the amounts calculated on
a per capita basis, each city will receive from the Cities’ allocation a
minimum distribution equal to 1.357% of total net tax revenues and
the remaining City allocations will be adjusted accordingly.

•	In each year after the first year, the County, Districts, and Cities shall
share in any growth in sales tax revenues of up to four percent (4%) over
the previous year in accordance with the allocation percentages set forth
above. In each year after the first year, the Cities and Districts only shall
share in any growth in sales tax revenues over the previous year which
exceeds four percent (4%). Districts will be allocated 10% and Cities
will be allocated 90% of any such sales tax revenues exceeding a four
percent (4%) growth in sales tax revenues over the previous year. The
allocation of the funds in excess of the 4% growth for the respective
District and City will be in proportion to the shares established for each
agency for the funds less than 4% growth. For each year after the first
year, the method of allocation to each of the Cities and Districts shall be
the same as that for first year, including the minimum allocation of
1.357% for each City.

•	The County and each city will establish a general fund baseline Parks
and Recreation budget for Fiscal Year 2006/07, measured in dollars. The
baseline budget will be adjusted every five years, beginning in Fiscal
Year 2011/12, and continuing at five year intervals thereafter, by

applying the Bay Area Consumer Price Index, published by the Bureau
of Labor Statistics, or a successor index. In order to receive its full share
of sales tax proceeds for a given fiscal year, the County and each city
must either (1) maintain or increase its Parks and Recreation budget in
dollars as measured against the baseline budget, or (2) reduce its Parks
and Recreation budget compared to the baseline budget, in percentage
terms, no more than the percentage by which the combined budgets of all
other non-public safety departments is reduced as measured against the
combined budgets of all other non-public safety departments for the prior
fiscal year. In the event the County or a city reduces its Parks and
Recreation budget compared to the baseline budget, measured on a
percentage basis, more than percentage reduction of the combined
budgets of all other non-public safety departments over the prior year’s
combined budgets, or reduces its Parks and Recreation budget compared
to the baseline budget, measured on a percentage basis, while the
combined budgets of all other non-public safety departments increases in
relation to the prior year’s combined budgets, the sales tax revenue that
would otherwise have been payable to that County or city for that fiscal
year shall be reduced by the difference between those percentage
variances. For each fiscal year beginning in Fiscal Year 2007/08, before
sales tax revenues for that year may be disbursed to the County or city, a
resolution must be adopted stating the baseline Parks and Recreation
budget in dollars; the Parks and Recreation budget in dollars for the fiscal
year; the reduction in percentage terms of the Parks and Recreation
budget from the baseline, if any; and the variance in percentage terms of
the combined budgets for all other non-public safety departments from
the combined budgets for the prior fiscal year. The County and each City
shall certify the data provided. All requests for disbursement must be
made within the fiscal year for which the measure funds are made
available or the funds will not be disbursed to the city or County and will
be rolled over for the next year. For purposes of this section, neither the
baseline Parks and Recreation budget, nor any yearly Parks and
Recreation budget used for purposes of the calculations set forth herein,
shall include any revenues from the sales tax disbursed pursuant to this
measure.

• The following expenditure plan represents allocations for the first year of
sales tax revenue collection and distribution (Fiscal Year 2006-07), and is
based on population figures published by the State Department of
Finance on January 1, 2006. The allocations will change from year to
year based on the allocation specified above, changes in published
populations, and any adjustments based on the failure of an entity to
maintain its required general fund baseline Parks and Recreation budget.

Expenditure Plan (Fiscal Year 2006-07)

Entity	Population	PercentAllocation of Tax Revenue
County of San Mateo	724,104	42.00%
Highlands Recreation District	N/A	1.20%
Ladera Recreation District	N/A	0.60%
MidPeninsula Regional Open Space District	N/A	4.20%
Atherton, Town of	7,262	1.357%
Belmont, City of	25,648	1.778%
Brisbane, City of	3,744	1.357%
Burlingame, City of	28,322	1.964%
Colma, Town of	1,575	1.357%
Daly City, City of	104,820	7.267%
East Palo Alto, City of	32,083	2.224%
Foster City, City of	29,900	2.073%
Half Moon Bay, City of	12,739	1.357%
Hillsborough, Town of	10,965	1.357%
Menlo Park, City of	30,750	2.132%
Millbrae, City of	20,735	1.438%
Pacifica, City of	38,739	2.686%
Portola Valley, Town of	4,553	1.357%
Redwood City, City of	76,087	5.275%
San Bruno, City of	41,515	2.878%
San Carlos, City of	28,265	1.960%
San Mateo, City of	94,315	6.539%
South San Francisco, City of	61,824	4.286%
Woodside, Town of	5,507	1.357%

available tax revenues at a rate of one percent (1%) of such revenues for
the first full year of such services, with reimbursement to be adjusted for
future years based on the actual cost of such services.

• Any election costs and state startup costs required by state law, borne by
the County of San Mateo shall be reimbursed to the County from net tax
revenues received during the first year of collection.

Notes:

1.	Population figures represent populations served by parks and
recreation facilities within the jurisdiction of the specified entity. For
the County of San Mateo, the population figure represents the entire
County population. City population figures are those published by
the State Department of Finance.

2.	The estimated yearly tax revenues available for distribution, after
deduction for administrative expenses, is approximately
$16,000,000, based on taxable sales during the 2002 calendar year.
For FY 2006-07, it is anticipated that revenues will be collected for
the last quarter (April-June) only.

3.	Tax revenues will supplement any amounts specified by an entity
under its annual General Fund Parks and Recreation budget.

4.	Funds must be used for parks and recreation purposes, including but
not limited to, maintaining and improving park bathrooms, picnic
areas and athletic facilities; repairing and upgrading playgrounds and
play structures; improving access to parks and playgrounds for the
disabled; preserving natural open spaces; and maintaining hiking,
walking and biking trails.

• Tax revenues received will be deposited into a separate account
maintained and administered by the City/County Association of
Governments (C/CAG), or a successor entity as may be selected by the
County and Cities, which shall calculate the amounts to be allocated to
the County, Cities and Districts as provided for in this measure, and
distribute such amounts on a quarterly basis to the Cities, County and
Districts. C/CAG shall audit the distribution and use of the tax revenues
distributed pursuant to this measure on a yearly basis, shall audit the
performance of the entities receiving tax revenues on a periodic basis,
shall consider and approve the audit results in an open meeting, and shall
provide a copy of the audit results to the County, the Cities and the
Districts. C/CAG shall be entitled to reimbursement for its services from

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

The California Constitution and state law authorizes the County of
San Mateo Board of Supervisors, upon approval of two-thirds of the voting
electorate, to levy a transactions and use tax (“sales tax”) for specified
purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Supervisors propose to levy a one-
eighth (1/8) of a cent sales tax within the County of San Mateo for a period
of twenty five years. This would increase the current sales tax from
8.250% (8V4 %) to 8.375% (83/s %). It is anticipated that the collection of
the additional tax will commence on April 1, 2007.

The stated purposes of the additional sales tax are to fund parks and
recreation services provided by cities, the County and special districts
including, but not limited to: maintaining and improving park bathrooms,
picnic areas and athletic facilities; repairing and upgrading playgrounds
and play structures; improving access to parks and playgrounds for the
disabled; preserving natural open spaces; and maintaining hiking, walking
and biking trails.

The proceeds of the tax will be placed into a special account. The
funds will be distributed from this account to the County , special districts
within the County and cities within the County pursuant to a formula
specified in the measure. An annual report is required that accounts for the
sales tax revenues collected and the manner in which they have been spent.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a 1/8 cent sales tax to be
levied within the County of San Mateo for a period of twenty five
years. The tax would be used to support parks and recreation
services provided by cities, the County and special districts
including, but not limited to: maintaining and improving park
bathrooms, picnic areas and athletic facilities; repairing and
upgrading playgrounds and play structures; improving access to
parks and playgrounds for the disabled; preserving natural open
spaces; and maintaining hiking, walking and biking trails.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be
levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote
“yes.” <fullend>








<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

We urge your YES vote on Measure A.

Parks are an essential part of our communities and our quality of life in
San Mateo County. Caring for our parks is a community decision about the
importance of recreation, open space, and community vitality.

High quality, clean and safe parks, playgrounds, sports fields, and
recreation centers are important for our County’s youth, adults and seniors.

Our open spaces and trails offer opportunities to get outside and enjoy the
beauty of San Mateo County.

Currently, no dedicated funding source exists to maintain and enhance
your local city or county park. Limited and reduced funding has resulted
in program cuts and millions in deferred maintenance at all parks - in your
neighborhood or at County locations.

Measure A would increase San Mateo County’s sales tax by l/8th of
one cent ($.08) for 25 years to provide dedicated revenue for county
parks, city parks and recreation districts. The cost for the average
person is $18 annually.

Measure A guarantees more money for parks. Cities and the County must
use this new money to increase their park budgets and each municipality
controls how funds are spent.

A YES vote on Measure A will raise $16 million annually to:

•	Maintain and improve picnic areas, athletic facilities and park
bathrooms;

•	Repair and upgrade playgrounds and play structures;

•	Improve access to parks and playgrounds for the disabled;

•	Purchase new parkland and preserve natural open spaces;

•	Maintain hiking, walking, and biking trails;

•	Improve recreation programs for youth and seniors;

The Board of Supervisors, local elected leaders, League of Women Voters,
environmental organizations, San Mateo County Association of Realtors
and hundreds of local residents and businesses support Measure A.

Please join us to make your city and county parks and open space
preserves even better in San Mateo County. Vote YES on Measure A. <favorend>






<favorsigs> /s/ Jackie Speier	August 15, 2006
State Senator	
/s/ Jerry Hill	August 11, 2006
President, San Mateo County Board of Supervisors	
/s/ Barbara Boles	August 16, 2006
President, League of Women Voters	
/s/ Don Horsley	August 15, 2006
Sheriff, San Mateo County	
/s/ Lennie Roberts	August 14, 2006
Legislative Advocate, Committee for Green Foothills	<favorsigsend>






<rebutfavor> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Look at the facts.

Tax increasers blame “limited and reduced funding” for parks “program
cuts”. Take one city, Half Moon Bay:

	2002-3  (audited)	2005-6  (adopted)	Change
Total General Fund Expenditures	$8,164,885	$9,147,752	UP 12.0 %
Parks/Recreation	$798,025	$1,036,071	UP 29.8 %
Employee Salaries/Benefits	$4,386,547	$6,084,710	UP 38.7 %
salaries/Benefits per Employee	$71,911	$95,446	UP 32.7 %

Does this look like “limited and reduced funding”, or “program cuts”, to
you? County-wide, total General Fund revenue for the four largest cities in
San Mateo County is UP 5.7 % year-to-year, from recent on-line adopted
or projected budgets. With the recession behind us, government funding
and spending all over San Mateo County is zooming up, well above
inflation.

This sales tax increase isn’t needed.

Worse yet, it’s harmful. This tax hike will increase the cost of living, and
hurt our economy:

“To preserve the region’s economic leadership and quality of life, we
need to strengthen the infrastructure and rein in the cost of living
now.” (Lenny Mendonca, Bay Area Economic Forum).

There are already substantial tax revenues dedicated to parks - for
example, the Midpeninsula Regional Open Space District will receive over
$21,000,000 this coming year. An additional sales tax isn’t necessary. It
isn’t wise. And worst of all, it falls most heavily on the poor, who can least
afford it.

Please, do the right thing -
Vote no on Measure A. <rebutfavorend>






<rebutfavorsigs> /s/ Brian Perry	August 24, 2006
Editor	
/s/ David R Peters	August 24, 2006
CFO	
/s/ Harland Harrison	August 24, 2006
Taxpayer	
/s/ Christopher V.A. Schmidt	August 24, 2006
retired computer professional	
/s/ Catherine Brinkman	August 24, 2006
Chairman, California Young Republicans, Inc.	<rebutfavorsigsend>






<against> ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Everyone wants good parks and recreation programs, but funding these
with yet another sales tax is neither necessary, nor wise.

Look at recent San Mateo County budgets:

	Actual	Adopted	Change
	2002-3	2006-7	
Net Appropriations	$924,168,412	$1,179,694,288	UP 27.6 %
Salary/Benefits Per Employee $85,833		$113,846	UP 32.6 %
Employee Salaries/Benefits	$420,179,043	$594,027,886	UP 41.4 %

If parks are not getting their fair share of these increases, the fault lies with
the priorities of the supervisors, not a lack of revenue. The present sales tax
rate of 8.25% is already high - only San Francisco and Alameda counties
are higher, state-wide. The county must live within its means - as do hard-
working families here, every day.

Worse yet, Measure A would punish the poor:

“Sales taxes are among the most regressive forms of taxation.
Consumers with moderate or low incomes have to sacrifice much
larger portions of their incomes on sales taxes than do wealthy
consumers”.

(according to Robert Reich, former Secretary of Labor under President
Clinton, and presently Professor of Public Policy at UC Berkeley, in a
recent NPR interview)

Vote fiscal sanity.

Vote your conscience.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE A <againstend>





<againstsigs> /s/ D.F. Pettengill	August	18,	2006

Treasurer, Coastside Citizens for Good Government

/s/ Jack Hickey	August	18,	2006

Chair Libertarian Party of SMC

/s/ Christopher V.A. Schmidt	August	18,	2006

Retired Computer Professional

/s/ Rob Smith	August	18,	2006

San Mateo County Republican Central Committee Chairman 4th
District <againstsigsend>






<rebutagainst> REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A

Would you spare $1.50 per month to ensure your local parks were
clean, safe and renovated?

That’s what you get voting YES on Measure A.

Measure A creates a dedicated source of funding enabling every City, the
County and local recreation districts to make deferred repairs and
improvements to your local parks, while improving programs and
protecting open space. No such funding source exists today to make our
parks even better.

The average cost - $1.50 per person per month.

Voting YES on Measure A will:

•	renovate park bathrooms

•	enhance trails

•	improve disabled access

•	modernize recreation centers

•	protect senior and youth recreation programs

Measure A ensures that EVERY City and the County share new funds.

Your community is guaranteed funds for necessary park needs.

“We’ve put off repairs to our parks too long. Measure A will finally
allow us to make delayed park repairs for our community.”

Greg Cochran, Pacifica Parks Commissioner

“Local parks provide a safe place for children to play and
participate in youth sports. Outdoor activities keep kids engaged
and out of trouble. Measure A is a benefit to all.”

Tom Hitchcock, Millbrae Police Chief

“San Mateo County has stunning open spaces and natural habitat.

Protecting these spaces for the next generation is essential.”

Mario Panoringan, CEO, Daly City-Colma Chamber of Commerce

Our opponents’ arguments are short-sighted and lack common sense.

Measure A will support parks and recreation programs for you, your
family, and your neighbors. Please vote YES on Measure A. <rebutagainstend>






<rebutagainstsigs> /s/ Adrienne Tissier	August	25,	2006

Member, San Mateo County Board of Supervisors

/s/ Coralin Feierbach	August	28,	2006

Vice Mayor, City of Belmont

/s/ Gene Klein, Jr.

Chairman, San Mateo Area Chamber of Commerce

August 23, 2006

/s/ Melanie M. Hildebrand	August	22,	2006

Past President, San Mateo County Association of Realtors

/s/ Barbara Pierce	August	28,	2006

Mayor, City of Redwood City <rebutagainstsigsend>