Sample Ballot

r°

f

OFFICIAL BALLOT

Consolidated General Election
Riverside County

November 7. 2006

F

F

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

This ballo! stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

CITY		
CITY OH INDIAN WELLS		
City Council Member	Vote for no  more than Two	
KEITH D. BRINSON  Businessman		
ED MONARCH  Mayor: Councilman		□
PATRICK J. MULLANY  Reimea FBI Agent		|=
MARTIN LAX  Attorney		CJ
		CD
		CD
DISTRICT		■ "
COACHELLA VALLEY WATER DISTRICT		
Director, Division 1	Vote for One	
LEWIS DA SILVA  Accountant		CD3
JOHN W. MC FADDEN  Incumbent		CDD
SONJA S MARCHAND  Public Policy Consultant		CCD
		STD
Director. Division 5	Vote for One	
EDWARD MUZIK  CFO Water Distort		£DD
RUSSELL KITAHARA  Incumbent		CD!
		CD
		

33-F145-MON TURN CARD OVER	F

I

MEASURE(S) SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		
CITY		
CITY OF INDIAN WELLS		
Shall Ordinance Bill No. 2006-12 be adopted to p .moose a transient occupancy tax on conoo ■ hotel renters a fee in lieu of transient occupancy taxes for personal use of conoo hotel units by unit owners over sixty i60) days m a cate year and an amenty fee tax on condo notel uml owne mitigate City’s potential loss oi transient occupancy tax support the City s General Fund to pay for mun sendees?	Yes	CZ3
	No	
	near >rs to ?s, to cipal	

33-F228-NOM TURN CARD OVER

F



Riverside County

33-SB165

RV 229-008

Sample Ballot

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE “P”

At least three new condominium note! projects are planned within the
City of Indian Wells. Condominium hotels are hotels which contain units
wh;cK are ncividuallv and separately owned by persons or entities other
tpa-	note! operator. Unit owners or their personal guests are

perr	d iO occupy their units for up to a certain number of days each

caie c?r -ear. beyond which unit owners are generally required to pay
“r •(■*, 'axes as described below.

Measure “P would impose the City's current transient occupancy tax
(9.25%) upon occupants of condominium hotel units. There would be an
exemntion for use of the condominium hotel unit by unit owners or their
personal guests for a maximum number of days per calendar year.

Measure ' P' would also establish a new “in lieu” ta	of transient

0r-fi!n=-';y tax), up to a maximum amount W.‘r -• - cupancyof
a _ minium hotel unit by unit owner:	‘	.	-r	each	day

h- . the maximum number of days w • • ‘ >r such personal use

w.....j calendar year. The maximum arr.vu.c.... ouch "in lieu" tax would

automatically be increased annually by the increase in the cost of living
index. Notwithstanding this maximum amount, the City Council may
actually impose a lesser tax amount from time to time.

Measure “P” would also establish a new “amenity fee" tax upon each
condominium hotel unit, up to a maximum of $2,400 per year. The
maximum amount of the amenity fee tax would automatically be
increased annually by the increase in the cost of living index. Notwith-
standing this maximum amount, the City Council may actually impose a
lesser tax amount from time to time.

The transient occupancy tax, the "in lieu" tax and the “amenity fee" tax for
new condominium hotel units would be collected and used by the City to
provide general municipal services to the City's residents and
businesses. The proposed taxes would, at least in part, make up any
loss of transient occupancy taxes which would otherwise be collected by
the City from condominium hotel units.

The foregoing taxes that would be established by Measure "P" would be
imposed only on. new condominium hotel projects in the City, The taxes
would not be applicable to any existing home, apartment unit, hotel unit
or other residence that now exists. These taxes would only be applicable

to new projects wnich are specifically developed as condominium hotel
units (not other hotels).

A "Yes” vote is a vote in favor of authorizing the City of Indian Wells to
establish these new taxes on new condominium hotel units.

A No vote is a vote not to authorize the City of Indian Weils to establish
these new taxes on new condominium hotel units.

By:	inaian Wells City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “P’v If you
desire a copy of the measure, please call the City Clerk's Office at
(760) 346-2489 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “P"

Measure “P" is not a tax on local residents or on residential property.
Measure "P” requires that owners of commercial “Condo Hotel Units"
and guests renting those units pay their fair share of taxes equal to what
ottier local hotels pay the City. A yes vote on Measure "P" supports

revenue growth for the Cvy and insures the continuation of quality public
services for Indian Wells residents.

Why Measure “P" is needed

The City's economic engine is cowered by tourism. Transient occupancy
tax from our local hotels alone pays 50% of the City's General Fund
expenditures. With the advent of “Condo Hotels” the City's income from
transient tax is not assured. This is because "Condo Hotels Units" are
purchased and owned by individuals where the owner of each unit is
given a choice to include their unit in the hotel rental program. Many
owners elect to use their units for personal use or to not rent them at all.
Consequently, when these units are not rented, the City looses a
substantial amount of transient tax income that would go to pay for public
services. Measure “P" fixes this problem by creating an in u 'or
personal use of units by owners and an amenity fee to fairly : — fre
the City for toe non rental of condo hotels units.

VOTE YES ON MEASURE “P”

By:	Ed	Monarch,	Mayor

Conrad Negron, Mayor Pro Tern

Robert A. Bernheimer, Council Member

Mary T. Roche, Council Member

Larry Spicer, Council Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST FILED