CITY OF CARLSBAD
Proposition D

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROP D

Shall the Carlsbad General Plan be amended to
incorporate the provisions of the "Preserve the Flower
and Strawberry Fields and Save Carlsbad Taxpayers'
Money" Measure?

This proposition requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%) of the voters.

Full text of this proposition follows the arguments/rebuttals.

PR-09A0-1

SD 095-040

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The General Plan and Zoning Ordinance Amendments

Proposition D (“Measure”) would amend the Land Use and Open Space and Conservation
Elements of the Carlsbad General Plan to designate an area for special planning consideration
called “The Cannon Road Open Space, Farming and Public Use Corridor” ("Area"). The Area
contains approximately 307 acres located In the central portion of the City along Cannon Road
east of 1-5 and shown on Exhibit A to the Proposition. It designates 208 acres as open space and
promotes agricultural uses as long as feasible. All land within the Area not presently zoned open
space would be rezoned to open space. It directs the City to initiate a public planning process
with broad public participation to fully accomplish the goals, objectives and action programs of the
Measure and provides that if determined necessary the City shall establish an overlay zone to
provide more detail on permitted uses and land use regulations in the open space zone. It
reaffirms the existing open space designation for this Area and requires a vote of the people to
change that designation In the future. It establishes goals, objectives and implementing policies
and action programs which:

Prohibit residential development;

Enhance the opportunity to provide public accessibility to open space;

Allow consideration of active and passive recreation uses;

Provide for comprehensive planning process, with significant citizen input, to determine
appropriate open space uses;

Permit only open space, farming and compatible public uses. Permitted uses are: Open-
space, farming and other related agricultural support uses including flower and strawberry
production, public trails, active and passive parks, recreation and similar public and private
use facilities (except on the existing THE FLOWER FIELDS®), and electrical transmission
facilities.

Utilize all existing programs, land use protections and explore possible new mechanism to
keep existing THE FLOWER FIELDS® in production;

Raise agricultural uses in the area from-priority 5 to priority 1.

The measure cannot be amended except by a subsequent vote of the people of Carlsbad. It
becomes effective 10 days after certification of the vote, authorizes City Council to make any
other amendments to other planning documents to fully implement it and requires the City to
initiate a comprehensive planning process with broad public participation and input for Its
Implementation. This measure shall prevail if It receives a higher majority vote than Proposition E
on this ballot.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: You wish the General Plan and Zoning Ordinance to be amended.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: You do not wish the General Plan and Zoning Ordinance to be
amended.

FISCAL IMPACT:	The cost to implement this measure includes implementation of a

comprehensive planning process and amendment of other documents in an unknown but not
significant amount

ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT: The Measure was determined not to have any significant adverse
environmental impacts and a negative declaration was adopted by the City Council at its meeting
of August 8, 2006.

A copy of this impartial analysis may be obtained at the Office of the City Clerk (760-434-2808).

SD 095-041

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION D

PROPOSITION D IS THE RIGHT WAY TO PROTECT THE FLOWER AND
STRAWBERRY FIELDS AREA OF THE CITY

Proposition D will protect the Flower and Strawberry Fields Area of the City by permanently
placing it in an Open Space designation. It encourages farming to continue in the Area for as
long as possible. In the future, should farming cease in the Area, this proposition would only
allow other Open Space uses. Residential and other non-Open Space uses would be prohibited.
The proposition creates a comprehensive planning process, with broad citizen involvement, to
determine the other Open Space uses that would be appropriate for the Area. It increases the
opportunity for public accessibility to the Area by allowing the consideration of recreational uses
such as public trails in a manner that is compatible with existing farming.

Proposition D protects the Flower and Strawberry Fields in a way that does not strip-away all
existing, private property rights that were approved previously by the City and the State Coastal
Commission. This could save the Carlsbad taxpayers millions of dollars in potential legal costs,
compensation and financial subsidies.

Proposition D includes all the recommendations made by a 25-member Citizens Committee. The
Committee supported placing this proposition on the ballot because they believed it was the right
way to protect this Area of the City.

A YES vote on Proposition D will put control for the future of the Flower and Strawberry Fields
Area in the hands of the Citizens of Carlsbad where it belongs. It lets the community decide what
are appropriate Open Space uses for the Area should farming not be possible in the future.

We strongly urge you to vote YES on Proposition D. It is the right way to protect this important
Area of the City.

CLAUDE A. LEWIS
Mayor

MARK PACKARD
City Council Member

MATTHEW HALL

ANN J. KULCHIN

City Council Member

Mayor Pro Tern

PR-09A0-3

SD 095-042

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION D

PR6POSITION D (DEVELOPMENT) IS MISLEADING AND DOES NOT PERMANENTLY
PROTECT THE STRAWBERRY AND FLOWER GROWING FIELDS AREA OF CITY

•	Proposition D (DEVELOPMENT):

•	Protections are temporary. SDG&E can end farmifig at any time.

•	Allows farming, does not encourage farming.

•	Allows private development on open space.

•	Proposition D (DEVELOPMENT) anticipates the conversion of farmland to “Open Space".
City's "Open Space" zone uses include:

•	Civic Centers

•	Private Schools & Clubhouses

•	Fairgrounds

•	Entertainment Facilities

•	Parking Lots & Structures

•	Quasi-pubiic Buildings

•	Cell-phone, Microwave, Broadcast Towers

•	Large Recycling Facilities

•	Amphitheaters

•	Transportation Right-of-Ways

•	Windmill Farms

•	Other Uses “...similar to permitted uses.”

•	Proposition D (DEVELOPMENT) could cost millions of TAX DOLLARS in legal, planning,
traffic 'and facility costs.

•	City anticipates 463,000 s.f. of Commercial Shopping Centers plus another Golf
Course in the immediate area.

•	City claims no additional police, fire, or other costs to accommodate Commercial
Development larger than the Company Stores Shopping Center.

•	Current Municipal Golf Course project is $55,000,000 TAX DOLLARS over
budget. They want to build another?

•	Proposition D (DEVELOPMENT): created by politicians and their hand-picked 25 member
“Citizen’s Committee". Only to benefit developers, land owners. WHO DO YOU TRUST?

•	Passage of Proposition D (DEVELOPMENT) will be the beginning of the end of Carlsbad’s
strawberry and flower-growing fields Legacy.

Tell Politicians and Developers: Save our quality of life!

VOTE NO ON PROPOSITION D (DEVELOPMENT)

RONALD D- ALVAREZ
Founder and Member of
Concerned Citizens of Carlsbad

PR-09A0-4

SD 095-043

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION D

SAVE THE STRAWBERRY AND FLOWER GROWING FIELDS ACT OF 2006

In a grassroots effort, more than 7,000 Carlsbad voters signed petitions to place this Citizens’
Initiative on the ballot as Proposition E. Prop E is an effort to preserve some small remnant of
Carlsbad's agricultural history, prevent massive development and overcrowding, and preserve
open space, public access, and sensitive habitat. As the Flower Fields® have shown, agriculture
and agri-tourism can help the local economy while providing benefits for Carlsbad residents.

VOTE YES ON CITIZENS' PROPOSITION E! VOTE, NO ON POLITICIANS’ PROPOSITION D!

STRAWBERRY FIELDS FOREVER!

Only this Citizens’ Initiative:

•	amends Carlsbad’s General Plan to ensure permanent protection for the agricultural
lands along the south shore of Agua Hedionda Lagoon;

•	allows open space, habitat, and power line uses;

•	retains plans for public trails and lagoon access;

•	prevents the development of incompatible large stadiums, private entertainment
facilities, parking lots in the strawberry fields; and

•	does not create new traffic problems.

SAVE TAX DOLLARS!

Proposition E:

•	helps the City avoid lawsuits.

•	complies with California state mandates, including the Habitat Management Plan.

•	preserves Carlsbad's Growth Management Plan.

•	frustrates City politicians’ efforts to violate our Constitutional rights, including property
rights.

•	requires no new infrastructure.

WHO DO YOU TRUST?

•	This Citizens’ Initiative was created by an independent group of Carlsbad residents to
preserve current coastal open spaces, historic coastal agricultural lands, and other
compatible uses in this area.

•	City politicians, working with large landowners and developers, have created a
competing ballot measure designed to defeat this Initiative and enable massive
development of this area. The City has already spent over $150,000 on this effort.
Don’t be misled! Read the fine print.

VOTE YES ON CITIZENS’ PROPOSITION E! VOTE NO ON POLITICIANS’ PROPOSITION D!

MICHAEL BOVENZI

Contractor/Developer

JIM STRICKLAND
(Retired) US Navy Chief

RONALD D. ALVAREZ
Member of Concerned Citizens of Carlsbad

SD 095-044

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION D

Carefully review Proposition D and don’t be mislead by the arguments against this
Proposition prepared by the proponents of an alternative measure, Proposition E.

The main purpose of Proposition D is to support the preservation of the Flower and
Strawberry Fields.

•Proposition D makes farming and agricultural uses the top priority for allowed land uses in the
area.

•Although the existing Flower Fields are already protected, Proposition D provides for additional
protection.

Proposition D does not have anything to do with massive development.

*lt permanently locks into place an Open Space designation for the Flower and Strawberry Fields
area.

*lf a property owner in the area cannot continue to farm their land, the Proposition only allows a
small list of other open space uses.

•Residential and commercial development is prohibited by the Proposition.

Proposition D is consistent with the California Coastal Act and the City’s Habitat
Management Plan.

•Proposition D does not allow farming operations on lands proposed to be preserved in their
natural state for endangered plants and animals.

*lt supports improved, public access to the area by allowing public trails and other compatible
public recreational uses.

Importantly, as opposed to Proposition E, Proposition D supports the continuation of the
Flower and Strawberry Fields in a manner that will not result in potentially costing the
citizens and taxpayers of Carlsbad millions of dollars.

We strongly urge you to vote YES on Proposition D and NO on Proposition E.

CLAUDE A. “BUD” LEW|S
Mayor, City of Carlsbad

MATTHEW HALL

Councilmember, City of Carlsbad

MARK PACKARD
Councilmember, City of Carlsbad

ANN J. KULCHIN
Councilmember, City of Carlsbad

NORINE SIGAFOOSE
Carlsbad City Council

PR-09A0-6

SD 095-045

EXHIBIT “A”

EXHIBIT “A” - CONTINUED

/berry Fields and Save Carlsbad Taxpayers’ Money	The area along the Cannon Road corridor east of the Interstate 5 freeway presently

consist primarily of open space and existing farming operations including the Flower
hereby enact and ordain:	Fields located to the south of Cannon Road and the existing Strawberry Fields

located to the north of Cannon Road. The open space areas on the north side of
Cannon Road provide spectacular views of the Agua Hedionda Lagoon and contain
wn and may be cited as “Preserve the Flower and	environmentally-sensitive	natural	habitat	areas	that	need	to be permanently

id Taxpayers’ Money”.	protected.

tTION AND FINDINGS

this measure is to ensure that the Flower Fields and
the Cannon Road corridor east of the Interstate 5 freeway is
>rming is allowed to continue as long as it is viable. The
ccess and community gathering places to occur in the area
npact the unique open space and environmental resources
intended to create a sustainable area that balances social,
important to the community. This measure amends the
ion for the future of the City and the Zoning Ordinance to
lg consideration to ensure that the area is retained in open
itinue and that public uses and access are allowed in the

1 the Area Affected by Measure. The area affected by this
/ided herein. It contains approximately 307 acres of land
ty along Cannon Road east of the Interstate 5 freeway. The
open space and farming operations including the existing
on Road and the area generally known as the Strawberry
annon Road adjacent to Interstate 5 and the south shore of
"area on the north side of Cannon Road also contains
ss including existing SDG&E electrical transmission lines,
of the Strawberry Fields area (approximately 91 acres and
was leased for potential future, public park uses. The most
i side of Cannon Road contains environmentally-sensitive,
the City’s Habitat Management Plan as part of a proposed
ses of this measure, the area shall herein be identified as
ning and Public Use Corridor.”

e City of Carlsbad find and declare that the subject area
egulated by City policy and established land use documents
ral Plan, the City Zoning Ordinance, the Carlsbad Habitat
da Land Use Plan, the Mello II Local Coastal Plan and the
City also has a comprehensive Growth Management Plan
dential development and that requires public facilities to be
s People of the City of Carlsbad desire the General Plan and
i (1) prohibit residential uses in the area; (2) ensure that this
preserved for open space uses; (3) allow the farming
Strawberry Fields and flower growing areas to continue; (4)
if the Flower Fields; (5) provide for the protection of
including compliance with the City’s Habitat Management
trails, pedestrian accessibility, park uses, and other
: uses into the area.

AMENDMENTS

amended as set forth in this Section.

ie 27, Section 11 (D) is hereby amended to add a new Land
to read as follows:

Space, Farming and Public Use Corridor

The existing Flower Fields and the Strawberry Fields as open space uses provide for
productive use of portions of the area that enhance the cultural heritage and history
of the City. Although the Flower Fields are already protected and restricted to
agricultural use, the City shall utilize all existing programs and land use protections
and explore other possible hew mechanisms to keep the Flower Fields in production.
The City shall also ensure that other farming uses such as the existing Strawberry
Fields are allowed to continue as long as it is economically viable for the landowner
to do so.

The area is recognized for its significant open space opportunities; however, the
area lacks adequate public access and public use areas so that the community can
enjoy the open space opportunities provided in this area to their fullest potential. An
interconnecting public trail through the area preferably linking the south shore of
Agua Hedionda Lagoon with the existing Flower Fields could greatly enhance public
access in the area. In addition, park and recreation uses that allow public gathering
spaces and are compatible with other open space uses could offer opportunities for
more community use and enjoyment of the area.

Residential use is not appropriate for the area. Commercial and industrial-type uses
other than those normally associated with farming operations are' also not
appropriate. The Cannon Road Open Space, Farming and Public Use Corridor
presents a unique opportunity for the City to create a sustainable, community-
oriented open space area that balances social, economic and environmental values
important to the community.

3.2	The Land Use Element at pages 37 and 38, Agriculture-C. Implementing Policies and
Action Programs is hereby amended by deleting existing C.3 and replacing it with a new C.3 to
read as follows:

C.3 The City shall utilize all existing programs and land use protections and explore
possible new grant programs and other outside financial assistance to keep the existing
Flower Fields in permanent farming and flower production.

3.3	The Land Use Element at page 40, Section III; Goals, Objectives and Implementing
Policies and Action Programs, is hereby amended to add a new section entitled Special Planning
Considerations-The Cannon Road Open Space, Farming and Public Use Corridor to provide as
follows;

SPECIAL PLANNING CONSIDERATIONS-THE CANNON ROAD OPEN SPACE,
FARMING AND PUBLIC USE CORRIDOR

A.	Goal

Create a unique, community-oriented open space area along the Cannon Road corridor
located immediately to the east of the Interstate 5 freeway including the existing Flower
Fields and Strawberry Fields.

B.	Objectives

B.1 To ensure that this area is permanently protected and preserved for open space uses.
B.2 To enhance the protection of the existing Flower Fields.

B.3 To allow the farming operations in the area such as the existing Strawberry Fields and
flower growing areas to continue.

B.4 To provide for the protection and preservation of environmental resources in the area
in coordination with landowners.

B.5 To increase public access and use to the area primarily through the incorporation of
compatible public trails and active and passive recreation.

PR-09A0-8

SD 095-046

SD 095-047

EXHIBIT “A” - CONTINUED

C.	Implementing Policies and Action Programs

C.1 Protect and preserve this area as an open space corridor. Permit only open space,
farming and compatible public uses in the area. Permitted uses shall be as follows:

(1)	Open Space

(2)	Farming and other related agricultural support uses including flower and
strawberry production

(3)	Public trails

(4)	Active and Passive park, recreation and similar public and private use facilities
(except on the existing Flower Fields)

(5)	Electrical Transmission Facilities

C.2 Prohibit residential development in the area._

C.3 Prohibit commercial and industrial-type uses in the area other than those normally
associated with farming operations and open space uses.

C.4 Enhance public access and public use in the area by allowing compatible public
trails, community gathering spaces and public and private, active and passive park and
recreation uses.

C.5 Allow farming to continue in the area for as long as economically viable for the
landowner.

C.6 Utilize all existing programs and land use protections and explore possible new
mechanisms to keep the existing Flower Fields in production.

C.7 If determined to be necessary, the City shall amend the Zoning Ordinance and adopt
a Cannon Road Open Space, Farming and Public Use Corridor Overlay Zone to apply to
the area that would provide more detail on permitted uses and land use regulations
applicable to the area.

C.8 The City shall initiate a public planning process with broad public participation to fully
accomplish implementation of the goals, objectives and action programs listed above.

3.4	The Open Space and Conservation	Element at page 16, Section F. Citywide Open Space

Plan,	Category 2: Open Space	for Managed Production of Resources,

Forestry/Agriculture/Aquaculture (2a), is hereby amended by changing the wording of the first
sentence to read as follows:

Forestry, agriculture and aquaculture are considered a category 5 citywide priority for
future open space planning except that agricultural uses in the Cannon Road Open
Space, Farming and Public Use Corridor shall be considered a category 1 priority.

4.	Section 4. ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS

The Carlsbad Zoning Ordinance is hereby amended as set forth in this Section.

4.1	The official Zoning Map is amended to rezone the area as shown on Exhibit A provided
herein and not presently zoned Open Space to the OS (Open Space) zone.,

5.	Section 5. IMPLEMENTATION

5.1	Effective Date. This measure shall become effective upon passage by the voters in
accordance with Elections Code 9217. With respect to the General Plan Amendments contained
in Section 3 of this measure, if the number of General Plan Amendments in the calendar year as
permitted by California Government Code Section 65358 have already been utilized, the
Amendments to the General Plan enacted by this measure shall be the first amendment and shall
become effective on January 1 of the next year following passage. Upon the effective date of this
measure, all entitlements (whether discretionary or ministerial) not yet issued or project approvals
not yet approved, shall not be issued or approved unless they are consistent with all provisions of
this measure.

5.2	Interpretation And Authority To Amend Other City Ordinances, Codes And Policies.

This measure shall be interpreted so as to be consistent with all federal and state laws. It shall
also be broadly interpreted and construed in order to achieve the purposes and findings'stated in

EXHIBIT “A” - CONTINUED

the measure. The City is hereby authorized to make any other amendments to the General Plan,
the Zoning Ordinance or any other plans, policies or ordinances necessary to fully implement the
provisions of this measure and to ensure consistency between the provisions of this measure and
all other elements of the General Plan, the Zoning Ordinance, an'd any other plans, policies or
ordinances. If deemed necessary, the City is authorized to amend the Zoning Ordinance to
create and adopt a Cannon Road Open Space, Farming and Public Use Corridor Overlay Zone
which would then be applied to the area affected by this measure. The Overlay Zone could
provide more detail on permitted uses and regulations applicable to the area.

5.3	Public Process To Comprehensively Implement Measure. Upon the passage of this
measure, the City shall initiate a comprehensive planning process with broad public participation
and input to accomplish full implementation of the measure. The process shall include
determining the most appropriate open space, recreational and public uses for the area, should
farming become no longer economically-viable in the area. The process shall result in achieving
complete General Plan, Zoning and Local Coastal Program consistency so that the full intent of
this measure can be implemented by the City.

5.4	Severability. If any section, sub-section, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or other portion
of this measure, or application thereof, is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a final judgment
of a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the remaining portions or
provisions of this measure. It is hereby declared by the people voting for this measure that this
measure, and each section, sub-section, sentence, clause, phrase, part, or portion thereof would
have been adopted or passed even if one or more sections, sub-sections, sentences, clauses,
phrases, part, or portions, or the application thereof, are declared invalid or unconstitutional.

5.5	Conflicting Ballot Measures. This measure is inconsistent with and intended as an
alternative to any other initiative(s) or measure(s) placed on the same ballot that addresses the
same subject matter as this measure. In the event that this measure and another initiative(s) or
measure(s) addressing the same subject matter as this measure, or any part thereof, is approved
by a majority of voters at the same election, and this measure receives a greater number of
affirmative votes than any other such initiative(s) or measure(s), then this measure shall prevail
and control in its entirety and said other initiative(s) or measure(s) shall be rendered void and
without any legal effect.

Exhibit List

Exhibit A - Map showing boundaries of Area affected by this measure

PR-09A0-10

SD 095-049

CHIBIT A“MAP

AVk? \\ V f*

o

2

o

<D

a.

x>

c

a

CO

CITY OF CARLSBAD
Proposition E

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

Shall the Carlsbad General Plan be amended to
PPQP C incorporate the provisions of the "Save the Strawberry
1	and Flower Growing Fields Act of 2006?”

This proposition requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%) of the voters.

Full text of this proposition follows the argumehts/rebuttals.