RESOLUTION NO. 2603
CITY OFYREKA

MEASURE H

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OFTHE CITY OF
YREKA, PROPOSING THE ADOPTION OF A SPECIAL TAX
FOR THE YREKA VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT OFTHE
CITY OFYREKA BE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS FOR
APPROVAL AND FIXING TIME FOR ELECTION

NOW THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF YREKA,
CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE, DECLARE. DETERMINE AND
ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Authority. This Resolution is adopted pursuant to
Government Code Sections 50075, et seq,, and 53720, et seq.

Section 2. Title. This Resolution may be cited as the “Yreka
Volunteer Fire Department Special Tax Resolution of 2006”.

Section 3. Proposal. It is proposed that a special tax measure
be submitted to the voters in the City of Yreka at the statewide
general election held on November 7, 2006. Such action is taken
in accordance with Government Code Section 50077, Government
Code Section 53720, et seq., and Article XIII(A), XIII(B) and XIII(C)
of the California Constitution.

Section 4. Rate to be Charged as a Special Tax. There shall be
levied on each Improved Legal Parcel of real property in tHfe City of
Yreka a special tax assessed annually and payable monthly as follows:

PARCEL TYPE

Single Family or Duplex
residential parcel

Multi-Residential Parcel:

3-5 dwelling units

6-10 dwelling units

11 or more dwelling units

Non-residential, Commercial,
or Industrial Parcel:

1-2 Business units or uses

3-6 Business units or uses
(total structures under
15,000 sq. ft.)

7 or more Business units or uses;
or total structures on parcel
exceed 15,000 sq. ft.

TAX PER IMPROVED
LEGAL PARCEL

$60.00 per year payable $5.00 monthly

$75.00 per year payable $6,25 monthly
$150.00 per year payable $12.50 monthly
$250.00 per year payable $20.83 monthly

$75.00 per year payable $6.25 monthly

$250.00 per year payable $20.83 monthly

$350.00 per year payable $29.16 monthly

The maximum tax amounts specified herein shall be increased
annually by the percentage by which the Construction Cost Index
as reported periodically in The Engineering News-Record, or any
successor to that index, increases in the twelve months prior to
March of the year in which the adjustment is made.

Said special tax shall not be levied on any property owned by the
State of California, the Federal Government, or an agency or subdivision
thereof. However, nothing herein shall preclude anyone subject to a
possessory interest on such properties from being subject to a tax
hereunder. Property on the Board Roll is subject to the Special Tax.
For the purposes of this Resolution, “Improved Legal Parcel” shall
be defined to mean an individual parcel or, when required, combined
with the minimum number of adjacent parcels in common ownership,
on either the secured or unsecured tax roll having an improvement
value of more than Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000) and which can
be sold without further compliance with the Subdivision Map Act of
the State of California.

Mixed residential and non-residential uses on an Improved Legal
Parcel shall be assessed at the greater of the applicable rates. The
classification of a parcel and determination of the use shall be on
the basis of the purpose for which a premises or building thereon
is designed, arranged, intended, or for which it may be occupied or
maintained. When one use or business utilizes 2 or more adjacent
parcels, only one tax shall be imposed.

Section 5: Levy of Charge. The City Council finds and declares that
this is a special tax and not an ad valorem tax. Further, the City
Council finds and declares that the most expedient way to levy and

collect this special tax is on each legal parcel upon which an
improvement is located as set forth above.

Section 6: Method of Collection. This special tax, if confirmed by
the voters, shall be payable to the City of Yreka and shall appear
as a separate item on the water bill issued monthly by the City of
Yreka and shall be payable on the first day of the month commencing
the first of the month following the approval by the voters and
certification by the City Council of this measure. The special tax
shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
ordinary City water fees and shall be subject to the same penalties
and the same procedure in the case of delinquency as provided for
such fees, except, if for the first month the tax is levied, the real
property to which such tax relates has been transferred or conveyed
to a bona fide purchaser for value, or if a lien of a bona fide
encumbrancer for value has been created and attached hereto prior
to the date on which the first installment of such taxes would become
due, the tax confirmed pursuant to this Resolution will not result in
a lien against such property.

Section 7: Purpose of Special Tax. This is an excise tax for revenue
related to City public safety services. The City Council finds that
the law has been recently changed to place greater responsibilities
upon local agencies to improve the safety of volunteer firefighters
by requiring their departments to abide by the same regulations that
apply to professional firefighters, including specialized training and
equipment. This and other responsibilities have direct impacts upon
the citizens of the City of Yreka since it affects the quality of the
service they receive from the City of Yreka’s Volunteer Fire
Department. The City of Yreka has historically supported the
Volunteer Fire Department through acquisitions and paying operating
expenses, and will continue this support.

The express and specific purpose for which this special tax is levied
is to establish a stable source of funds within the City in order to
fund training, wages and benefits of firefighters, acquire Fire Fighting
or Rescue equipment or vehicles and improve or construct fire stations,
sub-stations, or training facilities. “Acquire” shall include utilization
of lease-purchase agreements or other methods of financing available
to municipalities. Any funds collected from the special tax levied
pursuant to this resolution shall be expended only for such purposes
and no other. Any unexpended funds raised by the levy remaining
at the end of the fiscal year shall be carried over for the same
purposes in the next fiscal year. A special account shall be created
by the City and such funds shall be deposited in said account. An
annual report complying with Government Code Section 50075.3
shall be made to the City Council showing the amount of the funds
collected and expended and the status of the project funded.
Nothing herein precludes the City from contracting with other public or
private agencies or parties to carry out the purposes of this Resolution.
Section 8: Election Date. The proposed special tax shall be submitted
to the voters of the City of Yreka at the election to be included and
consolidated with the election held on November 7,2006. That pursuant
to the requirements of Section 10403 of the Elections Code, the Board
of Supervisors of the County of Siskiyou is hereby requested to consent
and agree to the consolidation of this election with the statewide general
election on November 7, 2006, for the purpose of the election of a
measure, with notice of time and place of holding the election to be
given by the County Clerk, and the County Clerk be authorized, instructed
and directed to give further or additional notice of the election, in time,
form and manner as required by law.

Section 9: Effective Date of Tax. If the proposed special tax receives
the approval of two thirds of the voters voting upon the proposition,
the special tax will be effective and will be operative immediately
upon certification.

Section 10: Authority to Decrease Charge. Nothing in this Resolution
shall give the City Council the authority to increase the special tax
levied hereunder without a confirming vote of at least two thirds of the
voters in the City voting on such proposal. However, nothing herein will
prevent the City Council from lowering or eliminating such special tax
upon a majority of its own vote after notice and hearing on such proposal.
Furthermore, the City Council shall, by Resolution, establish an
Administrative procedure for receiving and hearing protests or

47-504

47504

!

I

!

i

j

written objections to the tax imposed provided that any such
Administrative Procedure shall provide for the right of appeal to the
City Council. Adjustments or corrections may be made through the
Administrative Procedure or by the City Council taking into
consideration the size, use, type of structure, or other factors which
make implementation of the special tax equitable.

Section 11: Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause,
or phrase of this resolution is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this resolution. The City
Council of the City of Yreka hereby declares that it would have
passed this resolution and each section, subsection, sentence,
clause, or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that one or more
of the sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, or phrases be
declared unconstitutional or unlawful.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL
OF THE CITY OF YREKA that the following measure be placed on
the ballot for vote at the statewide general election to be held
November 7, 2006:

“Shall the City of Yreka levy an annual special tax for the Yreka
Volunteer Fire Department on each improved legal parcel within the
City, which shall be payable in monthly installments to the City of
Yreka, and which will be used to pay for training, wages and benefits
of firefighters, acquiring Fire Fighting or Rescue equipment or vehicles
and improving or constructing fire stations, sub-stations, or training
facilities.

YES_______NO___________”

Section 9. The City recognizes that additional costs will be incurred
by the County by reason of this consolidation and agrees to reimburse
the County tor any costs. The City Clerk is hereby directed to file
a certified copy of this resolution with the Board of Supervisors and
the county election department of the County of Siskiyou. The City
Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Resolution.

Passed and adopted this 3rd day of August, 2006, by the following vote:

AYES: Griffin, Bennett, Harms, Amaral, McNeil
NAYS: None
ABSENT: None

APPROVED AS TO FORM:
si Mary Frances McHugh
City Attorney

si RORY MC NEIL, MAYOR
ATTEST:

si Liz Casson, City Clerk

IMPARTIAL ANAYLSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE H

City of Yreka Adoption of a Special Tax for the Yreka Volunteer
Fire Department

The City of Yreka is proposing a Special Tax Measure to be submitted
to the voters in the City of Yreka. The City of Yreka has historically
supported the Yreka Volunteer Fire Department from its general fund.
The specific purpose for which the special tax is levied is to establish
a stable source of funds in order to acquire fire fighting equipment
or rescue vehicles, fund firefighter training, wages, and benefits, and
for the improvement or construction of fire stations, substations, or
training facilities. The special tax cannot be used for any other purpose.

The tax, if passed by two-thirds vote for those voting on the
measure, would be levied on parcels having improvements of more
than $10,000 as defined in the measure. The rate of the tax depends
on use or square footage of improvements. The special tax rates are:
$60 per parcel per year for parcels with single family residences and
duplexes. For multi-family residential parcels the tax ranges from $75
per parcel per year for parcels with three to five units to $250 per
parcels per year for parcels with 11 or more units. For non-residential,
commercial or industrial parcels the tax ranges from $75 per parcel
per year for parcels with 1 or 2 units to $350 per year per parcel for
parcels having 7 or more business units or total structures exceeding

15,000	square feet. The special tax will not be levied on any property
owned by the State of California, the Federal Government or an

agency or subdivision thereof. The special tax would be payable in
monthly installments and collected at the same time and in the same
manner as ordinary City water fees and be subject to the same
penalties and the same procedures in the case of delinquency as
provided for those fees. This special tax has an annual adjustor for
inflation using a formula based upon the Construction Cost Index in
The Engineering News-Record, or any successor to that index.

The purposed special tax requires the approval of at least two-
thirds of the voters voting on the measure and, if approved, would
be effective immediately upon certification of the election results by
the City Council. The special tax would thereafter appear as a
separate item on the water bill issued monthly by the City of Yreka
and would be payable on the first day of the month commencing
the first month following approval by the voters and certification by
the City Council of the measure.

A “Yes” vote favors passage of this special tax, while a “No” vote
is against passage of this special tax.

s/ Mary Frances McHugh
City Attorney, City of Yreka

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure “H”.
If you desire a copy of the Resolution proposing Increase
of the Transient Occupancy Tax, please call the Siskiyou
County Clerk’s Office at 1-800-854-2000, extension 8086, and
a copy will be mailed to you at no cost.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

The City needs a stable revenue source covering the broadest scope
of fire services, now and for the future. This year the City Council
has worked closely with the Yreka Volunteer Fire Department
(YVFD), dealing with the impacts of growth and regulations upon
fire services in our City.

All firefighters in California must meet the same safety standards
and training. The City’s firefighters continually train to meet these
standards. We all appreciate their dedication and their sacrifice of
their own time to do this.

In January, the Insurance Services Offices (ISO) issued a rating
report advising that the commercial rates in the City will be
increased, citing availability of equipment and personnel.

Fire services now include medical emergency responses. YVFD has
34 firefighters on its roster. Recruitment and retention are impacted
by medical calls. YVFD answers 90 calls monthly; 70 calls are medical.
In January, the Council ranked the calls YVFD may respond to, however,
this does not change the number of calls for assistance or aid.

In July, a five acre fire above the western boundary of the City grew
rapidly and threatened homes and water tanks in the City.

The Department’s equipment is well-maintained, it is aging.
Replacement parts are harder to find. The ISO report found the
City’s aerial vehicle inadequate to maintain the City’s rating for
commercial structures. How do residents of the City want to prioritize
their fire services?

Would Yreka constituents rather pay higher insurance premiums to
large insurance companies, in lieu of adequate fire protection services
that directly benefit their community?

This special tax would raise approximately $200,000 per year. This
stable revenue source would supplement the City’s existing financial
support of the Fire Department. This will allow the City to maintain
the excellent emergency response services the City now enjoys.
The undersigned proponents of the Primary Argument in Favor of
ballot proposition Measure “H” at the election for the County of Siskiyou
to be held on November 7, 2006, hereby state that such argument
is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.

si Rory McNeil si Eric Harms	si	Jim	Griffin

si Tom Amaral	si	Grace	Bennett

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

47-505



47505