VENTURA

A

OF

if

r



GUBERNATORIAL
GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2006

r\

and

Voter Information Pamphlet

AVISO / NOTICE

Se puede obtener una traduccion en espanol del folleto
de informacion para el elector, llamando al 654-2664.

A Spanish translation of voter information pamphlet is
available by calling 654-2664.

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR ABSENT
VOTER BALLOT ON BACK COVER

N°r,

PHILIP J. SCHMIT, COUNTY CLERK AND RECORDER	ffi/itg

out

THE LOCATION OF YOUR
POLLING PLACE

IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

• POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M. •

SAVE THIS SAMPLE BALLOT TO HELP YOU LOCATE
YOUR POLLING PLACE ON ELECTION DAY

P/a*r	for®e© A

56-FC-E-11064	56-FC-E

{>/> GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION, REGULATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Bars state/local governments from condemning or damaging
y U	private property to promote other private projects, uses. Limits government’s authority to adopt certain land use, housing, consumer, environmental, workplace laws/regulations. Fiscal

Impact: Increased annual government costs to pay property owners for losses to their property associated with new laws and rules, and for property acquisitions. These costs are
unknown, but potentially significant on a statewide basis.

ADQUISICION, REGULACION GUBERNAMENTAL DE LA PROPIEDAD PRIVADA. INICIATIVA PARA ENMIENDA CONSTITUCIONAL. Prohfbe que los gobiernos estatales/locales
y U expropien o danen la propiedad privada para promover otros proyectos o usos privados. Limita la autoridad del gobierno para adoptar determinadas leyes/regulaciones sobre el uso de la
tierra, la vivienda, el consumidor, el medio ambiente, el lugar de trabajo. Impacto fiscal: Mayores costos anuales del gobierno para pagar a los propietarios las perdidas
de su propiedad asociadas con leyes y ordenes nuevas y las adquisiciones de propiedad. Se desconocen estos costos, pero son potencialmente significativos a nivel estatal.

YES/SI ^	^

NO/NO ^	^

CITY/CIUDAD

CITY OF SAN BUENAVENTURA
CIUDAD DE SAN BUENAVENTURA

DC	The City of Ventura Gan9 Prevention, 9-1-1 Emergency/Public Safety Improvement Measure. Shall an ordinance be adopted to prevent gang/drug related crimes; expand drug

rO	prevention programs; reduce child abuse, domestic violence; improve 9-1-1 emergency medical response times; purchase paramedic equipment; provide infrastructure; prepare for

earthquakes/other emergencies by training, equipping, hiring police officers/firefighters/paramedics by increasing the sales/use tax by one-quarter percent with citizens' oversight,
independent financial audits, expiring after 10 years?

Q/* La Ciudad de Ventura Medida de Prevencion de Pandillas, Emergencia 9-1-1/Mejoramiento en la Seguridad Publica. ^Debera ser adoptada una ordenanza para prevenir crfmenes
rO relacionados a pandillas/drogas; extender los programas para la prevencion de drogas; reducir el abuso contra ninos, violencia intrafamiliar; mejorar el tiempo de responder a
emergencias medicas de 9-1-1; comprar equipo paramedico; proveer infraestructura; preparar para los terremotos/otras emergencias al capacitar, equipar, contratar
policfas/bomberos/paramedicos al aumentar el impuesto de venta/uso por un cuarto por ciento con la supervision de conciudadanos, auditorfas financieras independientes,
venciendose despues de 10 anos?

YES/SI

NO/NO	^

B

A56-4-506

Card 2 of 2

(3A1)

VOTE BOTH SIDES
VOTE AMBOS LADOS

506

Muestra de Balota

56SB139D

CITY OF SAN BUENAVENTURA
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY*

MEASURE "P6"

Ventura Gang Prevention, 9-1-1 Emergency/Public Safety Improvement
Measure

Pursuant to Section 9280 of the Elections Code of the State of California, the
following is the City Attorney’s impartial analysis of Measure P-6:

The Ventura Gang Prevention, 9-1-1 Emergency/Public Safety Improvement
Measure (the "Measure") proposes to raise revenue for funding police, fire and
public safety facilities, equipment and personnel, by authorizing a special
transactions and use tax (i.e., "sales tax") of one-quarter of one percent (.25
percent), and approving an ordinance adding Chapter 4.192 to Division 4 of the
City’s Municipal Code. The one-quarter percent sales tax would be paid in
addition to the current sales taxes and would be collected at the same time and
in the same manner as existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.91 authorizes the City to
levy or increase a sales tax at a rate of .25 percent or multiple thereof, for
specific purposes as set forth by the City, if the ordinance proposing the tax is
approved by at least two-thirds of the qualified voters of the city voting in an
election on that question. If approved by the voters, the sales tax will become
operative no sooner than April 1,2007. A "sunset" clause in the ordinance
specifies that it will be in effect for ten years, after which it will expire unless
extended by the voters.

The Measure requires that revenue from the sales tax increase be deposited in a
separate "Public Safety Tax Fund" (the "Fund"). Expenditures from the Fund are
restricted by a number of provisions in the ordinance and are to be allocated as
shown in the Police and Fire Department "Expenditure Plans" attached to the
ordinance. The Expenditure Plans are schedules of how revenue would be
allocated among various departmental budget items for fiscal years 2006-2007
through 2009-2010. The Expenditure Plans may be modified by the City Council
from time to time as long the moneys are used solely for police and fire
protection but the restrictions listed in the ordinance can only be amended by the
voters.

The Measure also requires that a citizens’ oversight committee be appointed to
independently review the appropriations from the Fund and the annual audit of
the Fund for compliance with the ordinance and prepare an annual public report
of its findings.

Generally, the revenue raised from the sales tax increase must be used to hire
and equip additional police officers and firefighters, but may not be used for
enhancing salaries or benefits of current safety services staff, or for increasing
staff salaries to levels higher than similar cities pay for similar safety services.
Sixty percent (60%) of the revenue would be designated for police officers and
police department programs while forty percent (40%) would be designated for
iFire department personnel and programs. The increased sales tax revenue is to
provide for maintaining and expanding patrol and gang prevention activities,
purchasing additional public safety equipment, and improving medical and other
emergency response time. A portion of the revenue designated for each depart-
ment may be used for safety-related education and prevention programs and to
establish a reserve for the replacement or upgrade of departmental facilities.

*Section 9280 of the California Elections Code requires the City Attorney to
prepare an impartial analysis of each City measure appearing on the ballot.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE "Pe"

For Ventura’s safety, vote Yes on P. Consider the facts:

The City of Ventura had approximately 300 violent crimes in 2005, an increase of
15% in a single year. Emergency calls have risen from 40,000 to 105,000. Gang
violence alone has increased 173% in six months.

Although 9-1-1 calls have increased by 250 percent, the City of Ventura has the
same number of police officers and firefighter/paramedics it had in 1990.

75% of all Fire 9-1-1 calls are medical emergencies, with many coming from our
seniors and families with young children.

Yes on P improves your safety by hiring more police officers and firefighters in
Ventura, to get to your family in an emergency.

Yes on P: Expands anti-gang and drug prevention programs for kids. Measure
P expands after-school/gang-violence prevention programs and restores School

Resource Officers.

Yes on P: Reduces child abuse and domestic violence.

Yes on P: Hires, Trains and Equips additional firefighters/paramedics to fully
staff a strategically located fire station that can rapidly respond to any
emergency in our City.

Yes on P: Improves Ventura’s 9-1-1 emergency medical response times.
Currently, our Police/Fire respond to emergencies in less than 5 minutes, only
about 50% of the time.

Yes on P: Provides up-to-date medical technology and equipment.

Yes on P: Ensures that people living outside of Ventura, such as shoppers from
nearby communities, will pay their fair share.

By law, all Measure P funding must be deposited into a separate Police and Fire
Trust Fund, and can only be used to improve safety. Measure P includes strong
fiscal accountability requirements, such as annual, independent performance
and financial audits and an independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee to
ensure that all funds are spent as promised.

Please join:

s/Gary Wilde
CEO

Community Memorial Hospital

s/Dr. Trudy Arriaga
Superintendent

Ventura Unified School District

s/Hydee Dullam
Vice-President
Ventura City Firefighters Association

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE "PB"

Measure P6 is an unnecessary tax on the citizens of Ventura. City Hall has failed
to make Public Safety its top priority and shown a lack of fiscal accountability.
There is not a crisis in our community. Crime rate has fluctuated only slightly up
and down over the last few years. If, the programs and personnel recommended
in Measure P6 are indeed necessary to make us safer than they should not be
negotiable.

We propose the following:

Accountability- City Hall has recently wasted millions of dollars on litigation,
severance compensation, penalties, self-serving campaigns, and a failed com-
puter program.

Responsibility- The combined Police and Fire Department budget has grown
from 21 million ini990 to 44 million in 2006 and yet they have not added any
new officers.

Prioritize- Other cities in our area have added new officers during this same
period without raising taxes. Since 1993 Oxnard has increased its police force
with the addition of 80 new officers. Simi Valley added 4 new officers this year
for a mere $633,000.

Maximize Resources- Current economic forecast for our city suggests strong
revenue increases from property tax and sales tax. City Hall can enhance these
numbers by continuing support of business programs and expediting the plan-
ning process to fill commercial vacancies.

The truth is a tax is a tax. We will all be giving City Hall, not the Police and Fire
Departments, $4.3 million a year for at least 10 years to expand its budget.

There are many more creative ways to add new officers and infrastructure. Our
City Leaders have the collective ability to ensure that this happens. We must all
live within our means.

Please vote NO on Measure P6!

s/C. Jack Tingstrom	s/Judson T. Cook

Former Mayor of Ventura	Business	Owner

s/Robert J. Alviani	s/Kevin D Corse

Past Chairman - Ventura Chamber Business Owner

s/William E. Winfield
Attorney

s/Carl Morehouse
Mayor

City of Ventura

s/Jerry Foreman
President

Ventura Police Officers Association

Ventura County-9210

56-M

56M

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE "P6"

ORDINANCE

ORDINANCE ADDING CHAPTER 4.129 TO DIVISION 4 OF THE SAN
BUENAVENTURA MUNICIPAL CODE TO BE ENTITLED "SPECIAL
TRANSACTIONS (SALES) AND USE TAX FOR PUBLIC SAFETY, POLICE
AND FIRE PROTECTION"

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SAN BUENAVENTURA DO ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

SECTION I. AMENDMENT OF CODE.

The San Buenaventura Municipal Code is hereby amended by adding a new
Chapter 4.129 to Division 4 of the Code to be entitled "Special Transaction
(Sales) and Use Tax for Public Safety, Police and Fire Protection" and to read as
follows:

"CHAPTER 4.129"

SPECIAL TRANSACTIONS (SALES) AND USE TAX FOR PUBLIC SAFETY,
POLICE AND FIRE PROTECTION

ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 4.129.110. Authority.

This Chapter is adopted pursuant to the municipal affairs provisions of the City
Charter, Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
including, in particular, Section 7285.91 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
which authorizes the City to adopt this chapter which shall be operative if
two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of
the tax at an election called for that purpose for the following purposes:

Sec. 4.129.120

The purposes of this chapter are as follows:

1.	To adopt a retail transactions (sales) and use tax that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

2.	To adopt a retail transactions (sales) and use tax that imposes a tax and
that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practical to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by
the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California
State Sales and Use Taxes;

3.	To adopt a retail transactions (sales) and use tax chapter that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the degree possible consistent with the
provisions of Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation
Code, minimize the cost of collecting City sales and use taxes, and at the same
time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation
under the provisions thereof.

4.	To provide a source of revenue to be used to provide additional public
safety, police and fire protection services. The revenue generated by the tax pro-
vided for herein shall be restricted to those uses. The tax is, therefore, a special
tax.

Sec. 4.129.130. Contract with state.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of
Equalization to perform all functions incidental to the administration and
operation hereof. If the City has not contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract, and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract. The City Council may make any
technical amendments to this Chapter as required by the State Board of
Equalization, except for any changes affecting the tax rate, its manner of
collection, or the purpose for which the revenue from the tax may be used.

Sec. 4.129.140. Operative date.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the effective date of this ordinance.

Sec. 4.129.150. Sunset date.

The authority to levy the tax imposed herein will sunset and expire ten years
from the operative date of this chapter unless extended by the City Council and
a two thirds vote of the city voters voting at a municipal election called for that
purpose.

ARTICLE 2. IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF TAX
Sec. 4.129.210 Imposition of sales tax.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby
imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of
one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts of the retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the City on and after the
operative date of this Chapter.

Sec. 4.129.220. Presumption as to place of sales.

For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered
by the retailer or his or her agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event
a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated
shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Sec. 4.129.230. Imposition of use tax.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in
the incorporated territory of the City of personal property purchased from any
retailer on or after the operative date of this Chapter for storage, use or other
consumption in the City at the rate of one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the
sales price of the property subject to the tax. The sales price shall include
delivery charges when such charges are subject to the State sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Sec. 4.120.240. Adoption of certain sections of the Revenue and Taxation
Code by reference.

Except as hereinafter provided, and except insofar as they are inconsistent with
the provisions of Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division
2 of Revenue and Taxation Code, as amended, that are in force and effect on
the effective date of this Chapter, and are applicable to use taxes, are hereby
adopted and made a part of this section as though fully set forth herein.

Sec. 4.129.250. Limitations on adoption of state law and collection of taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

1.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

(a)	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller,
State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

(b)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or
against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to
the administration or operation of this Chapter.

(c)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of
the substitution would be to:

(1)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not other-
wise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consump-
tion remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

(2)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consump-
tion of tangible personal property, which would not be subject to tax by the State
under the said provision of that code.

Ventura County-9210

56-N

56N

(d)	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

2.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition
of that phrase in Section 6203.

Sec.4.129.260. Permit not required.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be
required by this Chapter.

Sec. 4.129.270. Exclusions and exemptions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions (sales)
tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State
of California or by any City, City and County, or county pursuant to the
Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
State-administered sales or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of sales tax
the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside of the City
provided such aircraft is exclusively operated as a common carrier of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point out-
side the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the
retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a
consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the City shall be satisfied:

(a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3
of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration
to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed
by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

(b)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to
furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to
the operative date of this Chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subsections 3 and 4 of Part B of this Section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease
upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Chapter, the
storage, use, or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sales of which have been subject to a sales tax
under any other state-administered transactions (sales) and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation
under a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity issued pursuant to the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparts 3 and 4 of Part C of this Section, storage, use,
or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as hereafter provided in subpart 7 of Part C of this Section, a retailer
engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from

the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers
the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through
any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City
under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Chapter may credit against
that tax any sales tax or reimbursement for sales tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a sales tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Sec. 4.129.280. Amendments to Revenue and Taxation Code.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Chapter to Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes
and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as
to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Chapter.

ARTICLE 3. USE OF TAX REVENUES

Sec. 4.129.310. Deposit of tax revenues in special public safety tax fund.

All revenues received by the city from transactions (sales) and use taxes
imposed pursuant to this chapter shall be accounted for and paid into a special
Public Safety Tax Fund or Account and thereafter appropriated by the city
council for the purposes authorized by this article.

Sec. 4.129.320. Use of tax revenues.

A.	Sixty percent (60%) of the revenues received by the City from
transactions (sales) and use taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter will be used
for the following purposes, as deemed necessary or appropriate by the city
council:

1.	Obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining police protection equip-
ment or apparatus, augmenting the number of Police Department personnel by
increasing the number of police officers, and other Police Department personnel,
and other additional police protection services; and

2.	Programs that directly support public safety prevention and education
including the Police Activities League (PAL) and the Positive Enrichment
Activities for Kids program (PEAK), and that provide after school tutoring and
activities for students from disadvantaged neighborhoods.

B.	Forty percent (40%) of the revenues received by the City from
transactions (sales) and use taxes imposed pursuant to this chapter will be used
for the following purposes, as deemed necessary or appropriate by the city
council:

Ventura County-9210

56-0

56O

1.	Obtaining, furnishing, operating, and/or maintaining fire protection equip-
ment or apparatus, augmenting the number of fire department personnel by
increasing the number of Firefighter/Paramedics and other fire department
personnel, and such other additional fire protection service expenses, including
capital expenses; and

2.	Programs that directly support public safety prevention and education.

Sec. 4.129.330. Limitations on use of tax revenues.

A.	Revenues received by the City from the transactions (sales) and use
tax imposed pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter may not be used to
supplant existing funding for eligible expenditures. The City Council will continue
to provide at least the same amount of general fund revenues to support the
City’s public safety services as are provided in the council-approved City budget
on the date this chapter is adopted by the City’s voters, adjusted upward
annually thereafter by the percent of growth in the City’s general fund revenue
during the preceding fiscal year, and will use 100 percent of the revenues
generated from the tax to augment such base level of support.

B.	Revenues received by the City from the transactions (sales) and use
tax imposed pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter may not be used to
enhance salaries, benefits or pensions of existing Police Department and Fire
Department personnel. The City will continue to be responsible for allocating
general fund resources to ensure competitive pay, benefits and pensions for all
staff, including police and fire staff.

C.	In addition, revenues received by the City from the transactions
(sales) and use tax imposed pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter may not
be used to pay salaries or benefits to the additional police officers, firefighter/
Paramedics and other public safety employees hereafter employed by the City at
a rate higher than the average rate paid for similar services by similar cities as
identified periodically by the City Human Resources Department and certified by
the City Council, and, the foregoing notwithstanding, in no case higher than the
amount of salaries and benefits established in the collective bargaining agree-
ments for covered personnel in force at the time of the adoption of this Chapter,
plus an amount equal to the increase in the consumer price index each year
thereafter; provided, however, that this subpart shall not be construed as a
limitation on increases in such salaries and benefits when salaries and benefits
in excess of that provided for herein are funded from the general fund or some
other revenue source.

D.	Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the City Council shall
retain, at all times, exclusive authority to make decisions relating to authorization
of budgets, expenditures, programs or services that establish expenditure
priorities consistent with the foregoing limitations.

Sec. 4.129.340. Conformance with expenditure plans.

Revenues received by the City from the transaction (sales) and use tax imposed
pursuant to this Chapter must conform in all respects to the Police Department
Expenditure Plan and Fire Department Expenditure Plan attached hereto and by
this reference incorporated herein. The Police Department Expenditure Plan and
the Fire Department Expenditure Plan may be amended from time to time by a
majority vote of the City Council, so long as the revenues are solely used for
police and fire protection services authorized by section 4.129.320.

ARTICLE 4. CITIZENS’ OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE

Sec. 4.129.410. Establishment of committee and purpose.

A Citizens’ Oversight Committee is hereby established to oversee expenditures
of the revenues received by the City from the transactions (sales) and use taxes
imposed pursuant to this Chapter, and to ensure that tax revenues are spent by
the City in a manner consistent with the voter approved measure adopting this
chapter as well as any voter approved or council approved spending plan
adopted to implement the provisions of this Chapter.

Sec. 4.129.420 Appointment and tenure of committee members.

A.	The Citizens’ Oversight Committee shall consist of five members
appointed by the City Council, based on the recommendations of the Fire Chief
and Police Chief. Three members shall constitute a quorum. The City Manager
shall appoint an ex-officio staff person to serve as the secretary and custodian of
records who shall not have a vote.

B.	Upon their appointment and during their incumbency, members of the
committee shall be and remain residents of the City; provided, however, that City
employees, other City officials and City vendors shall not be qualified to serve as

committee members at any time they occupy such positions or are engaged in
such business. Should a member cease to be a City resident, that office shall be
deemed vacant and the term of such member terminated. The secretary shall
notify the City Council and City Manager of such termination as soon as
administratively possible.

D. All members of the committee shall serve at the pleasure of the City
Council and may be removed by a majority vote of the City Council at any time.

Sec. 4.129.430 Terms of office.

A.	Of the members of the committee first appointed, two shall be
appointed for terms of one year, two shall be appointed for terms of two years,
and one shall be appointed for a term of three years. Succeeding members shall
be appointed for terms of four years. The secretary’s term shall be designated by
the City Manager. All members shall serve until a successor is appointed and
qualified.

B.	Should a member of the committee fail to attend three consecutive
meetings, unless excused for cause by the chairperson, that member's office
shall be deemed vacant and the member's term ended. The committee secretary
shall immediately notify the City Council and City Clerk of such termination.

Sec. 4.129.440. Organization.

A.	Each January, the committee shall annually organize and elect a
chairperson and vice-chairperson from its membership for a one-year term. In
the chairperson’s or vice-chairperson’s absence or disability, the committee may
designate a chairperson or vice-chairperson pro tempore.

B.	Regular meetings shall be held on the day and time established by
resolution of the committee as amended from time to time.

C.	The committee shall establish a procedure for calling special
meetings and may also adopt application requirements, meeting procedures,
and other reasonable rules and regulations for conducting business. Minutes
shall be kept of all meetings and the secretary shall deliver copies of minutes to
the City Manager and City Clerk for filing and distribution to City Council
Members.

D.	The committee may designate one of its members, or a sub-
committee composed of not more than two members, to study, review, consider,
or make recommendations concerning any matter within its purview.

Sec. 4.129.450. Duties.

A.	The committee is charged with the following responsibilities:

(i) reviewing all appropriations of revenues received by the City from the
transactions (sales) and use taxes imposed pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter to determine whether such funds are to be used as provided for in this
Chapter and the voter approved measure that adopted this chapter on the
specific purposes outlined in the Public Safety Measure; (ii) reviewing the audit
prepared by an the independent auditor retained by the City to perform the Citys
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report to determine whether such funds have
been spent as provided for in this chapter and the voter approved measure that
adopted this Chapter on the specific purposes outlined in the Public Safety
Measure; (iii) prepare and issue the committee’s own annual report setting forth
their findings in regard to the foregoing.

B.	The committee shall confine itself specifically to funds received by the
City from the transactions (sales) and use taxes imposed pursuant to the
provisions of this Chapter. City revenues and funds generated through other
sources are outside the scope of the committee. However, the committee shall
have the responsibility of monitoring the City’s conformance with maintaining its
existing level of general fund support for the Citys Police and Fire services to
ensure that the revenues received from the transactions (sales) and use tax
imposed pursuant to the provision of this Chapter add to, and do not substitute
for, the existing level of general fund support for such services.

C.	In order to preserve the integrity and independence of the oversight
process, committee members will not play a formal role in contracting, project
management, construction, or any other aspect of the public safety funding. In
addition, the committee is not charged with decision-making on spending
priorities, construction schedules, project details, funding source decisions (e.g.
leveraged funds, developer fees, etc.), financing plans, tax rate assumptions, or
selection of consultants, design and construction firms.

Ventura County-9210

56-P

56P

SECTION 2. SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.

SECTION 3. ELECTION REQUIRED.

This ordinance shall not become effective unless and until at least a two-thirds
majority of the electors voting on this measure vote to approve this ordinance
during the Special Municipal Election to be held on November 7,2006.

SECTION 4. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or
against any office of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection
under this Chapter, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Ventura County-9210

56-Q

56Q

POLICE DEPARTMENT EXPENDITURE PLAN

FY06-07

OPERATING COSTS		NOTES
Add 6 Police Officers	192,320	1/4 year for March 2007 hiring
Add Corporal position	40,088	1/4 year for March 2007 hiring
Add Sergeant Position	45,194	1/4 year for March 2007 hiring
Add 3 B&W vehicles for Patrol	159,000	$28K +25K equipment
Add ISF charges for vehicle	11,496	ISFVeh. Costs ($15,332 ea.;  3 mo.)
Add equipment and supplies	108,000	Equipment for
for personnel	556,097	personnel.($12,000 each)
Add Youth Programs	150,000	
Reserve for Facilities Replacement and Upgrades	583,903	

1,290,000 Assumes approx. 6 mo. of
_______________________________ receipts

FY07-08

OPERATING COSTS

Continued cost for initial	1,288,162	(06-07 costs plus COLA 4%)
positions		
ISF charges for 3 Vehicles	47,836	ISFVeh. Costs ($15,332 ea.+4%.)
Add 6 Police Officers	400,050	1/2 year for January 2008 hiring
Add 3 B&W vehicles for	159,000	$28K +25K equipment
Patrol		
Add ISF charges for 3 new	47,823	ISF Veh. Costs ($15,332 ea
vehicles		+ 4%.)
Add equipment and supplies	122,500	Equipment for
for personnel	2,065,371	personnel.($12,500 each)
Add Youth Programs	250,000	
Reserve for Facilities	342,029	
Replacement and Upgrades		
	2,657,400	Assumes 3% increase in

receipts

56-RE

56RE

FY08-09_______________________

OPERATING COSTS

12 Police Officers
1 Corporal
1 Sergeant
Maintenance charges for 6
vehicles

1,680,210

175,103

197,406

99,503

2,152,223

Add Youth Programs	275,000

Reserve for Facilities	309,899

Replacement and Upgrades ___________________

2,737,122

F Y 09-10

I OPERATING COSTS

Continued cost for safety	1,764,221

positions

Maintenance charges for 6	104,478

vehicles

Add Youth Programs	300,000

Reserve Equipment	650,537

Replacement _______________

2,819,236

Reserve Balances

Facilities Replacement and	1,235,831

Upgrades

Equipment Replacement	650,537

Fund

56-S E

(07-08 costs plus 5% COLA)
(07-08 costs plus 5% COLA)
(07-08 costs plus 5% COLA)
ISF Veh. Costs ($15,946 ea
+ 5%.)

Assumes 3% increase in
receipts

NOTES
(08-09 costs plus 5% COLA)

(08-09 costs plus 5% COLA)

Assumes 3% increase in
receipts

56SE

EXHIBIT A

PUBLIC SAFETY MEASURE

Fire Department
Expenditure Plan

FY06-07

I	OPERATING	COSTS	I

Add IT Support Position

Add Analyst

Add Captain position

Add vehicle for Training Captain

Add ISF charges for vehicle

Add equipment and supplies

	NOTES
16,750	1/4 year for hiring
21,000	1/4 year for hiring
36,000	1/4 year for hiring
50,000	Equipped Tahoe
-	Maintenance and Replacement costs
40,500	Office equipment, furniture, computers, etc.

164,250

Facilities Replacement & Upgrades	695,750

860,000

FY07-08________________

OPERATING COSTS

Continued cost for new support positions
ISF charges for Vehicle

Add 3 Firefighter/Paramedic Positions
Add Equipment for new safety positions

309,750	(06-07 costs plus COLA 5%)

16.000	Maintenance and Replacement costs

168,778 Feb.'07 hire date

24.000
518,528

1,253,072

1,771,600 Assumes 3% increase in receipts

Facilities Replacement & Upgrades

56TE

EXHIBIT A

PUBLIC SAFETY MEASURE

Fire Department
Expenditure Plan

FY08-09

747,182

16,000

OPERATING COSTS

Continued cost for new positions
ISF charges for Vehicle

NOTES

(07-08 costs plus 5% COLA)
Maintenance and Replacement costs

763,182

Facilities Replacement & Upgrades	1,061,568

1,824,750 Assumes 3% increase in receipts

FY09-10

I OPERATING COSTS	|

Continued cost for positions ISF charges for Vehicle	784,541  16,000	(08-09 costs plus 5% COLA)
Add 3 Fire Engineer positions  Add 3 Captain Positions  Add Equipment for new safety positions	354.000  405.000 48,000	FY06-07 costs plus 25% (3/4 yr.)
	1,607,541	
Facilities Replacement & Upgrades	271,959	
	1,879,500	Assumes 3% increase in receipts

Total Facilities Replacement &Upgrades

3,282,349

56UE