MEASURES SUBMITTED TO
THE VOTERS

MEDIDAS SOMETIDASA LOS
VOTANTES

CITY OF BIG BEAR LAKE

CIUDAD DE BIG BEAR LAKE

Gbig bear lake

RESIDENTIAL ROAD AND
POTHOLE REPAIR AND
MAINTENANCE; ROAD SAFETY;
DRAINAGE SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT
AND FLOOD PREVENTION ACT.

Solely to repair/maintain residential
roads; fix potholes to improve
neighborhood traffic conditions and road
safety; and to improve the drainage
system to prevent flooding and damage,
shall the sales tax be increased by one-
half cent automatically expiring in 10
years; with funds deposited into a
restricted account guaranteeing future
administrations cannot use the money
for other purposes; requiring annual
financial audits; overseen by an
independent citizen’s oversight
committee; and no money for
administrative overhead?

LEY DE CARRETERA RESIDENCIAL Y
REPARACION Y MANTENIMIENTO DE
BACHES DE BIG BEAR LAKE;

SEGURIDAD DE CARRETERA; MEJORA
AL SISTEMA DE DRENAJE YPREVENCION
DE INUNDACION. Unicamente para
reparar/mantener las carreteras residenciales;
arreglar baches para mejorar las condiciones
de trafico y seguridad de carreteras en el
vecindario; y para mejorar el sistema de
drenaje a fin de prevenir inunda clones y
dahos, ideberia aumentarse el impuesto de
venta por la mitad del uno por ciento
caducando automaticamente en 10 ahos; con
fondos depositados a una cuenta restringida
que garantice que las futuras
administraciones no puedan utilizar el dinero
para otros propositos; requiriendo auditorias
financieras anuales; supervisado por un
comite independiente de ciudadanos para
vigilancia; y ningun dinero para gastos fijos
administrativos?

YES /SI+ M

N0/A/0<- M

Ballot Type 16 Page 4

N SB 016-006

MEASURE“G”

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Measure G proposes to raise revenue for the specific purpose of street, road,
and drainage rehabilitation and improvement by authorizing a one-half of one percent
(0.50%) supplementation to the existing retail sales tax within the City of Big Bear
Lake. The tax would be paid in addition to current State and local sales taxes and
would be collected at the same time and in the same manner as the existing sales
taxes.

The City Council currently appropriates approximately one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) annually for street, road, and drainage rehabilitation and
improvement. This amount has been deemed by the City Council to be insufficient to
cover all costs associated with rehabilitating and improving the City’s streets, roads
and drainage system. The City Council, with input from the public, proposed a retail
sales tax measure to create sufficient additional funding. The City estimates that this
measure will create approximately nine hundred thousand dollars ($900,000.00) in
additional revenue.

If Measure G is approved, all funds from the Measure will be deposited into a
restricted account which can only be used for street, road, and drainage rehabilitation
and improvement. Additionally, if Measure G is approved, the City Council shall
provide for a Citizens Oversight Committee. The Citizens Oversight Committee is
charged with reviewing the annual financial audit and expenditures of funds collected
through Measure G, determining whether funds are spent in accordance with the
Street, Road and Drainage Rehabilitation and Improvement Expenditure Plan, and
annually issuing public reports on their findings.

All funds collected through Measure G shall only be administered by the State
Board of Equalization. Measure G shall remain in effect for a period of ten (10) years
beginning at the commencement of collection of this tax by the State Board of
Equalization, and then shall automatically terminate unless earlier repealed by the
Voters or by the automatic termination of the measure shown below.

Automatic termination will occur if the City Council fails to continue to
annually spend at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) of general funds and other
available City funds, separate and apart from the funds collected as a result of the
sales tax increase, towards street, road, and drainage rehabilitation and improvement
projects. If the City fails to annually spend this amount, the Citizens Oversight
Committee will advise the City to immediately notify the State Board of Equalization, in
writing, that this tax shall be terminated.

The City Council of the City of Big Bear Lake adopted a resolution on
February 27, 2006, calling this election and submitting this Measure to a vote of the
electors of the City. A “Yes” vote by a two-thirds majority voting on Measure G is a
vote to approve and allow the City to supplement the current retail sales tax by one-
half of one percent (0.50%). A “No” vote on Measure G would maintain the sales tax
at its current rate of seven percent and three quarters of one percent (7.75%).

s/Stephen P. Deitsch, City Attorney
City of Big Bear Lake

N SB 016-012

MEASURE“G”
BALLOT TEXT

MEASURE: APPROVAL OF A SPECIAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX FOR THE BIG BEAR LAKE RESIDENTIAL ROAD AND POTHOLE REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE; ROAD SAFETY; DRAINAGE SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT AND FLOOD PREVENTION ACT AT THE RATE OF ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT OF THE RETAIL SALES PRICE, WHICH SHALL BE ADMINISTERED BY THE CALIFORNIA STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.		
BIG BEAR LAKE RESIDENTIAL ROAD AND POTHOLE REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE; ROAD SAFETY; DRAINAGE SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT AND FLOOD PREVENTION ACT.  Solely to repair/maintain residential roads; fix potholes to improve neighborhood traffic conditions and road safety; and to improve the drainage system to prevent flooding and damage, shall the sales tax be increased by one-half cent automatically expiring in 10 years; with funds deposited into a restricted account guaranteeing future administrations cannot use the money for other purposes; requiring annual financial audits; overseen by an independent citizen’s oversight committee; and no money for administrative overhead?	YES	
	NO	

PR-8007-2

N SB 016-013

MEASURE“G”
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Our pothole-ridden residential roads are in serious need of repair. Sixty-seven miles, or
80%, of Big Bear Lake’s streets and roads are old and have been damaged over the years
by flooding and storms. Last year’s heavy storms overwhelmed our outdated drainage
system, causing nearly $2.5 million in flood damage.

Repair Big Bear Lake’s crumbling roads, fix potholes, and improve drainage—vote YES on
G.

YES on G specifies that funds be placed in a special restricted account for roads and
drainage—guaranteeing future City Councils and management cannot use the money for
any other purpose.

YES on G ensures strong fiscal accountability, through published annual, independent
financial audits, the fiscal oversight of an independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee, and
specifying no money go toward administrative overhead.

YES on G guarantees that Measure G funds are in addition to the $1 million the City
dedicates annually to roads and drainage.

YES on G repairs our roads and fixes potholes to make our streets safer for residents,
visitors, and pedestrians.

YES on G improves the drainage system to help prevent flooding that damages homes and
businesses—saving millions of dollars in damage expenses.

YES on G increases the City’s ability to respond quickly to a natural disaster, like an
earthquake, fire or flooding.

YES on G provides safe, maintained roads to enhance the City’s business community and
protect property values.

YES on G requires second homeowners, day and overnight visitors to pay their fair share
for improving our roads and drainage. Big Bear Lake residents only pay approximately 18%
of the money raised through Measure G.

Vote YES on G — it will never be any less expensive to repair our roads. If we pass
Measure G, Big Bear Mountain Ski Resorts will contribute an additional $1 million over the
next ten years toward road and drainage needs.

s/Ron Peavy
President, Hospital District
s/Jerri Boone
Executive Director Big Bear Chamber of Commerce
s/Paula Fashempour
Local Merchant, 32 year Resident
s/Dr. Al Waner
Retired, 44 year Resident
s/Loren H. Trautloff
Local Merchant 27 yrs Resident

N SB 016-014

MEASURE“G”

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

The undersigned proponents or authors of the Rebuttal To Arguments in Favor
of Ballot Measure G at the Special Election for the City of Big Bear Lake to be
held on June 6, 2006, hereby state that such argument is true and correct to the
best of their knowledge and belief.

Arguments Against Measure G:

Vote NO on Proposition G. It’s NOT Fair because it’s INEQUITABLE.

Even if we assume for the moment that everything the “Yes on G” proponents say is
reasonably correct and Measure G passes....

.there still won’t be any sales tax applied to ski tickets and

.lodging guests will still be paying a TOT (Bed) tax which is at least
50% lower than the prevailing rates in most other resort communities

and OUR Sales Tax will be raised to 8.25% on all taxable transactions in the City,
and we’ll be taxed at the same level as the residents of the City of Los Angeles.

If a tax is applied to ski tickets (for example only 2% ) or there is an increase of just 4%
in the TOT, sufficient revenues will be raised to do the work presumably covered by
Measure G WITHOUT raising the sales tax on residents.

Why isn’t a ski ticket tax and/or lodging increase on the Ballot? Because BOTH
WOULD PASS.

Send the message to the City Council that you demand FAIRNESS by Voting NO on G

s/Tim Breunig
s/Harold F. Schoettger

PR-8007-4

N SB 016-015

MEASURE“G”
ARGUMENT AGAINST

The undersigned proponents or authors of the primary argument against
ballot proposition City of Big Bear Lake Resolution No. 2006-05 (06/10) at the General
Electrion for the City of Big Bear Lake, County of San Bernardino, State of California to
be held on June 6, 2006, hereby state that the argument is true and correct to the best
of their knowledge and belief:

Vote No on Proposed Sales Tax Increase - -

Everyone favors improving our streets. They’ve been neglected for far too long by a
city government more interested in pet projects funded by our taxes than correcting the
deplorable condition of our streets.

The proposed Sales Tax increase is, however, unfair because it’s inequitable. It’s
being advertised as a little V2% increase. What it is is an increase to 8.25%. That’s the
sales tax collected in Los Angeles - a city somewhat lager than ours!

The Recreational Day Visitors and those in the Recreation and Entertainment
businesses actually gain if only the Sales Tax is raised and, once again, the residents
will be made to bear a disproportionate share of the cost of government.

Currently, Sales Taxes are not collected on ski tickets or other recreational activities.
These visitors use our roads and other city services already paid for by residents. A
tax of just 2% would raise sufficient monies to repair the streets.

Another area of tax inequity: The TOT (Transient Occupancy “Bed” Tax) is now 6%.
Most California resort communities charge between 10% and 15%! The increase of
from 6% to 10% would raise sufficient revenues to repair the streets all by itself.

There are yet other alternatives. Vote NO and let’s send a signal that we, the residents
of Big Bear Lake, demand that the city’s taxation policies become more equitable and
fair.

Additional information is also available on Internet Website www.mvbbl.info regarding
this matter.

s/T. Breunig
s/Harold F. Schoettger

PR-8007-5

N SB 016-016

MEASURE“G”

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST

The argument against Measure G is false and misleading. Don’t be fooled.

Measure G is the FAIREST way to repair our residential roads and keep them safe.

Measure G allows EVERYONE who uses our residential roads to share the costs
fairly—including day visitors, overnighters, businesses, second homeowners, residents
and non-residents. It is not fair to target just one industry, like lodging or recreation,
when everyone uses our residential roads.

FACT: Big Bear Lake residents only pay about 18% of total monies raised—day
visitors, overnighters, second homeowners and non-residents pay approximately 82%.

FACT: Local ski resorts will contribute an additional $1.000,000 in matching funds
during the next decade towards better roads/drainage—that is 10% of the new monies
generated.

FACT: Measure G was developed following months of planning by Big Bear Lake
community members, civic leaders, the City, and road safety experts. 500+ residents
participated, to identify priorities. Measure G addresses our community’s priorities:
repairing roads, potholes and drainage.

FACT: By law, Measure G funds can only be used for roads and drainage. This
restriction also applies to future City Councils. ALL funds must be deposited into a
special, restricted Road-Drainage Fund.

FACT: Measure G requires strong fiscal accountability. Annual independent audits
must be published and reviewed by an Independent Citizens’ Oversight Committee.

If we wait to fix our roads, repairs will only become more expensive.

That’s why Big Bear Lake residents, firefighters, retirees, local merchants, educators,
businesses and healthcare leaders endorse Measure G.

For Good Roads and Safety, vote YES on G!

s/Mark L. Petersen
President Big Bear Lake Professional Firefighters Association
sA/aino Hoffren
Village Business Owner, 35 Year Resident
s/Paddy Speyers
President Emeritus, Friends of the Moonridge Zoo
s/Richard A. Lambert
Chairman, Committee for Yes on G
s/Frank E. Murray, M.D.

Past President, B.V.C. Healthcare District Foundation

N SB 016-017

ORDINANCE NO. 2006-361

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BIG BEAR LAKE, COUNTY OF
SAN BERNARDINO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, AMENDING THE CITY
OF BIG BEAR LAKE MUNICIPAL CODE, TITLE 3 WITH THE
ADDITION OF CHAPTER 3.17 RELATING TO THE ESTABLISHMENT
OF A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR STREET, ROAD, AND
DRAINAGE REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BIG BEAR LAKE DOES ORDAIN AS
FOLLOWS:

Section I:	Title	3	of	the	Big	Bear	Lake	Municipal	Code	is	hereby	amended	by	the

addition of Chapter 3.17 and shall read as follows:

3.17.010 Short Title.

This Chapter shall be known as the “City of Big Bear Lake Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance,
and shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City of Big Bear Lake (“City”). This
Chapter shall complement, and not replace or supercede, the City’s existing sales and use~tax,nas"
such tax is described in Chapter 3.16 of the Municipal Code.	,

3.17.020 Purpose.

This Chapter of the Big Bear Lake Municipal Code has been adopted for the following purposes,
and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax Chapter which
shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Chapter that incorporates provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Chapter that imposes a tax and provides a measure
therefore that can he administered and collected by the State Board, of Equalization in a manner
that adapts itself as fully as practical to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the
. existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Transactions and Use Taxes;

Page' 2	.

Ordinance No. 2006-361

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Chapter that can be administered in a manner that
will, to the degree possible, be consistent with the provisions of Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2
of the said Revenue and Taxation Code, and thereby minimize the cost of collecting City
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subj ect to taxation under the provisions thereof.

E.	To provide a source of revenue for maintaining the City's roads, streets and drainage in good
repair and to fund street and road rehabilitation and improvement projects within the City. The
revenue generated by the tax provided for herein shall be restricted to those uses. The tax is,
therefore, a special tax.

3.17.030 Operative Date.

"Operative date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days
after the adoption of this Chapter, the date of such adoption being set forth below.

3.17.040 Contract with State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform
all functions incident to the administration and operation hereof. If the City has not contracted with
the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the
execution of such a contract. The Council may make any technical amendments to this Chapter
required by the State Board of Equalization, except for any changes affecting the tax rate, its
manner of collection, or the purpose for which the revenue from the tax may be used.

3.17.050 Imposition of Transactions Tax.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated territory, of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of
any gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the Operative Date of this Chapter.

3.17.060 Presumption as to Places of Sale.

For the purposes of this Chapter, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer, unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-
of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the State
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places
at which, the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the Board of Equalization.

Page 3

Ordinance No. 2006-361

3.17.070 Imposition of Use Tax.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use, or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on or after the operative date of this Chapter, at the
rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price, of the property subject to the tax. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to State transactions or use
tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

13.17.080 Adoption of Certain Sections of California Revenue & Taxation Code by
Reference.

Except as otherwise provided in the Chapter and except in-so-far as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with § 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
are hereby adopted and made a part of this Chapter as though fully set forth herein.

Section 13.17.090 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2. of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
this City shall be substituted therefor. . However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word ’’State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of
the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or

any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Chapter.	'

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be
to:

a. Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property wMch would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

Page 4

Ordinance No. 2006-361

b. Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the
said provision of that code. ■	.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or
6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

,5. The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged
in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

13.17.100 Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation .
Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this Chapter.

13.17.110 Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions and use tax the amount of any
■sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county
pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-admiiiistered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the sale is made
and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the. authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City,
pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by
delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration
under penalty of peijury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or

Page 5

Ordinance No. 2006-361

her principal place of residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-
City and declaration under penalty of peijury, signed by die buyer, that the vehicle will
be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for
a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this Chapter.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any
period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
the lease prior to the Operative Date of this Chapter .

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Chapter, the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under
any state-administered transactions and use tax regulations.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common

- carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or
any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this Chapter.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal
property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period
of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease
prior to the Operative Date of this Chapter.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period
of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

Page 6

Ordinance No. 2006-361

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall
not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the
order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through
any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the
authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of the
following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section

* 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to
collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at
an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Chapter may credit against that tax any transactions
tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which
is subject to the use tax.

13.17.120 Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Chapter to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and'which are not inconsistent with Part
1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of
this Chapter, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this Chapter. Except as provided above and in Section 13.17.160, this Chapter may be
amended only by the voters pursuant to the provisions of Elections Code section 9217 and as
provided by law.

13.17.130 Enjoining Collection Prohibited.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action,
or proceeding in any court against the State or this City, or against any officer of the State or this
City, to prevent or enjoin the collection hereunder, or Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Page 7

Ordinance No. 2006-361

13.17.140 Citizens’ Oversight Committee.

The City Council shall create a Road Rehabilitation Citizens’ Oversight Committee, which shall
consist of that certain number of persons, established by and who shall be appointed by the City
Council. The Citizens’ Oversight Committee, shall have the power to review the annual
expenditures from the tax collected, review the annual audit, and make a report to the Council
regarding the findings of their review.

13.17.150 Termination.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Chapter shall remain in effect for a period of ten (10)
years, beginning at the commencement of collection of this tax by the State Board of Equalization,
or until repealed by the Voters or by an automatic repeal pursuant to Section 13.17.160.

13.17.160 Automatic Early Termination.

Following adoption of this Chapter, the City Council shall continue to spend from its general fund
or other available City funds at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) annually for road
rehabilitation and improvement projects. .General funds shall be calculated separately and apart
from the special funds generated by the tax hereunder. In the event that the City fails to spend the
minimum amount of general fund dollars required under this section, the City shall immediately
notify the State Board of Equalization in writing that this tax shall be terminated. The operative
date of such termination shall be the first (1st) day of the first (1st) calendar quarter commencing
more than one hundred and ten (110) days after the Board of Equalization receives such notice of
termination.

Section II; Severability. If any provision of this Chapter or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of the Chapter which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions of this Chapter are severable. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have adopted this Chapter irrespective of the invalidity of any particular
portion thereof. .

Section III:	Effective	Date.	After	its	adoption	by	the voters, this Chapter shall be

in full force and effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by the legislative body, pursuant to
the provisions of Elections Code sections 9217 and 15400, and as provided by law.

Section IV:	Publication.	The City Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this

Chapter and cause it, or a summary of it, to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation
printed and published within the City of Big Bear Lake.

Page 8

Ordinance No. 2006-361

PASSED, APPROVE!), AND ADOPTED this 27th day of February, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

February 27,2006
Date

ATTEST:

Conklin, Harris, Jahn, Mulvihill
Dally

None

None



tjUAtr*.

Katliexine E. Jefferies, C
City Clerk

Best Best & Krieger LLP
City Attorneys

Page 9

Ordinance No. 2006-361

STATE OP CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF SAN BERNARDINO ) ss
CITY OF BIG BEAR. LAKE	)

I, Katherine E. Jefferies, City Clerk of the City of Big Bear Lake do hereby certify that the whole
number of members of the City Council of said City is five; that the foregoing ordinance, being
Ordinance No. 2006-361 is a full,, true and correct original of Ordinance No. 2006-361 of the said
City of Big Bear Lake, California, entitled:

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF BIG BEAR LAKE, COUNTY OF
SAN BERNARDINO, STATE OF CALIFORNIA, AMENDING THE
CITY OF BIG BEAR LAKE MUNICIPAL CODE, TITLE 3 WITH THE :
ADDITION OF CHAPTER 3.17 RELATING TO I HE ESTABLISHMENT ■

A OF A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR STREET, ROAD, AND ■
DRAINAGE REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT TO BE ,
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

was duly passed and adopted bythe saidGity: Cormcify approved and signed by the Mayor of said •
City, and attested by the City Clerk of said City, all at a regular meeting of the said Council on the
27th day of February, 2006, and that the same was so passed and adopted by the following vote:

AYES:	Conklin,	Harris,	Jahn, Mulvihill

NOES:	Dally

ABSENT:	1	None

ABSTAIN:	None

I do hereby further certify that pursuant to the provisions of Section 36933 of the Government Code
of the State of California, that the foregoing Ordinance No. 2006-361 was duly and regularly
published according to law and the order of the City Council and circulated within said City.

City Clerk