<resolution> BEFORE THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

COUNTY OF KERN, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

In the matter of:

Resolution No. 2006-255

Reference No.

CALLING FOR A COUNTYWIDE ELECTION
FOR THE PURPOSE OF SUBMITTING TO THE
VOTERS THE PROPOSED KERN TRANSPORTATION
AUTHORITY ORDINANCE FOR A % CENT RETAIL
TRANSACTION AND USE TAX FOR TRANSPORTATION
PURPOSES

I, DENISE PENNELL, Clerk of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Kern, State of

California, hereby certify that the following resolution, on motion of Supervisor RUBIO____________(

seconded by Supervisor-------WATSON------------------was	duly and regularly adopted by the Board of

Supervisors of the County of Kern at an official meeting thereof on the 11TH day of

JULY

2006, by the following vote and that a copy of the resolution has been delivered to the

Chairman of the Board of Supervisors.

AYES: MGquiston, maben, Patrick, watson, rubio

NOES: N0NE

ABSENT: none

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors
County of Kern, State of California

Deputy Clerk

DENISE PENNELL

RESOLUTION

Section 1. WHEREAS:

RESOLUTION NO. 2006-255

(a)	Chapter 5 of Division 19 of the California Public Utilities Code
authorizes a local transportation authority to impose a retail transaction and use tax
applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated areas of a county upon approval by a
two-thirds vote of the authority and subsequent approval by two-thirds of the voters voting
on the measure; and

(b)	Local governments have identified $3.5 billion in unmet transportation
needs within Kern County; and

(c)	On June 15, 2006, the Kern Council of Governments (Kern COG), as
the local transportation authority, approved a proposed ordinance and expenditure plan to
increase the sales and use tax by Vz cent for transportation purposes; and

(d)	Kern COG has requested that this measure be placed on the general
election ballot for November 7, 2006; and

(e)	Public Resources Code section 180201 requires this Board to call for
an election on such a measure when requested by the local transportation authority;

Section 2. NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT HEREBY RESOLVED by the Board of
Supervisors of the County of Kern, State of California, as follows:

1.	The Kern Transportation Authority retail transactions and use tax
ordinance, attached hereto as Exhibit “A,” shall be submitted to a countywide vote of
the electorate.

2.	Said election shall be held on Tuesday, November 7, 2006, and
shall be consolidated with the statewide election and any other elections to be held on
said date, pursuant to the provisions of Elections Code section 10401.

3.	At said election, the proposition to be voted upon shall appear upon
the ballot substantially as follows:

To relieve congestion, improve traffic safety, and match federal and state
transportation funding for (1) widening/improving State Routes 14, 46, 58,

99, 178, 202, 223 and 395; (2) fixing potholes, maintaining local roads and
synchronizing signals, (3) improving high accident locations and routes to
schools, (4) and improving senior/disabled transit; shall Ordinance 06-01
authorizing a half-cent retail sales tax for twenty years be approved, including an

Independent Taxpayers Oversight Committee to ensure voter mandates are ^
met?	-no

4.	Pursuant to this Board’s order for consolidation, the Auditor-
Controller-County Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to implement said order for

2

consolidation in the territory of Kern County as provided in Elections Code section
10400-10418, inclusive, and perform such duties in the exercise of such power and
authority as may be available and appropriate.

5.	The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors shall send copies of this
Resolution to:

(a)	County Counsel

(b)	County Administrative Office

(c)	Auditor-Controller-County Clerk

(d)	Kern Council of Governments

<resolutions>






<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
KERN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
1/2 CENT SALES TAX ORDINANCE MEASURE I

A “Yes” vote by at least two-thirds of the voters voting on this measure will ap-
prove an ordinance (“Ordinance”) authorizing the Kern Transportation Authority
(“Authority”) to impose a retail sales and use tax, at the rate of one-half of one percent (.5%), for a period of twenty years (20) beginning on April 1,2007. The retail
sales tax, which amounts to a 1/2 cent tax on each dollar spent and subject to the
tax, shall be imposed throughout Kern County, in both the incorporated and unin-
corporated territory.

The sales tax revenue may only be used for transportation planning, design, con-
struction, operation and maintenance in Kern County and cannot be used for
other governmental purposes or programs. The sales tax revenue shall be spent
in accordance with the Ordinance and Expenditure Plan, a copy of which is
printed in the sample ballot. That Expenditure Plan provides that revenues gener-
ated in each specified subarea will be expended on projects of direct benefit to
that subarea. Revenue identified for use in a subarea may only be expended out-
side of that subarea upon approval of at least two-thirds of the jurisdictions within
the affected subarea.

The Authority shall have the authority to issue bonds, secured by the estimated
revenue from the sales tax, to be used for capital outlay expenditures as autho-
rized by the Ordinance and Expenditure Plan.

Local government agencies are required to maintain their existing commitment of
transportation funds for street, highway and public transit purposes meaning that
the sales tax revenue generated will provide additional revenue for the projects
listed in the Expenditure Plan. That Plan may only be amended to provide for the
use of additional federal, state, and local funds, to account for unexpected reve-
nue or to take into consideration unforeseen circumstances. Any amendment of
the Expenditure Plan must be approved by the Board of Supervisors and the ma-
jority of the cities constituting a majority of the population in the incorporated areas of the County.

In event the State of California attempts to divert revenue from the sales tax,
the Ordinance provides that the tax will be terminated. In addition to annual finan-
cial audits, an independent taxpayers oversight committee will be established to
provide citizen review In order to ensure that all funds are properly spent. <impartialend>








<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE I
KERN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
1/2 CENT SALES TAX ORDINANCE

It s time to fix the traffic mess in Kern County. Measure I will improve traffic
safety, fix potholes, maintain our roadways and improve air quality every-
where in Kern County.	'try

Vote YES on Measure I to:

Fix potholes and maintain local streets and roads in every community.
Improve safety at high accident locations and along routes to schools.

Add new lanes and interchanges on Highways 99,43,223,14,178,46,58 and 202. 

Reduce congestion in urban and high-traffic areas. .

Improve air quality by reducing transportation-generated pollution.

Enhance transit services, especially for seniors and disabled citizens.

Vote YES to provide local matching funds so Kern County can qualify for
hundreds of millions of dollars in state and federal transportation funding.

Without Measure I Kern County will not be able to compete with other counties
that already provide a local match. And state and federal funds by themselves are
insufficient; we must have a dedicated local source to finance transportation im-
provements.

Vote YES to improve response times for firefighters, police and ambulances.
Measure I safeguards your tax dollars:

Funds can be spent only in Kern County for transportation projects.

An Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee will conduct annual audits and
ensure that all voter mandates are met.

The plan can be modified only by the voters.

Administrative costs are capped at 1% of all Measure I funds.

Measure I guarantees transportation dollars raised in Kern County will stay
in Kern County to fix unsafe roads, build new lanes and interchanges and fight
traffic congestion.

Kern County residents have waited long enough for better roads and traffic relief.
The Automobile Club of Southern California (AAA), agricultural interests, cham-
bers of commerce, taxpayer organizations, community groups and thousands of
your neighbors agree: Vote YES on Measure I.

To learn about Measure I improvements in your area visit
www.SaferRoadsSaveLives.com. Vote YES on Measure I. <favorend>






<favorsigs> 
s/Thomas V. McKernan, President & CEO, Automobile Club of Southern
California (AAA)

s/Derek Robinson, Kern County Firefighter
s/Rayburn S. Dezember, Community Leader and Businessman
s/Sandra V. Serrano, Chancellor, Kern Community College District
s/Stuart O. Witt <favorsigsend> 








<full>BALLOT MEASURE I
ORDINANCE NO. 06-01
KERN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY TRANSPORTATION EXPENDITURE PLAN
AND RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

PREAMBLE

The transportation system in Kern County is rapidly deteriorating and our population and economy are growing at a fast pace. Maintenance and
repairs of existing roadways, improvements to relieve congestion and enhance roadway safety cannot be accomplished with available funds. Without additional
funds, the system will bog down and pavement will crumble into a state of permanent disrepair. State highway funds are inadequate and competition for funds is
increasing. Projects in areas where local sales tax funds are available have been, and will continue to be, viewed more favorably in the selection process of the
California Transportation Commission. Local governments must either generate revenue to expand local systems and maintain local investments or watch the
systems collapse and endanger the health, welfare and safety of all Kern County residents.

The one-half of one percent retail transactions and use tax is statutorily dedicated for transportation planning, design, construction, operation and
maintenance only in Kern County and cannot be used for other governmental purposes or programs. Specific safeguards in this Ordinance ensure that funding
from the Measure I one-half of one percent transactions and use tax is used in accordance with the specified voter-approved transportation project
improvements and programs. These safeguards include:

The specific projects and programs included in the Expenditure Plan will be funded by revenue raised by this transactions and use tax The Expenditure
Plan for Measure T funds may only be amended, if required, pursuant to California Public Utilities Code Section 180207, and upon approval of the Kern
County Board of Supervisors and the city councils representing a majority of the cities in the county and a majority of population residing in cities located in

An independent Taxpayers Oversight Committee is created to provide for citizen review to ensure that all Measure "I" funds are spent in accordance with
provisions of the Expenditure Plan and Ordinance.

The one-half of one percent transactions and use tax is for transportation programs only and is not intended to replace traditional transportation revenues
generated through locally-adopted development fees and assessment districts.

The Kern Transportation Authority and the Kern Council of Governments will continue to seek maximum funding for transportation improvements through
state and federal programs. The Kern Transportation Authority will not provide transactions and use tax revenue to any city or to the county unless all
transportation revenues currently used by that agency continue to be used for transportation purposes.

The Kern Transportation Authority ordains as follows:

SECTION I. SUMMARY. This Ordinance provides for the imposition of a retail transactions and use tax of one-half of one percent for local transportation
purposes for a period of no more than twenty (20) years, the authority to issue limited tax bonds secured by such taxes, the administration of the tax proceeds
and a county transportation expenditure plan.

SECTION II. MANDATED TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS.

A- Independent Taxpayers Oversight Committee. Beginning on April 1, 2007, an Independent Taxpayers Oversight Committee will be established as
specified in Exhibit B of this Ordinance to provide citizen review and to ensure that all Measure T funds are spent in accordance with provisions of the.*
Expenditure Plan and Ordinance. Exhibit B contains the specific terms and conditions for an Independent Taxpayers Oversight Committee and its conduct d
periodic independent financial audits.	*

Administrative Costs, The Kern Transportation Authority shall expend only that amount of funds generated from the tax that is necessary and
reasonable to carry out its responsibilities for auditing, administrative expenses, staff support, and contract services. In no case shall the funds expended for
salaries and benefits exceed one percent (1 %) of the annual net amount of revenue raised by the tax.

Maintenance of Effort. The Kern Transportation Authority, by the enactment of this Ordinance, intends the additional funds provided government
agencies by this measure to supplement existing local transportation revenues being used for street and highway purposes. Transactions and use tax revenue
snail not be used to replace existing local road funding programs or to replace requirements for new development to provide for its own road needs. Under this
Measure, funding priorities should be given to addressing current road needs, easing congestion, and improving roadway safety.

D Termination of Taxing Authority. The retail transactions and use tax authorized by this Ordinance shall terminate upon the earlier of twenty (20)
years or upon action by the State of California to divert the revenue from the special retail transactions and use tax authorized herein for purposes other than
those specified in this Ordinance.

SECTION III. DEFINITIONS. The following definitions shall apply in this Ordinance:

A.	“The Expenditure Plan means the Kern Transportation Authority Expenditure Plan (attached as Exhibit A and adopted as part of this Ordinance)
including any future amendments thereto.

B.	“County” means the County of Kern.

C.	Authority" means the Kern Transportation Authority. The Kern Council of Governments has been designated to serve as the Authority under the
provisions of the California Public Utilities Code Section 180050.

SECTION IV. AUTHORITY. This Ordinance is enacted, pursuant to the provisions of Division 19 (commencing with Section 180000) of the California Public
Utilities Code, and Section 7252.16 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code.

SECTION V. IMPOSITION OF RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX. Upon voter approval of Measure “I" the Kern Transportation Authority shall impose, in
the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of Kern, a transactions and use tax for transportation purposes (referred to as “the tax”) at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) for a period of twenty (20) years beginning April 1, 2007. The tax shall be imposed by the Authority in accordance with Section 180201 of the Public Utilities Code and Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. The provisions of Revenue
and Taxation Code Sections 7261 and 7262 are incorporated herein by reference as though fully set forth herein. This tax shall be in addition to any other taxes
authorized by law, including any existing or future state or local sales tax or transactions and use taxes.

SECTION VI: PURPOSES. Revenues from the tax shall be used for transportation purposes only and may include, but are not limited to, the administration of
this division, including legal actions related thereto and costs of the initial preparation and election, the construction, maintenance, improvements, and operation^
of local streets, roads, and highways, state highways and freeways, public transit systems capital and operations, and related purposes. These purposes includes
expenditures for planning, environmental reviews, engineering and design costs, and related right-of-way acquisition. Expenditures also include, but are not
limited to, debt service on bonds and expenses in connection with issuance of bonds.

SECTION VII. FAIR SHARE DISTRIBUTION. After deduction of required Board of Equalization fees and authorized administrative costs, revenues generated
from each specified subarea within Kern County as outlined in the Expenditure Plan will be apportioned to the designated subarea for expenditure on projects of direct benefit to that subarea. Revenues will be accounted for separately for each subarea and then allocated to specified project categories in each subarea.
The apportionment for each subarea shall be based on the 2007 California Department of Finance certified population for Kern County and the cities.

Decisions on how revenues are expended within the subarea will be made by the Authority Board of Directors, based upon recommendations of local representatives. Revenues identified for use in a subarea may be expended outside of that subarea only upon approval of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the
jurisdictions within the affected subarea.

SECTION VIII. DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUES. Revenue from Measure T shall be distributed as follows:

1.	Annually, revenues from Measure T shall be divided into the following funds.

Major Local Road Projects:	49.3	%

Local Road Reconstruction	37.7	%

Air Quality, Transit, Bicycle and Enhancement Program	13.0%

2.	Biennially the Major Local Road Projects funds shall be programmed into the Kern Council of Governments RTIP/FTIP for the construction of projects
identified in the Measure T Ordinance and Expenditure Plan.

3.	Annually the Local Road Reconstruction funds shall be reserved for each city and the county based on the jurisdictions certified population by the
California Department of Finance for each jurisdiction for that year as a percentage of the total certified population and the maintained public road
miles in each jurisdiction as identified in the latest annual Streets and Roads Annual Report issued by the Controller of the State of California. The
formula for determining each agencies annual allocation shall be based on 70% population and 30% road miles. Local Road Reconstruction funds
may be claimed by each city and the county on an annual basis.

4.	Annually, the Air Quality, Transit, Bicycle and Enhancement funds shall be reserved for each city and the county based on the certified population by
the California Department of Finance for each jurisdiction for that year. Air Quality, Transit, Bicycle and Enhancement funds may be claimed by each
city and the county on an annual basis.

SECTION IX. CONTRIBUTIONS FROM NEW DEVELOPMENT. No revenue generated from Measure “I” shall be used to replace the fair share contributions
required from new development.

SECTION X. ADMINISTRATION OF PLANS. The Authority shall impose and collect the tax, and shall administer the Expenditure Plan consistent with the
provisions and priorities of the Expenditure Plan and consistent with the authority cited herein.

SECTION XI. BONDING AUTHORITY. Upon voter approval of Measure “I", the Authority shall have the power to sell or issue, from time to time, on or before the
collection of taxes, bonds, or other evidence of indebtedness, including, but not limited to, capital appreciation bonds, in the aggregate principal amount at any
one time outstanding not to exceed the estimated proceeds of the tax, as determined by the Expenditure Plan, and to secure such indebtedness solely by way of
future collection of taxes, for capital outlay expenditures for the purposes set forth in Section V hereof, including the carrying out of transportation projects
% described in the Expenditure Plan.

SECTION XII. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. The annual appropriations limit has been established pursuant to Ordinance 88-01 pursuant to Section 4 of
Article XIIIB of California Constitution and Section 180202 of the Public Utilities Code. The appropriations limit has and shall be subject to adjustment as provided bylaw.

SECTION XIII. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES. Subject to voter approval, this Ordinance shall become operative on the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after adoption of this Ordinance. Prior to the operative date of this Ordinance, the Authority shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incidental to the administration and operation of this Ordinance.

SECTION XIV. ELECTION. The Authority requests the Board of Supervisors to call an election for voter approval of the attached proposition Measure T (Exhibit
C), which^shall be held on November 7, 2006, and consolidated with other elections to be held on that same date, that the measure retains its designation as
Measure “I,” and that it appear first in order on the local Kern County ballot before all other local measures. The election shall be called and conducted in the
same manner as provided by law for the conduct of elections by a county. The sample ballot to be mailed to the voters shall be the full proposition as set forth in
this Ordinance, and the voter information handbook shall include the entire Expenditure Plan. Approval of the attached proposition and the imposition of the tax
shall require the affirmative vote of 2/3rds of the electors voting on the attached proposition at the election described in this section.

SECTION XV. EXPENDITURE PLAN AMENDMENTS. The Expenditure Plan for Measure “I" funds may Only be amended, if required, as authorized by
California Public Utilities Code Section 180207, as amended. In addition to the requirements specified in California Public Utilities Code Section 180207, the
process for amendment of the Expenditure Plan shall include: (1) initiation of the amendment by the Authority reciting findings of necessity; (2) approval by the
Board of Supervisors; and, (3) approval by a majority of the cities constituting a majority of the incorporated population.

Commencing in 2010 and at least every five (5) years thereafter, the Authority shall review and, where necessary, propose revisions to the Expenditure Plan.
Such revisions shall be submitted for approval according to the procedures set forth in this section. Until approved, the then existing Expenditure Plan shall
remain in full force and effect.

SECTION XVI. SEVERABILITY. If any tax or provision of this Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, that
holding shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining taxes or provisions, or the existing tax, and the Authority declares that it would have passed
each part of this Ordinance irrespective of the validity of any other part.

15-43

Exhibit A
Transportation Expenditure Plan

GENERAL PROVISIONS

Revenue Estimates and Distribution. Allocation of revenue authorized by Ordinance No. 06-01 is established within this Expenditure Plan. Funds shall .b^
allocated by a percentage of the actual revenue received as specified in Section VIII of this Ordinance. An estimate of revenues and allocation among categories^
is reflected in Schedule A — Countywide Measure 1” Revenue Distribution. The estimated revenue is based upon -2006 value of money and is not binding or'
controlling.

Fair Share. After deduction of required Board of Equalization fees and authorized costs, revenues generated from each specified subarea within Kern County
will be expended on projects of direct benefit to that subarea. Revenues will be accounted for separately for each subarea and then allocated to specified project
categories as shown in Section VIII of this Ordinance. Decisions on how revenues are expended within each subarea will be made by the Kern Transportation
Authority Board of Directors, based upon recommendations of local representatives.

Maintenance of Effort. Local government agencies shall maintain their existing commitment of transportation funds for street highway and public transit
purposes, and the Authority shall enforce this provision by appropriate actions, including fiscal audits of the local agencies. The level of effort base amount for
each local agency shall be determined by averaging the amount of non-transportation funding expended on transportation projects and programs for fiscal years
2001-02 through 2005-06. The Maintenance of Effort base amounts shall annually increase based on the Caltrans construction cost index.

1.	if a jurisdiction fails to comply with the Maintenance of Effort requirements in a particular fiscal year, the local jurisdiction may expend during that fiscal
year and the following fiscal year, a total amount that is not less than the total amount required to be expended for those two years for purposes of
complying with its Maintenance of Effort requirements.

a.	At the end of the first fiscal year in which the local jurisdiction does not expend the amount required, the local jurisdiction shall have its Local
Roads Reconstruction funding reduced by the amount by which the jurisdiction has not met its required Maintenance of Effort.

b.	Provided the local jurisdiction has met the requirements of this subdivision to expend an amount in the two-year period sufficient to meet its
Maintenance of Effort obligation for such two-year period, the amount withheld shall be distributed to the local jurisdiction, without interest,
following the end of the next fiscal year. Such distribution shall be referred to as the “make-up payment.”

2.	Any local jurisdiction that fails to comply with its Maintenance of Effort requirement, using the two-year period, shall have its Local Roads
Reconstruction funding reduced by the aggregate amount by which the jurisdiction failed to meet its required Maintenance of Effort for such two-year
period.

a.	The amount of the second year distribution shall be adjusted as follows: (i) if the local jurisdiction’s second year Maintenance of Effort
expenditures are less than or equal to its required Maintenance for such year, the second years distribution shall be reduced by the amount, if
any, by which the second year Maintenance of Effort requirement exceeds the local jurisdiction actual expenditure; (ii) if the local jurisdiction’s
second year Maintenance of Effort expenditures are greater than its required Maintenance of Effort for such year, but less than an amount
which, together with its actual first year maintenance of Effort expenditure, would be equal to or greater than its two year Maintenance of Effort
requirement, the amount of the second year distribution shall be increased by the amount by which the local jurisdiction's actual second year
Maintenance of Effort expenditure exceeds its required Maintenance of Effort for such years.

b.	Any remaining undistributed funding shall revert to the Kern Transportation Authority for allocation to projects contained in the Expenditure Plan

which are not fully funded and which are of regional significance.	.	^

3.	Subarea Identification. The. Arvin-Lamont subarea will include the City of Arvin, and the unincorporated communities of Lamont and Weedpatch|
The Southeast Kern subarea will include the City of California City, and the unincorporated communities of Boron, Mojave, Fremont Valley and
Rosamond. The Frazier Pari< subarea will include the unincorporated communities of Frazier.Park, Pine Mountain Club, Lebec and Lake of the
Woods. The Indian Wells Valley subarea will include the City of Ridgecrest and the unincorporated communities of Inyokem, Johannesburg and
Randsburg. The Lake Isabella subarea will include the unincorporated communities of Onyx, Weldon, Mountain Mesa, Isabella, Wofford Heights,
Kernville, Glennville, Woody, and Havilah, The Metropolitan Bakersfield subarea shall include the City of Bakersfield and the unincorporated area
defined as the metropolitan planning area. The North Valley subarea shall include the Cities of Delano, McFarland, Wasco, arid Shaffer arid the
unincorporated areas of Buttonwillow, and Lost Hills. The Taft-Maricopa subarea will include the Cities of Taft and Maricopa and the unincorporated

„ communities of Ford City, South Taft, Dustin Acres, Valley Acres and McKittrick. The Tehachapi subarea will include the City of Tehachapi and the
unincorporated communities of Bear Valley Springs, Stallion Springs, Alpine Forest, Golden Hills and Paris-Loraine.

Requirement for Annual Financial and Compliance Audits of Measure “I” Funds. The Kern Transportation Authority and each agency receiving an
allocation of Measure T revenue authorized in this Expenditure Plan shall undergo an annual financial audit performed in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards and government auditing standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States. Compliance audits also shall be conducted to
ensure that each agency is expending funds in accordance with the provisions and guidelines established for Measure T revenue.

Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in the Kern Transportation Authority Expenditure Plan listed below:

Major Local Road Program: Major Local Road Program funds are to be used for construction of state highway or major local roads. Projects include construction
of new roads, widening of existing roads, new or modified interchanges, railroad grade separations, and new bridges.

Local Road Reconstruction: Funds shall be allocated to each city and the county for the reconstruction, maintenance and rehabilitation of local public streets and
roads. Reconstruction, maintenance and rehabilitation are defined as fixing potholes and the regular maintenance and reconstruction of existing streets and
roads, including the addition of shoulders to streets and roads that are receiving regular maintenance and rehabilitation. The State Gas Tax Expenditure
guidelines shall be used as the guide for determining the proper expenditure of funds. Measure “I” funds may not be used for the purchase of road
reconstruction, maintenance and rehabilitation equipment.

Air Quality: Air quality program funds are to be used for transportation related capital improvement projects. Eligible projects include, but are not limited to: traffic
management systems; traffic flow improvement projects (including intelligent transportation infrastructure), bus pullouts; purchasing alternative fuel public fleet
vehicles; and installing alternative fuel fueling stations.

Air quality program funds are also eligible for PM 10 strategies that include but not limited to; paving of unstable unpaved public roads and alleys, public unpaved
access points onto public paved roads, curbing, paving or stabilizing shoulders on public paved roads.

Transportation Enhancements Program Transportation enhancement funds are to be used for transportation related capital improvement projects that enhance
quality-of-life in and around transportation projects. Projects must be over and above required mitigation and normal transportation projects.

Eligible projects include, but are not limited to: pedestrian and bicycle facilities; landscaping and other scenic beautification, rehabilitation of historic
transportation facilities; preservation of abandoned railway corridors (including conversion to other transportation uses); and control and removal of outdoor
advertising.

Public Transit, Senior and Disabled Transit: Public transit, senior and disabled transit funds are to be used for transportation related operational and capital improvement projects for public, senior and disabled transportation. Eligible project eligibility includes, but  and disabled transPortation
- infrastructure projects to improve system operations.	

Page 15 missing……



Projects in the Metropolitan Bakersfield Subarea to be constructed include the Bakersfield Beltway System, Centennial Corridor Loop, State Route‘178 east of
Fairfax.Dr. and widening of existing State Route 178 to four lanes, Rosedale/2481 Street Corridor.

C.	Local Road Reconstruction. 39% of the revenues for the Metropolitan Bakersfield Subarea shall be distributed to the City of Bakersfield and the County oU

Kern. The funds are to be used for the reconstruction, maintenance and rehabilitation of city and county local roads.	

D.	Public Transportation. 9% of the revenues for the Metropolitan Bakersfield Subarea shall be used for projects that improve public transit as defined in the ~
General Provisions section above. 1 % of the revenue of the Metropolitan Bakersfield Subarea shall be used for projects that improve projects for senior disabled
transit as defined in the General Provisions section above.

E.	Transportation Enhancements. 1% of the revenues for the Metropolitan Bakersfield Subarea shall be used for construction of pedestrian and bicycle
facilities as defined in the General Provisions section above. For each five-year period, the City of Bakersfield and County of Kern shall develop a program of
eligible projects to be approved and funded by the Authority.

F.	Air Quality. 3% of the revenues for the Metropolitan Bakersfield Subarea shall be used for projects that improve the air quality as defined in the General
Provisions section above. For each five-year period the City of Bakersfield, County of Kern and Golden Empire Transit District shall develop a program of eligible
projects to be approved and funded by the Authority.

North Vallev Subarea Expenditure Plan. In the area described as the North Valley Subarea, the following Expenditure Plan shall apply. Schedule I illustrates
the estimated cost and projects to be constructed in the area.

A.	Revenue Estimates. Tax revenues generated by Ordinance 06-01 for the North Valley Subarea over a twenty-year period are estimated to be $157.4 million.

B.	Major Local Road Construction. 57% of the revenue for the North Valley Subarea shall be used to construct major local road projects. As determined by the
Kern Council of Governments, each of the projects listed herein will require additional funding from state and federal sources to complete. State Route 46 from
Interstate 5 to the San Luis Obispo County line shall be widened to four lanes. State Route 46 from State Route 99 to Wasco will be widened to four lanes. The
interchange at Woollomes Road and State Route 99 will be improved to handle the increased traffic. Santa Fe Way from Hageman Ave. to Los Angeles St. will
be widened to four lanes.

C.	Local Road Reconstruction. 31% of the revenues for the North Valley Subarea shall be distributed to the cities of Delano, McFarland, Wasco, Shatter and
the County of Kern to be used for the reconstruction, maintenance and rehabilitation of city and county local roads.

D.	Air Quality, Public Transportation, Transportation Enhancements. 12% of the revenues for the North Valley Subarea shall be used for projects that
improve the air quality, public transit, senior disabled transit or the construction of pedestrian and bicycle facilities as defined in the General Provisions section
above. For each five-year period, the cities of Delano, McFarland, Wasco, Shatter and County of Kern shall develop a program of eligible projects to be approved
and funded by the Authority.

Southeast Kern Subarea Expenditure Plan. In the area described as the Southeast Kern Subarea, the following Expenditure Plan shall apply. Schedule J
illustrates the estimated cost and projects to be constructed in the area.

A.	Revenue Estimates. Tax revenues generated by Ordinance 06-01 for the Southeast Kern Subarea over a twenty-year period are estimated to be $53.2
million.

B.	Major Local Road Construction. 56% of the revenue for the Southeast Kern Subarea shall be used to construct major local road projects. As determined by-
the Kern Council of Governments, each of the projects listed herein will require additional funding from state and federal sources to complete. Construct Twenty
Mule Team Road from the City of California City to State Route 58. Construct a new road form the North Gate of Edwards Air Force Base to the City of
California. Construct a grade separation on Rosamond Blvd. over the Union Pacific Railroad. In Mojave, construct a grade separation of the Trona Branch
Railroad connecting "K" Street to State Route 14.

C.	Local Road Reconstruction. 30% of the revenues for the Southeast Kern Subarea shall be distributed to the City of California City and the County of Kern to
be used for the reconstruction, maintenance and rehabilitation of city and county local roads.

D.	Air Quality, Public Transportation, Transportation Enhancements. 14% of the revenues for the Southeast Kern Subarea shall be used for projects that
improve the air quality, public transit, senior disabled transit or the construction of pedestrian and bicycle facilities as defined in the General Provisions section
above.Tor each five-year period, the City of California City and County of Kern shall develop a program of eligible projects to be approved and funded by the
Authority.

Taft-Maricopa Subarea Expenditure Plan. In the area described as the Taft-Maricopa Subarea, the following Expenditure Plan shall apply. Schedule K
illustrates the estimated cost and projects to be constructed in the area.

A.	Revenue Estimates. Tax revenues generated by Ordinance 06-01 for the Taft-Maricopa Subarea over a twenty-year period are estimated to be $35.3 million.

B.	Major Local Road Construction. 28% of the revenue for the Taft-Maricopa Subarea shall be used to construct major local road projects. As determined by
the Kern Council of Governments, each of the projects listed herein will require additional funding from state and federal sources to complete; State Route 119
will be widened to four lanes from Interstate 5 to Tupman Road.

C.	Local Road Reconstruction. 59% of the revenues for the Taft-Maricopa Subarea shall be distributed to the cities of Taft, Maricopa and County of Kern to be
used for the reconstruction, maintenance and rehabilitation of city and county local roads.

D.	Air Quality, Public Transportation, Transportation Enhancements. 13% of the revenues for the Taft-Maricopa Subarea shall be used for projects that
improve the air quality, public transit, senior.disabled transit or the construction of pedestrian and bicycle facilities as defined in the General Provisions section
above. For each five-year period, the cities of Taft, Maricopa and County of Kern shall develop a program of eligible projects to be approved and funded by the
Authority.

Tehachaoi Subarea Expenditure Plan. In the area described as the Tehachapi Subarea, the following Expenditure Plan shall apply. Schedule L illustrates the
estimated cost and projects to be constructed in the area.

A.	Revenue Estimates. Tax revenues generated by Ordinance 06-01 for the Tehachapi Subarea over a twenty-year period are estimated to be $38.6 million.

B.	Major Road Construction. 58% of the revenue for the Tehachapi Subarea shall be used to construct major local road projects. As determined by the Kern
Council of Governments, each of the projects listed herein will require additional funding from state and federal sources to complete. State Route 202 will be
widened to four lanes from Tehachapi-Woodford Rd. to Cummings Valley Rd. The Dennsion Rd. Interchange at State Route 58 will be improved and on and off
ramps added. Valley Blvd. will be widened to four lanes from Tucker Road to Curry Ave.

C.	Local Road Reconstruction. 28% of the revenues for the Tehachapi Subarea shall be distributed to the City of Tehachapi and County of Kern to be used for
the reconstruction, maintenance and rehabilitation of city and county local roads.

D.	Air Quality, Public Transportation, Transportation Enhancements. 14% of the revenues for the Tehachapi Subarea shall be used for projects that
improve the air quality, public transit, senior disabled transit or the construction of pedestrian and bicycle facilities as defined in the General Provisions section
above. For each five-year period, the City of Tehachapi and County of Kern shall develop a program of eligible projects to be approved and funded by the
Authority.


Measure “I” Transportation Expenditure Schedules
SCHEDULE A
Countywide Measure “I” Revenue Distribution

Estimated Countywide Expenditure Measure “1” Distribution	Amount
Arvin Lamont Subarea	$48.5 million
Frazier Park Subarea	$10.6 million
Indian Wells Valley Subarea	$44.1 million
Lake Isabella Subarea	$27.6 million
Metro Bakersfield Subarea	$484.5 million
North Valley Subarea	$157.5 million
Southeast Kern Subarea	$53.3 million
Taft-Maricopa Subarea	$35.3 million
Tehachapi Subarea	$38.7 million
Total Countywide Estimated Expenditures	$900 million
SCHEDULE B	
Transportation Improvement Revenue	
Total Countywide Transportation Measure “1” Revenues	Amount
Estimate Countywide Measure “1" Revenue	$947 million
(Less 1% Administrative Fee, 2% Board of Equalization Collection Charge)	$27 million
Countywide Measure “1” Revenue Available for Transportation Projects	$920 million
Estimated State and Federal Revenues	$926 million
Estimated Contributions from New Development	$500 million
Federal Demonstration Funds	$740 million
Total Estimated Revenue Available for Transportation Projects	$3.09 billion

SCHEDULE C
Distribution of Measure “I” Funds by Major Category

Fundina Categorv	Amount	Percentage
Major Road Projects	$453.6 million	49.3%
Local Road Reconstruction	$346.8 million	37.7%
Air Quality, Transit, Bicycle and Enhancement Program	$119.6 million	13.0%
Total Measure “1” Project Funding	$920.0 million	100%

SCHEDULE D
Arvin -Lamont Subarea Expenditure Plan

Proiect Description	Amount
Route 223 (Comanche to Route 99) widen to four lanes	$11.1 million
Wheeler Ridge Road (Route 223 to Interstate 5)	$15.1 million
widen portions to four lanes	
City of Arvin Local Roads Reconstruction	$4.9 million
County of Kern Local Roads Reconstruction	$11 million
Air Quality, Transit, Bicycle and Enhancement Program	$6.3 million
Total Arvin-Lamont Sub-Region Measure “1” Revenue	$48.4 million
SCHEDULE E	
Frazier Park Subarea Expenditure Plan	
Proiect Description	Amount
Winter Safety and Congestion Relief Project	$5.6 million
County of Kern Local Roads Reconstruction	$3.6 million
p Air Quality, Transit, Bicycle and Enhancement Program	$1.3 million
Total Frazier Park Sub-Region Measure “1” Revenue	$10.5 million

SCHEDULE F
Indian Wells Valley Subarea Expenditure Plan

Project Description	Amount	
Route 14 (Route 178 to Red Rock Canyon) widening - begin environmental  Route 395 at South China Lake - new interchange - begin environmental  College Heights Blvd. (South China Lake Blvd. to Jarvis) widen to four lanes  Upjohn Ave. (Brady to South China Lake Blvd.) reconstruct existing road  Downs St. (Upjohn Ave to Ridgecrest Blvd.) reconstruct existing road  Norma St. (Las Flores Ave. to Ridgecrest Blvd.) reconstruct existing road  Norma St. (Bowman Road to South China Lake Blvd.) reconstruct existing road  Drummond Ave. (Norma St. to N. China Lake Blvd.) reconstruct existing road  Richmond Rd. (Ridgecrest Blvd. to Bowman Rd.) reconstruct existing road  Pave various County unpaved roads  City of Ridgecrest Local Roads Reconstruction  County of Kern Local Roads Reconstruction  Air Quality, Transit, Bicycle and Enhancement Program  Total Indian Wells Valley Sub-Region Measure “1” Revenue	$3.3 million $3.0 million $5.8 million $1.8 million $775,000 $375,000 $375,000 $245,500 $1.0 million $10.0 million $7.7 million $3.7 million $6.0 million $44.1 million	
SCHEDULE G		
Lake Isabella Subarea Expenditure Plan		
Protect Description	Amount	
Sierra Way at South Fork Bridge (replace bridge and raise road)	$ 9.0 million	
Caliente-Bodfish Road (install guard -rails)	$1.0 million	
Construction of a new roadway (second access to Erskin Creek Road)	$ 2.3 million	
County of Kern Local Road Reconstruction	$12.4 million	
Air Quality, Transit, Bicycle and Enhancement Program	$2.9 million	
Total Lake Isabella Sub-Region Measure “1” Revenue	$27.6 million	
SCHEDULE H		
Metropolitan Bakersfield Subarea Expenditure Plan		
Proiect Description	Amount	
Bakersfield Beltway System		
North Beltway	$7.5 million	
West Beltway	$50.0 million	
Extend Route 58 to 1-5 (South Beltway environmental only)	$2.5 million	
Centennial Corridor Loop		
Crosstown Freeway Corridor	$45.8 million	
State Route 178 Extend West to Route 99	$34.5 million	
Hageman Flyover at Route 99	$11.4 million	
State Route 178 East		
Morning Drive Interchange (construct interchange)	$11.6 million	
State Route 178 Freeway (extend freeway)	$34.8 million	
Existing State Route 178 (widen to 6 lanes)	$1.6 million	
Rosedale Highway and 24th Street		
Rosedale Highway (widen to 6 lanes)	$13.9 million	
Oak Street and 24th Street (construct interchange)	$12.6 million	
24th Street east of Oak Street (widen to 6 lanes)	$6.3 million	
City of Bakersfield Local Road Reconstruction	$158.9 million	
County of Kern Local Road Reconstruction	$28.0 million	
Golden Empire Transit	$45.0 million	
Senior Disabled Transit	$5.0 million	
Air Quality, Bicycle and Enhancement Program	$15.0 million	
Total Metropolitan Bakersfield Sub-Region Measure T Revenue	$484.4 million	

SCHEDULE I
North Valley Subarea Expenditure Plan

Project Description________________________:__________________________________________ Amount

State Route 46 {1-5 to SLO County Line) widen to four lanes	$20.8 million

State Route 46 (Route 99 to Wasco) widen to four lanes	$30.8 million

State Route 99 at Woollomes Road (improve interchange)	$10.8 million

Santa Fe Way from Hageman Rd. to Los Angeles St. (widen to 4 lanes)	$12.8 million

City of Delano Local Road Reconstruction	$14.8 million

City of McFarland Local Road Reconstruction	$3.7 million

City of Wasco Local Road Reconstruction	$8.1 million

City of Shatter Local Road Reconstruction	$4.9 million

County of Kern Local Road Reconstruction	$32.5 million

Air Quality, Transit, Bicycle and Enhancement Program	$18.2 million

Total North Valley Sub-Region Measure “I” Revenue	$157.4 million

SCHEDULE J
Southeast Kern Subarea Expenditure Plan

Project Description	Amount
Twenty Mule Team Road (California City to Route 58) construct new road	$9.5 million
North Gate Road (California City to Edwards AFB) construct new road	$9.5 million
Rosamond Blvd. at UP Railroad (construct grade separation)	$5.5 million
Extend K Street to Route 14 (construct grade separation)	$5.5 million
City of California City Local Road Reconstruction	$3.2 million
County of Kern Local Road Reconstruction .	$12.8 million
Air Quality, Transit, Bicycle and Enhancement Program	$7,2 million
Total Southeast Kern Sub-region Measure “1” Revenue	$53.2 million

(#

SCHEDULE K
Taft-Maricopa Subarea Expenditure Plan

Project Description ___________________________________________________________________Amount

Route 119 (1-5 to Tupman Road) widen to four lanes	$17.4 million

City of Maricopa Local Road Reconstruction	$1-4 million

City of Taft Local Road Reconstruction	$2-4 million

County of Kern Local Road Reconstruction	$9-7 million

Air Quality, Transit, Bicycle and Enhancement Program	$4.4 million

Total Taft-Maricopa Sub-Region Measure “I" Revenue	$35.3 million

SCHEDULE L

Tehachapi Subarea Expenditure Plan

Project Description __________________________________________________________________Amount

Route 202-Tehachapi-Woodford Road to Cummings Valley Road	$6.3 million

(widen to four lanes)

Route 202-Tucker Road to Tehachapi-Woodford Road	$2.2 million

(widen to four lanes)

Route 58 at Dennison Road (improve interchange)	$6-1 million

Valley Blvd. (Tucker Road to Curry Ave.) widen to four lanes	$7.8 million

City of Tehachapi Local Road Reconstruction	$3.3 million

County of Kern Local Road Reconstruction	$7-5 million

Air Quality, Transit, Bicycle and Enhancement Program	$5.4 million

Total Tehachapi Sub-Region Measure “I” Revenue	$38.6 million

15-49

Exhibit B

Statement of Understanding for the
Independent Taxpayers Oversight Committee
for the Measure “I” Program

Purpose of the HOC

The Independent Taxpayers Oversight Committee (ITOC) is intended to provide an increased level of accountability for expenditures made under the Measure T
Program, in addition to the independent annual .fiscal and compliance audits required under the Measure T Program. The ITOC should function in an
independent, open and transparent manner to ensure that all voter mandates are carried out as required in the Ordinance and Expenditure Plan, and to develop
positive, constructive recommendations for improvements and enhancements to the financial integrity and performance of the Measure T Program.

Intent of the IOTC as a Functional Partner to the Kern Transportation Authority

The Measure T Ordinance contains a summary of the ITOC’s roles and responsibilities consistent with the above purpose. In this document, additional and
supplementary details with regard to the ITOC are delineated. These pertain to the process for selecting members of ITOC, term and conditions governing
membership, responsibilities, funding and administration, and conflict of interest provisions. This document is understood to provide the basis for describing how
the ITOC will function once the Ordinance is approved.

In addition to the details outlined in this document, the intent that provides the foundation for the desired partnership between ITOC and the Kem Transportation
Authority {Authority) is summarized as follows:

Resources - The ITOC will serve as an independent resource to advise in the Authority’s implementation of the Measure T Program. The ITOC’s
membership is.designed to provide the Authority a,group of professionals and dedicated individuals, who, collectively, can offer the Authority the
. benefit of their.experience to advance the timely and efficient-implementation of the Program. The ITOC will work in a public way.to ensure all
deliberations are conducted in an open manner. Regular reports from the ITOC to the Authority Board of Directors (or policy committee) are expected
with, regard to program and project delivery, and overall performance. .

Productivity - The ITOC will rely upon data and processes, available at the Authority, studies initiated by the ITOC, and other relevant data generated
by reputable sources. It is understood, however,, that the Authority will be continuously striving to improve the reliability of data and to update
analytical and modeling processes and that the ITOC will be kept abreast of any such efforts, and invited to participate in development of such
updates in a review capacity,

Cost-efficient - The ITOC will not add cost burden to the Authority’s implementation of the Measure T Program and projects. Rather, through a
cooperative and productive working relationship between ITOC and the Authority implementation team, it is the objective that costs will be saved.

Flexibility - The ITOC will assist the Authority in taking advantage of changing situations with technical and transportation developments in the future!
Therefore, the provisions contained below are viewed through 2027 based upon a 2007 perspective and are not meant to be unduly restrictive on the
ITOC's and the Authority's roles and responsibilities.

Membership and Selection Process

Any Kern County resident 18 years or older may apply to serve on the ITOC. Potential candidates are reviewed on the basis of the following criteria:

The candidates’ commitment and ability to participate in ITOC meetings for the required term.

*• Demonstrated interest and history of participation in community activities, with special emphasis on transportation-related activities
Lack of conflicts of interest with respect to the allocation of the sales tax revenue generated by Measure T.

1.	Membership: There shall be 9 ITOC voting members with the characteristics described below. The intent is to have one member representing each of the
specified professional areas as outlined below:

One (1) member who is a professional in the field of municipal audit, finance and/or budgeting with a minimum of five years in a relevant and senior
decision-making position in the public or private sector. .

One (1) member who is a licensed civil engineer or trained transportation planner with at least five years of demonstrated experience in the fields of
transportation and/or urban design in government and/or the private sector.

One (1) member who is a current or retired manager of a.major publicly financed development or construction project, who by training and experience
would understand the complexity, costs and implementation issues in building large scale transportation improvements.

Six (6) additional public members, who possess knowledge and skills that will be helpful to the work of the ITOC shall be appointed. The members shall be
from a diverse mix, both geographic and interests. The representatives shall be from interested individuals including representatives from agriculture, labor,
business, public transportation users, alternative mode organizations (bicycle, pedestrian, rail, etc) and environmental organizations. The members are
expected to provide a balance of viewpoints: therefore, not more than two (2) representatives, shall be appointed from the same category of community
organization listed above. There shall be at least one member for each of the subareas.

The Executive Director of the Authority and the Kern County Treasurer or their representatives shall serve as ex-officio members of the ITOC.

2.	The ITOC candidates shall be chosen by the Grand Jurors Association of Kern County (GJA), which shall form a five-member Citizens Oversight
Committee selection panel to conduct an extensive recruitment program. The panel screens all. applications, conducts interviews and recommends
candidates for membership on the ITOC. The GJA is made up of former grand jurors who have a continuing concern for good government and whose
purpose is to promote public understanding of the functions and purpose of the grand jury. The GJA is a neutral body serving the interests of the citizens of
Kern County.

The panel screens all applications and recommends potential candidates for membership on the ITOC once a year as terms expire.

Terms and Conditions for ITOC members. Committee members shall serve staggered four-year terms. The initial terms of service shall be determined by a
random drawing. In no case shall any voting committee member serve more than eight (8) years on the ITOC.

Committee members shall serve without compensation, except they shall be reimbursed for authorized travel and other expenses directly related to
the work of the ITOC.

15-50

Committee members cannot be a current local official in a city or the county, or a full time staff member of any city, the county goverment local
transit operator, or state transportation agency.

k	Non-voting	ex-officio	committee members shall serve only as long as they remain incumbents in their respective positions and shall be automatically

i	replaced	by their successor in those positions.	3

If and when vacancies on the ITOC occur on the part of voting committee members, the nominating body for that committee shall nominate an
appropriate replacement within ninety (90) days of the vacancy to fill the remainder of the term.

ITOC Operation Protocols. Authority Board of Directors and Authority staff shall fully cooperate with and provide necessary support to ensure the ITOC

successfully carries out its duties and obligations.

jTOC Responsibilities. The ITOC shall have the following responsibilities.

1.	Oversee the conduct of an annual fiscal and compliance audit of all Measure “I” funded activities. The Authority shall use the services of an

independent fiscal auditor to assure compliance with the voter-approved Ordinance and Expenditure Plan. This annual audit will cover all recipients of
Measure 1 funds during the fiscal year and will evaluate compliance with the maintenance of effort requirement and any other applicable
requirements. The audit will identify expenditures made for each project in the prior year and will include the accumulated expenses and revenues for
ongoing, multi-year projects.	.	.

2.	.Prepare an annual report to the Kern Transportation Authority Board of Directors presenting the annual audit process results. The report should
include an assessment of the consistency of the Measure’s expenditure with the Ordinance and Expenditure Plan and any recommendations for
improving the financial operation and integrity of the program. This consistency evaluation will include a review of expenditures by project type for
each local jurisdiction. The ITOC shall share the initial findings of the independent fiscal audit and its recommendations with file Kern Transportation
Authority Executive Committee sixty (60) days prior to its release to resolve inconsistencies and technical issues related to the ITOC's draft report and
recommendations. Once this review has taken place, the ITOC shall make any final amendments it deems appropriate to its report and
recommendations, and adopt its report for submission directly to the Kern Transportation Authority Board of Directors and the public.

3.	Conduct triennial performance audits of the Kern Transportation Authority and other agencies involved in implementing Measure “I” funded projects and programs to review project delivery, cost Control, schedule adherence and related activities. The review should include consideration of changes
to contracting, construction, permitting and related processes that could improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the Measure expenditures. These
performance audits shall be conducted using the services of an independent performance auditor and should include a review of the ITOC’s
performance. A draft of the ITOC's audit report and recommendations shall be made available to the Kern Transportation Authority Executive Committee at least 60 days before its final amendments it deems appropriate and adopt its report for submission directly to the Kern Transportation Authority
Board of Directors and the public. The ITOC shall strive to be as objective and constructive as possible on the text and presentation of the performance audits. Upon completion by the ITOC, the report shall be presented to the Kern Transportation Authority Board of Directors at its next regular meeting and shall be made available to the public.		.

4. Provide recommendations to the Kern Transportation Authority Board of Directors regarding any proposed amendment to the Ordinance and
Expenditure Plan.

5. Provide recommendations as part of the five (5) year review process. This process provides an opportunity to undertake a comprehensive review of
the Measure I program and to make recommendations for improving the program over the subsequent five (5) years. This review process should
take into consideration the results of the Measure T funded improvements as compared to the performance standards established in the Regional
Transportation Plan.	

6. Review and comment on the programming of Measure T revenues in the Regional Transportation Improvement Program (RTIP). This provides an
opportunity for the ITOC to raise concerns regarding the eligibility of projects proposed for funding before any expenditure is made. In addition to a
general eligibility review, this effort should focus on significant cost increase and/or scope changes on the major projects identified in the Ordinance
and Expenditure Plan.

7. Review proposed debt financing to ensure that benefits of .proposed financing for accelerating project delivery, avoiding future cost escalation and
related factors exceed issuance and interest cost.	.	’

In carrying out its responsibilities, the ITOC shall conduct its reviews in such a manner that does not cause unnecessary project delays, while providing sufficient time to ensure that adequate analysis can be completed to allow the ITOC to make objective recommendations and to provide the public with information about
the implementation of the Measure T program.	•

ITOC Funding Administration. 

1. All costs incurred in the administering the activities of the ITOC including related fiscal and performance audit costs, shall be paid annually from the
proceeds of Measure T sales tax. The funds made available to the fTOC shall not exceed $150,000 annually, as adjusted for inflation annually for the
duration of the program. Any funds not used in one fiscal year shall remain available in subsequent years as part of the annual budget process.

2. ITOC expenditures shall be audited annually as part of the same fiscal audit process used for all other Measure T funded activities.

3. Selecting ITOC members shall begin no later than April 1 of the year following the passage of the Ordinance by the voters. Because funding for this
activity would not be available until fiscal year 2007-08, the ITOC activities during the initial transition period will be phased in to the extent possible
within the budget constraints of the one (1) percent administrative cap under the Measure T Ordinance.

4. An annual ITOC operating budget shall be prepared and submitted to the Kern Transportation Authority Board of Directors for its approval ninety (90)
days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year.	

5. All ITOC meetings shall be public meetings conducted in full compliance with the Brown Act. The ITOC will meet on a regular basis, at least quarterly
to carry out its roles and responsibilities.	”

6. The Kern Transportation Authority Board of Directors and staff will fully cooperate with, and provide necessary support to, the ITOC to ensure that it
successfully carries out its duties and obligations, but should limit involvement to ensuring the independence of the ITOC as it carries out its review of
the Measure T program and develops its recommendations.

7. ITOC members and their designated auditors shall have full and timely access to all public documents, records and data with respect to all Measure
“I” funds and expenditures.

8. All consultants recommended by the ITOC shall be selected through an open and competitive basis with solicitation of proposals from the widest
possible number of qualified firms as prescribed by Kern Transportation Authority procedures and procurement. A scope of work shall be adopted by

the ITOC prior to any such solicitation. The Kern Transportation Authority shall have the final responsibility to retain the consultant on behalf of the
ITOC.

9. The Kern Transportation Authority shall provide meeting space, supplies and incidental materials adequate for the ITOC to carry out its.
responsibilities and conduct its affairs. Such administration of the ITOC is provided under No. 1 above.	

Conflict of Interest. The ITOC shall be subject to Kern Transportation Authority’s conflict of interest policies. ITOC voting members shall have no legal action
pending against the Kern Transportation Authority or Kern Council of Governments and are prohibited from acting in any commercial activity directly or indirectly
involving the Authority or Kern Council of Governments, such as being a consultant during their tenure on the ITOC. ITOC voting members shall not have direct
commercial interest or employment with any public or private entity that receives transportation tax funds authorized by the voters in this ordinance.

Exhibit C

Measure “I”
County of Kern

Kern County Traffic Relief, Safety and Road Maintenance Program

Widening/improving Routes 14,46,58,99,119,178,202,223 and 395;

Repairing local roads, synchronize signals;
improve high accident locations;

Improve seniors/disabled transit;

Match state/federal funds;

Periodic plan update;

Shall Kern County voters approve a half-cent transportation sales tax {Ordinance 06-01) for twenty years and create an Independent Taxpayers Oversight
Committee to ensure voter mandates are met?