CUTLER-OROSI JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

CUTLER-OROSI JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

MEASURE S

(Required to Pass: 2/3 of votes cast)

Recreational Programs for Youth

To develop a recreation department within
music, and other experiences that develop
Unified School District levy a tax of $100
program?

YES

NO

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE S

Recreational Programs for Youth

To develop a recreation department within the Cutler-Orosi area to promote youth activities including sports, arts,
music, and other experiences that develop young people into active, responsible citizens, shall Cutler-Orosi Joint
Unified School District levy a tax of $100 per parcel for 10 years so long as the Cutler-Orosi School Board oversees the
program and uses all fees to directly support the recreation department?

PARCEL TAX AUTHORIZATION

By approval of this proposition by at least two-thirds (2/3) of the registered voters voting on the proposition, the District
will be authorized to levy a qualified special tax of $100 per parcel for the projects listed in the Project List described
below, subject to all the accountability requirements specified below.

ACCOUNTABILITY REQUIREMENTS

The provisions in this section are specifically included in this proposition in order that the voters and taxpayers in the
District may be assured that their money will be spent wisely. As required by the laws of the State of California, the
proceeds of the qualified special tax will be deposited into a special account established by the District and will be
applied only to the specific purposes identified below. The District has covenanted to file with its governing board
each year a report stating the amount of the funds collected and expended and the status of any project authorized to be
funded.

the Cutler-Orosi area to promote youth activities including sports, arts,
young people into active, responsible citizens, shall Cutler-Orosi Joint
per parcel for 10 years so long as the Cutler-Orosi School Board oversees the

PROJECT LIST

The Project List shown below is a part of the ballot proposition and must be reproduced in any official document
required to contain the full statement of the proposition.

The proceeds of the parcel tax will be expended on the following projects. The specific projects which are described
below include all related and incidental costs.

1.	Hire a recreation director to oversee the development of programs throughout the Cutler-Orosi area.

2.	Hire recreational assistants at each recreational site to run programs.

3.	Purchase equipment for the operation of youth programs and sports.

4.	Pay transportation costs associated with programs.

5.	Purchase necessary equipment and supplies to manage and operate recreational programs.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY TULARE COUNTY COUNSEL,

m061107s.htm[l/5/2015 7:55:46 AM]

CUTLER-OROSI JOINT UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

MEASURE S

Upon approval by two-thirds of qualified electors, Government Code section 50079 and section 4 of Article XIIIA of
the California Constitution authorize school districts to levy a qualified special tax on all nonexempt parcels of real
property within their territorial boundaries for specified purposes.

If this measure is approved, the Cutler-Orosi Joint Unified School District (“District”) will be authorized to levy a
qualified special tax, in the amount of one hundred dollars (USD $100), on all nonexempt parcels of real property
within the District’s boundaries for ten years. The stated purpose of the qualified special tax is to develop a recreation
department within the District to promote youth activities, including sports, arts, music and other experiences that
encourage young persons to become active and responsible citizens.

If this measure is approved, the District must satisfy the accountability requirements of section 50075.1 of the
Government Code.

This measure makes no change to existing law. The electors entitled to vote on this measure are the registered voters
within the boundaries of the District. If the measure is not approved by at least two-thirds of the votes cast on the
measure, the measure will fail and the qualified special tax will not be levied.

KATHLEEN BALES-LANGE
Tulare County Counsel

By:	Moses	Diaz

Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

The parcel tax to establish a recreation department in the unincorporated areas of Cutler and Orosi will provide much
needed physical and educational activities for youth. There are no Boys & Girls Clubs, no YMCA’s and no Parks &
Recreational programs for young people in the area. The parcel tax will provide sufficient funds to greatly expand the
current volunteer programs that are active in the area, such as Pop Warner, AYSO and the Sheriffs Explorer program,
and add other educational activities, such as music, drama, and art programs. These programs will help draw our
children away from the lure of gangs, drugs, and other negative influences.

s/ Rosalinda Yanez
s/ Sandra M. Williams
s/ Reynaldo Chavira
s/ Gloria Cachu
s/ Josephine Gonzalez

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED

m061107s.htm[l/5/2015 7:55:46 AM]