FULL TEXT MEASURE G
City of Davis

ORDINANCE NO. 2243

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF DAVIS AMENDING
ARTICLE 15.14 OF CHAPTER 15 OFTHE DAVIS MUNICIPAL
CODE ESTABLISHING A PARK MAINTENANCE TAX TO
FUND MAINTENANCE OF PARKS, STREET TREES,
GREENBELTS, BIKE PATHS, MEDIANS, PUBLIC
LANDSCAPING, URBAN WILDLIFE AND HABITAT,
SWIMMING POOLS, AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
SUBJECT TO THE APPROVAL OF THE VOTERS

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
VIS, as follows:

Section 1. Article 15.14 of Chapter 15 of the Davis City Code is
hereby amended to read as follows:



ARTICLE 15.14. PARK MAINTENANCE TAX

'i

I



'514.010. Findings.

The Park Maintenance Tax currently provides funding to supplement
General Fund for the maintenance of community parks, greenbelts,
open space, street lighting, swimming pools, and related public
facilities. The Park Maintenance Tax, which was approved by the voters
1998 and again in 2002, will expire in June of 2006. This special
, if approved by an affirmative vote of two-thirds of Davis voters,
will continue the Park Maintenance Tax for an additional six years to
ide funding for the maintenance of these facilities and amenities.
Our parks and greenbelts reflect the very character of Davis and
are instrumental in making Davis the type of community that its citizens
appreciate and support. The City Council strongly believes that it is
in the public interest to continue funding maintenance of the parks,
greenbelts, open space, street lighting, swimming pools, and public
facilities. The special tax levied herein, if approved by a two-thirds
,I vote of the voters, will continue the existing Park Maintenance Tax.
This tax, if approved, will also provide for revenue which may be used
to maintain and operate property owned by the Davis Joint Unified
School District or other public agencies so long as the property is
available, on a joint use basis, for use by the residents of the City
for park, open space, and recreational uses.



15 14.020. Leoal Authority.

This special tax is levied under each of the following legal
authorities: Government Code section 37100.5, which authorizes
general law cities to levy any tax that may be levied by charter cities,
subject to voter approval; and Government Code section 50075 through
section 50077, which authorizes cities to impose special taxes. This
tax is a special tax authorized under Article 13A, section 4 of the
California Constitution and Proposition 218. This tax is an excise tax
and is based, to the extent practicable, upon the use to which a
property is put and the benefit that the use of property receives from
the public facilities supported by this tax. This tax is based, among
other things, on the benefit that different land uses of property receive
Lorn the availability of properly maintained parks, open space,
?reenbe!ts, medians, public facilities, and public lighting. This tax is
not a property tax; it is not based on the status of ownership of
property; nor is it based on the value of property.

15 14.030. Definitions.

The following terms shall have the following definitions when used
m this article:

"Assessor’s parcel" or "parcel" means a lot or parcel shown in an
ssor's parcel map with an assigned assessor's parcel number.

“Assessor's parcel map" means an official map of the county
1 assessor of the county of Yolo designating parcels by assessor's
parcel number.

"City" means the city of Davis as its jurisdictional boundaries exist
| on July 1st of each year that this tax is in effect.

"Commercial property” means all parcels that are used for
onressdential land uses that do not classify the parcel as industrial
: operty or day care property, as defined below.

57-506

"Common area" means a separate legal or assessor's parcel owned
by a common interest development association or as tenants in
common by the owners of separate interests in a common interest
development provided that the common area: (1) in the case of
residential property, cannot be used as an independent residential
dwelling unit; or (2) in the case of commercial or industrial property
is not improved building space.

"Day care property" means all property that is used as a
commercially operated day care center and is not used as a residence.

"Developed property" means, in any fiscal year, all parcels of
taxable property with a structure that has been cleared for occupancy
before March 1st of the prior fiscal year. For purposes of levying the
special tax, each parcel of developed property shall be assigned to
one of the land use classes identified in Table 1 below.

"Fiscal year" means the period starting on July 1 and ending the
following June 30th.

"Group living property* means all parcels of developed property
that have been issued conditional use permits from the city's planning
division for a group living use.

"Improved building space" means the greater of (i) gross building
area as shown on building permits issued for any property, or (ii)
gross building area as measured or determined by an engineer retained
by the city.

“Industrial property" shall generally include but not be limited to,
all parcels of developed property with a building or structure that is
used for assembling, disassembling, fabricating, finishing,
manufacturing, packaging, repair or processing operations, as
classified by the city's planning division.

"Land use class" means any one of the six classes listed in Table
1 below.

"Maximum special tax" means the maximum special tax,
determined in accordance with Section 15.14.050, that can be levied
by the City Council in any fiscal year.

“Multifamily residential property" means all parcels of developed
property with a residential structure or structures consisting of five
or more residential units on a single parcel.

"Public improvements" means those facilities, improvements, and
amenities that will be constructed, installed, operated, serviced,
maintained, and repaired from proceeds of the special tax and shall
include, but not be limited to, the following: public lighting, landscaping,
parks, public areas, recreational facilities, open space, and bike trails.

"Public property" means property owned by a public agency, public
rights-of-way, unoccupied public utility property and property
encumbered with a public or utility easement that makes impractical
utilization of the property for other than the public or utility purpose
set forth in the easement.

"Single-family residential property" means all parcels of developed
property with a residential structure or structures consisting of less
than five residential units on a single parcel.

"Special tax" means that tax levied pursuant to application of the
special tax formula set forth below to pay for the construction,
installation, operation, servicing, maintenance, and repair of the public
improvements.

"Taxable property" means all assessor's parcels within the city as
the boundaries of the city exist on July 1st of each year which are
not exempt from the special tax pursuant to law or section 15.14.090
below.

"Vacant land” means all parcels of taxable property that have
either no structures or a structure or structures that have not been
cleared for occupancy.

15.14.040.	Park Maintenance Tax.

a. If approved by the voters, commencing July 1, 2006 for fiscal
year 2006-2007, the city shall continue collecting funding for parks,
open space, public lighting and related public facilities in the form of
a special park tax in the manner and at the rates set forth herein.

(Continued on Next Page)

57506

(ORDINANCE NO. 2243 Continued)

1. Developed Property. The maximum special tax tor all
parcels of developed property shall be determined by reference to
Table 1 below:

Table 1	Maximum Special Tax Rates	
Land Use Class	Description	Maximum Special Tax
4	Single-family  residential	$49.00 per unit
2	Multifamily  residential	$49.00 per unit
3	Group living	$20.00 per resident
4	Commercial	$40.00 per 1,000 square feet of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet
5	Industrial	$12.80 per employee up to a maximum of 30 employees
6	Day care	$14.30 per 1,000 square feet of Improved Building Space up to a maximum of 10,000 square feet

2. Vacant Land. The maximum special tax rate for vacant
land shall be forty-nine dollars per assessor's parcel,
b. Method of Apportionment of the Special Tax.

1.	For fiscal year 2006-2007, the City shall levy the special tax
at the maximum tax rates set forth above. For fiscal years 2007-2008
and each fiscal year thereafter, the City Council shall set the actual tax
rate for the applicable fiscal year, not to exceed the maximum tax rates
set forth above, and the special tax shall be levied at the amount set
by the City Council.

2.	The special tax shall be levied on each parcel of land in the
amount determined by reference to this Section 15.14.040:

A.	On each parcel of taxable property in Land Use Classes
1 through 6, inclusive.

B,	If there is more than one land use class on a parcel,
the special tax shall be determined by separately applying the appropriate
special tax for each land use class on the parcel and levying the sum
total of the combined special taxes.

15.14.050.	Collection.

The park maintenance tax shall be collected in the same manner
and at the same time as ordinary ad valorem property taxes and shall
be subject to the same penalties for non-payment. If necessary to meet
financial obligations or if it becomes more cost-efficient as determined
by the City Council, the City may collect the park maintenance tax in
the same manner and at the same time as City taxes, fees and/or
charges provided that the total annua! tax imposed shall not exceed
the maximum amounts set forth in this article.

15.14.060.	No Annual Adjustment of Tax Rate

The tax rates set forth in this article shall be the maximum allowable
tax rates permitted unless modified or changed by a further vote of the
electorate of the City. There shall be no cost of living or COLA permitted,

15.14.07Cx Limitation on Disposition of Revenue.

Revenues collected under the provisions of this article shall be
deposited in a special fund called the park maintenance special tax
fund and shall be used only for the operation and maintenance of
landscaping, park, open space, median, greenbelt, swimming pools,
recreational and public facility and public lighting improvements, within
the City and for the incidental expenses incurred in the administration
of this tax, including, but not limited to the cost of elections, and the
cost of collection. Revenues may be used to operate and maintain
property owned by the Davis Joint Unified School District or other public
agencies so long as the property so maintained Is available for use
by the residents of the City for the purposes set forth herein.

is 14.080. Exemptions,

a.	Public Property, No special tax shall be levied against public
property.

b.	Low Income Exemption. To avoid undue hardship, the Cityi
Council shall continue the existing low-income refund program subject11
to such terms and conditions as the City Council may, from time to
time, determine.

c.	Common Areas. No special tax shall be levied against common
areas.

15.14.090.	Effective Date: Renewal Provision.

a.	This article shall take effect immediately upon its approval by
a two-thirds vote of the voters voting in the election called to approve
the ordinance.

b.	If an extension or re-authorization of this article is approved
by the voters of the City at an election called for that purpose by or
on June 30, 2012, and every six years thereafter, this article shall
be extended or re-authorized. If this article is not so extended or re-
authorized by the voters, this article shall no longer be in effect.

c.	It is the current intent of the City Council to replace this Park
Maintenance Tax with another type of revenue measure. In the event
that another type of revenue measure is approved by the voters prior
to the expiration of the Park Maintenance Tax, and the ordinance that
implements the new revenue measure declares that it shall replace
or supersede this Park Maintenance Tax, the city shall cease collecting
this Park Maintenance Tax consistent with the provisions of the
replacement measure as approved by the voters.

15.14.100. Appeals.

The imposition of this tax and/or amount of the tax imposed based
on the use of property may be appealed to the City Council under
such procedures as the council shall, by ordinance, adopt. The City
Council may modify the appeals process from time to time in order
to facilitate the hearing and resolution of appeals.

15.14.110.	Severability.

If any sentence, clause, article, section, subsection, phrase oil
portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this
ordinance. The voters of the City hereby declare that they would have
adopted the remainder of this Ordinance, including each sentence,
clause, article, section, subsection, phrase or portion of this Ordinance,
irrespective of the invalidity of any other sentence clause, article,
section, subsection, phrase or portion of this ordinance,

INTRODUCED ON JANUARY 17,2006 and PASSED AND ADOPTED
by the City Council of the City of Davis on February 7, 2006, by the
following vote:

AYES:	GREENWALD.PUNTILLO, SAYLOR, SOUSA, ASMUNDSON

NOES:	NONE

ABSENT: NONE

s/ Ruth Asmundson, Mayor

ATTEST:

s/ Margaret Roberts, CMC
City Clerk

I



(ftme;

? I

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE G

Measure G, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the
asure, will extend for six (6) years, at the current tax rates, the Park
Maintenance Tax, a special tax adopted by the Davis voters in March
2002. Unless extended by the voters, the existing 2002 Park Maintenance
Tax will sunset and expire on June 30, 2006. If Measure G is adopted,
it will extend Park Maintenance Tax beginning July 1, 2006.

Measure G, the extended Park Maintenance Tax, as set forth in
Ordinance No. 2243, will continue funding for the maintenance and
operation of community parks, greenbelts, open space, street and
public lighting, swimming pools, and related public facilities. As a
special tax, the tax revenue must be placed in a special fund and
can only be used for these purposes and incidental expenses related
to these purposes.

The Park Maintenance Tax will continue to be imposed on parcels
of property within the City based on the use of the property. The
maximum tax per parcel per fiscal year (July 1-June 30) under Measure
G will be calculated as follows:

Single-family residential
Multi-family residential
Group Living
Commercial

Industrial

Commercial Day Care Facilities

Vacant Land

$49,00 per unit
$49.00 per unit
$20.00 per resident
$40.00 per 1,000 square feet
of improved Building
Space up to a maximum
of 10,000 square feet
$12.80 per employee up to
a maximum of
30 employees
$14.30 per 1,000 square feet
of Improved Building
Space up to a maximum
of 10,000 square feet
$49.00 per Assessor’s Parcel

These amounts are the maximum tax rates for each type of use.

If approved by the voters, the tax would be imposed at the rates
set forth above for the first year of the extended tax. For the second,
and successive years of the tax, the City Council may set the tax
rate at an amount not to exceed the maximum tax rate. In the event
that the voters approve another type of revenue measure, or tax, that
states that it will replace this park tax prior to the expiration of this
park tax, the City will cease collecting this park tax consistent with
the provisions of the replacement measure.

Measure G includes several exemptions to the tax including an
exemption for public property and requirements to continue the existing
low income exemption.

The Park Maintenance Tax would continue to be collected with
the ad valorem property taxes for each parcel, unless the City later
decided to collect the tax with other City taxes and charges.

Measure G would sunset and be repealed on June 30, 2012 and
could not be collected after that time unless two-thirds of the voters
voting in an election approved an extension or re-authorization of the
tax.

si Harriet A. Steiner
Davis City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Ordinance
2243, Measure G. If you desire a copy of the Ordinance or Measure,
please call the elections official’s office at (530) 757-5648 and a
copy will be mailed at no cost to you.



ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE G

The passage of Measure G is part of a comprehensive plan to
fund adequately and fairly our needed City services. For the past
decade, the state has been shifting away a large share of our local
property taxes. At the beginning of the last decade, the state returned
about 27% of local property taxes to the city. Today approximately
18% is returned. Over the past two years, the State has “borrowed"
a total of $2.4 million from the City and eliminated funding for state-
mandated programs.

Measure G will renew the existing $49 per year parks maintenance
tax, allowing the City to continue to pay for parks and greenbelt
maintenance, streetscapes and street tree planting and maintenance,
swimming pool, open space and habitat maintenance, and vandalism
repair. This is the same cost as when voters first approved the tax
in 1998. The current tax will expire in June of this year.

In 1998 the money generated by this tax covered 75% of park
maintenance costs. Today this same money only covers 24% of this
cost. Since 1998 we have seen an increase in total park acreage by
one third.

The City is well on the way to fiscal stability through the generous
support of voters, passing an increase in the Sales Tax in March of
2004, and through prudent fiscal management. We ask you to support
this measure, allowing time for a broader community dialogue on city
service priorities, needs and appropriate funding alternatives.

Think of the reasons why you enjoy living in Davis. Surely, among
the reasons are parks, greenbelts, and recreational programs and
services. Without Measure G, these amenities, along with other General
Fund services, risk severe cutbacks.

Please join us in voting for Measure G on June 6"\

si Sheryl Patterson, Mace Ranch
Neighbor

si Charlie Russell, Chair Recreation and Park Commission

si Rod Rifredi, President Davis
Police Officers Association

si Patty Newman
Educator

si Ted Puntillo
Councilmember

57-508

5)'(8

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR MEASURE G

Proponents claim Measure G is part of a comprehensive “plan”
to fund needed City services, but don’t tell us what that plan is. In

1998, the Citizens Budget committee recommended that the City
develop a sustainable fiscal plan, including re-internalization of the
entire parks budget info the general fund - and a permanent end to
this unfair tax.

Now, 8 years later, we are still waiting, and we are now being
threatened anew with cuts in essential services unless we pay another
$8 million over the next six years. The City cannot possibly justify
this threat when its own budget figures show huge revenue increases
and burgeoning reserves. Meanwhile, the City continues to increase
our water, sewer and garbage rates with no accountability.

The proponents blame the state for “borrowing” money, but don’t
mention that the state will begin returning an additional $660,000 per
year to the City on July 1. Combined with increased sales and property
tax revenues, this is more than enough money to end the $1.3 million
parks tax without adversely affecting city services.

We cannot afford to lock ourselves into a six-year “plan” that
consists of nothing more than raising taxes and increasing the costs
of living and doing business in Davis. It is time to end this unfair,
regressive and unnecessary tax and force City leaders into an honest
dialogue on the City’s actual fiscal needs.

Please Vote NO on Measure G.

(For additional information and actual budget figures;
yvm.net/vme/no-on-G).

s/ Don C. Price
Professor of History, Univ. of California, Davis

s/ Aizada Knickerbocker
Owner, Avid Reader -Davis

s/ Carolyn J. Hinshaw
Retired Clinical Laboratory Scientist

s/ John S. Chiles
Member, Yolo County Taxpayers Association,

Member of one of Davis’ Oldest Families

s/ Richard K. Entrikin
Concerned Far East Davis Resident,

Mace Ranch Neighbor

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

Measure G is not a simple renewal of an existing tax. It is a new
ordinance that would lock in, for six years, an unnecessary and unfairJ
parcel tax on every Davis apartment, house and business that could*
not be repealed unless we approve yet another “replacement” tax.

Measure G is not about parks. It specifically allows the City to
use this tax for street lighting, medians and public facilities. And, as
a General Fund supplement, every dollar we pay for “parks” frees up
money the City can spend on anything it wants.

Measure G is regressive and unfair, A renter in a one-bedroom
apartment would pay the same as someone living in a $2 million
home. A 10,000 square-foot local business would pay the same as
a 137,000 square-foot big-box retailer.

Measure G is unnecessary. Since renewal of the “parks" tax in
2002, we currently generate nearly $2 million more per year in property
taxes and $3 million more in sales taxes. With roughly $5 million
more per year, how can the City possibly justify extending this tax
for six more years?

Citizens have called for an end to this tax for nine years from the
Citizens Budget Committee in 1997 through the current Finance and
Budget Commission. In 2002, the City promised to end this tax if we
approved an alternative. In 2004, voters approved a sales tax increase
that now generates $2.2 million per year—more than enough to replace
the $1.3 million parks tax. Now the City says it needs even more.
This makes no sense.

Our only remaining option is to end this tax, and force the City
to engage citizens in an honest dialogue on the budget.

Please join us in voting NO on Measure G. (website;
yvm.net/vme/no-on-G)

s/ Schneor Sherman
Chair, Committee for Efficient Government
Member, Citizens Budget Committee, 1997-98

si Julia E. A. Partansky	k

Former Mayor, City of Davis, 1998-2000

si John R. Morrell
Vice-President, Yolo County Taxpayers Association

si Christopher E. Ochoa
Commissioner, City of Davis Finance and Budget Commission

si Pamela S. Nieberg
Member, Citizens Budget Committee 1997-98
Treasurer, Committee for Efficient Government



57509

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE G

r

Davis parks, bike paths, greenbelts, street trees and pools define

our quality of life. Children and adults all enjoy these community

assets. They need our ongoing support.

Davis voters approved this tax at $49 in 1998 and 2002, replacing
a fee that was twice the amount. Measure G is a renewal of the tax
with no increase. It Is still only $4 a month.

Property owners pay this tax, not renters. Measure G will not add
pressure to rents because it does not increase the tax.

With costs going up, state funding going down and the park tax
flat, the City of Davis General Fund increasingly supports parks
maintenance above the amount raised by this tax.

•	This tax provided $1.3 million in 2005 - the same as 1998

•	Since this tax was first passed, Walnut, Arroyo, and Mace
Ranch Community Parks and Arneson, Motley and Willowcreek
Neighborhood Parks were completed. Mace Ranch
Neighborhood Park is underway.

•	Park maintenance costs increased from $3 million to $4 million
since 1998.

•	Over this same time, the State of California took nearly $19
million in local City of Davis revenues for state purposes -
$2,4 million in 2005 alone.

If Measure G fails, services will be cut. Parks, street trees, and
greenbelts will suffer, but so will other services, such as police and
fire, if City dollars are redirected to parks.

Davis is a special place to live because we invest in what we treasure.
Please vote Yes on G. More information: www.vesonmeasureg.com

s/ Ruth U. Asmundson
Mayor, City of Davis

si Jeff Adamsky
Local Banker

si Joe Krovoza
Arroyo Park Neighbor and City Adopt-a-Park Volunteer

s/ Jim Provenza
Vice-President, Davis School Board

si Sue Greenwald
Mayor Pro-Tempore, City of Davis

♦

57-510