MARINWOOD COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT MEASURE M

To maintain the current level of paramedic ser-
vices in Marinwood and keep trained para-
medics, shall Ordinance No. 14 be amended to
permit phased increases up to $24.00 annually above
the current rate on residential units, and up to $.03 per
square foot annually above the current rate on non-res-
idential structures; and, shall Marinwood Community
Services District’s appropriation limit be correspond-
ingly increased?

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE M

MARINWOOD COMMUNITY SERVICES
DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX FOR
PARAMEDIC SERVICES
MEASURE M

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the
Marinwood Community Services District shall be autho-
rized to amend Ordinance No. 14 by increasing the special
tax to maintain the current level of paramedic services by
phased increases up to twenty four dollars ($24.00) annu-
ally above the current rate on residential structures, and a
maximum of three cents ($0.03) per square foot annually
above the current rate on non-residential structures and the
appropriation limit for the Marinwood Community Ser-
vices District would be correspondingly increased.

Dated: August 24, 2006

s/PATRICK K. FAULKNER
County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

For twenty-six years Marinwood Community Services
District, along with other unincorporated County areas,
has participated in paramedic services provided by San
Rafael. In 1979, Marinwood voters voted to tax them-
selves to fully fund participation in the paramedic pro-
gram. Every four years since then, the community has
voted to re-authorize and increase the tax to keep pace
with costs and increases in the level of service. The current
tax will expire in My of 2007. Your approval of Measure
M is needed to keep the paramedic program in place and
to meet the costs associated with increased service.

Since the paramedic service was initiated in 1980, there
has been significant increase in emergency calls for para-
medic service. In 2006 alone, paramedics responded to
over 4,000 calls. Along with the volume of responses,
costs for fuel, supplies, equipment and wages have also
increased.

To fully fund the paramedic program, the paramedic tax
must be increased. Measure M will increase the current
$61.00 maximum to a maximum of $85.00 for residential
units, and increase the current 8 cents per square foot max-
imum tax rate for non-residential structures to a maximum
of 11 cents. Annual taxes will be based on actual costs, not
the maximum tax, but in any case the tax cannot exceed
the $85.00 maximum and cannot exceed the cost of pro-
viding the service.

AYES vote on Measure M will ensure that all households
will continue to receive the protections and benefits of this
vital life-saving service. The approval of two-thirds of
those voting is required to pass this measure.

The proceeds from this tax can only be spent on the para-
medic program.
s/DAVID S. MITCHELL
President, Marinwood CSD Board
s/CAMERON CASE
Resident
s/FRANK NELSON
Resident
s/GENEVTEVE T. BOLDING
MCSD Board Member, Retired
s/TOM ROACH
Fire Chief

!

!

MM-1

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE M

First, the argument touting this unnecessary tax in-
crease is lifted almost word-for-word from the 2002 ballot
and follows that put forth by San Rafael. It totally fails to
address the real issue: lack of any fiscal analysis of the
budget or the process; once again, Marinwood is handed a
budget by San Rafael and told “pay it or else,” whether
that budget is reasonable or necessary or not. It is not.

Second, the tax increase is not endorsed by the Marin-
wood CSD Board of Directors.

Third, the budget numbers are not strictly attributable
to paramedic services.
sAVALTER K. DODS

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

As a 37 year resident of Marinwood, member of the
CSD Board of Directors, having long been associated with
the Marinwood Association and having volunteered
1,000s of hours trying to make Marinwood a better com-
munity, I oppose this tax increase.

Contrary to the emotional pleas raised by proponents,
this is not an “applehood and motherpie” issue. It is not an
issue of whether we should have paramedic service. The
issue is what we should be forced to pay for it. It is a fis-
cal, accountability and budget matter.

Marinwood is denied any opportunity to discuss this
budget with San Rafael. It is presented on a take it or leave
it basis - “like it, or lump it.”

Contrast the $85 tax sought by San Rafael with that
levied in Ross Valley, approximately $30.00.

If the measure fails - as it should - there will be no
change whatsoever in the kind or quality of service pro-
vided. Service will not be terminated.

Ask for and review the budget. I have.

Do not be swayed by false emotional appeals.
sAVALTER K. DODS

NO REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE M WAS FILED.

MM-2