June 6, 2006

MEASURE F

“Shall the Hayfork Fire Protection District impose a special tax of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year, on
each parcel of property within the geographical boundaries of the Hayfork Fire Protection District as shown on
the latest equalized tax roll and the area proposed for Annexation by the Hayfork Fire Protection District
pursuant to Trinity Local Agency Formation Commission (LAFCO) Resolution No. LAFCO-06-02 (except as
stated below) to be used only for the special purpose of support of the Hayfork Fire Protection District and its
mission of fire protection, fire prevention, and emergency medical services?

Property owners who own more than one improved parcel within the District Boundaries will be assessed one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per improved parcel. Property owners who own more than one unimproved parcel
within the District boundaries will be assessed on hundred ($100.00) per unimproved parcel but no more than a
maximum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for all unimproved parcels, if the name or names of those holding
title is exactly the same for each unimproved parcel.

YES

NO

Argument in favor of Measure F

Measure F provides the necessary funding to continue Fire and Emergency Medical Service by the Hayfork
Volunteer Fire Department at current levels into the foreseeable future.

Annexation of most parcels in the populated area of the greater Hayfork Valley Area provides a basis to
generate about $160,000 per year to operate the Fire and Rescue Services we have come to expect and
appreciate since the department was started in 1948. Currently the only money received from taxpayers is less
than $30,000 per year, the same amount the department got in 1985.

The cost of doing business has increased with Workmen’s Compensation taking half the annual budget. Other
cost increases in vehicle insurance, fuel, heat and lights, training and safety equipment eat up the remaining
dollars, usually before the end of the fiscal year.

Your local firemen have been generating the additional revenue to operate by responding to Mutual Aid fires
outside the district, for which the district receives money to pay its bills. Fundraisers and donations from
generous community members and various grants have kept the department functioning, but old equipment is
needing more frequent and costly repairs and someday soon will need to be replaced.

The Fire Commissioners of the Hayfork Fire Protection District are mandated by law to provide fire protection
within the boundaries of the district. If the annexation of the additional parcels and the Benefit Assessment
provided for by Measure F are not approved, services will need to be reduced. It is anticipated that without the
passage of Measure F the Fire Department will be providing service only within the current Fire District
Boundary, which is about the same as the Water District. Emergency medical service within the district could
also be in jeopardy.

Signed

Hayfork Fire Protection District Board of Directors

IMPATIAL ANALYSIS
MEASURE F

A “yes” vote by at least two-thirds of the voters voting on this Measure will authorize the Hayfork Fire
Protection District to levy an annual special tax of $100 on each taxable parcel of property within the
geographical boundaries of the Hayfork Fire Protection District and on each taxable parcel within the land area
proposed to be added to the Hayfork Fire Protection District boundaries by a process known as “annexation”.

The Trinity County Local Agency Formation Commission has approved of the annexation of
approximately 25,200 acres to Hayfork Fire Protection District, such that the District boundaries would include
nearly all of the land in the Hayfork Valley. A legal description and map of the area to be annexed is found in
Resolution No. LAFCO 06-02 adopted on January 24, 2006 by the Trinity Local Agency Formation
Commission. The annexation is approved if voters voting on this Measure pass this special tax by at least a
two-thirds majority. If this Measure is not passed, the annexation would not take place because the Local
Agency Formation Commission requires that there be enough tax money available to Hayfork Fire Protection
District to pay for services within the expanded District boundaries area.

The revenues generated by the special tax will be used only to support the Hayfork Fire Protection
District in fighting fires, protecting people and property from fire, fire prevention and in providing emergency
medical services.

There is an exemption to the proposed special tax if a property owner owns more than three unimproved
parcels within District boundaries or the area propose for annexation. No more than a maximum of $300.00
annually for all such unimproved parcels will be collected, if the name or names of those holding title is exactly
the same for each unimproved parcel. All improved parcels within the District boundaries and proposed
annexation area will be subject to the $100 parcel special tax, without regard to how many improved parcels are
owned.

If this Measure does not pass, none of the taxable parcels will be subject to the $100 per parcel special
tax, whether or not the parcel is within the existing Fire Protection District boundaries or in the area proposed
for annexation. If this Measure is not approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on this Measure, the District
will not be allowed to impose this special tax on any property

November 7, 2006

MEASURE P

“TWENTY-FOUR HOUR EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE RAPID ACCESS MEASURE. To provide
Trinity County residents access to basic emergency medical services, with a doctor on duty 24-hours a day,
shall the Mountain Community Medical Services District levy, for five years, an annual interim special parcel
tax within its boundaries as follows: $32 per undeveloped parcel, $118 per improved nonresidential parcel,
$118 per dwelling unit, in accordance with LAFCo resolution 06-03, and provide for guaranteed annual
performance and financial accountability?

YES

NO

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

In a life-threatening emergency - - heart attack, logging, car accident—do you want your family to have access
to a 24-hour Emergency room with a doctor on duty? Vote YES on P - before we lose our local ER to closure.

YES on P ensures Mountain Community Medical Services District will be able to keep its 24-hour Emergency
Room open. Since February 2005, our ER has saved the lives of 72 people who likely would not have survived
transportation to the next closest ER.

YES on P ensures life-saving emergency care is available for you or someone you love

YES on P protects 24-hour emergency care, with a doctor on duty

YES on P ensures access to urgent care services, locally

YES on P guarantees timely access to a medical lab for necessary tests

YES on P ensures seniors the critical emergency and nursing care they need

MCMS has implemented tough management reforms, like cutting costs, increasing revenues, and stabilizing
billing. Now it’s the community’s turn—to support YES on P for a 24-hour ER in the future.

Doctors and nurses strongly support P. Local businesses and employers agree it’s essential for our workforce to
have services such as an ER and 24-hour care with a doctor on duty. With the economy the way it is, we can’t
afford to have our Hospital leave—it could threaten our community’s very future.

YES on P gives YOU, the voter—NOT County bureaucrats—local control over every penny generated.

Measure P has tough, fiscal safeguards—annual independent audits, oversight by citizen-elected Directors, and
5-year sunset. Discounts can be provided for those who can’t afford to pay. For most homeowners, the cost
will be less than $10 per month to help save lives. Vote YES on P.

Kevin Cahill, Chairman, TRINITY CARE (Committee to save our Emergency Room and Medical Services)

James B French, Trinity County Superintendent of Schools

Dee W. Sanders, General Manage, Trinity River Lumber Company

Donald E. Krouse, MD

John Kizziar, D.D.S.

Word count: 294

Argument against Tax Measure P

This new tax is just the beginning. Measure P asks for an increase of property tax in the amount of
$880,000 to support the hospital. They clam the money is needed for operations, retirement benefits, liability
insurance and capital improvements.

They are showing an $80,000 a month loss on an accrual basis over a 7-month trend. If you take their
monthly loss add the estimated retirement benefits of $34,000 the estimated liability insurance amount of

$10,000 you come up with a loss of $1,488,000 a year. This leaves them short $606,000 a year to keep the
doors open and pay the employees. It will be up to the new board of directors what the retirement package will
be for the employees, which means their number of $34,000 is a major guess. If the board gives the employees
the Public Employees Retirement System again, that number will increase drastically.

Their $880,000 is an approximate amount to be collected; it will actually be considerably more. They
claim that it is based on the number of parcels within the proposed district. They are going to be collecting
from apartment complexes, RV parks, and mobile home parks, multiple dwelling fees that will raise the number
by $118 each additional dwelling on those parcels. Even with that they will not reach the amount needed to
cover the costs of this facility to keep the doors open.

This will be the first phase of taxation needed. Their financial future is based on hiring 2 additional
physicians. If they fail to hire them, or when there is no money for capital improvements, or when they want a
new facility, we will be asked to vote for more taxation. Don’t let this cycle start Vote NO and send the
message we don’t have deep pockets.

Larry Barcellos-Concemed Property Owner

Chuck Higgs - Concerned Property Owner

Gary Norder-Concerned Property Owner

Dave & Carol Covington-Concerned Property Owner

Susan Emerson-Concerned Property Owner

WORD COUNT: 297

Argument Opposing Measure P

Don’t let the supporters of measure P engage you in scare tactics to enhance their chances of passing
measure P. As a taxpayer you should neither tolerate nor be intimidated by such statements as “we can’t afford
to have our Hospital leave” or “It could threaten our community’s very future.”

Not only does a parcel tax disproportionately burden property owners, but such taxes are especially
unfair to homeowners. As a homeowner you will be paying over 3 times the amount in taxes for a developed
parcel over an undeveloped parcel. If you are a homeowner and a business owner (Non-Residential
Development) you will pay $118 for each, even if on the same parcel.

This parcel tax could have an extreme negative impact on tourism aimed at apartment rentals, mobile
home parks, RV parks, and summer rental homes. Each apartment unity, mobile home space, RV space and
any multi rented parcel will be charged $118 per rented unity based on a 30 day stay.

People who stay for the summer in Trinity County also spend money in local stores and restaurants;
don’t tax them into the next county.

The math doesn’t add up

Losses now	$960,000	yr

Retirement for employee’s	$408,000 yr

Malpractice insurance	$120,000	yr

Total losses yr

$1,488,000 yr

Property Taxes collected

From measure P approx. $880,000 yr

$608,000 yr loss above new tax

Where is the rest of the money coming from? This does not even include the cost of repairs.

David & Carol Covington
Chuck & Karen Higgs
Gary Norder
Andre & Louise Bigham
Gale & Theresa Ickes

Trinity County Taxpayers Coalition
River Oaks Resort
Concerned taxpayer

Owners Pine Cove Resort
Concerned property owner

Rebuttal to the Argument Against Measure P

Don’t be fooled by the opponents’ numbers, which don’t add up.

Measure P boils down to one thing: Do you want your local ER to stay open? If the answer is yes, vote YES
on P.

Measure P keeps our ER open 24 hours a day, with a doctor on duty.

Our hospital has cut costs, increased revenues, and stabilized billing. In less than two years, fiscal reforms have
substantially reduced and continue to reduce losses. However, like other communities, we need community
support to keep our Emergency Room open.

Measure P was developed with input from Trinity County residents and financial experts. Hundreds of
community members participated, to identify healthcare needs. Measure P requires strict financial
accountability, including published, annual independent audits and oversight by citizen-elected Directors, to
monitor spending.

Measure P sunsets in 5 years. There is NO plan to keep asking for more and more taxes. All known future
costs are already included in our financial planning. To review the Hospital Business Plan visit:
www.trinitvcounty.org/departments/hospital/hospital.htm.

Measure P costs less than $10.00 per month for most homeowners. In the last 17 months our ER has saved 72
people’s lives—nearly one life per week—who likely would not have survived transport.

The fact is, if we don’t pass P, our ER will close. There will be no 24-hour doctor on duty. We urge you to
vote YES on P - the life of your neighbor or family member, or even your own, may very well depend on it.

Harold W. “Bud” Jackson, Hayfork Valley Rancher
Don & Monica Coffin, Lewiston, Small Business Owners
Elena Letton, Dawn Hospice Director & Douglas City Firefighter
Linda Scribner, Lewiston, Community Volunteer

David R. Schumaker, Superintendent, Mountain Valley Unified School District

November 4, 2008

WEAVERVILLE/DOUGLAS CITY PARKS AND RECREATION DISTRICT

MEASURE U

Shall the Weaverville/Douglas City Parks and Recreation District impose an annual special
tax of .00015 of the assessed value of each parcel of improved property within the district
boundaries as shown on the latest equalized tax roll, used only for maintenance, operation,
and upgrade of the Lowden Park pool facility?

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

TheWeaverville/Douglas City Parks and Recreation District owns and maintains the Lowden
Aquatic Park Facility. Measure U asks voters to impose a special assessment of .00015% of
the assessed value of each improved parcel within the District. The assessment would fund
maintenance, operations, and upgrades of the Lowden Aquatic Park Facility.

Per Proposition 218, Measure U requires approval by two-thirds of voters. A “yes” vote on
Measure U will allow the District to impose the .00015% special assessment on all parcels
within the District. A“no” vote will mean the District cannot impose the special assessment. If
voters reject the assessment, the District would be required to fund maintenance, operations,
and upgrades of the aquatic facility from other sources. If such alternative revenue sources
are unavailable, the District may be required to eliminate or scale back the aquatic services.

GREATER HAYFORK PARK AND RECREATION DISTRICT

MEASURE V

Shall the Greater Hayfork Valley Park and Recreation District impose a special tax of twenty
dollars ($20,00), on each parcel of property within the geographical boundaries of the Greater
Hayfork Valley Park and Recreation District as shown on the latest equalized tax roll, in addition
to the ten dollar ($10.00) tax for the Greater Hayfork Valley Park and Recreation District
currently imposed, to be used only for the special purpose of support of the Greater Hayfork
Valley Park and Recreation District and its mission of providing and maintaining swimming
and park facilities.

Property owners who own more that one parcel within the District will be assessed on only
one parcel, if the name or names of those holding title is exactly the same for each parcel.

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

The Greater Hayfork Valley Park and Recreation District currently imposes a $10 tax on all
parcels within its boundaries. Through Measure V, it seeks to impose a separate $20 special
tax on each parcel to provide and maintain swimming and park facilities.

Per Proposition 218, Measure V requires approval by two-thirds of voters. A “yes” vote on
Measure V will allow the District to impose the $20 special tax on all parcels within the District.
A“no” vote willmean the District cannot impose the special tax. If the voters reject the tax, the
District would be required to fund swimming and park facilities through alternative sources,
scale back on such services, or not provide some or all of the services.

Persons who own more than one parcel within District boundaries will be assessed the $20
special tax on only one parcel. This shall be the case, however, only if the name(s) of those
holding title on the parcels is (are) the same.