Sample Ballot

OFFICIAL BALLOT

Consolidated General Election
Riverside County
November 7, 2006

F

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

Tn:s ballot sti.b snail ae removed and related by the voter.

CITY		
CITY OF LA QUINTA		
Mayor	Vote for One	
DON ADOLPH  hCLmbent		mot
		
City Council Member	Vote for no more than Two	
TERRY B. HENDERSON  hcumoent		cm
KEN NAPPER  Executive Manager		cm
LARRYPUGHE		cm
ROBERT F. SYLK  C tv Commissioner		cm
TOM KIRK  Appointed tncumcen1		cm
		m
		a
DISTRICT		
COACHELLA VALLEY WATER DISTRICT		
Director, Division 1	Vote for One	
LEWIS DA SILVA  Accountant		cm
JOHNW. MC FADDEN  Incumbent		cm
SONJA S. MARCHAND  Public Policy Consultant		cm
		cm
Director, Division 5	Vote for One	
EDWARD MUZIK  CFO Water District		cm
RUSSELL KITAHARA  Incerncert		cm
		cm
		

33-F147-NON TURN CARD OVER	F

MEASURE(S) SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

CITY

CITY OF LA QUINTA

Shall Ordinance No 428 be adopted to
j validate, re-enact, and approve ne existing
“ transient occupancy tax rate of 11V 'or croup
noteis ana 1C: for ali other hotels as such L

Yes



No

cm

rates are established Dv the first sentence of Municipal Code
Section 3.24.030 and as group hotels are defined In
Municipal Code Section 3.24020,1. which provisions were
passed n September o< 1992 in Ordinance Nc. 2M’

33-F230-NON

TURN CARD OVER

Sample Ballot



IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE J

The purpose of Measure "J" Is to obtain voter approval of ft) the
Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) rates contained in the first sentence of
La Quinta Municipal Code Section 3.24.030 as enacted by the La Quinta
City Council in 1992 pursuant to Ordinance 211 and (ii) the definition of
arouD hotel" added to Municipal Code Section 3.24.020(1) by Ordinance
211,

Th s rrccosed measure does not alter any provisions of the TOT
Ordinance Crapter 3.24 of the Municipal Code).

TOT is imposed on persons occupying hotels and group hotels
within La Quinta for up to 30 consecutive days. The tax is calculated as a
percentage of rent charged by hotel operators. In accordance with
Ordinance 211, the City currently charges an 11% TOT for group hotels
and charges a 10% tax rate for all other hotels. Group hotels are defined
as hotels that have (i) 125 or more rooms, (ii) group meeting space for 50
or more, and (iii) on-site sales that solicit or serve group meetings.
Ordinance 211 did not amend or add other provisions to Municipal Code
Sections 3.24.020,3.24.030 or Municipal Code Chapter 3.24.

In 1986, California voters enacted Proposition 62. Proposition 62
required local governments to obtain voter approval for imposing or
increasing any general tax. Many legal experts opined that this
requirement violated the California Constitution. In 1991, the California
Court of Appeal decided City of Woodlake v. Logan, which concluded
Proposition 62's voter approval requirement was unconstitutional.

TOT has long been a major source of revenue to the City. The City
Council enacted Ordinance 211 in 1992 to do two things. First.
Ordinance 211 amended the first sentence of Municipal Code Section

3.24.030	to increase the rale of TOT to 11% from 10% for group hotels
and to maintain the established TOT at 10% for ail other hotels. Second,
Ordinance 211 amended Section 3.24.020 to add Subsection I, which is
a definition for "group hotels." Ordinance 211 was approved without
seeking voter approval.

Later, in Santa Clara County Local Transportation Authority v.
Guardino, the California Supreme Court overruled Woodlake, and
concluded that Proposition 62’s voter approval requirement was not
unconstitutional. Since then, a number of cases have decided issues
relating to whether taxes enacted before the Guardino decision were
subject to challenge.

The proposed measure, if passed, would validate, re-enact and
authorize the continued collection of TOT at the rates established by
Ordinance 21 Ts amendment to the first sentence of Municipal Code
Section 3.24.030, If passed, this measure would also validate and
re-enact the definition of “group hotel" in Municipal Code Section
3,24.020. as added by Section 2 of Ordinance 211. The proposed
measure does not effect any other provisions of the TOT Ordinance.

BY:

M. Katherine Jenson

City Attorney

City of La Quinta

The above statement is an impartial analysts of Measure “J”. If you
desire a copy of the measure, please call the City Clerk’s Office at
(760) 777-7123 and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE “J"

Two points must be clear:

■ Hotel taxes are not paid by La Quinta residents.

• This Measure does not impose new or increased taxes.

But this measure is extremely important to La Quinta's future. That is why
we urge you to VOTE YES on tnis measure.

Almost no property taxes paid by La Quinta residents go to La Quinta.
Rather, the State takes most of tne City's property taxes, leaving
La Quinta to pay bills with "Bed Taxes' and sales taxes. "Bed Taxes" are
technically called Transient Occupancy Taxes (“TOT"),

Currently, a 1992 City Ordinance imposes an 11% Bed Tax on guests
staying in group hotels (larger hotels with meeting space) and 10% for all
other hotels. Compare our rate to Palm Springs, which imposes an
11.5% Bed Tax. Our lower tax rate encourages use of our hotels over
cities with higher Bed Taxes.

Because of a recent court decision, requiring voter approval fof certain
taxes. La Quinta could have to revert to a lower Bed Tax. unless this
Measure is passed. The resulting 1 or 2% difference is money that
La Quinta badly needs to provide the existing high quality of services its
residents deserve. Some of this Bed Tax money is used to attract tourism
to La Quinta, which accordingly increases City resources because these
guests pay the Bed Tax.

Your “Yes" vote will ensure our City can adequately fund City services

that we all use.

Since 1992. all hotel users have paid a 10% or 11% Bed Tax depending
on whether they are staying in hotels or group hotels. They expect it.

Nothing changes if we pass this Measure. Taxes are not raised. But if it
fails. La Quinta could lose existing resources, if it fails, how do we recoup
these needed resources?

VOTE YES ON MEASURE “J”.

BY:	Don	Adolph,

Mayor

Lee M. Osborne,

Council member

Terry Henderson.

Council member

Stanley Sniff,

Council member

Thomas Kirk,

Council member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST FILED

33-M2

RV 230-017