<resolution> BALLOT MEASURE A
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE

DEL NORTE COUNTY ORDINANCE CODE CHAPTER 3.05
PUBLIC LIBRARY TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

The Board of Supervisors finds and declares as follows:
Whereas, the Del Norte County Library District is separate and
independent from the County-of Del Norte; and

Whereas, the Del Norte County Library District was formed by
the voters of Del Norte County as a Special District to serve all the
citizens of Del Norte County; and

Whereas, the only regular revenues to the Del Norte Library
district are a small share of property and timber taxes collected in
the county; and

Whereas, the Library District’s tax rate is fixed under proposition
13 and cannot be raised except by a vote of the people; and
Whereas, since 1992, the State of California has taken a
substantial percentage of the Library’s limited Property Tax revenue;
meanwhile, timber tax revenues have sharply declined and are not
likely to experience a significant increase; and

Whereas, a healthy, viable library is a strong indicator of
community pride and wellbeing; and

Whereas, many professionals, companies and individuals may
be influenced in their decision whether to locate in Del Norte County
by a major "quality of life" indicator like a viable library; and
Whereas, the Del Norte County Library District receives per
capita revenues of $4.36 compared to a statewide average of $42.00,
per capita, for libraries of similar size; and

Whereas, the Library District has identified improving community
services by restoring open hours at Crescent City, Smith River and
Klamath branches, restoring evening programs for adults and seniors,
promoting literacy and school readiness with the Families for Literacy,
extending services for Gasquet or Hiouchi, enhancing library access,
opening a multi-media activity center, renewing books, media and
periodicals subscriptions as major priorities for the use of additional
revenues that would be derived from a Transactions and Use Tax;
now, therefore,

The Board of Supervisors finds and declares that the amendment
of the Library Transactions and Use Tax, Chapter 3.05 of the Del
Norte County Ordinance Code, is necessary and important to the
economic development and quality of life for the people of Del Norte
County and therefore enacts as follows. <resolutionend>









<full> Sec. 3.05.010 Title.

This ordinance will be known as the ‘Del Norte County Public
Library Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.’ The transactions and
use tax provisions of this ordinance will be applicable in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of Del Norte County
(‘District’).

Sec 3.05.020 Operative Date.

Operative date means the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than one hundred ten days after the adoption of
this ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth below.
Sec 3.05.030 Purpose.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that its provisions are interpreted to accomplish
those purposes:

A.	To impose a one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) retail
transactions and use tax according to the provisions of Part
1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, and as specifically authorized by
Section 7286.59 of Part 1.7 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and
Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are consistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code;

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which
imposes a tax and provides a measure for it that the State
Board of Equalization can administer and collect in a manner
that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the

least practicable deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California Sales
and Use Taxes;

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which
can be administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest
degree practicable, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, reduce the
cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes and
simultaneously reduce the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
ordinance;

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
provides for funding public library operations within Del Norte
County. These revenues will be used only to supplement existing
expenditures for public libraries and will not be used to supplant
existing funding for the support of Del Norte County public
libraries.

Sec 3.05.040 Expenditure Plan.

The expenditure plan is designed to accomplish the specific
projects listed below with the revenues from the transactions and
use tax. The expenditure plan provides for preserving the existing
libraries, reversing the deterioration in services at the existing libraries
and upgrading their services and collections. This expenditure plan
is intended to provide Del Norte County residents with library services
that are similar to services in other communities. The specific projects
for which the revenues from the transactions and use tax will be
expended are as follows:

A.	Expanding days and/or hours the Crescent City, Smith River
and Klamath branch libraries are open;

B.	Promoting family literacy and school readiness with the Families
for Literacy;

C.	Restoring after-hours programs for adults and seniors;

D.	Making library access easier through technology and facility
enhancements;

E.	Renewing and improving the collection of books and media
accessible through Del Norte County Libraries;

F.	Opening a multimedia community activity center;

G.	Extending services for Gasquet or Hiouchi by opening a branch
or similar service; and

H.	Training, diversifying and expanding outreach to potential
contributors or volunteers.

Sec 3.05.050 Contract with State.

Before October 1, 2006, Del Norte County will contract with the
State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if Del Norte County has not contracted
with the State Board of Equalization before October 1, 2006, it will
nevertheless reach an agreement, with the operative date the first
day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of this
contract.

Sec 3.05.060 Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail,
a tax is imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory Of the District at the rate of one-quarter of
one percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the territory
on and after October 1, 2006.

Sec 3.05.070 Place of Sale.

For the purpose of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated
at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his or her agent to an
out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state
sales and use tax, despite the place to which delivery is made. In
the event a retailer has no permanent place of business, the place
or places at which the retail sales are consummated will be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.


Sec 3.05.080 Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption
in the District of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage,
use or other consumption in the territory at the rate of one-quarter
of one percent (0.25%) of the sales price of the property. The sales
price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject
to state sales or use tax despite the place to which delivery is made.
Sec 3.05.090 Adoption of Provisions of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and to the extent
that they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part I
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are adopted and incorporated by this reference.

Sec 3.05.100 Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection
of Use Taxes.

A.	In adopting the provisions of Part I of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, wherever the State of California is named
or referred to as the taxing authority, the name of this District
will be substituted for it. However, substitution will not be made
when:

1)	The word ‘State’ is used as a part of the file of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State
Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution
of the State of California;

2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against this District or any agency, officer, or
employee of it rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this ordinance;

3)	In sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California,
where the subsection would be to:

a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under
the provision of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code;

b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property
that would not be subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of that code.

4)	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in its last sentence), 6711,
6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

B.	The word ‘District’ will be substituted for the word ‘State’ in
the phrase ‘retailer engaged in business in this State’ in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Sec 3.05.110 Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been
issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, this ordinance will not require an additional transactor’s permit.
Sec 3.05.120 Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There will be excluded from the measure of the transactions
tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of
transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1)	Sales of tangible personal property other than fuel or
petroleum products to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the county in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under
the authority of the laws of California, the United States,
or any foreign government;

2)	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is
shipped to a point outside the District, pursuant to the

contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his or her agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier
for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes
of this subsection, delivery to a point outside the District
will be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration under Chapter I (commencing with
Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed according to Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under
Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840)
of the Vehicle Code, by registration to an out-of-District
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact,
his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to
a place of business out-of-District and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3)	The sale of tangible personal property by the seller is
obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price under a
contract entered into before December 1, 2006.

4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the
lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by the lease before December 1, 2006.

5)	For the purpose of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
the sale or lease of tangible personal property will be
deemed not to be obligated under a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract
or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this

ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this District

of tangible personal property:

1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject
to a transactions tax under any state administered
transactions and use tax ordinance;

2)	Other than fuel or petroleum, products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers, or persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and
necessity issued under the laws of California, the United
States or any foreign government. This exemption is in
addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for
a fixed price under a contract entered into before the
operative date of this ordinance;

4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power
over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease
which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by a lease before the
operative date of this ordinance;

5)	For the purpose of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or
exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property will be deemed not to be obligated under a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate
the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right
is exercised;

6)	Except as provided for in subsection (7), a retailer engaged
in business in the District will not be required to collect use
tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into District or
participates within the District in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to selling or receiving
the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business
of the canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the District under the authority of the retailer;

7)	'A retailer engaged in business in the District’ shall also
include any retailer of the following: vehicles subject to
registration under Chapter I (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed
according to Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of
Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle
Code. This retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel
or aircraft at an address in the District, (d) Any person
subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against
that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or a retailer
liable for a transactions tax under Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to
the person of the property, the storage use, or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Sec 3.05.130 Amendments.

All amendments after the effective date of this ordinance to Part
I of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales
and use taxes which are consistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, will automatically become a part
of this ordinance; but, no such amendment will operate to affect the
rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Sec 3.05.140 Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process
will issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the
State of California or the District, or against any officer of the State
of California or the District, to prevent or enjoin the collection under
this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.
Sec 3.05.150 Use of the Taxes.

All transactions and use taxes shall be used exclusively for
countywide library programs and operations. The total amount
collected each fiscal year shall be allocated to the Del Norte County
Library District for use for library operations and services within all
areas of the County of Del Norte. The Del Norte County Library
District shall be responsible for all fees imposed to administer this
tax.

Sec 3.05.160 Election Costs.

Payment for the costs of the election shall be the responsibility
of the Del Norte County Public Library District.

Sec 3.05.170 Implementing Policies and Regulations.

Upon approval of this ordinance by two-thirds of the voters, the
public libraries within Del Norte County may adopt policies and
regulations and take such other action as may be necessary for the
implementation of the one-quarter of one percent (0.25%)
transactions and use tax authorized by this ordinance.

Sec 3.05.180 Termination Date.

This ordinance will terminate on September 30, 2014, or eight
years after the operative date, which ever is later.

Sec 3.05.190 Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or its application to any person
or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and
the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected.

Sec 3.05.200 Effective Date.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the Del
Node County Library District transaction and use taxes and shall
take effect immediately.

If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this
ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance.
The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it would have passed
this ordinance and each section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
clauses or phrases be declared invalid. <fullend>









<impartial> Impartial Analysis by County Counsel
Measure A

Measure A asks whether the voters of Del Norte County approve
an ordinance, titled “Del Norte County Public Library Transactions and
Use Tax Ordinance,” which is printed in full in the ballot pamphlet.
Measure A is a special tax to provide the funds that can legally be
used only for public library purposes within Del Norte County, including
within the City of Crescent City. This measure would impose a 1/4 of
1% (0.25%) countywide transactions and use tax, also known as a
sales tax. If the ordinance is approved by a two-thirds vote, the
additional 1/4 percent sales tax will take effect as of October 1, 2006
and will automatically expire eight years after the tax takes effect.

Measure A is submitted to the voters under a state law authorizing
the Board of Supervisors to adopt an ordinance imposing a local
sales tax for library purposes, subject to approval of the ordinance
by two thirds of the voters. The same state law and the county
ordinance restrict the use of the sales tax revenues for public library
construction, acquisition, programs, and operations. Specific projects
funded by the sales tax shall be limited to the following:

♦	Expanding the days and/or hours the Crescent City, Smith
River and Klamath branch libraries are open;

♦	Promoting family literacy and school readiness with the Families
for Literacy;

♦	Restoring after-hours programs for adults and seniors;

♦	Making library access easier through technology and facility
enhancements;

♦	Renewing and improving the collection of books and media
accessible through Del Norte County Libraries;

♦	Opening a multimedia community activity center;

♦	Extending services for Gasquet or Hiouchi by opening a branch
or similar service; and

♦	Training, diversifying, and expanding outreach to potential
contributors or volunteers.

The total amount collected from this tax will be allocated each
year to the Del Norte County Library District to be used for the
purposes specified above. The new revenues collected from the
sales tax cannot be used to replace existing funding for the support
of local public library services. The Del Norte County Library District
will be responsible for the fees imposed to administer the tax. <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> Respectfully submitted,
si Robert N. Black

Del Norte County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

The best thing your library can be is open. Measure A will
keep our main library open 7 days a week, bring new books and
media to our shelves, and enable us to plan for library improvements
and expansion.

All money raised can only be used for Del Norte public
libraries, and this measure automatically expires after eight
years. Measure A is a good investment - on a taxable $100 purchase,
Measure A will cost just 25 cents.

The Library is a natural place for residents and tourists to seek
community information. Under Measure A, tourists will pay their
share.

Creatively using volunteers and donations, your library has
improved our children’s section, and opened branches in Klamath
and Smith River. These small improvements are not enough. Del
Norte County deserves more services than we can provide with a
budget which remains about the same as it was 25 years ago.

With Measure A, your Library will enhance literacy, and prepare
children for success in school. People who can read are better able
to keep their families healthy, and they are more successful in the
workplace. A good Library will raise property values. To reap these
benefits, your Library needs to expand literacy programs like the
Wonderbus, Families for Literacy, and the Summer Reading program.

Your yes vote on Measure A will open, expand, and improve
your Library. Open the doors seven days a week instead of four.
Expand and update our collection of books, magazines, newspapers,
DVD’s, CD’s, videos, and audio books. Expand our programs to
improve literacy. Expand our services to outlying communities.

Please help your library open these doors of opportunity.

Your vote can make the difference. Measure A needs a 2/3
majority to pass. We ask for your Yes vote on Measure A. <favorend>






<favorsigs> s/ Linda Koreski,

President of the Del Norte County Library Board of Trustees

s/Tedd Ward, M.S.,

Chair, Yes on A for Libraries Committee <favorsigsend>

