PAGE

10

CITY

INGLEWOOD CITY GENERAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

Mayor Vote for One	ROOSEVELT F. DORN 17C-*n  Mayor of the City of Inglewood C.Q0 ^ ^	
	JUDY DUNLAP 117  Inglewood City Councilwoman Co! ^ W	
	DANIEL K. TABOR 010  Retired City Councilman	
INGLEWOOD CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION		
Shall an Ordinance to impose a Vital City Services tax of one-half IT percent (0.5%) on transactions and uses in the City, with the revenue to * * provide for the welt- being and security of its residents and businesses, be adopted?		240 yes->o
		241
DISTRICT  WATER REPLENISHMENT DISTRICT OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA		
Member, Board of Directors, Division 1 Vote for One	WILLARD H. MURRAY, JR. 0/], . r ,  President, Board of Directors, Water Replenishment Dist. £44	
	DONALD ANTHONY CLYTUS 0/1C  Healthcare Consultant t4D ^	

END OF BALLOT

10-Q12E

LA 280-015

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE IT

The purpose of this proposed measure is to increase the sales and use tax in the
City of Inglewood by 0.5%. Pursuant to the terms of the proposed ordinance, the
funds would be used to enhance the City of Inglewood’s ability to provide vital
services to its residents, such as public safety, youth programs, crime reduction
programs and others. Its purpose is also to ensure that the City has the financial
means to provide for the well-being and security of its residents and businesses as
the City and the economic base grows. The City would be required to separately
account for and audit these funds annually.

Approval of this measure would increase the sales and use tax from 8.25% to
8.75%. This tax would affect all sales transactions that occur within the City, as
well as use transactions for City of Inglewood residents regardless of where the
use transaction (e.g., automobile purchase) occurs.

ANITA C. WILLIS, City Attorney

City of Inglewood

PR-900104-1

LA 280-030

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE IT

Yes on Measure IT protects and improves essential Inglewood services such as
police, fire and paramedic services; 9-1-1 response times; anti-gang and anti-drug
programs; after-school programs; library and senior programs; street and pothole
repair; park maintenance and recreation programs; graffiti removal; job training;
and economic development programs.

Yes on Measure IT gives Inglewood citizens local control - every dime generated
remains here, to maintain and improve the public safety and other services you
expect and deserve. This is not a homeowner or property tax, but a sales tax that
shoppers and visitors from outside Inglewood also pay.

Yes on Measure IT expands AFTER-SCHOOL. ANTI-GANG AND ANTI-DRUG
PROGRAMS so kids stay off the street. We must protect our children from
crime, gangs and illegal drugs.

Yes on Measure IT will expand community-based policing, put more police on
our streets, IMPROVE 9-1-1 response times, and allow better emergency
communications systems so police, firefighters and paramedics can communicate
faster during emergencies.

Measure IT ensures FISCAL ACCOUNTABILITY. All funds generated will be
deposited into a Restricted Account to ensure they’re spent properly. Annual,
independent audits will be conducted and published to the community.

Inglewood residents are not the only people who’ll pay Measure IT sales tax
increase of just 5 cents on every $10 of sales. Visitors and shoppers from nearby
communities will pay approximately one-third of funds generated by Measure IT,
to protect and improve our public safety and vital city services. Sales tax is not
applied to food, medicine, or gasoline. Isn’t 5 cents a small price to pay for our
safety? Inglewood police officers say: Yes on Measure IT improves YOUR
SAFETY.

ROOSEVELT F. DORN
Mayor of Inglewood
Superior Court Judge, Retired

KENNETH C. ULMER, Phd.

Senior Pastor-Teacher
Faithful Central Bible Church

GREG HELD

President, Inglewood Police Officers Association
Member, California Narcotics Officers Association

WANDA M. BROWN
City Tre usurer

Member, California Municipal Finance Officers Association

ELOY MORALES, JR.

Councilman, District 3

Co-Chair, Council Economic Development Committee

PR-900104-2

LA 280-031

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE IT

Say, NO to HIGHER TAXES!

Say, NO to Measure IT.

The City’s revenue has increased 45% over the last nine years—with much of
that $72 million increase coming directly from us, the residents, from escalating
taxes and higher fees.

With all that extra money coming in, why do we have fewer police, fewer
youth/senior programs, deteriorating streets and sidewalks, potholes, untrimmed
trees and less constituent services than we had nine years ago?

Mismanagement and an out-of-control bureaucracy!

The City does not need more of our money, it needs to better manage the money
it already has.

It’s just that simple!

And, while you are scrutinizing your city government, ask administration why
Inglewood is ranked #1 in California for violent crime by the FBI for medium-
sized cities—homicides, rapes, assaults.

And, ask the City why an elected official was given a Half Million Dollar loan for
30 years at 2.3% interest when these tax dollars could have been used, instead, to
pay the salaries of five police officers for one year!

And, ask the City why it ignored written warnings from the State regarding illegal
mass mailings. The failure to heed this warning cost Inglewood taxpayers $50,000

in fines.

What we need in Inglewood is leadership, accountability, enhanced expectations
and financial audits—not more money to squander.

Join your neighbors and friends and say, NO, to HIGHER TAXES.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900104-3

LA 280-032

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE IT (Continued)

Vote NO on Measure IT.

Thank-you.

JUDY DUNLAP, Councilwoman
City of Inglewood, District Two

Regional Representative, Southern California Association of
Governments

MARIA N. MARCH AND, Commissioner

Past Vice-Chair, Citizens Police Oversight Commission

City of Inglewood

NORMA J. SMITH, Commissioner

Chair, Parks-Recreation and Community Services Commission
Past President, Inglewood Council of PTA’s

MARGARET S. MILLER

Former Member, Inglewood Library Commission

Founding Member, “Committee to Save Centinela Park”

DR. SIDNEY S. RANDALL, D.C., Retired
Long-time Inglewood Resident and Taxpayer

PR-900104-4

LA 280-033

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE IT

DON’T BE FOOLED! Money raised under this new tax is subject to the political
whims of the Mayor and City Council. Not one penny is designated for Police,
Fire, Senior Services or Youth Programs.

Inglewood residents are already burdened with the HIGHEST TAXES in
Southern California.

As our property values rise, we pay more in City taxes. Homeowners pay .146
cents per hundred dollars of assessed valuation to fund employee retirement
benefits. This is an Inglewood City Council imposed tax. In 2002, when
Inglewood was already suffering a multi-million dollar deficit, the Mayor and
Council majority voted to increase employee retirement benefits by 50%. Some
employees now retire at full pay, a few make more in retirement than when they
were working. This is an unconscionable burden upon us, the taxpayers.

Homeowners pay $2 million in Special Police Assessment Taxes annually. When
voters originally approved this tax in 1988, we were told that the City was going
to hire twenty new police officers. Instead, the City uses the money to pay the
salaries of twenty officers who were already in the budget.

NO NEW POLICE were ever hired!

Every time we watch television, talk on the telephone or take a shower, City Hall
taxes us. In fiscal year 2005-2006, we were taxed $19 million.

The City’s total operating budget was $158 million in 1996-97. Now it’s $230
million—a 45% increase. City hall doesn’t need more money, it needs

leadership!

MISLEADING BALLOT LANGUAGE: What the ballot question fails to tell you
is that wherever Inglewood residents go, this tax will follow. If you go to another
city to purchase a car, you will pay more for your car than other buyers shopping
at the same dealership.

THIS IS NOT ONLY UNFAIR, IT’S POOR PUBLIC POLICY!

(Continued on next page)

PR-900104-5

LA 280-034

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE IT (Continued)

Vote NO on Measure IT

JUDY DUNLAP, Councilwoman
City of Inglewood, District Two

Regional Representative, Southern California Association of
Governments

MARIA N. MARCHAND, Commissioner

Past Vice-Chair, Citizens Police Oversight Commission

City of Inglewood

NORMA J. SMITH, Commissioner

Chair, Parks-Recreation and Community Services Commission
Past President, Inglewood Council of PTA’s

MARGARET S. MILLER

Former Member, Inglewood Library Commission
Founding Member, “Committee to Save Centinela Park”

DR. SIDNEY S. RANDALL, D.C., Retired
Long-time Inglewood Resident and Taxpayer

PR-900104-6

LA 280-035

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE IT

The opponents’ argument is deceptive. Don’t be misled! Vote yes on IT:
“Inglewood’s Future Depends on IT.”

Fact: Inglewood Police Officers Association and Crime Watch Leaders endorse
Measure IT. Inglewood’s violent crime has increased 16%. Robberies have
increased 21%. To expand community-based policing, improve 9-1-1 response
times, and create more gang/drug prevention programs, vote yes.

Fact: Opponents are misinformed - the City did hire 20 police officers, but that
was 18 years ago, and now we must improve 9-1-1 response. They also didn’t read
Measure IT, whose stated purpose is to generate funds to protect and maintain
“...vital City services to the residents of Inglewood, such as PUBLIC SAFETY,
YOUTH PROGRAMS, and CRIME REDUCTION PROGRAMS.”

Fact: Measure IT is not a homeowner or property tax. It costs just 5 cents on
every $10 of sales. Visitors from neighboring communities pay about one-third.
Measure IT doesn’t apply to groceries or prescription medicine.

Fact: Measure IT includes strict fiscal accountability requirements. Every dime
must be deposited into a Restricted Fund subject to a periodic INDEPENDENT
AUDIT, to help ensure funds are spent properly and efficiently. Audit results
must be published to the community.

Fact: The State Government has taken funds from Inglewood and other
California cities to balance the state budget. Other cities successfully
implemented similar measures to save public safety services from the budget ax -

why not Inglewood?

Join Inglewood Police Officers, Community and Business Leaders, and Local
Officials - vote YES on IT - “Inglewood’s Future Depends on IT.”

KERRY S. TRIPP

Board Member, Inglewood Police Officers Association
Member, California Gang Investigators Association

JAMES T. BUTTS, JR.

Retired Police Chief

ROLAND TALTON

President, Star One Investigations

President, Inglewood Chamber of Commerce

JAMES BURT

President, Around the Block Club
DORIS DILLON

Director of Public Relations, Inglewood Cemetery-Mortuary

Member, Inglewood Rotary Club

Board Member, Inglewood Chamber of Commerce

PR-900104-7

LA 280-036

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE IT

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF INGLEWOOD
IMPOSING A 0.5% TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR VITAL CITY
SERVICES TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF INGLEWOOD DO HEREBY ORDAIN
AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Ordinance No. 06-02, adopted by the City Council on February 28,
2006, is hereby repealed in its entirety.

Section 2. Article XVI is hereby added to Chapter 9 the Inglewood Municipal
Code, to read as follows:

“ARTICLE XVI. VITAL CITY SERVICES TRANSACTIONS AND USE
TAX.”

9-400. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Inglewood Vital City
Services Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Inglewood
hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the
incorporated territory of the City.

9-401. OPERATIVE DATE. The Operative Date of this ordinance shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the
adoption of this ordinance by the voters, the date of such adoption being as set
forth below.

9-402. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

A.	To enhance the City of Inglewood’s ability to provide vital City services to the
residents of Inglewood, such as: public safety, youth programs, crime
reduction programs and others.

B.	To ensure that the City has the financial means to provide for the well-being
and security of its residents and businesses as the City and its economic base
grows.

C.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes
the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of
the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax
at an election called for that purpose.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900104-8

LA 280-037

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE IT (Continued)

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of
California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the
requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the
State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing
statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and
Use Taxes.

F.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered
in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the
same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

9-403. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to
the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance;
provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in
such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

9-404. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible
personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of 0.5% of the gross receipts of any
retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said
territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance. The tax imposed
herein is in addition to any other transactions tax imposed by the City, the
County of Los Angeles, or the State of California.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900104-9

LA 280-038

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE IT (Continued)

9-405. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination.
The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which
delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in
the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the
retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to
be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

9-406. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other
consumption in said territory at the rate of 0.5% of the sales price of the
property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.
The tax imposed herein is in addition to any other transactions tax imposed by
the City, the County of Los Angeles, or the State of California.

9-407. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this
ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

9-408. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing
agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the
substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against
the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the
administration or operation of this Ordinance.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900104-10

LA 280-039

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE IT (Continued)

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the
substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not
otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax
by the State under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase
“retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition
of that phrase in Section 6203.

9-409. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

9-410. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or
by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform
Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax

the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in
which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft
as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of
this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900104-11

LA 280-040

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE IT (Continued)

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph,
delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels registered
under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer,
that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,

use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(Continued on next page)

PR-900104-12

LA 280-041

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE IT (Continued)

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of
such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such
property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over,
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a
contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or
lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly
or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City
under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

PR-900104-13

LA 280-042

(Continued on next page)

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE IT (Continued)

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

9-411. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of
this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating
to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment
shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

9-412. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the
State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of
tax required to be collected.

9-413. SEGREGATED FUND AND ACCOUNTABILITY. The City
Administrator or his/her designee shall create and maintain a separate fund in
the City into which the proceeds from this tax received from the State Board of
Equalization shall be deposited. The City Administrator shall, at least annually at
the conclusion of the City’s fiscal year, file a written report with the City Council
detailing the amount of funds received, the use of the funds, and any funds
remaining in the account. The separate fund shall be audited by an independent
auditor pursuant to the City’s normal timing and procedures for independent
audits of City funds.

9-414. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the
ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

9-415. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting
of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately upon its
adoption by a majority vote of the qualified electors of the City voting in an
election on the subject.

PR-900104-14

LA 280-043