ORDINANCE NO. 0-06-1188

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF SAN MARINO RE-ADOPTING AND
AMENDING THE CITY'S UTILITY USER TAX AND ESTABLISHING THE
RATE THEREOF AT AN AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED SIX PERCENT (6%)
AND AMENDING ARTICLE 03 OF CHAPTER 26 OF THE SAN MARINO
MUNICIPAL CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF SAN MARINO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Article 03 of Chapter 26 of the San Marino Municipal Code, the
existing Utility User Tax of the City of San Marino, is hereby re-adopted and amended to read as
follows:

"ARTICLE 03
UTILITY USER TAX

SECTION:

26.03.01

26.03.02

26.03.03

26.03.04

26.03.05

26.03.06

26.03.07

26.03.08

26.03.09

26.03.10

26.03.11

26.03.12

26.03.13

26.03.14

26.03.15

26.03.16

26.03.17

Title and Purpose

Definitions

Exemptions

Telecommunications User Tax
Electricity User Tax
Gas User Tax

Service Users Receiving Direct Purchase of Gas or Electricity

Water User Tax

Video User Tax

Remittance of Tax

Actions to Collect

Duty to Collect; Procedures

Additional Power and Duties of Tax Administrator

Assessment; Service User Administrative Remedy

Records

Refunds

Termination or Suspension of Utility User Tax

26.03.01:	TITLE	AND	PURPOSE:	This	Article	shall	be	known	as	the	Utility	Tax

Ordinance for the City. This Article is enacted solely to raise revenue for the general
governmental purposes of the City. All of the proceeds from the tax imposed by this Article
shall be placed in the City's General Fund and used for the usual and current expenses of the
City.

26.03.02:	DEFINITIONS: The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Article,

shall be construed as defined in this Section:

CITY:

The City of San Marino.

FRANCHISED VIDEO PROVIDER:	Any video provider that provides video services within the City pursuant to a video services franchise granted by the City.
GAS:	Natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel which may be substituted therefor.
INTRASTATE	

TELECOMMUNICATION: All telecommunications regardless of routing that either (i)

INTERSTATE	originate in the City and terminate in the state, or (ii) originate in the State and terminate in the City, where, in either instance, the service or billing address of the service user is in the City.

TELECOMMUNICATION: All telecommunications that either (i) originate in the City and

terminate in another state, or (ii) originate in another state and
terminate in the City, where, in either instance, the service or
billing of the service user is in the city.

INTERNATIONAL

TELECOMMUNICATIONS:All telecommunications that either (i) originate in the City and

terminate outside of the United States, or (ii) originate outside of

MONTH:	the United States and terminate in the City, where, in either instance, the service or billing of the service user is in the City.  A calendar month.
NON-UTILITY  SUPPLIER:	A.	A service supplier, other than an electrical corporation franchised to serve within the City, which generates electricity in capacities of 50 kilowatts, or more, for its own use or for sale to others, and shall include but is not limited to any publicly-owned electric utility, investor-owned utility, municipal utility district, federal power marketing agency, electric rural cooperative, or other supplier or seller of electricity; or,  B.	A gas supplier other than a gas corporation franchised to serve within the City, which sells or supplies gas to users within the City.
PERSON:	Any domestic or foreign corporation, firm, association, syndicate, joint stock company, partnership of any kind, joint venture, club, Massachusetts business or common law trust, society or individuals].
SERVICE SUPPLIER:	Any entity required to collect or self-impose and remit a tax as imposed by this Article.
SERVICE USER:	A person required to pay a tax imposed by this Article .
l0068-000l\902129v3.doc	2

TAX ADMINISTRATOR:	The	City	Manager	or	his	or	her	designee.

TELECOMMUN- ICATIONS SERVICES:	“Telephone communication services” shall mean any telephonic type and quality of communication including, but not limited to, that which is interconnected to the public switched network, which allows people to talk to each other without the necessity of conversing in person. In determining whether a service constitutes a telephone communication service, all technology used to transmit voice communications from one person to another shall be included irrespective of whether, for example, such technology utilizes computer processing applications on the form, code or protocol of the content of the communication or where the origination and/or termination points of the transmission, conveyance or routing are not fixed. Such means of transmission shall include, without limitation, all methods used for transmitting messages or information (including but not limited to voice, telegraph, teletypewriter, data facsimile, video, or test) by electronic, radio or similar means whether such transmission occurs by wire, cable, fiber-optic, light wave, laser, microwave, radio wave [including, but not limited to, cellular service, personal communications service (PCAS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), and other types of personal wireless service regardless of radio spectrum used], switching facilities, satellite or any other similar facilities.

TELEPHONE CORPORATION,

ELECTRICAL CORPORATION,

GAS CORPORATION, WATER

CORPORATION:	Shall	have	the	same	meanings	as	defined	in	sections	234,	218,	222

VIDEO PROVIDER:	and 241, respectively, of the California Public Utilities Code, except "electrical corporation", "gas corporation" and "water corporation" shall also be construed to include any municipality, public agency or person engaged in the selling or supplying of electrical power or gas or water to a service user.  Any person which provides one or more channels of video programming or communications (including the leasing of channel access to provide such video programming or communications) to an address in the City, including to a business, home, condominium, or apartment, where some fee is paid, whether directly or as included in dues or rental charges for that service, whether or not public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of the video programming or communications. A "video provider" includes, but is not limited to, multichannel video programming distributors [as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(12)], providers of cable television, master antenna television, satellite master antenna
10068-000l\902l29v3.doc	3

television, direct broadcast satellite, multichannel multi-point
distribution services, and other providers of video programming or
communications (including two-way communications), whatever
their technology.

VIDEO SERVICES:	Any	and all services related to the providing of video programming

(including origination programming), communications (including
two-way communications), regardless of the content of the video
programming or communications, and shall include the leasing of
channel access. "Video Services" shall not include services for
which a tax is paid under Section 26.03.04.

VIDEO SERVICES

FRANCHISE:	A franchise agreement granted by the City to a video provider for

providing video services within the City, and which requires the
video provider to pay a franchise fee to the City, which fee is billed
to the customers of the franchised video provider as part of the bill
for services.

26.03.03: EXEMPTIONS:

A.	Nothing in this Article shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any person when
imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of the Constitution or law
of the United States or that of the State of California.

B.	The tax otherwise imposed by this Article is not applicable to accredited schools and
churches.

C.	The City Council may, by order or resolution, establish one or more classes of persons or
one or more classes of utility service otherwise subject to payment of a tax imposed by
this Article and provide that such classes of persons or service shall be exempt, in whole
or in part, from such tax.

D.	The Tax Administrator shall prepare a list of the persons exempt from the provisions of
this Article by virtue of this Section and furnish a copy thereof to each service supplier.

26.03.04:	TELECOMMUNICATIONS	USER	TAX:

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person who uses any international, interstate
and/or intrastate telephone communication services in the City, other than a telephone
corporation. The tax imposed by this section shall be at a rate not to exceed six percent
(6%) of the charges made for such telephone communication services. The tax shall be
collected from the service user by the telephone communication services supplier or its
billing agent. To the extent allowed by law, the tax on telephone communication services
shall apply to a service user if the billing or service address of the service user is within
the City's boundaries, irrespective of whether a particular telephone communication
service originates and/or terminates within the City. If the billing address of the service

4

user is different from the service address, the service address of the service user shall be
used.

B.	The following shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section if any:

1.	Service paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones with respect to
local telephone service, or with respect to toll telephone service if the charge for
such toll telephone service is less than 25 cents; except that where such coin-
operated telephone service is furnished for a guaranteed amount, the amounts paid
under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other periodic charge shall be
subject to the tax.

2.	Payment received for any toll telephone service which originates within a combat
zone from a member of the Armed Forces of the United States performing service
in such combat zone, as determined under such section, provided a certificate,
setting forth such facts as the Tax Administrator may by regulations prescribe, is
furnished to the person receiving such payment.

3.	The amount paid for any toll telephone service to the extent that the amount so
paid is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph company, or radio
broadcasting station or network in the conduct of its business as such.

4.	Private mobile radio service. For purposes of this chapter “private mobile radio
service” is a radio communication service which is not a commercial mobile
service. A “mobile service” means a radio communication service carried on
between mobile stations or receivers and land stations, and by mobile stations
communicating among themselves, and includes (A) both one-way and two-way
radio communication services, (B) a mobile service which provides a regularly
interacting group of base, mobile, portable, and associated control and relay
stations (whether licensed on an individual, cooperative, or multiple basis) for
private one-way or two-way land mobile radio communications by eligible users
over designated areas of operation, and (C) any service for which a license is
required in a personal communications service established pursuant to the
proceeding entitled "Amendment to the Commission's Rules to Establish New
Personal Communications Services" (GEN Docket No. 90-314; ET Docket No.
92-100), or any successor proceeding. A “commercial mobile service is a
“mobile service” that is provided for profit and makes interconnected service
available (A) to the public or (B) to such classes of eligible users as to be
effectively available to a substantial portion of the public.

C.	The Tax Administrator may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to
telecommunication service suppliers, which are subject to the tax collection requirements
of this chapter , an administrative ruling identifying those telecommunication services
that are subject to the tax of subsection (A) above. The administrative ruling shall
implement the intent of the City Council that the telephone users tax be imposed on any
person who initiates or receives voice communications without regard to the type or kind
of transmission media or technology that exists on the date the amendments to this

5

section became effective or which may be developed in the future. The administrative
ruling shall not impose a new tax or increase an existing tax without voter approval.

D.	As used in this section, the term “charges” shall include the value of any other services,
credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service
user in exchange for the telephone communication services. If a non-taxable service and
a taxable service are billed together under a single charge, the entire charge shall be
deemed taxable unless the service supplier identifies, by verifiable data, non-taxable
charges based upon its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business,
which shall be consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. The service
supplier has the burden of proving the proper apportionment of taxable and non-taxable
charges.

E.	To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telephone communication services
subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the tax administrator that
the service user has previously paid the same tax in another state or city on such
telephone communication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed to
the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other state or city; provided,
however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the City under this
section. For purposes of establishing sufficient legal nexus for the imposition and
collection of utility users’ tax on charges for telephone communication services pursuant
to this chapter, “minimum contacts” shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition
and collection of the utility users’ tax to the fullest extent permitted by California and
federal law, and as it may change from time to time.

F.	The tax on telephone communication services imposed by this section shall be collected
from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one (1)
month shall be remitted to the tax administrator on or before the last day of the following
month; and must be received by the tax administrator on or before the last day of the
following month.

26.03.05: ELECTRICITY USER TAX:

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City, other than a gas corporation
or electrical corporation, using electrical energy in the City. The tax imposed by this
Section shall not exceed the rate of six percent (6%) of the charges made for such energy
by an electrical corporation providing service in the City and shall be billed to and paid
by the person using the energy. The tax applicable to electrical energy provided by a
nonutility supplier shall be determined by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges
the service user would have incurred if the energy used had been provided by the
electrical corporation franchised by the City. Nonutility suppliers shall install and
maintain an appropriate utility-type metering system which will enable compliance with
this Section. "Charges", as used in this Section, shall include charges made for: 1)
metered energy and 2) minimum charges for service, including customer charges, service
charges, demand charges, standby charges and all other annual and monthly charges, fuel
or other cost adjustments authorized by the California Public Utilities Commission or the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

6

B.	As used in this Section, the term "using electrical energy" shall not be construed to mean
the storage of such energy by a person in a battery owned or possessed by him for use in
an automobile or other machinery device apart from the premises upon which the energy
was received; provided, however, that the term shall include the receiving of such energy
for the purpose of using it in the charging of batteries nor shall the term include
electricity used and consumed by an electric utility supplier in the conduct of its business
as an electric public utility nor shall the term include the mere receiving of such energy
by an electric public utility or governmental agency at a point within the City for resale or
the use of such energy in the production or distribution of water by a public utility or
governmental agency.

C.	The tax imposed in this Section shall be collected from the service user by any energy
service supplier or nonutility supplier. The tax imposed by this Section on use supplied
by self-generation or from a nonutility supplier not subject to the jurisdiction of this
Article shall be collected and remitted to the Tax Administrator in the manner set forth in
Section 26.03.07 of this Article. The amount of tax collected by a service supplier or a
nonutility supplier in one month shall be remitted by United States mail to the Tax
Administrator, postmarked on or before the last day of the following month, or at the
option of the person required to collect and remit the tax, an estimated amount of tax
measured by the tax billed in the previous month and payment patterns of the person's
customers shall be remitted by U.S. mail to the Tax Administrator, postmarked on or
before the last day of each month.

D.	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A above, if the amount paid by a service
user is less than the full amount of the energy charge and tax which has accrued for the
billing period, such amount and any subsequent payments by a service user shall be
applied to the energy charge first until such charge has been fully satisfied. Any
remaining balance shall be applied to taxes due.

26.03.06: GAS USER TAX:

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City, other than a gas corporation
or electrical corporation, using, in the City, gas which is transported through mains or
pipes. The tax imposed by this Section shall not exceed the rate of six percent (6%) of
the charges made for such gas and shall be billed to and paid by the person paying for
such gas. The tax applicable to gas or gas transportation provided by nonutility suppliers
shall be determined by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service user
would have incurred if the gas or gas transportation had been provided by the gas
corporation franchised by the City. "Charges", as used in this Section, shall include: 1)
the amount billed for gas which is delivered through mains or pipes; 2) gas transportation
charges; and 3) demand charges, service charges, customer charges, minimum charges,
annual and monthly charges and any other charge authorized by the California Public
Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

B.	The tax otherwise imposed by this Section is not applicable to: 1) charges made for gas
which is to be resold and delivered through mains and pipes; 2) charges made for gas sold
for use in the generation of electrical energy or for the production or distribution of water

7

10068-0001\902129v3.doc

by a public utility or governmental agency; 3) charges made by a gas public utility for gas
used and consumed in the conduct of the business of gas public utilities; 4) charges made
for gas used in the propulsion of a motor vehicle, as that phrase is defined in the Vehicle
Code of the State, utilizing natural gas; 5) charges related to late payments and returned
checks; and 6) charges made for gas used by a nonutility supplier to generate electrical
energy for its own use or for sale to others, provided the electricity so generated is subject
to the tax in accordance with Section 26.03.05 of this Article.

C.	Tax imposed in this Section shall be collected from the service user by the person selling
or transporting the gas. A person selling only transportation services to a user for
delivery of gas through mains or pipes shall collect the tax from the service user based on
the transportation charges. The person selling or transporting the gas shall, on or before
the twentieth of each calendar month, commencing on the twentieth day of the calendar
month after the effective date of this part, make a return to the Tax Administrator stating
the amount of taxes billed during the preceding calendar month. At the time such returns
are fded, the person selling or transporting the gas shall remit tax payments to the Tax
Administrator in accordance with schedules established or approved by the Tax
Administrator.

D.	The tax imposed in this Section on gas supplied by self-production or a nonutility
supplier not subject to the jurisdiction of this Article shall be collected and remitted to the
Tax Administrator in the manner set forth in Section 26.03.07 of this Article.

26.03.07:	SERVICE USERS RECEIVING DIRECT PURCHASE OF GAS OR

ELECTRICITY:

A.	Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article, a service user receiving gas or
electricity directly from a nonutility supplier not under the jurisdiction of this Article or
otherwise not having the full tax due on the use of gas or electricity in the City directly
billed and collected by the service supplier shall report said fact to the Tax Administrator
within thirty (30) days of said use and shall directly remit to the City the amount of tax
due.

B.	The Tax Administrator may require said service user to provide, subject to audit, filed tax
returns or other satisfactory evidence documenting the quantity of gas or electricity used
and the price thereof.

26.03.08:	WATER USER TAX:

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using water which is
delivered through mains or pipes. The tax imposed by this Section shall not exceed six
percent (6%) of the charges made for such water and shall be paid by the person paying
for such water.

B.	There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this Section is
computed charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered through mains or
pipes and charges made by a municipal water department, public utility or a city or

8

municipal water district for water used and consumed by such department, utility or
district.

C.	The tax imposed in this Section shall be collected from the service user by the person
supplying the water. The amount collected in one month shall be remitted to the Tax
Administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

26.03.09:	VIDEO	USER	TAX:

A.	There is hereby imposed a tax upon every person in the City using video services from a
video provider. The tax imposed by this Section shall not exceed the rate of six percent
(6%) of the charges made for such service and shall be paid by the person paying for such
service; provided, however, that the tax imposed by this section on any person using
video services provided by a franchised video provider shall be at a rate equal to the
existing video user tax rate minus the percentage rate set out in the applicable video
services franchise which establishes a franchise fee. The term "charges" shall include
charges for leased assess channels and origination programming, which are transmitted to
video users in the City, and shall also include the value of any other services, credits,
property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the service user in
exchange for the video services.

B.	The tax imposed in this Section shall be collected from the service user by the person
furnishing the video services. The amount collected in one month shall be remitted to the
Tax Administrator on or before the last day of the following month.

26.03.10:	REMITTANCE	OF TAX: Taxes collected from a service user which are not

remitted to the Tax Administrator on or before the due dates provided in this Article are
delinquent. Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return may be
postmarked on the first regular working day following a Saturday/Sunday or legal holiday.

26.03.11:	ACTIONS TO COLLECT: Any tax required to be paid by a service user under

the provisions of this Article shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the City. Any
such tax collected from a service user which has willfully been withheld from the Tax
Administrator shall be deemed a debt owed to the City by the person required to collect and
remit. Any person owing money to the City under the provisions of this Article shall be liable to
an action brought in the name of the City for the recovery of such amount.

26.03.12:	DUTY	TO	COLLECT;	PROCEDURES:	The duty to collect and remit the taxes

imposed by this Article shall be performed as follows:

A.	Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 26.03.07 of this Article, the tax shall be

collected, insofar as practicable, at the same time as and along with the charges made in
accordance with the regular billing practices of the service supplier. Where the amount
paid by a service user to a service supplier is less than the full amount of the service
charge and tax which has accrued for the billing period, such amount and any subsequent
payments by a service user shall be applied to the utility charge first until such charge has
been fully satisfied. Any remaining balance shall be applied to taxes due. In those cases

9

10068-000l\902l29v3.doc

where a service user has notified the service supplier of his/her refusal to pay the tax
imposed on said energy charges, Section 26.03.14 of this Article shall apply.

B.	The duty to collect tax from a service user shall commence with the beginning of the first
full regular billing period applicable to the service user where all charges normally
included in such regular billing are subject to the provisions of this Article. Where a
person receives more than one billing, one or more being for different periods than
another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing.

26.03.13:	ADDITIONAL	POWER	AND	DUTIES OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR:

A.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty and is hereby directed to enforce
each and all of the provisions of this Article.

B.	The Tax Administrator shall have the power to adopt rules and regulations not
inconsistent with provisions of this Article for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing
the payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such rules
and regulations shall be on file in the Tax Administrator's office.

C.	The Tax Administrator may make administrative agreements to vary the strict
requirements of this Article so that collection of any tax imposed here may be made in
conformance with the billing procedures of particular service supplier so long as said
agreements result in collection of the tax in conformance with the general purpose and
scope of this Article. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the Tax
Administrator's office.

D.	The Tax Administrator shall detennine the eligibility of any person who asserts a right to
exemption from the tax imposed by this Article. The Tax Administrator shall provide the
service supplier with the name of any person who the Tax Administrator determines is
exempt from the tax imposed hereby, together with the address and account number to
which service is supplied to any such exempt person. The Tax Administrator shall notify
the service supplier of tennination of any person's right to exemption hereunder or the
change of any address to which service is supplied to any exempt person.

E.	The Tax Administrator shall provide notice to all service suppliers at least ninety (90)
days prior to any annexation or other change in the City's boundaries. Said notice shall
set forth the revised boundaries by street and address, along with a copy of the final
annexation order from the Los Angeles County Local Agency Formation Commission.

26.03.14:	ASSESSMENT;	SERVICE	USER	ADMINISTRATIVE	REMEDY:

A.	The Tax Administrator may make an assessment for taxes not remitted by a person
required to remit.

B.	Whenever the Tax Administrator detennines that a service user has deliberately withheld
the amount of the tax owed by him/her from the amounts remitted to a person required to
collect the tax or that a service user has refused to pay the amount of tax to such person
or whenever the Tax Administrator deems it in the best interest of the City, he/she may

relieve such service supplier of the obligation to collect taxes due under this Article from
certain named service users for specified billing periods.

C.	The service supplier shall provide the City with amounts refused and/or unpaid along
with the names and addresses of the service users neglecting to pay the tax imposed
under provisions of this Article. Whenever the service user has failed to pay the amount
of tax for a period of two (2) or more billing periods, the services supplier shall be
relieved of the obligation to collect taxes due.

D.	The Tax Administrator shall notify the service user that he/she assumed responsibility to
collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes. The
notice shall be served on the service user by handing it to him/her personally or by
deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the
service user at the address to which billing was made by the person required to collect the
tax or, should the service user have changed his/her address, to his/her last known
address. If a service user fails to remit the tax to the Tax Administrator within fifteen
(15) days from the date of the service of the notice upon him/her, which shall be the date
of mailing if service is not accomplished in person, a penalty of twenty five percent
(25%) of the amount of the tax set forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than
five dollars ($5.00). The penalty shall become part of the tax herein required to be paid.

26.03.15:	RECORDS:	It	shall be the duty of every person required to collect and remit to

the City any tax imposed by this Article to keep and preserve, for a period of three (3) years, all
records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he/she may have been liable
for the remittance to the Tax Administrator, which records the Tax Administrator shall have the
right to inspect at all reasonable times.

26.03.16:	REFUNDS:

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the Tax Administrator under this Article,
it may be refunded by the City as provided in this Section.

B.	Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this Section, a service supplier may
claim a refund or take as credit against taxes remitted the amount overpaid, paid more
than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established that the
service user from whom the tax has been collected did not owe the tax; provided,
however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax
erroneously or illegally collected has either been refunded to the service user or credited
to charges subsequently payable by the service user to the person required to collect and
remit. A service supplier that has collected any amount of tax in excess of the amount of
tax imposed by this Article and actually due from a service user may refund such amount
to the service user and claim credit for such overpayment against the amount of tax which
is due upon any other monthly returns, provided such credit is claimed in a return dated
no later than three (3) years from the date of overpayment.

11

C.	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this Section unless the claimant
establishes his/her right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto.

D.	Notwithstanding other provisions of this Section, whenever a service supplier, pursuant
to an order of the California Public Utilities Commission or a court of competent
jurisdiction, makes a refund to service users of charges for past utility services, the taxes
paid pursuant to this Article on the amount of such refunded charges shall also be
refunded to service user, and the service supplier shall be entitled to claim a credit for
such refunded taxes against the amount of tax which is due upon the next monthly
returns. In the event this Article is repealed, the amounts of any refundable taxes will be
borne by the City.

E.	A service supplier may refund the taxes collected to the service user in accordance with
this Section or by the service supplier's customary practice.

26.03.17:	TERMINATION	OR	SUSPENSION OF UTILITY USER TAX: This ordinance

shall be automatically repealed, and the tax no longer collected, as of March 31, 2017, if not
repealed earlier by the City Council. Each service supplier shall, upon notification, terminate or
suspend any utility user tax commencing with the first full billing period which occurs after the
effective date of such action by the City Council.

Section 2. Amendment and Repeal. Notwithstanding Section 9217 of the California
Elections Code, the City Council may, without a vote of the electorate, repeal or amend all or
any portion of this ordinance if the City Council finds that such action furthers the puipose of the
ordinance or may modify or reduce the rate of the tax collected pursuant thereto. The rate of tax
imposed pursuant to this ordinance shall not exceed six percent 6% of the charges for each utility
service without approval by a majority of the voters voting in an election on the increase.

Section 3. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of
this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this Ordinance shall nonetheless remain in full force and
effect. The people of the City of San Marino hereby declare that they would have adopted each
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this Ordinance, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses, phrases, or portions of this
Ordinance be declared invalid or unenforceable.

Section 4. Execution. The Mayor is hereby authorized to attest to the adoption of this
Ordinance by signing where indicated below.

I hereby certify that the foregoing ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED and
ADOPTED by the people of the City of San Marino vohpg-gi^ the 7th day of Noven^r, 2006.

MATTHEW LIN, M.D., MAYOR

ATTEST:

CAROL A. ROBB, MMC, CITY CLERK

12

I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing Ordinance No.. 0-06-1188, was adopted by the City
Council of the City of San Marino at an Adjourned Regular Meeting of the City Council held on
the 28th day of July, 2006, by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS BAYLE, BROWN, FILUTZE, VICE MAYOR TWIST,

AND MAYOR LIN.

NOES:	NONE

ABSENT:	NONE

CAROL A. ROBB, MMC
CITY CLERK

10068-0001\902129v3 doc

13