
<impartial> County Counsel’s Impartial Analysis of
Measure H

The Sierra County Board of Supervisors has adopted
Ordinance No. 972, to amend the provisions of the Sierra
County Code pertaining to Transient Occupancy Taxes
(referred to as the TOT tax). Under the existing provisions
of Chapter 5.20 of the County Code, a transient occupancy
tax is assessed against persons who stay in lodging in the
County for less than 31 consecutive days. The tax applies
to guests in hotels, motels, bed and breakfast inns, private
campgrounds, recreational vehicle parks and other similar
establishments that provide lodging for people on a
transient basis. The current provisions of the County Code
exempt people staying in federal and state campgrounds
from paying the TOT tax unless the campgrounds are
operated by a private concessionaire. Ordinance No. 972,
will, if approved by the voters, amend the County Code to
require the payment of the TOT tax for people staying in
campgrounds and other property owned by the federal
government, irrespective of whether run by a
concessionaire or by the government. The TOT tax will be
in the amount of ten percent of the rent charged.

This measure requires the approval by majority of the
voters voting on the measure in order for Ordinance No.
972 to become effective. <impartialend>





<impartialsigs> /s/ James A. Curtis
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>





<fiscal> Sierra County Auditor’s Impartial Financial Analysis of
Measure H

This proposed ordinance equalizes the cost between
federally managed camping facilities and privately
managed camping facilities. This proposed ordinance
would only increase the current revenue to the county
minimally. If the proposed ordinance is not approved by the
voters the affect could be a loss of revenue to the county.
Currently the county is unable to collect the transient
occupancy tax from the federal government. However;
when camping facilities are managed by private entities the
tax is collected and deposited with the county. If private
entities are no longer used to manage the federal camping
facilities the county would be unable to collect the transient
occupancy tax directly from the federal government, unless
this ordinance is adopted by the voters. The amount of
transient occupancy tax collected from privately managed
federal camping facilities for the past three years has been
$36,072.00 in 2002/2003; $41,995.00 in 2003/2004 and
$38,657.00 in 2004/2005. <fiscalend>





<fiscalsigs> s/ Van Maddox
County Auditor <fiscalsigsend>




<resolution> Resolution No. 2006-

BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
COUNTY OF SIERRA
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

IN THE MATTER OF CALLING AN ELECTION
PERTAINING TO THE APPLICATION OF TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAXES

TO FEDERAL CAMPGROUNDS

RESOLUTION 2006- 031

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors has adopted Ordinance No. Q72 providing for
an amendment of the existing Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) to provide that the taxes will be
levied against federal campgrounds and lodging on federal property; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the requirements of state law, the provisions of Ordinance No.
972 are effective only if approved by the electorate;

WHEREAS, the Board of Supervisors has elected to call an election for a vote on the
application of Transient Occupancy Taxes to federally owned campgrounds and properties; and

WHEREAS, the election should be consolidated with general election to be held on June
6, 2006, to save election costs; and

WHEREAS, such an election would provide the voters of Sierra County an opportunity
to voice their wishes to the Sierra County Board of Supervisois,

NOW, THEREFORE, BE RESOLVED that:

1.	An election is hereby called for a vote on the application of Transient Occupancy Taxes
to Federal Campgrounds.

2.	Said election shall be consolidated with the gubernatorial primary election to be held on
June 6, 2006. This election shall be conducted and canvassed in the same manner as the
statewide election.

3.	The question that shall appear on the ballot shall read as follows:

Shall the Sierra County Transient Occupancy Tax be applied to
federally owned campgrounds and other properties that are
occupied for transient lodging, as provided for in Sierra County
Ordinance No._____?

Yes____	No

Resolution No. 2006-	1

ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Sierra, State of California on
the 7th day of February, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES:	Supervisors	Gutman,	Nunes,	Mitchell	and	Whitley

NOES: None
ABSTAIN: None

ABSENT:	Supervisor	Huebner

COUNTY OF SIERRA

ATTEST:

<resolutionend>





<full> BOARD OF SUPERVISORS
COUNTY OF SIERRA
STATE OF CALIFORNIA

ORDINANCE NO. 972

Amending Section 5.20.040 of the Sierra County Code
Pertaining to the Application of Transient Occupancy Taxes
to Lodging Operated by Federal Government

THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF SIERRA ORDAINS as follows:
Ordinance Section One:

Section 5.20.040 of the Sierra County Code is amended to read:

5.20.040 Exemptions

(a)	No tax shall be imposed upon the following transients:

1.	Any person, or upon the privilege of any occupancy, if it is beyond the
power of the County to impose the tax provided in this chapter;

2.	Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason
or express provision of federal law or international treaty;

3.	Employees of federal, state, county and other governmental entities shall
not be exempt from the payment of this tax.

(b)	No exemption of transients shall be granted except upon a claim for exemption
made at the time rent is collected, and under penalty of perjury, upon a form
prescribed by the tax collector.

(c)	No occupancy of the following classifications of lodgings shall be subject to the
tax:

1.	An "organized camp" as defined in Section 18897 of the California Health
and Safety Code.

2.	Housing operated by or used exclusively for religious, charitable or
educational purposes by any organization which has obtained exemption

from property taxes under the laws of California for the period the tax
would otherwise be imposed.

3.	Any State campground operated by the State government.
(Concessionaires operating State campgrounds are subject to the tax).

Ordinance Section Two:

The provisions of Section One of this ordinance shall not become effective until approved by a
majority vote of the voters voting thereon at a duly called election, in accordance with the
applicable provisions of state law. The Board shall call an election on the question of the
approval of the extension of said taxes to lodgings operated by federal government. In calling an
election, the Board shall be authorized to submit the question of the approval of Section One of
this Ordinance to the voters as a ballot measure.

Ordinance Section Three:

Application of Transient Occupancy Taxes to Lodging Operated by Federal Government will
become effective July 1, 2006 upon acceptance by the Board of the certified election results of
the General Statewide Election to be held June 6, 2006, which results show an affirmative vote
of a majority of the votes cast by the County electorate.

Ordinance Section Four:

This ordinance shall take effect as described in Ordinance Section Three. Before the expiration
of fifteen (15) days after certification of the aforementioned election results, if this Ordinance is
approved by a majority of the electorate of the County, this Ordinance shall be published once
with the names of the members of the Board of Supervisors, voting for and against the ordinance
in the Mountain Messenger, a newspaper of general circulation published in the County of
Sierra, State of California.

Ord. 972

Ordinance No. 972
Page 3

Introduced at a regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors held on the 7th day of February 2006,
and passed and adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Sierra, State of California,

on the 21st day of February, 2006 by the following roll call vote, to-wit:

AYES:	Supervisors Gutman, Huebner, Nunes, Mitchell and Whitley

NOES:	None

ABSTAIN: None
ABSENT: None

CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF SUPERVISORS

ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO FORM:

JAP	CURTIS

CO	COUNSEL <fullend>