Sample Ballot

■■

c

OFFICIAL BALLOT

NONPARTISAN BALLOT
Lake County

June 6, 2006

The ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS		
CITY		
CITY OF CLEARLAKE		
TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX i FOR ROAD MAINTENANCE. Shall the City of L Cleartake impose a retail transactions and use (sales) tax at the rate of one-halt of one percent 10 50%) within the City lor a twenty (20) vear period to be for the rehabllitatxxi and mamtena nee of streets and road other transportation services, and shall the appropriation for One City of QeariaVe for roadway repax and mainter be increased for Fecal Year 2006-2007 by the amount tax proceeds received by the C*y dunng that period?	Yes	■=»
	No	cm
	used sand s limit lance of the	
M Shall the office of city derk be appointive?	Yes	cm
	No	a
N Shall the office of city treasurer be appointive?	Yes	t=>
	No	cm
		

17-C017-NON TURN CARD OVER	C

This page was intentionally left blank. Examine both sides of each card for voting opportunities.		
17-N999 TURN CARD OVER		n|

17SB9

Sample Ballot

ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS

_____________________________ CITY ___________________________________________

CITY OF CLEARLAKE

____________________________________MEASURE	L_________________________________

TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX FOR ROAD MAINTENANCE

Shall the City of Clearlake impose a retail transactions and use (sales) tax at the rate of one-half of
one percent (0.50%) within the City for a twenty (20) year period to be used for the rehabilitation and main-
tenance of streets and roads and other transportation services, and shall the appropriations limit for the
City of Clearlake for roadway repair and maintenance be increased for Fiscal Year 2006-2007 by the
amount of the tax proceeds received by the City during that period.

Yes____ No.

IMPARTIAL CITY ATTORNEY ANALYSIS
MEASURE “L”
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX FOR ROAD
MAINTENANCE

The City Council of the City of Clearlake has called
a special election and placed this measure on the June
6, 2006 ballot to ask the voters to approve an ordinance
that would enact a temporary twenty (20) year, one-half
of one percent (0.50%) transactions and use tax within
the City of Clearlake, to be used for road maintenance.
This would be the equivalent of a half-cent tax on an item
that costs a dollar, or fifty cents on an item that costs
$100.

The current sales and use tax rate in the City is
7.75%. The tax rate is divided as follows: 6.25% goes to
the State, 0.25% goes to Lake County, and 1.25% goes
to the City. Of the portion received by the City, 0.50% is
earmarked solely for public safety pursuant to a local ini-
tiative passed by the voters of Clearlake in 1996. The
transactions and use tax, like the sales and use tax,
would be levied on the sale or use of tangible personal
property sold at retail. Accordingly, the total tax rate for
taxable purchases in the City would increase to 8.25%,
1.75% of which would go to the City, if the voters
approved the measure.

As proposed, the tax would sunset on its 20th
anniversary, unless extended by the voters.

This tax is a “special tax” rather than a “general tax.”
The revenue generated from the proposed tax would be
deposited into a special fund separate from the general
fund, and the proceeds could be used solely for road and
street maintenance pursuant to an Expenditure Plan
adopted by the Clearlake City Council. The Expenditure
Plan is available for review at Clearlake City Hall, and
sets forth specifically how the proceeds of the tax will be
spent for road maintenance. The Expenditure Plan
adopted by the City Council covers the first five years of
expenditures of tax proceeds, and the Expenditure Plan
may be amended once each year, through an ordinance
- of the Clearlake City Council following a duly noticed
public hearing.

A “yes” vote is a vote to approve the ordinance levy-
ing the one-half of one percent (0.50%) transactions and
use tax for 20 years, the proceeds to be used for road
maintenance. A “yes” vote would also increase the City’s
appropriations limit for fiscal year 2006-2007 by the
amount of tax proceeds received by the City for that peri-
od, as required by the California Constitution, to enable
the City to expend the proceeds of the tax. A “no” vote is
a vote against the tax.

Measure L would be approved if it receives “yes”
votes from at least two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on
this measure at the June 6, 2006 special election.

Date: March 21,2006

si Ian E. McLaughlin
City Attorney

PRIMARY AND REBUTTAL ARGUMENTS “FOR AND
AGAINST” MEASURE L FOLLOWING THIS PAGE.

If you desire a complete copy of Resolution No. 07-
2006, please call the Lake County Registrar of Voters
office at 263-2372 and a copy will be mailed to you at
no cost.

17L1

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE L

The majority of the street system in.the City of
Clearlake was constructed to the standards and condi-
tions of the 1930 and 1940 era and is unable to meet
today’s traffic demands,

A pavement management study was recently com-
pleted for Clearlake’s street system. The report cited that
Clearlake streets have the lowest pavement condition
rating of any city they have evaluated. The average
pavement condition rating for the city’s streets was 38 on
a 100 point scale.

The needed improvements and maintenance on the
City of Clearlake streets far exceed the available rev-
enues for the activities. Using revenue figures from
Clearlake’s existing 1/2 cent sales tax for police services,
this may produce revenues of approximately $600,000
annually.

The Tax Expenditure Plan will cover a 20-year
period, which will be broken down into five year planning
segments. The initial years are proposed to be devoted
to the rehabilitation of the major arterial streets within the
City of Clearlake, along with a major effort to repair and
patch the local paved streets as well as the re-grading of
the unimproved streets. In addition 5% of the sales tax
would be set aside to purchase equipment used in the
maintenance of the City’s street system.

Proceeds of the tax shall be deposited in a special
fund separate from the general fund. The City intends the
additional funds provided by this tax will supplement
existing local revenues being used for transportation pur-
poses. The City shall maintain their existing commitment
of local funds for street maintenance.

Visitors and people who come to Clearlake to shop
will help to pay for improvements to the city’s streets with
the 1/2 cent sales tax.

s/ Charles J. Leonard, Jr.
s/ Virginia Ellis Vallot
si Courtlandt M. Giambruno
s/ Jo Bennett
si Rozann Cheek

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE L

The argument in favor of Measure L does not make
it clear how little this sales tax would accomplish.
However, the Expenditure Plan makes it clear that the
amount of sales tax collected will only catch up on
“deferred maintenance" over a long period of time. In
fact, for several years they only intend to work on the
“major arterial streets.” These are the few streets that
move traffic from one part of town to another.

The sales tax is a distraction. Serious roadwork,
including all those dirt and abandoned roads, is only
going to happen with the serious money brought in with
assessment districts. This means there will be some
areas that the residents may not choose to pave or
improve. That is their right.

The stopgap maintenance that the Expenditure Plan
proposes is more fairly performed with a local gas tax at
the pumps. This is a true “use tax.” The people who can-
not afford to drive won’t be paying it. Visitors will pay a
gas tax also. Visitors rarely come to Clearlake To shop.”

The unfairness of imposing a regressive sales tax
for roads as well as the more equitable alternatives of
assessment districts and gas taxes were covered during
the last attempt to get a little subsidy from those strug-
gling to make ends meet. No attempt has been made to
publicly address these issues by the proponents of the
current sales tax since then. It’s still a bad idea. Vote
“No” on Measure “L.”

si Dante DeAmicis

17L2

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE L

Measure L fails to address Clearlake’s major road
problems but does punish those who cannot afford the
sales tax or its effects,

A sales tax will not pave any of the 49 miles of dirt
roads in Clearlake. Only assessment districts will do that.
Nor will a sales tax fix any of the potholed paved roads
that the City refused to accept responsibility for upon its
incorporation. However, the residents on these neglected
roads will pay the sales tax to fix the streets of a favored
few.

A sales tax will hit those on low fixed incomes hard-
est because they pay their tax plus the taxes of others
passed down through higher prices. It will raise their
rents in market housing since improved roads raise prop-
erty values and rents are a function of property values.

At the same time, our new, wealthier commuter
class will continue to drop much of their sales tax in Napa
or Sonoma where they work while reaping the benefits of
sales taxes squeezed out of the poor suckers who live
and work in Clearlake.

We should not be taxing renters to subsidize proper-
ty owners. If paved roads are important enough in a giv-
en neighborhood then the property owners and renters
can pay their cost by voting for an assessment district.
Clearlake has already developed a system of neighbor-
hood districts that residents can vote yes or no on. Why
aren’t we voting on them?

It will not serve Clearlake well to improve a few of its
roads if it means increasing social problems due to
reducing the standard of living of our less propertied citi-
zens. Tell the sales tax backers to come back with
assessment districts. Vote “NO” on Measure “L.”

s/ Dante DeAmicis

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE L

The Argument Against Measure L is correct when it
states that the tax will not be used to pave dirt roads. The
expenditure program spells out how the funds are to be
spent. The funds will not be spent on private roads or dirt
roads.

The tax will not effect low income citizens the most
because most of their money is spent on non taxable
items such as food, medicine and rent or house pay-
ments. Contrary to The Argument Against Measure L
everyone pays their own sales tax.

The Argument Against Measure L states that
improved streets will increase property values. We agree.
Improving the city is a positive not a negative.

People will buy items out of the City but visitors and
shoppers from outside of the City will pay the tax to
improve the roads they drive on.

Measure L will not tax renters to subsidize property
owners. The funds will not be used to pave new roads.

Improving the conditions of the City streets will not
reduce the standard of living for anyone. Improving the

City is a	benefit to everyone.
s /	Charles J. Leonard, Jr.
s /	Virginia Ellis Vallot
s/	Courtlandt M. Giambruno
s/	Jo Bennett
s/	Rozann Cheek

17L3

CITY OF CLEARLAKE

ORDINANCE NO. 118-2006

ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CLEARLAKE IMPOSING A
TRANSACTION AND USE TAX FOR STREET AND ROAD MAINTENANCE

FINDINGS:

a.	The transportation system in the City of Clearlake is rapidly deteriorating and in immediate need of
maintenance throughout the City. Maintenance and repair of existing roadways cannot be accomplished
with available funds, which are already stretched beyond their availability.

b.	Without additional funds, the road and street system will crumble into permanent disrepair.

Existing revenues are inadequate and competition for ftmds is increasing. Local governments must either
generate revenues to maintain our investments or watch the system collapse and endanger the health,
welfare and safety of Clearlake residents.

c.	Approval of a one-half cent sales tax for transportation to supplement traditional revenues for
transportation will benefit the city’s maintained road system. The sales tax set forth in this ordinance will be
used solely for maintenance of existing roadways, streets, bridges and bicycle and pedestrian facilities in
the City, and is intended to supplement other revenues that will continue to be used for the same purpose.

d.	A sales tax for road maintenance requires a vote of the residents of the City, and requires a 2/3
majority to pass. This ordinance, along with the Expenditure Plan for use of the proceeds of the tax, must
be adopted and approved as to form by a 2/3 majority of the City Council, but will not take effect without
approval by a 2/3 majority of the voters.

e.	The City of Clearlake will continue to seek maximum funding for transportation improvements
through State and Federal programs. The revenues currently used for street and road maintenance will
continue to be used for street and road maintenance.

THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF CLEARLAKE DO HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. TITLE AND SUMMARY. This ordinance shall be known as the “City of Clearlake Road
Maintenance Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance." The City of Clearlake hereinafter shall be referred to
as "City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

This Ordinance provides for the imposition of a retail transaction and use tax of one-half percent for a
period of twenty (20) years, and the administration of the tax proceeds and a transportation expenditure
plan.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the Effective Date as set forth in Section 21 of this Ordinance.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

1

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisbns of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of
Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if two-
thirds of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical
to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure, therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that
adapts itself as tolly as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California
State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner
that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time,
minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board
of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative
date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a
tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one
percent (0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his
agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state
sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at
which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed
and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this
ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent
(0.50%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges
are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

2

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this
ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set
forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In
adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or
any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing
the functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision
of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in

business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactors permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of
any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to
the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or
use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts

from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and

3

exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the
City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the
retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-
of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address
is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from
lhat address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for
a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property,
for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease
prior to the operative dale of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease
upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under
any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity Issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to
the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the Stale of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to
a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of
time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses
the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

\ D. Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale
to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. USE OF PROCEEDS. Proceeds of the City of Clearlake Road Maintenance Transactions
and Use Tax shall be deposited in a special fund separate from the general fund and may only be used for
maintenance and repair of streets, roads, bridges, and bicycle and pedestrian facilities, and for purchase of
equipment and other directly related expenditures, pursuant to the City of Clearlake Road Maintenance
Transactions and Use Tax Expenditure Plan, which is attached to this Ordinance as Exhibit A and
incorporated herein by reference, and for administration and legal actions related thereto.

Section 13. MAINTENANCE OF EFFORT. The City, by the enactment of this Ordinance, intends the
additional funds provided by this Transactions and Use Tax will supplement existing local revenues being
used for transportation purposes. The City shall maintain their existing commitment of local funds for
street maintenance purposes pursuant to this Ordinance.

Section 14. COLLECTION AND ALLOCATION OF FUNDS: The City shall administer the City of
Clearlake Road Maintenance Transactions and Use Tax Expenditure Plan consistent with the authority
cited herein, and shall allocate proceeds of the Road Maintenance Transactions and Use Tax solely for
those purposes.

Section 15. ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS. The City shall expend only that amount of the funds generated
from the Transactions and Use Tax for audit, administrative expenses, and other services that are
necessary and reasonable to carry out its responsibilities.

Section 16. PUBLICATION OF NOTICE. Within fifteen (15) days after adoption of the ordinance, a copy
of the ordinance and a summary of this ordinance shall be published once in a newspaper of general
circulation with the City of Clearlake, with the names of the members of the City Council who voted in favor
of the ordinance and the names of the members of the City Council who voted against the ordinance.

5

Section 17. EXPENDITURE PLAN AND AMENDMENTS THERETO. The City of Ciearlake Road
Maintenance Transactions and Use Tax Expenditure Plan (“Expenditure Plan"), attached to this Ordinance
as Exhibit A, is hereby adopted by the City Council. The Expenditure Plan may be amended through an
ordinance duly adopted by the City Council following a noticed public hearing. The City may annually
review and amend the Expenditure Plan pursuant to this section, to provide for the use of additional federal,
state and local funds, to account for unexpected revenues, or to take into consideration unforeseen
circumstances.

Section 18. SEVERABILITY. If any section, subsection, clause, sentence, work or phrase of this
Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid and/or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the remaining portions of the title. The City Council declares that it would
have passed and adopted this ordinance and each of the provisions thereof irrespective of the fact that any
one or more such provisions be declared invalid and/or unconstitutional.

Section 19. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part
1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not
inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part
of this Ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax
imposed by this Ordinance.

Section 20. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or
equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or
against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 21. EFFECTIVE DATE. If this ordinance is approved by at least 2/3 of the voters voting on the
issue at the June 6,2006, Special Election, pursuant to Elections Code Sections 9217 and 9222, this
Ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the City Council declares the results of the election, and
the Transactions and Use Tax shall become operative on the "operative date” as defined in Section 2 of this
Ordinance. If this Ordinance is not approved by at least 2/3 of the voters voting on the issue at the June 6,

2006, Special Election, this Ordinance shall not become effective.

Section 22. CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT. The City Council finds that the adoption of
this Ordinance and the City of Ciearlake Road Maintenance Transactions and Use Tax Expenditure Plan
adopted as part of this ordinance, which provides for the repair and maintenance of streets and roads in
the City of Ciearlake, is categorically exempt from CEQA review pursuant to CEQA guidelines Section
15301 (c) (categorical exemption for repair and maintenance of existing highways, streets sidewalks, trails,
and similar facilities, including road grading for the purpose of public safety).

Section 23. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire
twenty (20) years from the “operative date” as defined in Section 2 of this ordinance, unless renewed by
the voters of the City of Ciearlake prior to that time.

APPROVED by the following vote of the voters of the City of Ciearlake on June 6,2006, as declared by
the City Council of the City of Ciearlake on__________________ :____________________.

6

INTRODUCED by the City Council of the City of Clearlake, County of Lake, State of California on the 23rd
day of February, 2006 and PASSED AND ADOPTED on this 23rd day of March, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES:	Mayor	Overton,	Vice	Mayor	Thein,	Council	Member	Markham,	and	Council	Member	Smith

NOES:	None

ABSENT OR NOT VOTING:	Council	Member Malley, Absent

7