COUNTY OF SACRAMENTO
CONDADO DE SACRAMENTO

\

PRIMARY ELECTION
TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 2006

ELECCION PRIMARIA

MARTES, 6 DE JUNIO, 2006

★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★

GUBERNATORIAL PRIMARY ELECTION
ELECCION PRIMARIA de GOBERNADOR

SAMPLE BALLOT AND INFORMATION PAMPHLET
BALOTA DE MUESTRAY FOLLETO DE INFORMACION

★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★★

Application for ABSENTEE BALLOT on back cover
En la parte de atras hay una solicitud de BALOTA DE VOTANTE AUSENTE

See back cover for your new POLLING PLACE LOCATION
Vea la parte de atras para encontrar su CENTRO ELECTORAL

AMERICAN INDEPENDENT
INDEPENDIENTE
AMERICANO

Polls Open 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.

Las urnas abren de 7:00 a.m. a 8:00 p.m.

Visit our WEBSITE at www.saccounty.net/elections or for Voting Information call (916) 875-6451
Compiled by County of Sacramento Voter Registration and Elections
Visite nuestro SITIO WEB www.saccounty.net/elections o para mas informacion llame al (916) 875-6451
Compilado por el Registro de Votantes y Elecciones del Condado de Sacramento

AMERICAN INDEPENDENT
INDEPENDIENTE AMERICANO

Ballot Type 13
BalotaTipo 13

NATOMAS UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASURE E

Etn order to expand educational programs, prevent
cuts, reduce class sizes, improve school safety for
all children in the District, purchase new textbooks,
restore vocational programs, bring back school counselors,
librarians and nurses, fund before and after school pro-
grams, and provide additional subject area instruction, shall
the Natomas Unified School District be authorized to levy
an annual special tax of $96 per parcel, adjusted annually
at less than 3.86%?

"Approval of Measure E does not guarantee that the proposed
project or projects in the Natomas Unified School District that are
the subject of bonds under Measure E will be funded beyond the
local revenues generated by Measure E. The school district's pro-
posal for the project or projects may assume the receipt of match-
ing state funds, which could be subject to appropriation by the
Legislature or approval of a statewide bond measure." E.C.
15122.5

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE E

(Natomas Unified School District - Special Tax Measure)

' Prepared by Sacramento County Counsel

If approved by the voters, Measure E would authorize the
Natomas Unified School District to levy a special tax at a rate not
to exceed $96.00 per parcel, adjusted annually at less than
3.86%, for all parcels located within the District and would
increase the District’s appropriations limit in the amount of the rev-
enue raised from such special tax. Additionally, Measure E estab-
lishes an exclusive claims procedure for claimants seeking a
refund of the special tax levied by Measure E.

Measure E limits the expenditure of the revenue collected from
the special tax to the purposes specifically identified in the
Measure. Measure E further requires that all proceeds of the spe-
cial tax be placed in a separate account and that the District’s
Assistant Superintendent, Business Services issue an annual
report to the District’s governing board containing the amount of
special tax funds collected and expended, as well as the status of
the items authorized.

Passage of Measure E requires approval by two-thirds of the vot-
ers voting thereon.

FULL TEXT OF THE MEASURE

In order to expand educational programs, prevent cuts, reduce
class sizes, improve school safety for all children in the District,
purchase new textbooks, restore vocational programs, bring back
school counselors, librarians and nurses, fund before and after
school programs, and provide additional subject area instruction,
shall the Natomas Unified School District be authorized to levy an
annual special tax of $96 per parcel, adjusted annually at less
than 3.86%, and the revenue derived from the special tax be
expended solely for the following:

I.	STUDENT SUPPORT, such as

•	Nurses

•	Librarians

•	Counselors

•	New textbooks

•	Reading teachers

•	Computers and software for libraries

•	Speech and language therapists

•	Library books

•	Literacy coaches

II.	INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAMS, such as

•	Vocational education programs

•	Before and after school programs

•	Music programs

•	Art programs

•	Foreign language instruction in elementary and middle
schools

•	Preschool programs to give students a head start

•	Expanded Summer school classes

III.	TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT, such as

•	Computer upgrades

•	Technical staff support

IV.	SAFETY SUPPORT, such as

•	School safety equipment and crossing guards

•	Transportation (drivers, training, buses)

•	Security Systems

V.	SCHOOL SITE SUPPORT, such as

- Custodians

•	Vice principals

•	Athletic transportation

and shall the appropriations limit of the District be increased in
an amount equal to revenue raised by the special tax?

Pursuant to Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3,
the District finds and directs that,

(1)	the purpose of the special tax is to fund the specific
purposes as set forth above;

(2)	the special tax proceeds shall only be used on the specific
purposes authorized;

(3)	all proceeds of the special tax shall be placed in a separate
account; and

(4)	the Assistant Superintendent, Business Services of the
District shall issue an annual report to the District Board con-
taining the amount of funds collected and expended as well
as the status of the items authorized.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Measure E will benefit every Natomas student by restoring much
needed Librarians, Nurses and Counselors and paying for new
vocational programs to give students real world job skills.

Additional funds raised by measure E could be used to purchase
new text books, hire reading specialists, properly address the
achievement gap and give us the opportunity to add advanced

Voter Registration & Elections
www.saccountv.net/elections

Ballot Type 013 Page 27

courses in mathematics, language and science.

Years of lean budgets and inadequate state funding have strained
our ability to offer ail the educational opportunities our students
deserve. Measure E will go a long way to restore vital education-
al programs, allow for proper school maintenance, and fund spe-
cialized training to keep our teachers on the cutting edge.

Together, Measures D and E will truly help all students in the
Natomas School District by giving Natomas the resources neces-
sary for first class schools, improving both the actual classroom
and what is taught inside. Every child deserves a good education
in a clean, safe, and modern school. That's why so many parents,
teachers, seniors and community leaders are asking you to vote
Yes on Measure D and E.

We can all be proud of our students for stepping up their efforts
and improved test scores for several years in a row. Now it is our
turn to step up and make sure our kids have the kind of schools
they need to prepare them for future success. Natomas has a tra-
dition of putting kids first. Lets continue our work to increase stu-
dent achievement by voting Yes on Measures D and E. Our com-
munity deserves the best schools for our children.

s/ Will Craig, President, Natomas Chamber of Commerce

s/Albert Najera, Chief, Sacramento Police Department

s/ Juliane Link-Oberstar, Teacher/Parent, Natomas Unified
School District

s/Marni Leger, Past-President, Natomas Community Association
s/ Ray Tretheway, Council Member, Sacramento City Council

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E WAS FILED

Ballot Type 013 Page 28

County of Sacramento
www.saccounty.net/elections