CITY OF ARROYO GRANDE
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE 0-06
ORDINANCE NO. 579

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ARROYO
GRANDE ADDING CHAPTER 3.22 TO TITLE 3 OF
THE ARROYO GRANDE MUNICIPAL CODE
ESTABLISHING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE
TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE
BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF ARROYO
GRANDE, AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION t. AMENDMENT OF CODE.

Arroyo Grande Municipal Code Title 3 is hereby amended to add
Chapter 3.22 to read as follows:

CHAPTER 3.22. TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX.

3.22.010. TITLE.

This ordinance shall be known as the ‘Transactions and Use Tax
Ordinance of the City of Arroyo Grande”. The City of Arroyo Grande
hereinafter shall be called "City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in
the incorporated territory of the City.

3.22.020. PURPOSE.

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order
to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with
the provisions of Part 1,6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of
Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which
shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that
purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law
of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent
with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be
administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible,
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

3.22.030. OPERATIVE DATE.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance,
the date of such adoption being as set forth below.

3.22.040.	CONTRACT WITH STATE.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance;
provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board
of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so

contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.22.050.	TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax
is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the
City at the rate of .5% of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale
of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the City on and after the
operative date of this ordinance.

3.22.060.	PLACE OF SALE.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible
personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-
of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer
has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be
prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.22.070. USE TAX RATE.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from
any retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage,
use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of .5% of the sales
price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of
the place to which delivery is made.

3.22.080. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar
as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance
as though fully set forth herein.

3.22.090.	LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND
COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to
as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted
therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of
the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State
Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or
employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration
or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of
California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to
tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision
of that code.

PR-0960-1

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last
sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City” shall be substituted for the word "State"
in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section
6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.22.100. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit
shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.22.110.	EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or
county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount
of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than
fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and
directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City
which is shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of
sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery
by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point.
For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City
shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than
commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code,
aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to
an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her
principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by
registration to a place of business out-of-City and declaration under
penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the
seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the
lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4)
of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this
ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible
personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered
transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products
purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such
operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the

laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any
right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease
which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time
for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4)
of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or
exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any
period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice,
whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a
retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be required to collect
use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the
retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within
the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority
of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City"
shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an
address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may
credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.22.120. AMENDMENTS.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance
to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to
sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all
amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

3.22.130. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process
shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the
State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount
of tax required to be collected.

3.22.140. ANNUAL REPORT.

City shall annually mail to each household an annual report, which
presents in summary form expenditures from the prior fiscal year from
revenue generated from the Transactions and Use Tax and budgeted
expenditures for the upcoming fiscal year.

PR-0980-2

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE 0-06

i

3.22.150. PERIODIC REVIEW.

The City Council shall consider reduction or repeal of the
Transactions and Use Tax at public hearings every five years after the
effective date of this ordinance.

SECTION 2. USE OF TAX PROCEEDS.

All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be
accounted for and paid into the City of Arroyo Grande General Fund,
and may be used for any lawful purpose as designated by the City
Council.

SECTION 3. SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance
and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances
shall not be affected thereby.

SECTION 4. STATUTORY AUTHORITY FOR TAX.

This ordinance is adopted pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code
section 7285.9.

SECTION 5. ELECTION REQUIRED.

This ordinance shall not become operative unless and until a
majority of the electors voting on this measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at the general municipal election to be held on
November 7,2006.

SECTION 6. EFFECTIVE DATE.

If this ordinance is approved by a majority of the electors voting on
the issue at the November 7,2006 general municipal election, pursuant
to Elections Code Section 9217, the tax shall become effective ten (10)
days after the City Council accepts the certified results of the election.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE 0-06

This ballot measure proposes a general purpose tax that requires a
majority vote for adoption. If approved by the voters, it would enact a
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) transactions and use tax rate on
retail sales within the City of Arroyo Grande. This tax will add 50 cents
to each $100 of taxable sales.

The proposed transactions and use tax, like the current sales tax, would
be imposed upon the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail
within the City of Arroyo Grande, as well as upon the storage, use, or
other consumption of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer within the City of Arroyo Grande. If this measure is approved by
the voters, the combined sales tax and transactions and use tax rate
within the City of Arroyo Grande will be seven and three quarter percent
(7 %%). The proposed tax would be applied equally to residents and
nonresidents making retail purchases in the City of Arroyo Grande.

If this measure is approved by the voters, every year the Arroyo Grande
City Council will be required to publish and distribute a report to each
household within the City setting forth the revenues and expenditures
from the proceeds of the one-half cent tax and shall also be required to
hold a public hearing and review the tax every five years to determine
whether it is necessary for the tax to remain in effect.

Revenues generated from the proposed transactions and use tax would
be deposited into the City’s General Fund to be used by the City of
Arroyo Grande to fund general City projects, operations and services,
including, but not limited to, transportation improvements, maintenance
and upgrades of the City’s infrastructure, public safety expenses and
compliance with Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements.

s/TIMOTHY J. CARMEL

City Attorney, City of Arroyo Grande

Your “YES” vote on Measure 0-06 will provide important local funding
to meet local needs. Despite nearly $700,000 in City revenue taken by
the State annually, the City has maintained services by increasing the
efficiency of its operations. However, the City’s long-range financial
plan has identified important projects that cannot be funded with
existing revenues. Measure 0-06 will establish financial independence
from State and Federal governments so we can control our own destiny.

Of the current Vk% sales tax, our City receives only 1%. Your “YES”
vote will raise the City share to VA% to address important needs, such
as:

•	Transportation projects, including upgrade of the Brisco/Halcyon
interchange;

•	Infrastructure improvements, including the street, drainage and
creek systems;

•	Public safety needs, including Police and Fire Department facilities,
equipment and staffing; and

•	City facility upgrades to meet Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
requirements.

Your “YES” vote provides the most fair and economical way to fund
these community needs. Everyone who utilizes our infrastructure and
services pays sales tax. A significant amount of the money will likely
come from people who live outside the City of Arroyo Grande. We will
pay a rate lower or equal to approximately 85% of Californians even
after the %% proposed increase.

City government will be held accountable. Citizens will receive an
annual report on money received and how it is spent. The City Council
will be required to conduct a review and public hearing every five years
to determine whether to keep the tax in effect.

Measure 0-06 is important to meet future needs, maintain the City’s
infrastructure in the long-term and preserve the special quality of life in
our community. Your City Council urges you to vote “YES” on Measure
0-06.

s/ Tony Ferrara, Mayor
si Jim Guthrie, Mayor Pro Tern
si Jim Dickens, Council Member
s/ Joe Costello, Council Member
si Ed Arnold, Council Member

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE 0-06 WAS SUBMITTED

PR-0960-3