+

COMPOSITE FACSIMILE BALLOT

NONPARTISAN

I® " fl

County ol Solano

State of California

Tuesday, June 6, 2006

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS: To vote for the candidate of your choice, BLACKEN
the oval • to the left of the candidate's name. Do not vote for more than the
authorized number of Candidates. To vote for a qualified write-in candidate, fill in the
oval • next to the write-in line and write the candidate's name on the write-in line.
Use a ballpoint pen with black ink. If you make a mistake, ask a pollworker or call the
Registrar of Voters' Office at (707) 784-6675 for a replacement ballot.

Superintendent of Public Instruction

Vote (or One

CD>

CD

CD

CD

CD

CD

JACK O'CONNELL
Stato SuparirtendemfTeacter

SARAH L KNOPP
Teacher

DANIEL 1. BUNTING

Retired School Superintendent

GRANT MC MICKEN
Educate r/Te a the r/Ccnsuftani

DIANE A. LENNING
Educa kx/Auteof/Businassowner

CD

CD

DAVIO W. PAULSON

Solano County Detect Attorney

Write-in

Write-in

County Superintendent of Schools

Vote (or One

DEE alarc6n

CD Solano County Superintendent ol Schools

Write-in

Supervisor
3rd Supervisorial District
Vote lor One

JIM SPERING

C_D Mayor/Businessman

xv KARIN MACMILLAN
C_D Employment Resource Spedafct

Write-in

Supervisor
4th Supervisorial District
Vote lor One

_________ JOHN	M.	VASQUEZ

CD Incumbent

Write-in

Assessor/Recorder

Vote (or One

PETE SANCHEZ
CD Supervising Audtor-Appraiser

MARC TONNESEN

CD Acting Assessor/Recorder

CZ5

CZD

Sheriff/Coroner

Vote for One

JEFFREY LASTUSKY
Retired Sheriffs Lieutenant

GARY R. STANTON

Solano County Sherilt/Coroner

Write-in

Treasurer/Tax Collector/County Clerk
Vote for One

CHARLES LOMELI
Treasurer/Tax Coflector/County Clorit

Write-in

CD

Write-in

Auditor/Controller

Vote for One

^v	SANDRA R. SATO

CD	France Oftiax/Aurffoc

___ SIMONA PADIUA-SCHOLTENS

C~ •	Audi Lx-Controller

C-- Write-in

IMKJ__________

PROPOSITION 81

CALIFORNIA READING AND
LITERARY IMPROVEMENT AND
PUBLIC LIBRARY
CONSTRUCTION AND
RENOVATION BOND ACT OF 2006.
This act provides for a bond issue in
an amount not to exceed a total of six
hundred million dollars
($600,000,000) fo provide funds for
the construction and renovation of
public library facilities in order to
expand access to reading and
literacy programs in California's
public education system and to
expand access to public library
services for all residents of California.
Fiscal Impact: Slate cost ol about
$1.2 billion over 30 years to pay off
both the principal ($600 million) and
interest ($570 million) costs of the
bonds. One-time local costs
(statewide) of about $320 million lor
local matching contributions.

CD YES
CD NO

PROPOSITION 82

PRESCHOOL EDUCATION. TAX
ON INCOMES OVER $400,000 FOR
INDIVIDUALS; $800,000 FOR
COUPLES. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT
AND STATUTE. Establishes
voluntary preschool education for all
four-year olds. Funded by 1.7% tax
on individual income over $400,000;
couples' income over $800,000.

Fiscal Impact: Increased annual
revenues of $2.1 billion in 2007-08,
growing with the economy in future
years. All revenues would be spent
on the new preschool program.

CD YES

CD NO

MEASURE I

To provide specific funding for clearly
identified programs that will continue
to attract and retain highly qualified
teachers and other employees and
ensure a safe learning environment
in Benicia's Public Schools with the
goal of continually improving student
performance, shall Benicia Unified
School District be authorized to levy
a parcel tax at $254 annual rate for
five years, offering senior and
low-income exemptions, with
expenditures monitored by a citizens'
oversight committee and independent
auditor?

CD YES
CD NO

MEASUREH

Shall Measure H be adopted lo
relieve traffic congestion and match
state/lederal grants, which will:

-	Fix I-80/I-680/SR12
Interchange

-	Widen and improve safety
on I-80/I-680/SR12/S R113

-	Fix potholes; resurface city
streets and county roads

-	Improve safety at high
accident locations and
schools

-	Improve commuter bus, rail
and ferry services; expand
transit for seniors/disabled

-	Require annual audits by
independent taxpayers
committee to ensure all
voter mandates are met

by authorizing hall-cent sales tax lor
30 years?

CD YES
CD NO

7 9 O n /Ol 1002 OEIoclion Svstonui & Software. Inc. 1981. 2002

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE I

BENICIA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SPECIAL
TAX PROPOSAL

Measure I will authorize the Benicia Unified School District ("District")
to levy a special tax to support the District's schools, under California
Government Code sections 50075, 50076, 50077, 50079 and 53720,
53721, 53722 and 53724.

The special tax will be levied for a period of 5 years, beginning July 1,
2006, at the annual rate of $254.00, on each assessor's parcel located
wholly or partially within the District. Exemptions are provided for any
parcel whose beneficial owner has attained the age of 65 on or before July
1 of any assessment year and who uses that parcel as his or her principal
place of residence and owners of single-family residential units whose
combined family income is at or below the “very low-income” level under
the federal Section 8 Housing law. The measure also provides for an
application process to treat certain contiguous parcels as a single parcel
for purposes of the special tax.

The proceeds derived from the special tax will be allocated and applied
only for the following specific purposes:

(1)	up to 20% for budget deficit reduction;

(2)	15% for curriculum items;

(3)	up to 5% for 9th grade English and math class size reduction;

(4)	25% for curriculum staff support;

(5)	10% for health and safety supervision and services;

(6)	15% for technology staff and items;

(7)	10% for extracurricular athletics, band and performing arts programs.

The District’s governing board will annually prepare an expenditure plan in
conformance with the terms of the measure and a report that provides an
overview of the programs funded by the measure. There will be an annual
public evaluation and comment.

The District will place the proceeds in a separate account and the District's
chief fiscal officer will issue an annual report to the governing body showing
the amount of funds collected and spent and the status of the authorized
programs. An independent auditor will prepare a similar annual report.

The District will appoint an independent citizens' oversight committee to
review the proposed annual expenditure plan, to review and report on the
District’s administration of and compliance with the terms of this measure,
to monitor and audit the use of the proceeds, and to assist the District in
implementing the accountability measures. The committee will prepare
an annual report on the proposed and prior expenditures to the governing
board and to the community.

The measure will become effective only if approved by two-lhirds of the
voters voting on the measure.

The voters entitled to vote on the measure will be all qualified voters
residing within the boundaries of the District.

A “YES" VOTE favors the levying for five years of a special school tax for
specified purposes within the Benicia Unified School District.

A ''NO''VOTE opposes the levying for five years of a special school tax for
specified purposes within the Benicia Unified School District.

March 17, 2006

si Dennis Bunting
Solano County Counsel

Elec. Code § 9500

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE I

Measure I will allow Benicians to give our students the education that is
vital for them to compete and succeed. Measure I also ensures that our
local schools are safe, creating an environment that attracts and retains
qualified teachers.

Like most schools in California, Benicia schools are facing drastic cuts
in State funding, which is causing severe reductions in the quality of
education we give to our children. Local schools are left with two options:
Continue to cut basic programs or develop a local plan to solve our funding
problem.

Measure I is exactly that - a local plan to maintain excellence in Benicia’s
schools. All of Measure I will stay here in Benicia.

Measure I funds are to be used to help restore and protect critical programs
within the Benicia Unified School District (BUSD) that have been lost or
are threatened.

Measure I will allow Benicia’s schools to have the following:

•	Smaller class sizes for 9th Grade English and math classes

•	Classroom books, materials & supplies

•	College prep and vocational classes

•	Guidance counselors at both the Middle and High Schools

•	Technology equipment, software, computer classroom technicians
and support

•	Support for music, performing arts, and extracurricular sports
programs

•	Increased campus supervision

•	Library staff

•	Programs for special needs students

•	Increased nursing services

There are taxpayer safeguards within Measure I. An independent
Citizens Oversight Committee will conduct annual audits to ensure
Measure I funds are used wisely. Not one penny of Measure I will be used
for administrative salaries.

And, seniors over the age of 65 can apply for an exemption to Measure
I for homes they own and live in.

Please join local teachers, parents, firefighters, police officers, business
owners, retirees and community leaders in voting Yes on Measure I.

s/ James E. Trimble
Benicia Police Chief

si Frances E. Harkins
Financial Planner

si Diane C. Wassmann

Retired Classroom Teacher/Benicia resident for over 50 years

si Polly L. Farina

BHS Teacher, Local business owner, Retired School Board member

si Raymond F. Lewis

Science Educator, Benicia Teacher of the Year

RESOLUTION NO. 05-06-22

BEFORETHE GOVERNING BOARD OFTHE BENICIA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT SOLANO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA

RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ELECTION, REQUESTING THE COUNTY REGISTRAR OF VOTERS TO CONDUCT THE
ELECTION; REQUESTING CONSOLIDATION OFTHE ELECTION, AND SPECIFICATIONS OFTHE ELECTION ORDER

WHEREAS, the unprecedented fiscal crisis facing California Stale government has necessitated nearly $3,500,000 in budget cuts in the past
4 years from Ihe programs and services provided by the Benicia Unified School District (“District"); and

WHEREAS, the California State Legislature has failed to provide adequate funding for the continued operation of the schools of the District,
and as a result of this lack of funding and financial support for its schools, the District is in danger of eliminating many programs beneficial and
necessary to the students who attend the schools; and once eliminated these programs of study will be extremely difficult to restore; and

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of efforts to generate funds for these educational program, including lobbying in the State
Legislature and many local fundraising efforts, and has undertaken cost-cutting measures, including employee layoffs and reduction of programs and
services beneficial and necessary to the students of the District; and

WHEREAS, continued reliance solely on State funding will result in further loss of critical programs and the continued erosion of local control
of Ihe District; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education program delivers many long lasting benefits and advantages to all of the residents of
our community; and

WHEREAS, without the authorization by the voters of a special assessment, continued substantial reduction or elimination of educational
programs and services will be necessary and will have a severe impact on the students of the District and on our community, which may include an
adverse effect on the property values within the District; and

WHEREAS, section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California Constitution and Government Code sections 50075,50076, 50077, 50079, and 53720,
53721, 53722 and 53724 authorize school districts to levy special assessments to raise funds for the purpose of conducting their business upon the
approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting upon such special assessment proposals; and

WHEREAS, the Governing Board has conducted a noticed public hearing, as required by law, on the question of whether or not to request
the District's voters to authorize funding to continue the programs identified below; and

WHEREAS, the Governing Board wishes to restore local control of the community's public schools and of the quality of education offered to
its children; and

WHEREAS, the Governing Board believes that it is imperative that the voters be asked to approve a special assessment to restore and
maintain the excellence of the District’s programs.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE GOVERNING BOARD OF THE BENICIA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT FINDS, DETERMINES, RESOLVES, AND
ORDERS AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1: The recitals listed above are adopted as true and correct.

Section 2: A Special Election is hereby ordered and called and shall be conducted on June 06,2006, and shall be consolidated with any and all other
elections also called to be held on that date insofar as said elections are to be held in the same territory or in territory that is in part the same as the
territory of the District, at which will be submitted to the qualified voters of the District, a measure to authorize special assessments for the purpose of
continuing vital educational programs critical to the educational processes in the schools of the District, which programs are identified below.

Section 3: At the special election to be held within the boundaries of the District on June 06,2006, a measure with the following specifications shall be
submitted to the qualified voters within the District, to wit:

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE I

1.	TITLE AND PURPOSE

Measure T shall be known as “BENICIA PUBLIC SCHOOLS EDUCATIONAL EXCELLENCE ACT OF 2006.” The revenues raised by this Measure are
to be used to help restore and protect critical programs within the Benicia Unified School District (BUSD). These programs have been lost or threatened
by ongoing deficits caused principally by declining enrollment and reduced state funding. This Measure provides specific funding to address ongoing
deficits. This Measure funds programs and services that will continue to attract and retain highly qualified employees and ensure a safe learning
environment in Benicia Public Schools with the goal of continually improving student performance. This Measure reflects consensus from a community
with diverse perspectives on programs to preserve to protect our local public education. Measure “1“ is a commitment to the students, parents, and staff
of this District.

2.	ALLOCATION OF FUNDS

Funds raised by this Measure shall be deposited in a restricted account and the annual available funds raised by this special tax shall be allocated as
follows:

A.	Budget Deficits: Up to twenty percent (20%) shall be dedicated toward the BUSD's budget deficits, for as long as these deficits exist. (Ongoing
deficits are expected to continue due to declining enrollment and reduced state funding.)

B.	Curriculum: Fifteen percent (15%) shall be dedicated for any of the following curriculum items: Classroom materials and supplies; Programs
for at-risk students; Advanced Placement, Gifted & Talented Education, College Preparatory, Vocational and elective classes; Arts and music
education.

C.	Class Size Reduction for 9th Grade English & Math: Up to five percent (5%) shall be dedicated for class size reduction for 9th Grade English
and Math Programs as long as BUSD receives Stale funding through the Morgan-Hart Class Size Reduction Act.

D.	Curriculum Support: Twenty-five percent (25%) shall be dedicated for the following curriculum support positions: Two full-time counselors at
Benicia Middle School; Two additional full-time counselors (for a total of four counselors) at Benicia High School; Library technicians; Office
staff.

E.	Health & Safety: Ten percent (10%) shall be dedicated toward the following health and safety items: Increased campus supervision; Increased
custodial services; Increased district-wide health services.

F.	Technology: Fifteen percent (15%) shall be dedicated toward the following technology items: Site-based Computer Technicians; Other
technical personnel; Hardware, software, and support contracts.

G.	Alhletics . Band, and Performing Arts Programs: Ten percent (10%) shall be dedicated toward extracurricular athletics, band, and performing
arts.

3.	OVERSIGHT OF FUNDS

The District's Governing Board shall conduct an annual public planning process (as described in Section 6(A)) as a prerequisite to expenditure of any
funds raised by this Measure. All funds shall be expended in accordance with the specific purposes as described in Section 4. A Citizen's Oversight
Committee shall be established (as described in Section 6(C)(1)) to review and report on the District's compliance with the terms of this Measure. All
actions under this Measure shall be subject to the review and approval of an independent auditor (as described in Section 6(C)(2)).

4.	DEFINITION OF PURPOSES

A.	BUDGET DEFICITS

Up to twenty percent (20%) of the available revenues generated by this Measure shall be dedicated annually for the purpose of providing deficit
reduction, pursuant to the following criteria:

(1)	Current Year Deficit: On an annual basis, all available funds in this account shall be applied toward any deficit in a current year budget approved
by the Governing Board.

(2)	Multi-Year Deficit: On an annual basis, any funds remaining in this account after applying them toward the current year deficit shall remain in the
account to be applied toward any deficits projected under the District’s 3-year budget forecasts approved by the Governing Board.

(3)	Reallocation of Funding for Approved Programs: In the event that there are any funds remaining in this account after satisfying sections (1) and

(2), above, these excess funds may be expended on any other program identified by this Measure upon approval by the Governing Board.

B.	CURRICULUM FUNDING

Fifteen percent (15%) of the available revenues generated by this Measure shall be dedicated annually for any of the following curriculum items:

(1)	Classroom materials and supplies;

(2)	Programs for at-risk students;

(3)	Advanced Placement, Gifted & Talented Education, College Preparatory, Vocational and Elective Classes;

(4)	Arts & Music Education.

Distribution of the funding among the above items in this section is subject to the annual discretion of the Governing Board.

C.	CLASS SIZE REDUCTION FOR 9TH GRADE ENGLISH & MATH

Up to five percent (5%) of the available revenues generated by this Measure shall be dedicated annually for the purpose of restoring and maintaining
class size reduction for 9th Grade English and Math Programs. The following conditions shall apply:

(1)	This allocation is valid only if BUSD receives State funding through the Morgan-Had Class Size Reduction Act.

(2)	In the event that BUSD receives Morgan-Had funding and less than 5% of the available revenues from this Measure are needed to restore and
maintain class size reduction for 9th Grade English and Math, any remaining funds will be transferred to the Budget Deficit account (Article
2(A), above).

(3)	In the event that BUSD does not receive funding through the Morgan-Had Class Size Reduction Act, these funds will be transferred to the
Budget Deficit account (Article 2(A), above).

D.	CURRICULUM SUPPORT

Twenty-five percent (25%) of the available revenues generated by this Measure shall be dedicated annually toward funding for the following curriculum
support:

(1)	Two full-time counselors at Benicia Middle School;

(2)	Two additional full-time counselors (for a total of four counselors) at Benicia High School;

(3)	Library technicians;

(4)	Office staff.

Distribution of the funding among the above items (3) and (4) in this section is subject to the annual discretion of the Governing Board.

E.	HEALTH & SAFETY

Ten percent (10%) of the available revenues generated by this Measure shall be dedicated annually toward funding for the following health & safety
items:

(1)	Increased campus supervision;

(2)	Increased custodial services;

(3)	Increased district-wide health (ie. Nurse) services.

Distribution of the funding among the above items in this section is subject to the annual discretion of the Governing Board.

F.	TECHNOLOGY

Fifteen percent (15%) of the available revenues generated by this Measure shall be dedicated annually to the following technology items:

(1)	ComputerTechnicians: Fifty percent (50%) of these technology funds shall be allocated annually for the following site-based Computer
Technician and Computer Resource Technician (CRT) positions:

a)	One full-time Computer Technician at Benicia High School (12 month position)

b)	One full-time CRT at Benicia High School,

c)	One full-time CRT at Benicia Middle School,

d)	One part-time CRT at Liberty,

e)	One part-time CRT for each elementary site.

(2)	Other Technical Personnel: Thirty-five percent (35%) of these technology funds shall be allocated annually to provide technical personnel
for the support of district-wide needs such as SASI database administration, systems administration, email and security administration,
networking, planning, and 2nd level desktop computer support for all sites, as well as training for district technical support staff and CRTs.

(3)	Non-staff Technical Funding: Fifteen percent (15%) of these technology funds shall be allocated annually to non-staff technical funding such
as computer and networking equipment replacements, software, and support contracts.

G.	ATHLETICS, BAND, AND PERFORMING ARTS PROGRAMS

Ten percent (10%) of the available revenues generated by this Measure shall be dedicated annually to extracurricular athletics, band, and performing
arts in the following allocations:

(1)	Athletics: Fifty-Nine percent (59%) of the funds under this Section shall be allocated annually to High School and Middle School
Extracurricular Athletics.

(2)	Band: Thirty-Six percent (36%) of the funds under this Section shall be allocated annually to funding for the following music programs: (i)
High School band; (ii) Middle School band; (iii) 4th & 5th Grade District-wide band program.

(3)	Performing Arts: Five percent (5%) of the funds under this Section shall be allocated annually to the High School and Middle School
performing arts programs.

The funding provided under this Section partially restores prior cuts and is intended to supplement existing and ongoing private funding for these
programs. Accordingly, the Board shall coordinate with the applicable booster groups and/or coordinators for these programs with the goal of ensuring
funding for the long-term sustainability and benefit of the programs, including funding to support operation, equipment, and facility costs for these
programs.

5.	THE TAX LEVY

A.	RATE

A special assessment shall be levied by Benicia Unified School District in the amount of $254 per year on each assessor’s parcel located wholly or
partially within the School District.

B.	TERM

The tax levied by this Measure shall be operative on July 1,2006 and for each year thereafter that follows for five (5) years.

C.	EXEMPTIONS

(1)	Exemptions For Owners Over 65: An exemption from the assessment shall be available for each parcel whose beneficial owner will attain 65
years of age prior to July 1 of the assessment year, and who uses that parcel as his or her principal place of residence and who applies to the

School District on or before July 1, 2006 or July 1 of any succeeding assessment year. Any approved application from a qualified applicant will
provide an exemption for the parcel for the remaining term of the assessment so long as such applicant continues to use the parcel as his or
her principal residence.

(2)	Exemptions For Low-Income Homeowners: Exempt from this tax are owners of single-family residential units to which they reside whose
combined family income, from all sources for the previous calendar year, is at or below the income level qualifying as “very low-income" for a
family of such size under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (43 U.S.C.A. Sections 1437 et seq.], for such year. The application
process will be in the form of self-certification under penalty of perjury. Owners must apply for the exemption provided for in this section
annually by petition to the Superintendent of the Benicia Unified School District in a manner and at the time set forth by the Superintendent.
Such petitions shall be on forms provided by the Superintendent. If the Superintendent determines the need to audit an application, the
Superintendent may require additional information, including, but not limited to, federal income tax returns and W-2 forms of owner occupants
eligible for this exemption.

(3)	Applications For Contiguous Owner-Occupied Parcels: Any parcels that are contiguous to each other, used solely for owner-occupied single-
family residential purposes and held under identical ownership may, upon approval of an application from the owners thereof submitted to the
School District, be treated as a single parcel for purposes of the special assessment. Any one approved application from a qualified applicant
will provide for such treatment for the remaining term of the assessment, as long as all of the parcels continue to be held under identical
ownership and are owner-occupied.

(4)	Recorded Memorandum of Exemption: Upon approval of an exemption under this Section, the Applicant shall record a “Memorandum of
Exemption" for the Property with the Solano County Recorders Office in a form approved by the School District.

(5)	Properly Otherwise Exempted Under California Law: Real properly otherwise exempted from tax under the constitution of the State of
California shall also be exempted from any liability for the special tax imposed by this measure.

D.	COLLECTION

Commencing on July 1,2006, the special assessment specified herein shall be collected and administered by the County of Solano in the same
manner as ad valorem real property taxes and assessments are fixed, collected, and administered under provisions of the California Revenue and
Taxation Code. The collection of taxes under this Measure, including the imposition of penalties, additional fees, and interest upon persons who fail to
remit the tax imposed by this Measure, or who fail to remit any delinquent remittance, shall be subject to and governed by the rules, regulations, and
procedures authorized by law. Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of this Measure shall become a part of the tax
herein required to be paid to the School District.

6.	PUNNING, ACCOUNTABILITY & OVERSIGHT

A.	PLANNING PROCESS

A Plan shall be developed annually by the Governing Board to allocate expenditures of the monies dedicated to each Purpose that satisfy the intent of
this Measure. The assumptions associated with the expenditure recommendations shall be included in the Annual Plan. This Plan shall be presented
for Board action each year in conjunction with the District's annual budget adoption process.

(1)	Public Work Session: Prior to allocating the special tax in any given year, the Governing Board will conduct a public hearing for the purpose
of discussing the specific uses. Notice of the time, date, and place of hearing shall be publicly posted at all school sites and published
pursuant to Government Code Section 6061 at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the District, at least fifteen (15) days prior to
the hearing.

(2)	Review By Citizen’s Oversight Committee: Following the Public Work Session, the Board shall forward to the Citizen's Oversight Committee a
draft of the proposed expenditures for that year for that Committee’s review. The Board shall provide the Committee sufficient time to ensure
that the proposed expenditures are in compliance with the Measure, and in any event no less than 30 days prior to the Board’s hearing on the
Adoption of the Annual Expenditures.

(3)	Adoption of Annual Expenditures: Following receipt of a Certificate of Compliance from the Citizen’s Oversight Committee, the Board
shall pass a resolution at a public hearing that shall include (i) the specific uses of the special tax, (ii) the amount of tax to be raised, (iii)
confirmation of compliance with the Accountability Measures set forth in this Measure, (iv) the receipt of the Certificate of Compliance from the
Citizen’s Oversight Committee for that year, and (v) receipt of the prior year's Auditor’s report.

B.	ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES

In accordance with the requirements of California Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3, the following accountability measures, among
others, shall apply to the special assessments levied in accordance with this Resolution:

(1)	Specific Purposes Shall Be Identified: The specific purposes of the special assessment shall be those purposes identified above;

(2)	All Funds Shall Be Applied To Specific Purposes: The proceeds of the special assessment shall be applied only to those specific purposes
identified above;

(3)	All Funds Shall Be Held In A Separate. Special Account: A separate, special account shall be created into which the proceeds of the special
assessment must be deposited; and an annual written report shall be made to the Governing Board of the District showing the amount of

funds collected and expended from the proceeds of the special assessment and the status of any projects required or authorized to be funded
from the proceeds of the special assessment, as identified above.

C.	OVERSIGHT PROCESS

(1)	Citizen’s Oversight Committee: The District’s Governing Board shall appoint an independent Citizen’s Oversight Committee ("Committee") to
review and report on the District's administration of and compliance with the terms of this Measure, monitor and audit the use of the proceeds,
and assist the District in implementing these accountability measures.

(a)	Membership: The Committee shall be composed of five (5) members who shall live within the boundaries of the District and be
appointed by the Board; this committee may, but is not required to, include representatives of the following:

A member active in a senior citizen’s organization located within the boundaries of the District;

A member who is a financial or legal professional;

A member who is a parent or guardian of a student enrolled in the District;

A member who is both a parenl/guardian of a student enrolled in the District and active in a District committee or organization, School
Site Council, or Parent Teacher Group;

A member of the community at-large;

The following persons shall not be eligible for appointment to the Committee: Employees of the Benicia Unified School District, or any
agent, employee, or owner of any entity doing business with the District.

(b)	Terms of Office: Except for the initial three-year terms provided below (for the purpose of establishing staggered terms), each member
shall serve a term of two (2) years, commencing on the date of the first meeting of the Committee. No member may serve more than two
(2) consecutive terms. At the Committee's first meeting, members will draw lots to select three members to serve for an initial three-year
term and the remaining members for an initial two-year term. At this meeting members will also select their own chairperson and the
terms of his/her office.

(c)	The Committee shall meet regularly as established in by-laws adopted by the Governing Board.

(d)	The District shall make available to the members of the Committee and the public financial reports on the status of the budget and
expenditures of the funds raised by this Measure at least twice a year, or upon request of a vote of the Committee.

(e)	The Committee shall prepare the following reports:

(i)	Annual Report on Proposed Expenditures: Each year prior to the Board’s Adoption of Annual Expenditures, the Committee shall
review the proposed expenditures set forth in section 6(A). The report shall include either (i) a Certificate of Compliance confirming
that the proposed spending plan by the Board is in compliance with the Measure, or (ii) a Certificate of Noncompliance setting forth
the specific proposed spending which is not in compliance with the Measure. Prior to issuing a report, the Committee shall assist the
District with the goal of achieving full compliance with the terms of the Measure in order to issue a Certificate of Compliance.

(ii)	Annual Report on Prior Expenditures: The Committee shall also review prior year's actual expenditures to ensure compliance with
the Measure. The Committee shall, subsequent to issuance of the Auditor's Report, prepare a report to the District assessing the
District’s compliance with the Measure.

(2)	Independent Auditor’s Report

Each year, an independent auditor retained by the School District shall review District records to determine that funds generated by this Measure have
been allocated and expended in compliance with the Annual Plan Said audit shall be conducted in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, the Standards and Procedures for Audits of California K-12 Local Educational Agencies, and this Measure.

The independent auditor shall transmit a "Finding of Violation" to the District if:

(a)	Funds raised by this Measure have not been allocated to the respective Purposes in the percentages specified in Section 2.

(b)	Funds raised by this Measure have been spent for Purposes other than those specified in Section 4.

An Annual Report, which provides an overview of the programs funded by this Measure, shall be produced annually by the District for parents, stall and
the public. The report shall be available for public inspection at the District Office, at each School Site, at the Public Library, and (if feasible) available
via the Internet at www.benicia.k12.ca.us.

D.	PUBLIC COMMENT PROCESS

To facilitate public discussion, the above Reports shall be promptly distributed to the Citizen’s Oversight Committee. Members of the public may
comment on the plans, reports and conditions of the Measure during the public comment period of any Citizen's Oversight Committee meeting, and
Governing Board Meetings.

Annually, the Governing Board shall hold a public hearing or hearings for the purpose of reviewing compliance with the terms of this Measure, including
the presentation of the Report on Compliance of the Citizen’s Oversight Committee.