VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

CITY OF SANTA CRUZ

Shall the one-quarter of one percent City of Santa Cruz

H General Fund sales tax that was approved in 2004 for a
five-year period be replaced with a one-half of one percent
General Fund sales tax for local use only, without a sunset
provision, to help limit future budget cuts, repair the City’s streets,
support public safety, and provide additional security and
maintenance for City parks?

FULL TEXT OF BALLOT MEASURE H
CITY OF SANTA CRUZ

BE IT ORDAINED by the electorate of the City of Santa Cruz that Ordinance Num-
ber 2004-08 adopted by the voters of the City of Santa Cruz as Measure F at the
March 2,2004 special City of Santa Cruz election and thereafter codified at Santa
Cruz Municipal Code Chapter 3.18 is hereby amended to read as follows:

“Sections:

3.18.010	Title

3.18.020	Operative Date

3.18.030	Purpose

3.18.040	Contract with State

3.18.050	Transactions Tax Rate

3.18.060	Place of Sale

3.18.070	Use Tax Rate

3.18.080	Adoption of Provisions of State Law

3.18.090	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes

3.18.100	Permit Not Required

3.18.110	Exemptions and Exclusions

3.18.120	Amendments

3.18.130	Enjoining Collection Forbidden

3.18.140	Severability

3.18.150	Effective Date

3.18.010	Title

The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as the “City of Santa Cruz
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance.” The City of Santa Cruz hereinafter shall be
called the “city.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of
the city.

3.18.020	Operative Date

“Operative date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more
than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such adoption being
as set forth below.*

3.18.030	Purpose

This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and di-
rects that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

(A)	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the city to
adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting
on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for
that purpose.

(B)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provi-
sions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California in-
sofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations
contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(C)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative

procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and col-
lecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

(D)	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered
in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provi-
sions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost
of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the
burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of
this ordinance.

3.18.040	Contract With State

Prior to the operative date, the city shall contract with the State Board of Equaliza-
tion to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this
transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the city shall not have con-
tracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nev-
ertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of
the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.18.050	Transactions Tax Rate

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby im-
posed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the city
at the rate of one half of one percent (0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer
from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and
after the operative date of this ordinance.

3.18.060	Place of Sale

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by
the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for de-
livery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall in-
clude delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the state or has more than one place of business,
the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined
under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

3.18.070	Use Tax Rate

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
city of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the oper-
ative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of one half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the property. The
sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state
sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

3.18.080	Adoption of Provisions of State Law

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are in-
consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this or-
dinance as though fully set forth herein.

3.18.090	Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

(A)	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this city shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall
not be made when:

(1)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Trea-
surer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California.

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
city or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State

44-7

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitu-
tion would be to:

(a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be ex-
empt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain sub-
ject to tax by the state under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, or

(b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

(4)	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

(B)	The word “city” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer
engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203.

3.18.100	Permit Not Required

If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this
ordinance.

3.18.110	Exemptions and Exclusions

(A)	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or
use tax.

(B)	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which
the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this state, the
United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the city which is shipped to a point outside
the city, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or
his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the city
shall be satisfied:

(a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an
out-of-city address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence;
and

(b)	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-city and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such prop-
erty, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a con-
tract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or
not such right is exercised.

(C)	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this city of tangible personal property:

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such air-
craft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
state, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition
to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code of the State of California.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible per-
sonal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such prop-
erty for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangi-
ble personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the un-
conditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
city shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the city or partici-
pates within the city in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to,
soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the city or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the city under the authority of the retailer.

(7)	“A retailer engaged in business in the city” shall also include any retailer of any
of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commenc-
ing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compli-
ance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser
who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the city.

(D)	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district impos-
ing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property
the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

3.18.120	Amendments

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Divi-
sion 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which
are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of
tax imposed by this ordinance.

3.18.130	Enjoining Collection Forbidden

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state or the city, or against

Santa Cruz County-2

44-8

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
any officer of the state or the city, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordi- nance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.  3.18.140 Severability  If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circum- stance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.  3.18.150 Effective Date  This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the city transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.  IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY MEASURE H  CITY OF SANTA CRUZ TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX  In 2004 City voters approved a ballot initiative which served to enact a temporary five-year one quarter of one percent (!/4%) increase to the sales tax rate in the City of Santa Cruz. The sales tax is also referred to as a “transactions and use tax.” As a result the current sales tax rate in the City of Santa Cruz is eight and one quarter percent (8%%) and that sales tax rate is presently scheduled to “sunset” in 2009 at which time the sales tax rate would revert to the former eight percent (8%) rate. First Woman Mayor of Santa Cruz  This ballot measure, if adopted by the voters, would replace the current temporary eight and one quarter of one percent (8%%) sales tax rate in the City of Santa Cruz with a permanent eight and one half of one percent (814%) sales tax rate. The pro- posed sales tax, like the current sales tax, would be imposed upon the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail within the jurisdictional limits of the City as well as upon the storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer in the jurisdictional limits of the City.  All revenue generated from the proposed sales tax would be deposited into the City’s General Fund and, accordingly, all monies collected pursuant to the sales tax would be available for use by the City to pay for general City operations and services. The Santa Cruz City Council, in conjunction with its placement of this ini- tiative on the November 2006 ballot, adopted a resolution stating that it is the City Council’s intent and goal that upon adoption of this sales tax ballot measure, the City will use one half of the revenue generated by that sales tax measure for the general City operations, services and programs and will devote the other half of those revenues to City programs which underwrite street maintenance and repairs, City parks maintenance and supervision, and public safety. The resolution strongly encourages all future City Councils to similarly allocate the sales tax proceeds for these same purposes.  This ballot measure proposes a “general tax,” rather than a “special purpose tax,” and therefore requires a simple majority for adoption.  s/John G. Barisone City Attorney	

VOTER’S PAMPHLET MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS  (whichever is applicable to your ballot)  Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.	
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H  An extended combination of state budget cuts, declining tax base, rising costs and economic uncertainty has made it difficult for the City to sustain the safe streets, parks, open spaces and neighborhoods that we all want.  The City Council has pledged that most of the increased funding from Mea- sure H will be used to repair local streets and roads. Without Measure H, these roads will continue to deteriorate and the ultimate repair costs will increase due to deferred maintenance.  In addition, the City Council has voted to allocate substantial new funding from Measure H for maintenance and safety in our local parks and open spaces. Specifically, increased police protection, more park rangers and improved environmental protection of the San Lorenzo River and greenbelt will all be possi- ble with Measure H.  Measure H allows us to act locally to:  •	Improve our streets  •	Protect our parks, open spaces and waterways  •	Increase public safety services  •	Sustain community facilities  By extending and increasing the sales tax that Santa Cruz voters overwhelmingly approved in March, 2004, we will provide the ongoing funds needed to sustain our city. ALL the money raised by Measure H will stay in Santa Cruz!  Measure H has received broad community support including community organiza- tions, neighborhoods, environmental groups and business leaders.  Over the years Santa Cruz has made major civic investments for the community’s wellbeing: parks, open spaces, watersheds, neighborhood improvements, com- munity facilities, business districts and roads. Now we need to ensure that those resources are adequately maintained and protected for all to enjoy - today and in the future.  JOIN US IN VOTING FOR THE HEALTH AND SAFETY OF OUR PARKS, WATERWAYS, STREETS, AND NEIGHBORHOODS.  VOTE YES ON MEASURE H  si George Ow, Jr.  Local Business Owner & Philanthropist  si Howard Skerry Chief of Police  si Karen Darling Bed & Breakfast Owner  si Lorette M.Wood First Woman Mayor of Santa Cruz  si Jim Lang Retired Director of Parks and Recreation	REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H  Vote NO on a higher, permanent, general-purpose sales tax in Santa Cruz. Our to- tal sales tax would be 8.5%, among the highest in California.  We have a different vision for saving Santa Cruz. We envision a city where:  •	Taxes are spent on priorities  •	New money is raised through healthy economic activity  •	Decisions are based on the needs of people rather than the wishes of politicians  Tax supporters contradict themselves by harping about specific ways that the money might be spent but begging you to approve a general-purpose tax.  The City Attorney admits, “all monies collected... would be available... for general City operations and services.”  Supporters of the Measure F sales tax said, in the March, 2004 voter pamphlet, that the money would “help address the most critical needs ...such as... parks and streets.”  Have our streets improved?  They also said the tax would be %-cent for 5 years.  Now the City Council wants Vi-ceni, forever.  We don’t oppose all taxes. It’s our duty, as residents who care about Santa Cruz, to fight taxes that are misspent. Recent budgets reveal broken promises and depar- tures from voter priorities.  You can vote NO in complete safety. City Council still has the original !4-cent Mea- sure F sales tax until 2009 — enough time to make good on promises.  www.savesantacruz.ora  si Thomas J. Mullen Dentist, ret.  si Sylvia S. Mullen Community Volunteer  si Regis Paul Marcelin-Sampson Computer Scientist

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS

(whichever is applicable to your ballot)

Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H

Measure F was passed in 2004 as a 5-year temporary tax, to give the City time to
rebuild its economy. Little has been done, and available funds have not been used
responsibly. Now the City Council wants to raise the rate and make the tax perma-
nent. Our total sales tax would be 8.5% — significantly higher than in neighboring
Monterey County (7.25%) and one of the highest permanent rates in California.
Meanwhile, General Fund money that could be used for infrastructure has been
diverted to other projects.

In the first year of the Measure F tax, the City spent $827,000 on the "Street Main-
tenance and Sidewalk Repair" activity, including $807,000 from a General Fund
"Street Maintenance Impact Fee" and $20,000 from "Charges to Other Funds",
with only $32 of "NET GENERAL FUND REQUIREMENTS." The ballot argument
in 2004 said that the new tax would “help address the most critical needs, such as
... parks and streets.” A general tax can be spent on anything. The City Council
cannot be trusted.

The Transportation Funding Task Force, convened by Fred Keeley in 2006, is hard
at work. Various citizens have suggested combining local, state, federal and pri-
vate funds to fix potholes on local streets, cut congestion, restore school bus ser-
vice, repair sidewalks, enhance mobility for seniors, improve transit, and promote
bikes. Santa Cruz City Council should not be allowed to sabotage the Task Force
process by making it harder to pass a possible county-wide, dedicated, transporta-
tion-only funding plan. Such a plan could provide much more transportation money
to the City.

Please vote NO on a higher, permanent, general-purpose sales tax in the City of
Santa Cruz. For more information, see www.savesantacruz.org

si Thomas J. Mullen
Dentist, ret.

si Sylvia S. Mullen
Community Volunteer

si Regis Paul Marcelin-Sampson
Computer Scientist

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H

Opponents of Measure H use unsubstantiated claims and exaggeration to sway
your vote.

They are playing political games with serious matters: repair of damaged streets,
cleanup of our parks, river and greenbelt, and maintenance of public safety
services.

Please don’t be deceived by their questionable claims:

They claim funds haven’t been used responsibly and that money was diverted to
“other projects."

The City Council has already cut dozens of city jobs and limited employee pay.
What remains of the City General Fund is spent primarily on the basics of Police,
Fire, Parks, Libraries, and Public Works. The opponents seem to suggest we
shouldn’t fund these “other projects.” This is wrong! We need to pay for these ba-
sic services AND fix our streets, parks, and river.

They claim the proposed tax rate is unusually high. It is the same rate as San Fran-
cisco and lower than Oakland’s.

They suggest the Council wants to “sabotage" the transportation task force. This is
untrue. The Council supports the task force’s search for solutions - the Council has
a member on the task force. But we can’t wait for years for the task force while
our streets fall apart and our parklands suffer. Santa Cruz needs enough funds
NOW to fix streets, clean up the parks and river, and maintain public safety ser-
vices. Measure _ guarantees the money will be spent here locally.

Repair our streets. Protect our parklands and river. Sustain public safety services.

Keep tax dollars here in Santa Cruz. Yes on Measure H

si Neal Coonerty
Business Owner & Supervisor-elect

si Yolanda Henry
Executive Director, Familia Center

si Neal Aronson
Santa Cruz Firefighter

si Don Lane
Former Mayor & Business Owner

si Cynthia Mathews
Mayor, City of Santa Cruz

44-11