SONOMA-MARIN AREA RAIL TRANSIT DISTRICT MEASURE R

R Shall an ordinance be adopted authorizing the
Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District
(SMART) to construct, operate, and maintain a
passenger rail project and bicycle/pedestrian pathway on
publicly owned right-of-way, from Cloverdale in Sonoma
County, to Larkspur in Marin County, with a connection
to the Larkspur-San Francisco feny; imposing a 1/4 cent
sales tax for 20 years; establishing a Citizens Oversight
Committee; and establishing an annual spending cap?

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE R
ORDINANCE NO. 2006-01
AN ORDINANCE OF THE
SONOMA-MARIN AREA RAIL TRANSIT
DISTRICT IMPOSING A RETAIL TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION; ADOPTING
AN EXPENDITURE PLAN; AND ESTABLISHING '
AN ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT
FOR THE SONOMA-MARIN AREA
RAIL TRANSIT DISTRICT.
BACKGROUND FINDINGS:

The Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District (SMART)
was created to provide a passenger rail system along the
Northwestern Pacific Railroad within Sonoma and Marin
Counties. The entire 75-mile corridor is publicly owned and
can be used to provide passenger rail service. SMART will
provide passenger rail service and a bicycle/pedestrian
pathway to 14 rail stations in Sonoma and Marin Counties.
SMART is committed to providing service with the most
environmentally clean passenger rail vehicle possible.
SMART requires this measure in order to provide matching
revenues to existing state and federal transportation grants,
to bond for the construction of the project, and to provide
funding for the on-going operation and maintenance of the
project.

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the
Sonoma-Marin Passenger Rail Act. The Sonoma-Marin
Area Rail Transit District hereinafter shall be called “Dis-
trict.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporat-
ed and unincorporated territory of the Counties of Sonoma
and Marin, which shall be referred to herein as “District.”

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date”
means the first day of the first calendar quarter commenc-
ing more than 110 days after the effective date of this ordi-
nance, as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to
achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs
that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accom-
plish those purposes:

A.	To provide funding for the design, construction,
implementation, operation, financing, maintenance and
management of a passenger rail system and a bicycle/pedes-
trian pathway connecting the 14 rail stations from
Cloverdale to Larkspur.

B.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accor-

dance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 105115 of the Public Utilities Code
which authorizes the District to adopt this tax ordinance
which shall be operative if a two-thirds majority of the elec-
tors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition
of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and
limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefor that can
be administered and collected by the State Board of Equali-
zation in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable
to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the exist-
ing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the
State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting
the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

E.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance
that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the
greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use
taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record
keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provi-
sions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the
operative date, the District shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to
the administration and operation of this transactions and use
tax ordinance; provided, that if the Authority shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such
a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first cal-
endar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the priv-
ilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the District at the rate of 1/4 of 1
percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the
sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said ter-
ritory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this
ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal proper-
ty sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-
state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an
out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales
shall include delivery charges, when such charges are sub-
ject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no per-
manent place of business in the State or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail
sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board
of Equalization.

SMM-1

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby
imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the
District of tangible personal property purchased from any
retailer on and after the operative date of this ordinance for
storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of 1/4 of 1 percent (0.25%) of the sales price of the
property. The sales price shall include delivery charges
when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax
regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE
LAW. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions
of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though
fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE
LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES. In adopting
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or
referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this District
shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall
not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of
the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Con-
trol, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require
action to be taken by or against this District or any agency,
officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions
incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily
limited to sections referring to the exterior boundaries of
the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with
respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other
consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not be subject to tax by die state
under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence
thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “District” shall be substituted for the word
“State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this
State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s
permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of

the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s
permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax
or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city,
city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums
Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any
state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the
amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel
or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or
consumed principally outside the County in which the sale
is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such air-
craft as common carriers of persons or property under the
authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the District
which is shipped to a point outside the District, pursuant to
the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retail-
er or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for
shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of
this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the District shall
be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commer-
cial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented ves-
sels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-
of-District address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in
fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by regis-
tration to a place of business out-of-District and declaration
under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehi-
cle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller
is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pur-
suant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a
continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for
which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal property
shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract
or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this
ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this
District of tangible personal property:

SMM-2

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have
been subject to a transactions tax under any state-adminis-
tered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased
by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such oper-
ators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or com-
pensation under a certificate of public convenience and
necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the
United States, or any foreign government. This exemption
is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the prop-
erty for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into
prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or
power over, the tangible personal property arises under a
lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for
any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease
the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of
this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or posses-
sion of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible per-
sonal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer
engaged in business in the District shall not be required to
collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal prop-
erty, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
District or participates within the District in making the sale
of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the district or through any repre-
sentative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
the District under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the District”
shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehi-
cles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (com-
mencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels regis-
tered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840)
of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to col-
lect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the District.

D. Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance
may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reim-
bursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing,
or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage,
use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subse-
quent to the effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of

Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to
sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part

1.6	and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Divi-
sion 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automati-
cally become a part of this ordinance, provided however,
that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate
of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBID-
DEN. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or
equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceed-
ing in any court against the State or the District, or against
any officer of the State or the District, to prevent or enjoin
the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. ESTABLISHMENT OF ANNUAL AP-
PROPRIATIONS LIMIT. Talcing into account the proceeds
of taxes available to the District, including tax revenue that
would become available upon approval of this ordinance,
the appropriations limit of the Sonoma-Marin Area Rail
Transit District for fiscal year 2006-2007 is established as
$60 million, unless that amount should be amended pur-
suant to applicable law.

Section 15. ADOPTION OF EXPENDITURE PLAN
AND ACCOUNTABILITY FOR EXPENDITURE OF
PROCEEDS OF THE TAX. The District Board of Direc-
tors hereby adopts the Expenditure Plan attached hereto and
incorporated into this ordinance by reference. Proceeds of
the tax imposed by this ordinance shall be placed in a spe-
cial account, and shall be spent only to implement the proj-
ect components set forth in the Expenditure Plan, including
the design, construction, implementation, operation, financ-
ing, maintenance and management of the passenger rail
system and bicycle/pedestrian pathway.

Section 16. ANNUAL REPORT. The Chief Financial
Officer of the Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District
shall annually cause to be prepared a report setting forth (a)
the amount of funds collected and expended; and (b) the
status of any project component authorized to be funded in
the Expenditure Plan adopted by the District in Section 15
herein.

Section 17. COMPLIANCE WITH CALIFORNIA
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT fCEOAL An Envi-
ronmental Impact Report was prepared for the project
described in the Expenditure Plan and was certified by the
District Board of Directors on July 19, 2006, prior to the
Board’s adoption of this ordinance.

Section 18. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this
ordinance or the application thereof to any person or cir-
cumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance
and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 19. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates
to the levying and collecting of the District transactions and
use taxes and shall take effect immediately upon the close
of the polls on November 7, 2006, if the measure is
approved by two-thirds of the electors voting on the mea-
sure at the election held that day.

SMM-3

Section 20. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to
levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire twenty
(20) years from the operative date of this ordinance.

Section 21. REPEAT, OF ORDINANCE NO. 2004-01.
Ordinance No. 2004-01 is hereby repealed.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Directors of
the Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District in the County
of Marin, State of California, on July 19, 2006, by the fol-
lowing vote:

DIRECTORS:

BORO: Aye KERNS: Aye REILLY: Aye
BROWN: Noe McGLASHAN: Aye FUDGE: Aye
HEALY: Aye JEHN: Aye BREEN: Aye
DELLON-KNUTSON: Aye EDDIE: Abs. PAHRE: Aye
AYES: 10 NOES: 1 ABSENT: 1 ABSTAIN: 0
Original on File

A1 Boro, Chair, SMART Board of Directors
Attest:

s/LILLIAN HAMES
General Manager and Clerk of the Board

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE R

The Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District (“SMART”)
is a rail district created by the Legislature in 2003 to evalu-
ate, plan, and implement passenger rail and associated
transportation services from Cloverdale in Sonoma County
to a ferry terminal in Marin County that connects to San
Francisco. The geographic area of the district includes all of
Sonoma and Marin counties.

The District is authorized, with the approval of the voters, to
propose a special tax to implement this service. The District
has adopted an ordinance proposing a quarter-cent transac-
tions and use tax ($0.0025 on every $1 spent), to be imposed
on retail sales in Sonoma and Marin Counties, beginning
April 1,2007. Proceeds of the tax would provide funding for
the design, construction, implementation, operation, financ-
ing, maintenance and management of the rail system and a
bicycle/pedestrian pathway from Cloverdale in Sonoma
County to Larkspur in Marin County. An Expenditure Plan
for the tax revenues is incorporated into the proposed sales
tax ordinance. The revenue from the tax can only be spent on
project elements listed in the Expenditure Plan, including:

1.	Rehabilitation and upgrading of the existing Northwest-
ern Pacific Railroad (NWP) corridor from Cloverdale to
Larkspur, including new passing sidings.

2.	A parallel bicycle/pedestrian pathway.

3.	Fourteen rail stations from Cloverdale to Larkspur (9 in
Sonoma County, 5 in Marin County).

4.	A maintenance facility in either Cloverdale or Windsor.

5.	Shuttle service at selected rail stations.

The tax would be collected in the same manner as sales tax
is currently collected, would begin on April 1, 2007, and
would continue in effect for twenty (20) years.

The District is empowered under state law to issue bonds to
fund all or part of the construction of the project, so that
work can begin sooner. The bonds would be repaid over
time from the tax revenue collected. The ordinance also
establishes an appropriations (spending) limit for SMART.
The ordinance must be approved by two-thirds of the vot-
ers voting on the question in order for the special tax to go
into effect.

s/PATRICK K. FAULKNER
Marin County Counsel
s/STEVENWOODSIDE
Sonoma County Counsel

SMM-4

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE R

For decades, traffic congestion on Highway 101 in Marin
and Sonoma counties has grown worse, wasting our valu-
able time, causing stress and aggravation and costing us
money. As the Bay Area continues to grow, traffic will only
get worse.

That’s why the time is now to move forward with the
SMART Train, giving ourselves an affordable, convenient
alternative to freeway traffic.

SMART provides an alternative to Highway 101 grid-
lock, removing 5,300 car trips from our roads during the
worst commute hours, more than 1.4 million annually.
SMART can be running in 3 years, faster than widening the
freeway.

SMART is good for our environment, removing 124,000
pounds a day of emissions that pollute our air and water and
contribute to global warming. SMART’S quiet, energy-effi-
cient and low-emission trains help reduce dependence on
fossil fuels.

SMART dramatically slashes commute times, giving you
time to relax, enjoy your coffee and read the newspaper. A
trip between Santa Rosa and San Rafael often taking more
than V-h hours on Highway 101 will take just 50 minutes on
SMART. SMART also cuts the time between Novato and
Larkspur from 45 minutes to less than 20 minutes.

SMART supports building a 70-mile bicycle and pedes-
trian pathway, giving us even more ways to get out of our
cars and promoting healthy, close-knit communities.
SMART provides complete fiscal accountability, with an
annual spending cap, annual audits and independent citizen
oversight. Reducing CO 2 emissions, saving travel time for
our employees and avoiding car trips are worth the invest-
ment.

SMART increases overall transit use, providing a conve-
nient connection to San Francisco-bound ferries in Lark-
spur and connecting directly with local bus service.
SMART will also operate free, local shuttles.

The time is now. Vote YES on the SMART Train, for
fewer car trips and cleaner air.
s/ALBERT J. BORO
Chair, SMART Board of Directors
Mayor, San Rafael
s/CHARLES McGLASHAN
Supervisor, County of Marin
s/PERRY NEWMAN
President, Marin League of Women Voters
s/STEVE KINSEY
Supervisor, County of Marin
s/DEB HUBSMITH
Marin County Bicycle Coalition

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE R

Look at the Facts:

SMART will not reduce congestion. Their own studies
tell us this. Too few cars are removed from roads to make
any difference and delays at rail crossings will worsen traf-
fic in San Rafael.

SMART is not affordable. The taxpayer subsidy per
SMART passenger is more than five times that for Golden
Gate bus and ferry riders.

SMART is not convenient. There is only one midday
train, no weekend service, no parking lots in San Rafael or
Larkspur. The Larkspur terminal is a long inconvenient
walk to the ferry. Total travel time would be longer than bv
car for most trips.

SMART is not good for the environment. That’s why
major environmental organizations in Marin are actively
campaigning against it. SMART will harm Marin wetlands.
The trains will emit cancer-causing diesel fumes and loud
train horns will disturb neighborhoods.

SMART is not fiscally responsible. There is no
detailed financial plan. Fuel costs are understated. The shut-
tle system is underfunded. There is no evidence that
SMART can afford even the infrequent service it claims.

SMART is not designed to increase transit use in
Marin. There would be no rail service to southern Marin,
Ross Valley, or West Marin. SMART will compete for the
same funds as our local transit. SMART could degrade our
existing Golden Gate transit system.

To reduce global warming, we need to invest wisely, not
gamble on a risky, expensive and limited system.

Don’t be fooled. Trust the Facts. Vote No on Measure R
s/SUSANL. ADAMS
Marin County Supervisor
s/JUDY ARNOLD
Novato City Councilmember
s/DENNIS J. RODONI
Director, North Marin Water District
s/HERMAN ARROW
Chair of Steering Committee,

Los Robles Homeowners League
s/DENNIS A. BROWN
Vice President, Marin United Taxpayers Association

SMM-5

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE R

Vote NO ill Measure R!

SMART’S own $4 Million Environmental Impact Re-
port shows that the single-track train would not relieve
congestion on Highway 101.

•	Of more than 20,000 Sonoma residents working in
Marin only 230 would take the train.

•	Only 500 Marin residents would take the train each
weekday.

•	Three quarters of SMART’S trips would be within
Sonoma, having no effect on traffic in Marin.

•	The train would worsen congestion in central San
Rafael at key intersections.

•	The Larkspur station is a long walk to the Golden Gate
Ferry Terminal. It isn’t a convenient connection to San
Francisco. Larkspur opposes this station.

•	Trains would operate only twice an hour for weekday
commuters, with only one mid-day train. Trains would
not operate on weekends.

Ridership is expected to drop after carpool lanes are
completed in Marin and Sonoma.

The $1.4 billion cost of SMART is totally out of pro-
portion to its ridership. Golden Gate buses and ferries carry
seven times as many weekday passengers for one-fifth the
cost per passenger.

The taxpayer subsidy for each passenger on each
one-way train trip would be more than $50. By compar-
ison, the subsidy for bus and ferry riders is less than $9.
SMART would take scarce transportation funds from tran-
sit programs that would provide better service at lower cost
per passenger.

SMART would have negative environmental impacts.

•	Loud train horns are required at over 100 street cross-
ings, even in early morning hours, disturbing nearby
residents.

•	Residential areas, schools and parks would be exposed
to diesel engine exhaust.

•	Wetlands and endangered species habitats would be
destroyed.

Measure R asks taxpayers to spend $1.4 billion for a
noisy, diesel train that would take very few riders and
would not relieve congestion. Ask yourself, would you
take this train?

Vote NO on Measure R!
s/HAROLD C. BROWN, JR.

Marin County Supervisor
s/PAT EKLUND
Novato Councilmember and former SMART and
Transportation Authority of Marin Board Member
s/ROGER ROBERTS
President, Marin Conservation League
s/NINA LILIENTHAL-MURPHY
President, Lincoln-San Rafael Hill
Neighborhood Association
s/BARBARA SALZMAN
President, Marin Audubon Society

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE R

Vote for the Train, Vote YES on Measure R

Opponents of the SMART Train would have us believe that
continuing to rely solely on Highway 101 will solve traffic
congestion and air pollution. They’re wrong. Doing the
same old thing isn’t the answer to worsening traffic and
higher levels of auto emissions.

We need an alternative to Highway 101 that’s convenient
and fast, that will get people out of their cars and reduce the
levels of greenhouse gasses that contribute to global warming.
The SMART Train gives us that alternative.
SMART puts us on a more sustainable course for the future
that reduces our dependence on Highway 101, fossil fuels
and cars.

SMART will remove up to 1.4 million car trips annually
from Marin and Sonoma roads during the heaviest traffic
times. That eliminates almost 16,000 tons of auto emissions
each year, emissions that harm our environment and pollute
the air we breathe.

In addition, SMART includes a dedicated bicycle and
pedestrian pathway running parallel to the rail line, mean-
ing even more cars off our roads and less pollution.

By connecting to local buses and the Larkspur ferry,
SMART will increase overall public transit ridership with-
out competing for the same transportation funding. And
SMART’S modem, lighter and energy-efficient trains are
safe, clean and quiet.

We’ve waited too long for an alternative to Highway 101.
We don’t have to wait any longer.

Vote YES on Measure R!
s/ALBERT J. BORO
Chair SMART Board, Mayor, San Rafael
s/CHARLES McGLASHAN
Marin County Supervisor
s/PERRY NEWMAN
President Marin League of Women Voters
s/STEVE KINSEY
Marin County Supervisor
s/DEB HUBSMITH
Marin County Bicycle Coalition

SMM-6

SONOMA-MARIN AREA RAIL

TRANSIT DISTRICT

2006 EXPENDITURE PLAN

SMM-7

I.	Executive Summary: SMART Expenditure Plan

The Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District (SMART) proposes a 14 cent sales tax measure for
Sonoma and Marin Counties in order to pay for the construction and operation of a passenger rail
system and ancillary bicycle/pedestrian pathway along the existing Northwestern Pacific Railroad.

Passage of this measure allows SMART to access other state, regional, and federal funds for the
provision of passenger rail service that are currently unavailable to Sonoma and Marin residents.

This measure would raise approximately $668 million over a 20-year period or approximately $33
million a year (in 2006 dollars). The proceeds of the tax would be allocated to the design,
construction, implementation, operation, financing, maintenance and management of a
passenger rail system and a bicycle/pedestrian pathway connecting the proposed rail stations.

SMART has prepared an Environmental Impact Report analyzing the potential environmental
impacts of the proposed passenger rail corridor. (See www.sonomamarintrain.org to view the
environmental documents.)

II. SMART Expenditure Plan Background

A.	SMART District Role and Purpose

On January 1, 2003, the SMART District was established by the California Legislature through
the enactment of AB 2224. The SMART District includes both Sonoma and Marin Counties and
was created for the purpose of providing a unified and comprehensive structure for the ownership
and governance of a passenger rail system within Sonoma and Marin Counties. The goal of
SMART is to provide passenger rail service along the publicly-owned Northwestern Pacific
Railroad (NWP) alignment.

B.	AB2224

SMART’S enabling legislation authorizes the rail district to own, operate, manage, and maintain a
passenger rail system within the territory of the district, to contract and employ labor, to contract
for shuttle services necessary or convenient for rail transit, and to acquire, construct, and operate
rights-of-way, rail lines and other facilities for rail transit, including ancillary bicycle/pedestrian
pathways. AB 2224 prohibits SMART from condemning property for transit-oriented joint
development purposes.

The SMART Board of Directors is composed of 12 members representing Sonoma and Marin
Counties and the Golden Gate Bridge, Highway and Transportation District (Bridge District).

AB 2224 commits SMART to work with the North Coast Railroad Authority (NCRA), the local
freight operator, to achieve safe, efficient and compatible operations for both passenger rail and
freight service on the NWP north of Highway 37 in Novato, in the event that NCRA resumes
freight service.

C.	NWP Ownership and Management

The primary asset of SMART is the NWP rail right-of-way and properties contained within that
right-of-way along the railroad corridor extending from Healdsburg in Sonoma County to Corte
Madera in Marin County. (See Figure 1)



Figure 1

LEGEND

Q Proposod Stations

Maintenance Facility

Urban Areas

’ Railroad

<bbs3» Highway

rn Proposed Project
Corridor

------ Major Roads

Not to scale

Pacific Ocean

SMART?

SMART is managed by an appointed General Manager, who reports to the SMART Board of
Directors. SMART adopts an annual budget documenting all revenues and expenditures. Upon
passage of this measure, SMART will prepare a Strategic Plan, under the direction of the SMART
Board of Directors, and will update the plan at least every five years. The Strategic Plan will
provide detailed annual revenue and cost assumptions for project implementation and operation.
SMART will also prepare a five-year Short Range Transit Plan documenting service and funding
assumptions. Prior to initiating rail service, SMART will prepare a Start-Up Plan and an
Emergency Preparedness Plan one year in advance of scheduled service. The Start-Up Plan will
document implementation requirements, schedule assumptions, staffing, and maintenance and
operations requirements. The Emergency Preparedness Plan will be developed in coordination
with local emergency responders and will address response protocols and procedures along the
corridor.

A Citizens Oversight Committee will be established by the SMART Board to provide input and
review on the Strategic Plan and subsequent updates. The committee will be composed of
citizens from the SMART District, appointed by the Board.

D.	Community Outreach

SMART’S community outreach efforts have included monthly public Board meetings, public
hearings, special ad hoc meetings and over 150 presentations to community, business and
special issue groups. SMART maintains an agency website with regular postings of project
documents, a project hotline with phone numbers in both Sonoma and Marin counties and has
provided regular email updates on the project’s development to over 2,200 email recipients.

III.	Expenditure Plan and Project Details

A.	Project Description

The SMART passenger rail project will upgrade the existing NWP right-of-way, to provide
passenger rail service from Cloverdale to Larkspur, with convenient linkages to bus and shuttle
feeder routes and direct connections to the bicycle/pedestrian pathway. Fourteen stations are
planned, nine in Sonoma County and five in Marin County. Proposed station sites include:
Cloverdale, Healdsburg, Windsor, Santa Rosa (two stations), Rohnert Park, Cotati, Petaluma
(two stations), Novato (two stations), Marin Civic Center, San Rafael and Larkspur. Rail service
is proposed at 30 minute frequencies, operating in the weekday am and pm commute periods,
along with one mid-day train.

B.	Project Components: Capital Improvements

1.	Trackway & Bridges: The existing single track NWP corridor will be upgraded with passing
tracks and sidings, which will accommodate train schedule requirements. All of the rail, with the
exception of rail recently or currently being upgraded, will be re-laid with new ballast, ties,
signage, and drainage facilities. All timber trestle bridges will be replaced with concrete trestle
spans supported on concrete pilings. The Gallinas Creek Bridge and Russian River Railroad
Bridge will be upgraded and rehabilitated. The Haystack Landing Bridge will be replaced.

2.	Stations: Fourteen rail stations are proposed (see Figure 1). The stations would have
convenient transfers to peak period, fixed route bus service, connections to regional ferry service
(at the Larkspur Station) and bicycle/pedestrian pathway connections. Each station will have a
boarding platform with shelter, lighting, ticket vending machines, passenger amenities and pick-

=SMART=

WililJIHMMBMIi

up and drop-off areas. New park-and-ride lot spaces are proposed at all stations except Santa
Rosa Railroad Square, Downtown San Rafael and Larkspur stations. Bicycle parking would be
provided at all stations and attended bicycle parking facilities would be provided at Santa Rosa
Railroad Square and Downtown San Rafael.

3.	Vehicles: Passenger rail multiple unit vehicles that are independently powered and do not
require a traditional diesel locomotive are proposed. SMART is committed to using a vehicle that
best meets state and federal railroad operations requirements, but which provides the least
amount of noise and highest level of air quality. Passenger rail multiple units have the capability
to operate using bio-diesel fuels.

4.	Other Construction Items: Two tunnels will be upgraded for rail service including the
CalPark Hill Tunnel between San Rafael and Larkspur and the Puerto Suello Hill Tunnel, located
north of San Rafael. Over 40 public at-grade crossings will be upgraded along the corridor.

A new signal and dispatch system will be provided along the NWP to control train operations in
accordance with state and federal operating rules and requirements.

5.	Bicycle/Pedestrian Pathway: SMART proposes a bicycle/pedestrian pathway along the
SMART rail corridor linking the 14 rail stations. The proposed bicycle/pedestrian pathway
includes a combination of Class 1 and Class 2 pathways. The construction of the
bicycle/pedestrian pathway is proposed both on and off the SMART right-of-way depending on
physical and environmental constraints and available rights-of-way. SMART proposes to fund
approximately 57% of the pathway construction. Completion of the entire pathway would require
the identification of additional revenues.

6.	Shuttle Services: Peak hour shuttle service is proposed for selected rail stations. A detailed
service plan is to be included as part of SMART’S Start-Up Plan, which will be prepared in
advance of project opening in cooperation with local transit providers.

7.	Maintenance Facility: A maintenance facility will be constructed to provide off-site rail vehicle
maintenance and storage.

8.	Quiet Zones: SMART has committed to funding Quiet Zones in urban areas along the
corridor, which would allow crossings to operate without train horns, if desired by the local
jurisdiction. SMART will work with local jurisdictions to identify these locations and assist them in
applying for this federal waiver.

9.	Environmental Mitigation:	SMART	will implement the environmental compliance and

mitigation measures identified in the Final Environmental Impact Report.

10.	Engineering, Bid Documents, Staff Support: Final engineering and preparation of all
construction documents will be provided for the rail and pathway projects.

C.	Project Components: On-Going Operations and Maintenance

1. Annual Forecasted Operating Costs: Operating costs include all costs of train and shuttle
operations, including service contracts, vehicle fuel, insurance, administration, project staffing and
overhead.

2. Annual Forecasted Maintenance Costs: Annual maintenance costs include the costs of
maintaining vehicles, stations, trackway, signals, maintenance facility, railroad crossings and the
portions of the bicycle/pedestrian pathway on the rail right-of-way.

IV.	Project Funding and Implementation

A.	Schedule

The proposed schedule for the project is as follows:

SMART District Vote	November	7,	2006

Engineering/Construction	2007-2009

Service Initiation	2009-2010

B.	Sales Tax Revenues

It is estimated that $668 million will be raised with the V* cent district-wide sales tax over 20 years
(in 2006 dollars). Approximately $470 million would be generated in Sonoma County and $198
million in Marin County over a 20-year period. Annual revenues are estimated to be
approximately $33 million per year in 2006 dollars.

C.	Fare Revenues

Fares for train service will be established by the SMART Board of Directors through a public
process, as required by law. It is anticipated that the fare structure will incorporate a distance
based zone system, similar to other transit districts in the North Bay. Based on the experience of
other passenger rail systems, fares are expected to fund approximately 30% of annual rail system
operating costs. The average fare assumed in this Expenditure Plan is $4.00 per one-way trip.

D.	Project Financing and Bonding

The SMART District has the authority to bond and use other financing mechanisms for the
purposes of expediting the delivery of the rail and pathway project. Bonds will be paid with the
proceeds of the District’s sales tax. The costs and risks associated with bonding will be
presented in the District’s Strategic Plan and will be subject to public comment before any bond
sale is approved.

SMART plans on financing a portion of the capital costs of construction in the early years of the
project so that the project can be constructed and operating as quickly as possible. Financing will
be used to fund the difference between regional, state and federal funding and the capital cost of
the project during the construction years. The bonds will be paid back over the 20 years of the
plan.

E.	Expenditure Plan Allocations

Project costs are summarized in Table 1. The allocation of sales tax revenues to project costs
over the 20 year plan includes the following assumptions.

1.	District revenues will fund approximately 70% of total costs and include sales tax
revenues, NWP leasing revenues, joint development revenues and financing.

2.	Federal funding is anticipated for 6% of total costs.

pHL

SMART



3.	State funding is estimated at 10% of total costs. Funding includes Proposition 116,
Traffic Congestion Relief Program, State Transit Assistance, and statewide infrastructure
funds.

4.	Regional Measure 2 will fund approximately 3% of total costs.

5.	Sonoma County’s Measure M Traffic Relief Act will fund $23	million for SMART,

representing 2% of total costs.

6.	Lease revenues from NWP right-of-way will fund approximately 1 % of total costs.

7.	Joint development of SMART-owned station right-of-way will fund approximately 2% of
total costs.

8.	NCRA capital contributions for trackway upgrades are estimated at 1	% of total costs.

9.	Fare revenues will fund approximately 30% of annual rail operating	costs; or 9% of	total

costs over the 20-year plan.

10.	A 20-year program contingency is provided.

The proposed 'A cent sales tax measure would provide approximately $668 million in new
revenues, which would be used to leverage an estimated 20-year investment of nearly $1.4
billion. Contingencies have been factored into all construction cost estimates and a program
contingency for the 20-year term is also included. These cost and revenue estimates cover the
full 20-year term of the measure and include all anticipated revenues and costs associated with
the project.

TABLE 1: SMART Project Costs (All costs in 2006 dollars)

Project Capital Costs	
Rail Project	$387 million
Bicycle-Pedestrian Pathway	$ 46 million

Annual Operating Costs	
Rail Project	$ 14.2 million
Bicycle-Pedestrian Pathway	$ 750,000
Shuttle Services	$ 1.3 million

Table 2 identifies anticipated costs and revenues for implementing the SMART program over a 20
year period.

-^S^ARTjsr

TABLE 2: Anticipated Costs and Revenues Over 20 Years (Millions $)

Costs		% Share		Revenues		% Share
Rail Project	$387	28%		District (3)	$981	70%
Pathway	46	3%		Farebox(4)	130	9%
District Operations (1)	874	62%		Regional	72	5%
Program Contingency (2)	93	7%		State	137	10%
				Federal	80	6%
Total:	$1,400	100%		Total:	$1,400	100%

(1)	Includes annual operating, maintenance and financing costs.

(2)	20 year program contingency.

(3)	Includes sales tax revenues, NWP leasing revenues, joint development revenues and
financing.

(4)	Fares are expected to contribute 9% of total revenues over 20 years and 30% of
annual rail operating costs.

V.	Implementing Guidelines

The following is a list of guidelines for implementation of this Expenditure Plan:

1.	The duration of the measure will be 20 years, beginning on April 1, 2007 and expiring on
March 31,2027.

2.	The measure will be administered by the Sonoma-Marin Area Rail Transit District
(SMART).

3.	A Citizens Oversight Committee will be established by the SMART Board to provide input
and review on the Strategic Plan and subsequent updates.

4.	Actual revenues may be higher or lower than expected due to changes in availability of
state or federal funds, changes in cost and/or fluctuations in sales tax revenues.
Estimates of actual revenue will be programmed annually by the District in its annual
budget and service plan.

5.	SMART will prepare a Strategic Plan prior to July 2007 which will identify planned
investments in capital implementation, operations and maintenance for the duration of the
tax.

=5MA6tT=

6.	Federal and state matching funds will be actively sought throughout the duration of this
tax and the Strategic Plan updated accordingly. SMART commits to coordinating federal
and state funding requests with the Sonoma County Transportation Authority, the
Transportation Authority of Marin, the Golden Gate Bridge Highway and Transportation
District, the Sonoma County Transit District and other local transit districts.

7.	SMART is authorized to issue revenue bonds, pursuant to Public Utilities Code section
105220, to advance the commencement of, or expedite the delivery of, passenger rail
service, the bicycle/pedestrian pathway and related rail transit improvements.

8.	SMART shall undergo an annual financial audit.

VI.	Strategic Plan

SMART will prepare a Strategic Plan, based on the commitments in this Expenditure Plan, prior
to July 2007. The Strategic Plan will identify planned investments in capital implementation,
operations and maintenance for the duration of the tax. The Strategic Plan will be updated at
least every five years and approved by the SMART Board of Directors. The Strategic Plan will be
developed with input from the public and the Citizens Oversight Committee.

VII.	Amendments to the Plan

The SMART Board of Directors may annually review and propose amendments to this
Expenditure Plan to provide for the use of additional federal, state and local funds, to account for
unexpected revenues and to accommodate any unforeseen circumstances.