
<full> BEFORE THE MADERA COUNTY
2006 TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
ORDINANCE NO.: 2006-01

The Madera County 2006 Transportation Authority (also, ‘the Authority") ordains
as follows:

SECTION 1

Purpose and Intent. The purpose of this Ordinance is to implement State law al-
lowing the voters to decide upon a one-half of one percent (1/2%) county wide
transaction and use tax to be used to finance street, road, highway, public transit,
and transportation improvements within the incorporated and unincorporated ar-
eas of Madera County, California, as further described in this Ordinance.

SECTION 2

Countywide Transaction and Use Tax. There is hereby imposed in the incorpo-
rated and unincorporated territory of the County of Madera (“the territory of the Au-
thority'), a transaction and use tax at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2%) in
addition to any existing or future authorized state or local sales tax or transaction
and use tax, in accordance with Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Divi-
sion 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and as authorized by Section 180206 of
the Public Utilities Code.

SECTION 3

Use of Tax Proceeds. Proceeds of the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall be de-
posited into the general fund of the Madera County 2006 Transportation Authority
and shall be used for the following purposes and projects, as described more par-
ticularly in the Madera County 20 Year Transportation Sales Tax Measure Invest-
ment Plan ("Investment Plan"), which is incorporated herein by this reference as
though fully set forth herein, and as that Investment Plan may be amended from
time to time pursuant to applicable law:

A.	The revenue from the transaction and use tax shall be allocated by the Authority
as follows: for street, road, highway, public transit, and other transportation-related
improvements within the incorporated and unincorporated areas of Madera
County; for all purposes related to such improvements, including, but not limited to,
administration of the transaction and use tax, legal actions relating to the transac-
tion and use tax, planning, design, engineering, environmental review, and con-
struction. The revenue from the transaction and use tax shall also be used to
reimburse the County of Madera for the County’s costs in conducting an election
called by the Board of Supervisors regarding the imposition of the transaction and
use tax.

B.	A maximum of one percent (1%) of the revenue from the transaction and use tax
in any one year may be allocated to the Authority for salary and benefits of staff to
assist with implementation of the Investment Plan.

C.	The Authority shall annually divide the remaining transactions and use tax reve-
nues among the incorporated cities located within the County of Madera, and with
the County of Madera (excepting those funds allocated to the Commute Corri-
dors/Farm to Market Program-Regional Streets and Highways Program). The divi-
sion of funds shall be on the basis of the percentage of total County population
residing within the jurisdiction of the respective incorporated cities and within the
unincorporated areas of the County of Madera.

For purposes of calculating these percentages, the Authority shall rely on the
then-current population figures furnished by the State Department of Finance.

The governing bodies of the respective cities, and of the County of Madera, shall
designate the particular application of funds allocated to their jurisdiction, for street,
road, highway, public transit and other transportation-related improvement pro-
grams, purposes, and projects, subject to the approval of the Authority.

D.	Funds allocated for street, road, highway, public transit, and other transporta-
tion-related improvement programs, purposes, and projects shall be allocated ac-
cording to the following formula:

(1)	51 percent - Commute Corridors/Farm to Market Program with 26 percent of
that amount to be allocated to the Regional Streets and Highways Program for ma-
jor capacity increasing street and highway improvement projects including, but not
limited to, lane widening, interchange improvements, and new street and highway
facilities. The remaining 25 percent to be allocated to the Regional Rehabilita-
tion/Reconstruction/Maintenance Program including pothole repair/maintenance,
rehabilitation/resurfacing, and reconstruction projects.

(2)	44 percent - Safe Routes to Schools & Jobs Program to be allocated as follows:

13.00% - to the Street Maintenance Program which includes pothole repair, chip
seals, overlays, and slurry seals.

8.75% - to City Street Supplemental Maintenance Program / County Maintenance
District & Service Areas established for road maintenance purposes.

21.75% - to the Flexible Program which allows the jurisdictions to program funds for
any transportation-related purpose including, but not limited to, capacity increasing
street and highway projects, street and highway maintenance, rehabilitation, and
reconstruction improvement projects, public transit improvements, bicycle and pe-
destrian projects, environmental mitigation related to transportation improvements,
or any other purpose directly or indirectly related to transportation in the territory of
the Authority.

0.50% to the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA") Compliance Program to ad-
dress requirements of the ADA including curb cuts and ramps, as well as other spe-
cial transportation services.

(3)	2 percent - Transit Enhancement Program with 1.83% of funds to be allocated,
based upon population estimates derived by the State Department of Finance to
the City of Chowchilla, the City of Madera, and the County of Madera transit agen-
cies for major new expansions of the express, local and feeder bus services includ-
ing routes, buses, night and weekend service, safer access to transit services, and
car/van pools. The remaining .17% will be allocated to the ADA/Seniors/Paratransit
Program to improve mobility for seniors and for persons with disabilities.

(4)	2 percent - Environmental Enhancement Program to improve air quality and the
environment through four programs: the Environmental Mitigation, Air Quality, Bi-
cycle/Pedestrian Facilities, and Car/Van Pools Programs.

E.	Transactions and use tax revenues, once divided as set forth in Section 3, Para-
graph C., herein, shall thereafter be segregated into separate funds for each of the
respective entities: the incorporated cities located within the county of Madera, and
the County of Madera.

SECTION 4

Collection of Tax. The Authority shall contract with the State Board of Equalization
to perform all functions incidental to the administration and operation of this Ordi-
nance, including collection of the additional transaction and use tax imposed by this
Ordinance.

SECTION 5

Effective and Operative Dates. This Ordinance shall become operative, if ap-
proved by a two-thirds majority vote of the electors, on the first day of the first calen-
dar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this Ordinance.
The provisions of this Ordinance pertaining to the collection of transactions and use
taxes will become effective, and such taxes will begin being collected on April 1,
2007.

SECTION 6

Term. The provisions of this Ordinance pertaining to collection of the transactions
and use tax shall no longer be of any force and effect on or after twenty years fol-
lowing its operative date unless extended by a vote of a two-thirds majority of the
electors voting at an election called for that purpose. This Ordinance may be termi-
nated earlier by a two-thirds majority vote of the Authority members, if the members
determine, following a public hearing, that the purposes of the tax have been ful-
filled and that an earlier termination is in the public interest.

SECTION 7

Appropriation Limit. The maximum annual appropriation limit for the Authority is
$20,000,000 (twenty million dollars) subject to adjustment or increase as provided
by law.

SECTION 8

Implementation. Upon approval of this Ordinance by a two-thirds majority of the
voters, the Authority may adopt policies and take such other action for the imple-
mentation of the one-half of one percent (1/2%) transaction and use tax authorized
by this Ordinance.

SECTION 9

Bonds. The Authority is hereby authorized to issue bonds to finance expenditure to
carry out the purposes of this transactions and use tax, in accordance with the
terms and conditions specified in the resolution creating the Authority.

SECTION 10

Interpretation. This Ordinance is to be interpreted to accomplish, among other
purposes, the following:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code and Section 180206 of the Public Utilities Code.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance which incorporates provi-
sions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California (Part

1	of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code) provided that those provisions
are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance which imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State
Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and
requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and col-
lecting the State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance which will be administered,
to the greatest extent possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division

2	of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transac-
tions and use taxes and simultaneously minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this Ordinance.

SECTION 11

Contract with State. Prior to the operative date of this Ordinance, the Authority
shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident
to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax Ordinance, pro-
vided that if the Authority shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equal-
ization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a
case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of the contract.

SECTION 12

Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at
retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated and unincorpo-
rated territory of the Authority at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 %) of the
gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail on and after the operative date of this Ordinance.

SECTION 13

Place of Sale. For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consum-
mated at the place of business of the retailer (seller) unless the tangible personal
property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination
or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. Gross receipts
from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to
the state sales and use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consum-
mated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

SECTION 14

Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other con-
sumption, in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the Authority, of tangi-
ble personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of
this Ordinance, for storage, use, or other consumption at the rate of one-half of one
percent (1/2%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include deliv-
ery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of
the place to which delivery is made.

SECTION 15

Adoption of Provisions of State Law. All of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby
adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein, except
as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except as such provisions are incon-
sistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

SECTION 16

Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes. In adopting
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of the Authority shall be substituted therefor. There shall be no such sub-
stitution made, however, when:

(1)	The word “State’ is used as part of the title of the State Controller, State Trea-
surer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California.

(2)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against the
Authority or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the
State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administra-
tion or operation of this Ordinance.

(3)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitu-
tion would be to:

(a)	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use, or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be ex-
empt from this tax while such sales, storage, use, or other consumption remain
subject to tax by the State under provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, or

(b)	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use, or other consumption
of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the provisions of that code;

(4)	Appearing in Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,
6715,6737,6797, or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “Authority’ shall be substituted for the word “State’ in the phrase “re-
tailer engaged in business in this State’ in Section 6203 and in the definition of that
phrase in Section 6203. 

(1)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state administered transactions and use tax Ordinance.

(2)	Other than fuel or petroleum products, purchased by operators of aircraft, and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such air-

SECTION 17

Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Sec-
tion 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional seller's permit shall not
be required by this Ordinance.

SECTION 18

Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by
any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local
Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or
use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

(1)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county of
Madera in which sale is made directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government.

(2)	Sales of property to be used outside the incorporated and unincorporated terri-
tory of the Authority which is shipped to a point outside the territory of the Authority,
pursuant to the contract of sales, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his
agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the territory of the
Authority shall be satisfied:

(a)	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code), aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 (commencing with
Section 9840) of Division 3.5 of the Vehicle Code by registration to an address out-
side the territory of the Authority and by a declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, the buyer's principal place
of residence; and

(b)	With respect to commercial vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter
1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, by registra-
tion to a place of business outside the territory of the Authority and a declaration un-
der penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from
that address.

(3)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this Ordinance.

(4)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property
for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a con-
tract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has
the unconditional right to terminate the contract of lease upon notice, whether or
not such right is exercised.

C.	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance the storage, use,
or other consumption in the territory of the Authority of tangible personal property:

craft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition
to the exemptions provided in Section 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code.

(3)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(4)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible per-
sonal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such prop-
erty for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(5)	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangi-
ble personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the un-
conditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

(6)	Except as provided in subsection (7) of this section, a retailer engaged in busi-
ness in the territory of the Authority shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the
property into the territory of the Authority or participates within the territory of the
Authority in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the can-
vasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the territory of the Authority under the au-
thority of the retailer.

(7)	"Retailer engaged in business in the Authority" shall also include any retailer of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compli-
ance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 9840) of Division 3.5 of the
Vehicle code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser
who registers or licensed the vehicle, aircraft, or vessel at an address in the terri-
tory of the Authority.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for a transactions tax paid to a district im-
posing, or retailer liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the prop-
erty the storage, use, or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

SECTION 19

Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance
to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, all amendments to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxa-
tion Code, and all amendments to Division 19 of the Public Utilities Code shall auto-
matically become a part of this Ordinance; provided, however, that no such
amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.


SECTION 20

Enjoining Collection Prohibited. No injunction, writ of mandate or other legal or
equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against
the State or the Authority, or against any officer of the State or the Authority, to pre-
vent or enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be col-
lected.

SECTION 21

Severability. If any section, part, clause, or phrase of this Ordinance is for any rea-
son held invalid or unconstitutional, the remaining portions shall not be affected but
shall remain in full force and effect.

The foregoing Ordinance was Passed and Adopted this 21 st day of June, 2006, by
the following vote:

Ayes: Poythress, Gilbert, Mindt, and Ginsburg
Noes: None

Absent: Skeels, Bigelow, and Rodriguez

s/Gordon C. Skeels,

Chair, Madera County
2006 Transportation Authority

ATTEST:

By: s/Patricia Taylor,

Secretary of the Authority

Approved as to Legal form
Authority Counsel
By: s/J. Gerecke <fullend>






<impartial> MADERA COUNTY
2006 TRANSPORTATION SALES TAX MEASURE
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MADERA COUNTY COUNSEL

A "yes' vote by a two third (2/3) majority of the voters voting on the measure would
authorize collection of a one-half percent (1/2%) retail transaction and use tax
throughout the County of Madera and in the incorporated cities of Madera and
Chowchilla. If the measure is approved, the tax would be collected for a 20 year pe-
riod beginning April 1,2007, and ending March 31,2027. The measure could be ex-
tended by a two thirds (2/3) majority vote of the electors; it could be terminated
early by a two thirds (2/3) majority vote of the Madera County 2006 Transportation
Authority.

Revenues from the proposed measure would be expended to finance street, high-
way, public transit and transportation improvements. The proposed measure is
subject to an initial annual appropriations limit of twenty million dollars
($20,000,000.00), subject to annual adjustment by the State Department of Fi-
nance. Projects proposed for funding are set out in the Madera County 20 Year
Transportation Sales Tax Measure Investment Plan, and must undergo an annual
public hearing process. The proposed projects are located in both the incorporated
and unincorporated areas of the County.

The Madera County 2006 Transportation Authority is composed of three (3) city
council members and three (3) county supervisors, and sits also as the Madera
County Transportation Commission. The proposed measure is authorized by Pub-
lic Utilities Code Section 180000, and following, to be a local supplemental funding
source to state and federal monies available for transportation purposes.

A 'no" vote on the measure would prohibit the imposition of the transaction and use
tax. This impartial analysis is provided pursuant to California Elections Code sec-
tion 9160. <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> 
s/David A. Prentice
County Counsel <impartialsigsend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE T

Please join us in voting yes on Measure T for transportation improvements in the
County. Measure T will generate over $213 million plus an equal amount in State,
federal, and local matching funds for better and safer roads, relief from congestion
and other transportation needs from the foothills to the San Joaquin River.

Measure T reinstates the Vi cent sales tax for transportation improvements which
expired in September 2005. Those funds were successfully used to fix local streets
and roads and improve highways, but with our population expected to increase by
50% over the next 20 years, we need to continue improving our transportation sys-
tem. Without Measure T, streets and roads will become unsafe and dangerous,
traffic congestion will increase and we will lose our ability to compete for federal
and State matching funds.

A YES vote on Measure T will:

•	Repair and maintain local streets throughout the County, including
maintenance districts.

•	Improve the safety of school routes to protect children.

•	Improve public safety and emergency response times.

•	Enhance transit services for seniors and the disabled.

•	Improve air quality.

•	Require that all funds stay in Madera.

•	Add lanes to Avenue 12, Highway 41, Gateway Avenue, 4th Street, Road 29
and Cleveland Avenue.

•	Improve Freeway 99 interchanges at Avenue 12, Highway 233, Gateway anc
4th Street.

•	Generate jobs to support a vibrant local economy.

•	Qualify Madera County for millions of dollars in State and federal matching
funds.

Measure T will establish an independent Citizens' Oversight Committee to moni-
tor how our money is spent. Independent yearly audits must be prepared and pub-
lished to ensure accountability.

Measure "T* will improve streets and roads throughout Madera County, from the
foothills to the San Joaquin River.

We urge your YES vote on Measure T. <favorend>






<favorsigs> s/Sheriff John Anderson, County of Madera
s/Supervisor, Chairman Frank Bigelow, District 01
s/Supervisor Gary Gilbert, District 05
s/Mayor Rob Poythress, City of Madera
s/Mayor Ron Harris, City of Chowchilla <favorsigsend>






NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED.

