

Shall the Alta-Dutch Flat Union School District collect $52 per year per taxable parcel for four
years beginning July 1, 2006, in order to continue educational programs by providing support
for instructional classroom staff, classroom supplies/materials, and site maintenance, with
citizen oversight and exemptions for taxpayers aged 65 and older.

YES	NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY PLACER COUNTY COUNSEL

The Alta-Dutch Flat Union School District
proposes to impose a special tax in order to “continue
educational programs by providing support for instructional
classroom staff, classroom supplies/materials, and site
maintenance, with citizen oversight and exemptions for
taxpayers aged 65 and older.”

The District is proposing to tax all assessor’s
parcels within the District the amount of $52.00 per year
for a period of 4 years commencing July 1, 2006. This
special parcel tax would be an annual tax upon parcels of
property commencing with the 2006-2007 tax year and
continuing through the 2009-2010 tax year. The special
tax would be collected in the same manner as the County
collects property ad valorem taxes.

The special tax exempts, upon proof of eligibility,
parcel owners aged 65 or older using that parcel as their
principal place of residence. The Board of Trustees has
indicated that, should the voters approve this parcel tax,
the Board will adopt, after public hearing, further rules and
regulations regarding the use of the "Senior Citizens
Exemption."

The Board has directed the chief fiscal officer of
the District to file a report with the Board each year. This
annual report would detail the amount of special parcel tax
funds collected and expended, and the status of any
project identified in the measure.

A "YES" vote is a vote in favor of
the Alta-Dutch Flat Union School District
special parcel tax of $52.00 a year for a
period of 4 years.

A "NO" vote is a vote against
imposing the Alta-Dutch Flat Union
School District special parcel tax.

Measure E must receive approval by two-thirds
(2/3) of the votes cast by the voters voting upon the
measure for the special parcel tax to be imposed.

Anthony J. La Bouff

County Counsel

By:	Sabrina	M.	Thompson

Deputy County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

The Alta Dutch Flat School District needs your help.

Why Measure E?

An award winning institution, the School has been a
community cornerstone for over seventy years.
However, the School has encountered unforeseen costs.
Many schools are affected by non-reimbursed expenses
for government-required programs, shortages in funding,
declining enrollment, and other unexpected costs, but
these present greater problems for small schools.

The District has taken tough steps, reduced
administration, teaching, and other staff positions. It has
combined classes, eliminated bus service, and
minimized all other non-essential expenses.

The District has always managed its finances by
maintaining reserves to cover unforeseen costs. Yet
strict budgeting has not kept pace with expenses. The
District is using its modest reserves to bridge the gap.
These reserves are diminishing, though, and will be
quickly exhausted if new unanticipated costs arise.

El

The District's response?

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E
CONTINUED

Can the School be maintained?

Yes. The Board of Trustees concluded that the District
has made every effort to cut costs, and exhausted every
other funding source. The Board asks voters to approve
a modest, temporary parcel tax of $52 per year -140 a
day - for four years. Seniors over the age of 65 may
apply for an exemption.

What does my vote mean?

A "no" vote means that the School's financial situation
could deteriorate; school closure is a definite possibility.
A YES vote would mean the School could maintain its

educational programs. Revenues will be used for
instructional staff, classroom supplies, and maintenance.

Who supports Measure E?

Measure E is supported by a diverse and rich cross
section of our community. This broad support shows an
understanding that the School's contribution to the
community is worth a dollar per week on a temporary
basis.

Please join us in voting YES to keep our school open.

Susan Prince, President, Dutch Flat Community Center

John G. Wardwell, Owner, Monte Vista inn

Scott Saunders, Pastor, Sierra First Baptist Church

Sage L. Kipp, President-Parents Club

Annabelle Ruiz, President Alta Ladies Auxiliary

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE E WAS FILED

RESOLUTION NO. 2-06

RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
THE ALTA-DUTCH FLAT UNION ELEMENTARY
SCHOOL DISTRICT ORDERING A PARCEL TAX
ELECTION BE HELD IN ITS JURISDICTION;
REQUESTING THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS TO
CONSOLIDATE THIS ELECTION WITH ANY OTHER
ELECTION CONDUCTED ON SAID DATE; AND
REQUESTING ELECTION SERVICES BY THE
COUNTY CLERK.

WHEREAS, the Board of Education (the "Board") of the
Alta-Dutch Flat Union School District (the "District") has
determined that the present revenues of the District are
inadequate to fund the cost of education within said District,
and

WHEREAS, without authorization by the voters for a
parcel assessment, immediate and substantial reduction
and elimination of educational programs and services will
be necessary and will have a severe impact on the
children of the District; and

WHEREAS, the District has engaged in a variety of
efforts to generate funds for the educational program,
including many local fundraising efforts, and has
undertaken cost-cutting measures, including employee
layoffs, reduction in staffing, and reduction of programs
and services beneficial and necessary to the students of
the District; and

WHEREAS, a thorough and developed public education
program delivers many long-lasting benefits and
advantages to all the residents of our community; and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XIIIA of the California
Constitution and Sections 50075, 50075.1, 50075.3,

50075.5, 50076, 50077, 50079, and 53720 et seq. of the
California Government Code authorize school districts,
upon approval by two-thirds (2/3) of the electorate voting
on the measure, to levy a special tax to raise funds for
the purpose of conducting its business upon the
approval of two-thirds of the votes cast by voters voting
upon such a special tax proposal; and

WHEREAS, the Board held a public hearing on January
31, 2006, which was duly noticed where all interested
persons have been heard on the matter of holding an
election in the District on the matter of levying a qualified
special tax on each parcel in the District; and

WHEREAS, it has been determined that the Board
conduct a special election on June 6, 2006, at which will
be submitted to the qualified voters of the District a
measure to authorize a special tax for the purpose of
continuing vital educational programs critical to the
educational process in the schools of the District; and

NOW THEREFORE, the Board of Education of the Alta-
Dutch Flat Union School District does hereby resolve,
determine, and order as follows:

Section 1. Said election is hereby called to be held
within the boundaries of the District, at which election
shall be submitted to the qualified voters within the
District the following measure, to wit:

MEASURE E RESOLUTION
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE

E2

"MEASURE"

Shall the Alta-Dutch Flat Union School District
collect $52 per year per taxable parcel for four years
beginning July 1, 2006, in order to continue
educational programs by providing support for
instructional classroom staff, classroom
supplies/materials, and site maintenance, with
citizen oversight and exemptions for taxpayers aged
65 and older.

The special tax will be imposed in the amount of $52.00
per year for each assessor's parcel. For a parcel owner
age 65 or older who uses that parcel as his or her
principal place of residence, to be entitled to a Senior
Citizens Exemption from the special tax, such a parcel
owner, as such owner is shown on the latest current
assessment roll, shall submit proof of entitlement to an
exemption from the special tax, in a manner satisfactory
to the District, proving such parcel is owned individually
or in common with others. Partnerships, corporations,
trusts, and other entities shall not be entitled to an
exemption. The Board, in consultation with the county
assessors, shall adopt, after public hearing, further rules
and regulations governing the within exemption.

Section 2. Commencing on July 1,2006, the special tax
collected annually on all assessor's parcels at the rate
specified above, shall be collected and administered in
the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed
and collected under provisions of the California Revenue
and Taxation Code.

Section 3. The Board is hereby requested to call an
election of the said special tax to be held on June 6,
2006. The Placer County Clerk is hereby requested and
authorized to: 1) set forth said measure on all ballots
relating to said election to be mailed to the qualified
electors of the District; and 2) to provide absent voter
ballots for said special tax election for use by qualified
electors of the District who are entitled thereto in the
manner provided by law.

The Board requests that the District's election
be consolidated with any and all elections to be
held on the same date as specified above.

Section 4. If any section, sub-section, phrase, or clause
of this resolution is for any reason held to be invalid,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the

remaining portion of this resolution, This Board of
Trustees declares that it would have adopted this
resolution and each section, sub-section, phrase, or
clause thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, sub-sections, sentences, phrases, or
clauses shall be declared invalid.

Section 5. The Board shall provide in each year
(pursuant to section 7902.1 of the California government
Code or any successor provision of law) for any increase
in the District's appropriations limit as shall be necessary
to ensure that proceeds of the parcel tax may be spent
for the authorized purposes.

Section 6. The President of the Board and/or his
designees are hereby authorized to prepare and file with
the Registrar of Voters a ballot argument in favor of the
proposition, or act as an author of any ballot argument
prepared in connection with the election including a
rebuttal argument, each within the time established by
the Registrar of Voters, which shall be considered the
official ballot arguments of the Board as sponsor of the
proposition.

Section 7. The Clerk of the Board is hereby authorized
and directed to certify to the due adoption of this
resolution and to transmit a copy hereof so certified to
the Placer County Superintendent of Schools and to file
a copy hereof so certified with the Placer County Clerk.

Section 8. The district hereby certifies that there have
been no district boundary line changes since our last
election, but the district understands that the Placer
County Mapping Division will verify our district boundary
lines prior to the election.

Section 9. Pursuant to Government Code Section
50075.3, the Board directs the chief fiscal officer of the
District to file a report with the Board each year
containing the amount of funds collected and expended.

The foregoing resolution was passed and adopted by the
Governing Board of the Alta-Dutch Flat Union School
District this 31st day of January 2006, by the following
vote:

Ayes:	4

Noes:	0

Absent:	1

Abstention:	0

ATTEST:

Lynn Oliver, President of the Board
Debra Sandoval, Secretary of the Board

E3