FULL TEXT OF MEASURE H
EXHIBIT A

WATER RATE REDUCTION INITIATIVE

(Text of Proposed Ordinance)

AN ORDINANCE BROUGHT BY THE PEOPLE OF THE
CITY OF LODI REPEALING RESOLUTION NO. 2005-203
OF THE LODI CITY COUNCIL “A RESOLUTION OF THE
LODI CITY COUNCIL ESTABLISHING WATER RATES” IN
RESPONSE TO THE WATER UTILITY TAXATION
IMPOSED UPON THE PEOPLE

Whereas regarding purpose.

Whereas the City of Lodi has a legal responsibility to promote
the public health, safety, and trust of the residents of the City
of Lodi and

Whereas the City of Lodi has instituted significant increases in
water rates without sufficient public input for the purpose of
cleaning up water contamination, the residents of the City of
Lodi request the following ordinance to be placed on the next
General Election ballot.

SECTION 1: The Resolution No. 2005-203 of the Lodi City
Council “A resolution of the Lodi City Council establishing
water rates” shall be repealed.

SECTION 2: That the Levy of Charges imposed pursuant to
section 13.08.010 of the Lodi Municipal Code shall be
repealed.

SECTION 3:	That after the date that this ordinance is

approved by the voters, all funds collected under the authority
of Resolution No. 2005-203 of the Lodi City Council shall be
refunded to the rate payers of the City of Lodi in a reasonable
and prompt time frame.

SECTION 4: This ordinance can only be repealed by a
majority vote by the voters of the City of Lodi on a General
Election ballot.

SECTION 5: This ordinance is effective the day approved by
the voters of the City of Lodi.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H
Prepared by Lodi City Attorney

On September 21, 2005, the Lodi City Council adopted
Resolution No. 2005-203 entitled “A Resolution of the Lodi
City Council establishing water rates,” raising water rates to
pay for the cleanup of perchloroethylene (PCE) and
trichloroethylene (TCE) in Lodi’s groundwater. State and
federal health regulators have found both chemicals to be
hazardous to human health.

Measure H would repeal Resolution No. 2005-203, repeal
the water rates established by that resolution, and require the
City to refund all money collected under that resolution. The
Initiative states that it can only be repealed by a majority vote
of Lodi’s voters.

Measure H will not eliminate the City’s legal duty under a
State order to pay for the cleanup of the chemicals. Although
the chemicals are not yet in the area where Lodi’s operating
wells draw water, if they are not cleaned up they will
eventually contaminate Lodi’s wells. As such, if Measure H is
approved, the City will have to find a different way to pay for
cleanup.

The measure would take effect 10 days after the results of
the election are certified under the Elections Code.

39-553

SJ 050-018

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

City officials have contended that chlorinated solvents
perchloroethylene (PCE) and trichloroethylene (TCE) were
discovered in its groundwater in 1989, both of which are
identified as hazardous to human health by state and federal
regulators. This issue is still unresolved and is a controversy
to the Citizens of Lodi. While City officials claim that the total
cost of remediation is not precisely known, it has been
insisted by staff to be at $45.7 million.

City officials instituted a failed and costly “program” of
litigation against “responsible parties” to fund remediation. It
was eventually established that the City itself was in turn
equally responsible for the contamination. This resulted in
failure to secure funds for remediation and also incited a
costly legal backlash against the City by outside entities.

The City, against popular public opinion and numerous
citizens complaints, ultimately entered into a number of
inequitable and highly questionable settlements which were
(A) unreasonably favorable to the Third parties responsible
and (B) by nature in opposition to the general financial welfare
of the citizens of Lodi. City officials also accepted an
unreasonable recommendation to increase current water
rates to pay for the estimated $45.7 million cost. The City
Council then directed a hearing for this matter but excluded
water rate paying non-property owners from the political
process by only allowing a small portion of the citizenry the
right to protest.

It is the People’s position that excluding non-property owner
rate payers from this process is unconscionable and
unethical.

Submitted by:

/s/ Jane Lea

/s/ Dawn C. Squires

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H

The proponents of Measure H acknowledge that the
contamination in the water must be cleaned up by the City.
They acknowledge that the contamination is hazardous and
that when it reaches Lodi’s supply wells it will be harmful.
However, they assert that the “City” should pay for it.

But just who is the City? The City is all of us. The City is
seniors at Hutchins Street Square. The City is children at the
library and playing in parks. The City is people who need
police and fire services. The City is every child and adult who
needs safe clean drinking water to sustain life.

We are the City and future generations are counting on us.
The question is how will we pay for the cleanup ... by
reducing our city services, or acknowledging the need for
clean water and its associated costs. State Water Board
Chairman Robert Schneider said, ‘This is a legacy issue for
Lodi. Lodi will be able to say that it takes care of the
environment.”

The City Council, who the public elected, has been extremely
thorough and careful to ensure that all legal requirements
associated with a water rate increase have been met. Strong
public opinion was expressed at public hearings that the City
should stop spending money on litigation, stop pointing
fingers and making excuses, and clean up Lodi’s water nowl

Vote to keep Lodi’s services and vote to clean up Lodi’s
water. Vote NO on Measure H, the Water Rate Reduction
Initiative.

Submitted by:

/s/ Larry D. Hansen, Council Member
/s/ Richard J. Jones, CEO, non-profit
/s/ William Meehleis, Business Owner
/s/ Sara Heberle, Retired Senior Citizen

39-554

SJ 050-019

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H

Lodi has historically provided quality services to its citizens:
vibrant senior and children’s recreation programs, green
parks, visual and performing arts venues, outstanding police
and fire departments with quick response times and good-
tasting safe drinking water. These services make Lodi livable
and lovable. The “Water Rate Reduction Initiative” threatens
these services.

Although Lodi’s water is currently safe, there are chemicals in
the groundwater that will soon poison it if not cleaned up. The
State mandated the City begin clean-up immediately at the
City’s expense. Ignoring the order would subject the City to
fines and additional legal costs.

It is estimated clean-up of the groundwater contamination,
which has now begun, will cost approximately $45 million.
After numerous public hearings to receive input from the
citizens of Lodi, the City determined the best funding source
was phasing in three $3.50 a month water rate increases over
a one and a half year period. Rates will revert back after
clean-up.

Without the water rate increase, which the “Water Rate
Reduction Initiative” seeks to eliminate, funding for clean-up
will have to come from a reduction in City services. Services
have already been reduced to minimum levels, including a
reduction of 54 staff positions. Additional cuts would have to
come from reduced levels of service in police, fire, public
works, parks and recreation or the library.

Rate increases are never welcomed, but groundwater
contamination clean-up is mandatory to protect our water
supply for future generations. Safeguard Lodi’s quality
drinking water and quality of life. Vote “No” on the “Water
Rate Reduction Initiative.”

Submitted by:

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H

YES on Measure “H” ensures that all citizens both renters and
property owners in Lodi can exercise their democratic right to
participate in the decision making process of their future and
holding city officials accountable for their decision-making.

YES on Measure “H” does not threaten city services, such as:
police, public works, parks and recreation, fire safety or the
library. These services are solely at the discretion of city
officials’ abilities to make good financial decisions. City of
Lodi Code of Ethics and Values, Resolution # 2004-115
states “I (Council member) will be service-oriented. . . and
care about the needs and issues of citizens.”

The Council against popular public opinion and numerous
citizens complaints, ultimately entered into a number of
inequitable ($30 million on failed litigation) and highly
questionable settlements.

#1. A federal judge on June 4th, 2004 invited Lodi’s attorneys
to copy Modesto’s strategy with their PCE/TCE ground water
clean up litigation, but Lodi declined. Modesto used a winning
strategy in court and was awarded $175 million by a San
Francisco Superior Court jury.

#2. California State Central Valley Regional Water Quality
Control Board issued a Clean Up Abatement Order on August
5, 2005 that stated . . .“The Board entered a separate
settlement with Lodi News Sentinel . . .This agreement
essentially makes Lodi News Sentinel . . .secondarily liable
for compliance with the Clean Up and Abatement Order.”

Voting YES on Measure “H” ensures that Lodi will remain
“livable and lovable” with the input from its citizens.

Submitted by:

/s/ Jane Lea
/s/ Dawn Squires

/s/ Susan Hitchcock, Mayor, City of Lodi
/s/ Pat Patrick, President & CEO
Lodi Chamber of Commerce
/s/ Kenneth Mullen MD, Board Member,
Lodi Unified School District
/s/ Joe Harrington, President & CEO
Lodi Memorial Hospital

