P PROPOSED COUNTY CHARTER
AMENDMENT NUMBER THIRTY-
EIGHT TO ESTABLISH TERM
LIMITS FOR MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS AND TO ESTABLISH A
REVISED FORMULA FOR DETERMINING
SALARIES OF MEMBERS OF THE BOARD
OF SUPERVISORS. “Shall the Charter of the
County of San Bernardino be amended to
establish term limits for members of the Board
of Supervisors and to establish a revised
formula for determining salaries of members of
the Board of Supervisors?”

PROPUESTA A ENMIENDA DE LA CARTA
CONSTITUTIVA DEL CONDADO NUMERO
TREINTA Y OCHO A FIN DE ESTABLECER LIMITES
DE PERIODO PARA LOS MIEMBROS DE LA JUNTA
DE SUPERVISORES Y PARA ESTABLECER UNA
FORMULA REVISADA PARA DETERMINAR LOS
SALARIOS DE LOS MIEMBROS DE LA JUNTA DE
SUPERVISORES. “iDeberia la Carta Constitutiva del
Condado de San Bernardino ser enmendada con el
proposito de establecer limites de pieriodos a los
miembros de la Junta de Supervisores y para
establecer una formula revisada para determinar los
salarios de los miembros de la Junta de
Supervisores?"

YES

no/a 4-

CITY OF SAN BERNARDINO
CIUDAD DE SAN BERNARDINO

YY

Advisory Vote Only

If Measure Z is approved by the voters, shall
the proceeds of Measure Z be used only to fund
more police officers and support personnel, and
to fund anti-gang and anti-crime operations,
including drug resistance education and
supervised after-school youth activities?

VOTO CONSULTIVO UNICAMENTE.

ZTo fund more police officers, anti-
gang and anti-crime operations, and
other urgent general fund programs,
and provided it shall be guaranteed to sunset
after 15 years, and provided a Citizen’s
Oversight Committee is created to report
annually to voters on the use of proceeds, shall
an Ordinance be adopted to impose a 1/4 of a
cent transaction and use (sales) tax?

Para invertir en mas oficiales de policla, y en
operaciones en contra de pandillas y crimen y otros
programas urgentes de fondo general, y a condicion
que termine despues de 15 anos, y a condicion de que
un Comite de Vigilancia de Ciudadanos sea creado
para reportar anualmente a los votantes en el uso de
los ingresos, isera adoptada una Ordenanza para
imponer un impuesto (de venta) de V4 de un centavo?

YES/S/<- ^
NO/A/O 4-

Si Medida Z es aprobada por los votantes, iseran los
Ingresos de Medida Z usados solo para invertir en
mas Oficiales de policla y personal de apoyo, e invertir
en operaciones contra pandillas y crimen, incluyendo
educacion en resistencia de drogas y actividades
supervisadas para la juventud despues de horas
escolares?

YES/SI+ M
NO/A/O M

Ballot Type 194 Page 11

MEASURE “Z!

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
OF MEASURE Z --1/4 OF A CENT TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

The proposed Ordinance, if approved by the voters, would amend the San Bernardino
Municipal Code, to add Chapter 3.57 imposing a 1/4 of a cent transactions and use
tax, upon the sale or use of items for which the City is authorized to impose such tax.
The City estimates that $1.5 Million will be collected for Fiscal Year 2006-2007, if this
tax is passed.

The monies collected will be placed in the general fund of the City and may be used
for any lawful purpose of the City. Such a transactions and use tax is provided for by
California law. The transactions tax is applied to the sale of goods which are sold in
stores. The use tax is a tax imposed on the storage and/or use of personal property
located in the City.

This "transactions and use tax" is commonly referred to as a "sales tax." The City
currently collects a one percent (1%) sales tax pursuant to Chapter 3.56 of the City’s
Municipal Code. This proposed sales tax, if approved, is in addition to the one percent
(1%) sales tax currently collected.

This Ordinance, if adopted by the voters, will be effective immediately, although
collection of the tax will not begin until April 1, 2007. The Ordinance will expire 15
years after the date it becomes effective. Future voter approval would be required to
increase the 1/4 of a cent sales tax or to extend its term beyond the 15-year term.
Without such voter approval this tax will end in 15 years.

The Ordinance requires the Mayor and Common Council to create a Citizen’s
Oversight Committee, which shall review the expenditure of proceeds of the tax and
report on those expenditures to the voters at least once a year.

A "Yes" vote would be a vote to approve the Ordinance imposing a 1/4 of a cent
transactions and use tax upon the sale of items for which the City is authorized to
collect such tax pursuant to law.

A "No" vote would be a vote not to approve the Ordinance, and thus no additional
transactions and use tax would be collected.

"The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure Z. If you desire a copy
of the measure, please call the Office of the City Clerk at (909) 384-5002 and a
copy will be mailed at no cost to you."

FP-00

MEASURE “Z!

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Z
Vote YES on Measure Z to Fight Crime in San Bernardino!

San Bernardino ranks as the 3rd most dangerous city in California and the 18th most
dangerous city in America! Last year, nearly 14,000 violent crimes were committed in our
city, and over the past 7 years our murder rate has almost tripled! -- Our families and
residents can’t wait any longer for safe neighborhoods!

Measure Z will provide critical funding for public safety by adding one-quarter cent to our
city’s sales tax.

•	Measure Z will provide funding to hire 40 additional police officers! We must hire
an additional 40 police officers for every area in our city to have one or more officers
dedicated to policing specific neighborhood beats and preventing crime in every
neighborhood.

•	Measure Z will provide funding for anti-gang and anti-crime operations. Gangs
and violent felons must be removed from our community. We need to increase
operations that aggressively target gangs and individuals who create violence in our
neighborhoods.

•	Measure Z will provide funding to prevent youth crime and violence. We have
experienced a frightening increase in youth violence. We must take immediate action
to reduce youth crime and violence through increased drug resistance education and
supervised after school activities.

Business leaders and taxpayers support Measure Z because approximately 70% of the
revenue will be paid by people who live outside our city.

Measure Z contains critical taxpayer protections, such as creating a Citizen Oversight
Committee to ensure our tax dollars are spent hiring additional police and funding
aggressive anti-crime operations. Measure Z will also automatically expire in 15 years
unless taxpayers vote to extend it.

Join police officers, business leaders, and taxpayers in voting YES on Measure Z.

Protect Our City, Neighborhoods & Families - Vote YES on Measure Z

s/Pat Morris
Mayor

s/Cliff Cummings

Owner, Toyota of San Bernardino

s/Ben Gonzales

Chief of Police, San Bernardino (ret.)

s/Martin Matich
Chairman, Matich Corporation

s/Steve Filson

Past - President, San Bernardino Police Officers’ Assoc.

FP-00

MEASURE “Z”

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Even though City Council has the funds to hire fourteen police officers this year,
the City has not filled these vacancies. Instead the City called a special election at
taxpayers’ expense to give City Council members a huge pay raise. This measure
failed.

Measure Z is intended to fund twenty-six additional officers; not forty. The excess
funds may well go to other resources or “pet” projects and not necessarily to
fight crime or address crime prevention.

Do you honestly believe with a campaign to publicize our crime situation that
the non-residents who contribute to 70% of our sales tax revenue will continue
to drive to San Bernardino to shop here when they could choose to go to Victoria
Gardens, Ontario Mills, or Redlands where prices are more competitive with a family-
friendly and attractive environment?

The Citizen Oversight Committee cannot guarantee that the money will be spent on
police and anti-crime programs. This is a simply misleading. This Committee has no
decision-making authority and cannot set policy. This money will go into the
general fund where only the City Council can decide how your tax dollars will be spent.

Join average hard working citizens, seniors, and disadvantaged members of the
community in opposing this unnecessary financial burden.

DEMAND ACCOUNTABILITY for funds already available to protect our city,
neighborhoods, and families.

Don’t give City Council a BLANK CHECK!

VOTE NO and OPPOSE MEASURE Z.

s/Robert Rego

President Inland Mountain Valley Republican Assembly
s/Deanna Adams, Ph.D

Member of Castle Coalition - institute of justice

s/Ronald K Collins
Retired Deputy Sheriff

s/Scott Folkens

High School Government Teacher

FP-00

MEASURE “Z!

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Z

Why would customers come to San Bernardino and pay the highest sales tax rate in
the region, when they can shop in beautiful Redlands or Rancho Cucamonga, where it
is safer and cheaper?

The residents of San Bernardino refused to give the City Council a raise in June
because they felt they were incompetent and couldn’t be trusted to spend our money
wisely.

Our Council has a spending problem, not a revenue problem. In the last ten years:

•	Our annual budget has doubled to $134.5 million

•	Sales tax revenue has nearly doubled to $38.5 million

•	Utility tax revenue has increased by 50%

•	Property tax revenue has nearly quadrupled to $25.1 million

Today, we have fewer cops patrolling our streets than a few years ago even though we
have a budget that has grown by tens of millions over that same timeframe.

If our Council is so concerned about crime, why don’t they budget our money
accordingly? Instead, the Council is more concerned with boondoggles like a million
dollar water fountain with dead ferns, calling special elections that cost $50,000 each
to give themselves a gigantic pay and to raise our taxes, cement “art” balls, and the
Lakes and Streams Project land grab.

Instead of showing some fiscal responsibility, our Council would rather punish the poor
and our seniors who live on fixed incomes by raising the sales tax.

The City Council is promising that this money will go to hire more cops. The truth is our
hard-earned money is going into the general fund and will undoubtedly be wasted on
other failed projects just like the Council has done in the past.

No more blank checks for our failing Council. Vote NO on Measure Z.

s/Joseph Turner

Director, SaveSanBernardino.com Committee
s/Robert Rego

President, IMVRA (Local Chapter of CRA)

s/Deanna Helena Adams
Member, Castle Coalition

s/Alexis Ashley

San Bernardino City resident and taxpayer

FP-00

MEASURE “Z”

REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST

Vote YES on Measure Z to Fight Crime in San Bernardino!

San Bernardino ranks as the 3rd most dangerous city in California and the 18th most
dangerous city in America! Our families and residents can’t wait any longer for
safe neighborhoods!

Measure Z will cost each city resident less than $12 per year!

•	Vote YES on Measure Z to fund 40 additional police officers;

•	Vote YES on Measure Z to fund anti-gang and anti-crime operations;

•	Vote YES on Measure Z to remove drug dealers and violent felons from our
streets;

•	Vote YES on Measure Z to ensure Citizen Oversight of City funds;

Business leaders and taxpayers support Measure Z because approximately 70%
of the revenue will be paid bv people who live outside our city.

Measure Z contains critical taxpayer protections, by creating a Citizen Oversight
Committee to ensure our tax dollars are spent hiring additional police and funding
aggressive anti-crime operations. Measure Z will also automatically expire in 15 years
unless taxpayers vote to extend it, so we can be assured our hard-earned tax dollars
will be put to work fighting crime in our neighborhoods.

Join Police Officers. Business Leaders. Educators, and Taxpayers in voting YES on
Measure Z.

Protect Our City, Neighborhoods & Families - Vote YES on Measure Z

s/Pat Morris
Mayor

s/Benjamin Gonzales

Chief of Police, San Bernardino (ret.)

s/Dr. Herbert Fischer

San Bernardino County Superintendent of Schools
s/Steve Filson

Past-President, San Bernardino Police Officers’ Assoc.
s/Mark C Edwards

Past President San Bernardino Area Chamber of Commerce

FP-00