FULL TEXT OF MEASURE X-06

ORDINANCE NO. 06-12

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF GROVER BEACH ADDING CHAPTER 15
TO ARTICLE X OF THE GROVER BEACH MUNICIPAL CODE ESTABLISHING
A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE

BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF GROVER BEACH, AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. FINDINGS.

A.	One of the primary roles of City government is to provide vital public services such as public
safety, street and sidewalk maintenance, parks and recreation programs, and many other
essential city services.

B.	The State continues to take revenues away from local governments. Over the past ten
years, the State has taken over three million dollars in Grover Beach local city funds. As a
result, the City needs additional resources for vital public services, such as public safety and
road repair.

C.	Grover Beach has been forced to use reserve funds to cover budget shortfalls. City reserve
funds are limited and without new revenue it is likely that in the future important services, such
as pothole repair, public safety or recreational programs, will be cut.

D.	Last year, more than ten thousand calls were placed to the City’s emergency dispatch
center related to police, fire or medical emergencies - and many of these calls come from
Grover Beach’s most vulnerable population, seniors.

E.	In addition, it is estimated that 30 million dollars is needed to repair Grover Beach’s local
infrastructure. Main city streets and roads covered with potholes and many city streets have
not been paved for 20 years.

F.	Without additional money to support local police officers and maintain our full-time Grover
Beach Fire Department or maintain recreation programs and facilities for seniors and youth, our
City will not be able to offer the kind of public safety services we need, deserve and count on.

SECTION 2. AMENDMENT OF CODE.

Grover Beach Municipal Code Article X is hereby amended to add Chapter 15 to read as
follows:

CHAPTER 15. TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX.

15000.	TITLE.

This Ordinance shall be known as the “Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance of the City of
Grover Beach”. The City of Grover Beach hereinafter shall be called "City." This Ordinance
shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

15001.	PURPOSE.

This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that
the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

15001.1.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax
Ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to
approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

15001.2.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance that incorporates
provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as
those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

15001.3.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the
State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use
Taxes.

15001.4.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax Ordinance that can be administered
in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon
persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this Ordinance.

15002.	OPERATIVE DATE.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than
110 days after the adoption of this Ordinance, the date of such adoption being as set forth
below.

15003.	CONTRACT WITH STATE.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to
perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use
tax Ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of
Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such
a contract.

Ordinance No. 06-12 - Transactions and Use Tax
Page 3

15004.	TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon
all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half percent (0.5%) of the
gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the
City on and after the operative date of this Ordinance.

15005.	PLACE OF SALE.

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of
business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or
his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state
destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such
charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than
one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of
Equalization.

15006.	USE TAX RATE.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of
tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this
Ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half percent
(0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when
such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is
made.

15007.	ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW.

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent
with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the
provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

15008.	LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

15008.1.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

A.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

B.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

C.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

D.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or
other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this
tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

E.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of
tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said
provision of that code.

F.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

15008.2.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

15009.	PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

15010.	EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

15010.1.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use
tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city
and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or
the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

15010.2.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax
the gross receipts from:

A.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

B.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside
the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or
by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

i. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

ii. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

C.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
Ordinance.

D.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property,
for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed
by the lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

E.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

15010.3.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

A.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state-administered transactions and use tax Ordinance.

B.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used
or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

C.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a
contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

D.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

E.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

F.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making
the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any

Ordinance No. 06-12 - Transactions and Use Tax
Page 6

representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority
of the retailer.

G.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of
the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing
with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from
any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

15010.4.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other
consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

15011.	AMENDMENTS.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent
with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments
to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically
become a part of this Ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so
as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

15012.	ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit,
action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the
State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

15013.	ANNUAL REPORT.

City shall prepare and make available to the public an annual report, which presents in
summary form expenditures from the prior fiscal year from revenue generated from the
Transactions and Use Tax and budgeted expenditures for the upcoming fiscal year.

15014.	PERIODIC REVIEW.

The City Council shall appoint a citizen committee to review the annual report, and who will
provide a report on expenditures of the revenues generated from the Transaction and Use Tax
to the City Council.

SECTION 3. USE OF TAX PROCEEDS.

All proceeds of the tax levied and imposed hereunder shall be accounted for and paid into
the City of Grover Beach General Fund, and may be used for any lawful purpose as designated
by the City Council.

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is
held invalid, the remainder of the Ordinance and the application of such provision to other
persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Ordinance No. 06-12 - Transactions and Use Tax
Page 7

SECTION 5. STATUTORY AUTHORITY FOR TAX.

This Ordinance is adopted pursuant to Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9.

SECTION 6. ELECTION REQUIRED.

This Ordinance shall not become operative unless and until a majority of the electors voting
on this measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at the General Municipal Election to
be held on Tuesday, November 7, 2006.

SECTION 7. EFFECTIVE DATE.

If this Ordinance is approved by a majority of the electors voting on the issue at the
November 7, 2006 General Municipal Election, pursuant to Elections Code Section 9217, the
tax shall be become effective ten (10) days after the City Council accepts the certified results of
the election.

INTRODUCED at a regular meeting of the City Council held Tuesday, September 5, 2006
and ADOPTED by the City Council on Monday, September 18, 2006 on the following roll call
vote, to wit:

AYES:	Council Members Ekbom, Shoals, Mayor Pro Tern Lieberman, and

Mayor Versaw.

NOES:	Council Member Ashton.

ABSENT:	Council Members - None.

ABSTAIN:	Council Members - None.

PASSED, APPROVED, and ADOPTED by the Voters of the City of Grover Beach on Tuesday,
November 7, 2006.

LARRY VERSAW, MAYOR

ATTEST:

DONNA L. McMAHON, CITY CLERK
APPROVED AS TO FORM:

MARTIN D. KOCZANOWICZ, CITY ATTORNEY