
<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

COUNTY OF DEL NORTE
AN ORDINANCE REPEALING THE EXEMPTION FROM
PAYMENT OF TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX FOR
FEDERAL OR STATE OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES
WHEN ON OFFICIAL BUSINESS.

Section One. Section 3.08.040, of Chapter 3.08 of the Del Norte
County Ordinance Code, “Exemptions," is hereby amended by
deleting the current subdivision B, which exempts "Any federal or
state officer or employee when on official business,” from the County's
transient occupancy tax. The amended Section 3.08.040 shall read
in its entirety as follows:

3.08.40 Exemption

"No tax shall be imposed upon:

A.	Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which,
it is beyond the power of the county to impose the tax herein
provided;

B.	Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is
exempt by reason of express provision of federal law or
international treaty.

No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim
therefore, made at the time the rent is collected, under penalty
of perjury upon a form prescribed by the tax administrator.”
Section Two. This ordinance applies an existing transient occupancy
tax to taxpayers who are currently exempt. Funds derived from this
application of the existing tax shall be deposited into the county
general fund and may be used for general government purposes.

Section Three. This ordinance shall take effect only upon its approval
by a majority of the votes cast for or against its passage at the next
general election of the voters of Del Norte County. The effective
date of the tax approved herein shall be the thirty-firsl calendar day
after confirmation of its passage by the Board of Supervisors.

Section Four. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase
of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
of this ordinance. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it
would have passed this ordinance and each section, subsection, clause
or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, clauses or phrases be declared invalid or unenforceable. <fullend>






<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE A

Like almost all cities and counties in California, Del Norte County
imposes a transient occupancy tax, sometimes called the TOT. This
tax applies to individuals who occupy lodging in the unincorporated
area of Del Norte County for periods of 30 days or less.

Under County ordinance, as currently written, employees of the
state and federal governments do not pay TOT to the County if they
are traveling on official business. The State law authorizing the
County to collect a TOT makes it optional for the County to have
such an exemption.

The Del Norte County Board of Supervisors has adopted
ordinance number 2006 — 11, which repeals this exemption.
However, the ordinance also provides that it does not go into effect
unless it is approved by a majority of the voters.

A YES vote on Measure A approves the ordinance and repeals
the exemption from the TOT for state and federal employees on
official business.

A NO vote continues to exempt state and federal employees on
official business from paying the County TOT.

Any new revenues from the repeal of this exemption are not
earmarked. They can be budgeted for any lawful governmental
purpose by the Board of Supervisors. <impartialend>





<impartialsigs> s/ Robert N. Black, Del Norte County Counsel <impartialsigsend>





<fiscal> FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT FOR MEASURE A

The transient occupancy tax is a tax imposed by the County of
Del Norte on persons renting rooms and other accommodations at
motels, hotels and similar lodging in the unincorporated areas of
Del Norte County.

The current transient occupancy tax exempts any federal or state
officer or employee when on official business. Approval of this ballot
measure will remove that exemption and generate revenue in the
range of $1,000 to $3,000.

Transient occupancy tax revenue is considered general purpose
revenue and can be used to support such activities as Sheriff, District
Attorney, Health, Mental Health, Social Services, Recreation and
Parks and tourism promotional agencies. There is no fiscal impact
on County residents unless they are federal or state employees on
official business who stay at a motel or hotel in the unincorporated
area of the County. <fiscalend>




<fiscalsigs> s/ Christie Babich
Del Norte County Auditor-Controller <fiscalsigsend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Vote yes on Measure A.

Measure A is Tax Equity!

Measure A repeals an exemption from the County transient
occupancy tax that applies only to state and federal employees when
they are traveling on official business.

Local government and school district employees from Del Norte
County are rarely, if ever, given an exemption when they travel to
other parts of our state on official business.

State law gives localities the option of whether to offer this
exemption. There is no reason for Del Norte County to continue
the exemption.

Repealing this exemption is Tax Equity.

Vote YES on Measure A. <favorend>





<favorsigs> s/ Jeannine Galatioto
County Administrative Officer

s/ Jerry Cochran
County Assessor

s/ Christie Babich
County Auditor

s/ Dawn Langston
County Treasurer <favorsigsend>




