1

CONSOLIDATED

GENERAL ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2006

/vor/c±

Yourpo////fffp/gCe
may tiara tieea
ctiaapec// See tiacAr
corer forpo//my

09-FC-11042 09-FC

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll

Sample Ballot

DISTRICT

EL DORADO ROD
DIRECTOR

Vote for no more than Two

O ROBERT "BOB" BEEGLE
Board Member
o CARLAN MEYER
Incumbent
O J0E FULLER
Retired Physicist
O Write-in_____________________

(	)	Write-in

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

STATE PROPOSITION 1A TRANSPORTATION FUNDING
PROTECTION. LEGISLATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Protects transportation funding for traffic
congestion relief projects, safety improvements, and local streets
and roads. Prohibits the state sales tax on motor vehicle fuels from
being used for any purpose other than transportation
improvements. Authorizes loans of these funds only in the case of
severe state fiscal hardship. Requires loans of revenues from
states sales tax on motor vehicle fuels to be fully repaid within the
three years. Restricts loans to no more than twice in any 10-year
period. Fiscal Impact No revenue effect or cost effects.

Increases stability of funding to transportation in 2007 and
thereafter

O YES	O	No

STATE PROPOSITION IB - HIGHWAY SAFETY, TRAFFIC
REDUCTION, AIR QUALITY, AND PORT SECURITY BOND ACT

OF 2006. This act makes safety improvements and repairs to state
highways, upgrades freeways to reduce congestion, repairs local
streets and roads, upgrades highways along major transportation
corridors, improves seismic safety of local bridges, expands public
transit, helps complete the state's network of car pool lanes,
reduces air pollution, and improves anti-terrorism security at
shipping ports by providing for a bond issue not to exceed nineteen
billion nine hundred twenty-five million dollars ($19,925,000,000).
Fiscal Impact State costs of approximately $38.9 billion over 30
years to repay bonds. Additional unknown state and local
operations and maintenance costs.

O YES	O	no

STATE PROPOSITION 1C - HOUSING AND EMERGENCY
SHELTER TRUST FUND ACT OF 2006. For the purpose of
providing shelters for battered women and their children, clean and
safe housing for low-income senior citizens; homeownership
assistance for the disabled, military veterans, and working families;
and repairs and accessibility improvements to apartment for
families and disabled citizens, the state shall issue bonds totaling
two billion eight hundred fifty million dollars ($2,850,000,000) paid
from existing state funds at an average annual cost of two hundred
and four million dollars ($204,000,000) per year over the 30 year
life of the bonds. Requires reporting and publication of annual
independent audited reports showing use of funds, and limits
administration and overhead costs.

O YES	O	N0

STATE PROPOSITION ID - KINDERGARTEN-UNIVERSITY
PUBLIC EDUCATION FACILITIES BOND ACT OF 2006. This ten
billion four hundred sixteen million dollar ($10,416,000,000) bond
issue will provide needed funding to relieve public school
overcrowding and to repair older schools It will improve
earthquake safety and fund vocational educational facilities in
public schools. Bond funds must be spent according to strict
accountability measures Funds will also be used to repair and
upgrade existing public college and university buildings and to build
new classrooms to accommodate the growing student enrollment in
the California Community Colleges, the University of California, and
the California State University. Fiscal Impact State costs of about
320.3 billion to pay off both the principal ($10.4 billion) and interest
($9.9 billion) on the bonds Payments of about $680 million per
year.

O YES	O no

STATE PROPOSITION IE DISASTER PREPAREDNESS AND
FLOOD PREVENTION BOND ACT OF 2006. This act rebuilds
and repairs California's most vulnerable flood control structures to
protect homes and prevent loss of life from flood-related disasters,
including levee failures, flash floods, and mudslides; It protects
California's drinking water supply system by rebuilding delta levees
that are vulnerable to earthquakes and storms; by authorizing a
$4.09 billion dollar bond act Fiscal Impact: State costs of
approximately $8 billion over 30 years to repay bonds. Reduction
in local property tax revenues of potentially up to several million
dollars annually. Additional unknown state and local operations and
maintenance costs.

O YES	O	NO

STATE PROPOSITION 83 - SEX OFFENDERS. SEXUALLY
VIOLENT PREDATORS. PUNISHMENT, RESIDENCE
RESTRICTIONS AND MONITORING. INITIATIVE STATUTE.

Increases penalties for violent and habitual sex offenders and child
molesters Prohibits residence near schools and parks Requires
Global Positioning System monitoring of registered sex offenders.
Fiscal Impact Net state operating costs within ten years of up to a
couple hundred million dollars annually; potential one-time state
construction costs up to several hundred million dollars; unknown
net fiscal impact on local governments.

O YES	O	NO

STATE PROPOSITION 84 - WATER QUALITY, SAFETY AND
SUPPLY. FLOOD CONTROL. NATURAL RESOURCE
PROTECTION. PARK IMPROVEMENTS. BONDS. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Funds water, flood control, natural resources, park and
conservation projects by authorizing $5,388,000,000 in general
obligation bonds. Emergency drinking water safety provisions.
Fiscal Impact State cost of $ 10.5 billion over 30 years to repay
bonds Reduced local property tax revenues of several million
dollars annually. Unknown state and local operations and
maintenance costs, potentially tens of millions of dollars annually

O YES	O NO

STATE PROPOSITION 85 - WAITING PERIOD AND PARENTAL
NOTIFICATION BEFORE TERMINATION OF MINOR'S
PREGNANCY. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.

Amends California Constitution prohibiting abortion for
unemancipated minor until 48 hours after physician notifies minor's
parent/guardian, except in medical emergency or with parental
waiver. Mandates reporting requirements. Authorizes monetary
damages against physicians for violation. Fiscal Impact: Potential
unknown net state costs of several million dollars annually for
health and social services programs, court administration, and
state health agency administration combined.

O YES	O	NO

STATE PROPOSITION 86 - TAX ON CIGARETTES. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Imposes
additional $2.60 per pack excise taxon cigarettes and indirectly
increases taxes on other tobacco products. Provides funding for
various health programs, children's health coverage, and tobacco-
related programs. Fiscal Impact Increase in excise tax revenues
of about $2.1 billion annually in 2007-08 spent for the specified
purposes outlined above. Other potentially significant costs and
savings for state and local governments due to program changes,

O YES	O	NO

STATE PROPOSITION 87 - ALTERNATIVE ENERGY.
RESEARCH, PRODUCTION, INCENTIVES. TAX ON
CALIFORNIA OIL PRODUCERS. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL

AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Establishes $4 billion program to
reduce petroleum consumption through incentives for alternative
energy, education and training. Funded by tax on California oil
producers Fiscal Impact State oil tax revenues of $225 million to
$485 million annually for alternative energy programs totaling $4
billion. State and local revenue reductions up to low tens of
millions of dollars annually.

O YES	O	NO

STATE PROPOSITION 88 - EDUCATION FUNDING. REAL
PROPERTY PARCEL TAX. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT AND STATUTE, imposes $50 tax on each real
property parcel to provide additional public school funding for
kindergarten through grade 12. Exempts certain elderly, disabled
homeowners from tax. Use of funds restricted to specific
educational purposes. Fiscal Impact State parcel tax revenue of
roughly $450 million annually, allocated to school districts for
specified education programs.

O YES	O	NO

STATE PROPOSITION 89 - POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS. PUBLIC
FINANCING. CORPORATE TAX INCREASE. CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTION AND EXPENDITURE LIMITS. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Provides that eligible candidates for state elective
office may receive public campaign funding. Increasestax on
corporations and financial institutions by 0.2 percent to fund
program. Imposes new campaign contribution/expenditure limits.
Fiscal Impact Increased revenues (primarily from Increased taxes
on corporations and financial institutions) totaling more than $200
million annually to pay for the public finan cing of political
campaigns.

O YES	O	NO

STATE PROPOSITION 90 - GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION,
REGULATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Bars state/local governments
from condemning or damaging private property to promote other
private projects, uses. Limits government’s authority to adopt
certain land use, housing, consumer, environmental, workplace
laws/regulations Fiscal Impact Increased annual government
costs to pay property owners for losses to their property associated
with new laws and rules, and for property acquisitions. These
costs are unknown, but potentially significant on a statewide basis

O YES	O	NO

BUCKEYE UNION SCHOOL DISTRICT
MEASUREK

"To improve education quality and student safety at every
school, modernize, update and construct classrooms and
school facilities at existing schools and become eligible for
millions in additional State money, shall the Buckeye Union
School District issue $28,300,000 in bonds at interest rates
within the statutory limit? The Board will appoint a citizens'
oversight committee, conduct annual independent audits,
and spend funds only on school and classroom
improvements, with NO money used for administrative
salaries?"

o BONDS YES	O BONDS no

CAMERON ESTATES COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
MEASURE H

"Shall a special tax be levied within the boundaries of the
Cameron Estates Community Services District pursuant to
Resolution No. 2006-04 for the purpose of providing road
improvements, upgrades, and maintenance at an annual rate
not to exceed the following schedule:

A.	Residential property - an increase of $950.00 over and
above the current assessment of $250.00 for a total amount
of $1200 00 per year per residential parcel

B.	Commercial property, described as parcels 109-111-14-
100, 109-111-15-100, 109-111-16-100, 109-111-17-100 and
109-111-18-100, - an amount of $4000 peryear.

O YES	O	NO

09-SB020

09SB020

Sample Ballot

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE H
RESOLUTION NO. 2006-04

RESOLUTION OF THE CAMERON ESTATES COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT CALLING FOR AN ELECTION TO
LEVY AND COLLECT A SPECIAL TAX WITHIN THE DISTRICT TO PROVIDE FOR ROAD IMPROVEMENTS AND

MAINTENANCE WITHIN THE DISTRICT

WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Cameron Estates Community Services District wishes to submit to the voters of the District a proposal to
improve the roads within the District and to increase the maintenance on the roads; and

WHEREAS, the District has held several noticed meetings within the District to consider the merits of imposing a special tax to provide enhanced road
maintenance and additional road improvements within the District; and

WHEREAS, Government Code Section 50075 provides authority for special districts to impose special taxes; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that an increase of the existing tax rate is necessary in order to improve the level of road maintenance within the
District; and

WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the electors within the District should have the opportunity to determine whether the level of road
maintenance should be improved.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Board of Directors of the Cameron Estates Community Services District hereby resolves to submit to the
voters the question of whether to levy and collect a special tax within the District for the purpose of improving road maintenance within the District.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that an election shall be held at the statewide general election to be held on November 7, 2006 and that a measure for the
imposition of such a tax within the boundaries of the District shall be submitted to the voters.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a measure shall appear on the ballot in substantially the following form:

"Shall a special tax be levied within the boundaries of the Cameron Estates Community Services District pursuant to Resolution No.
2006-04 for the purpose of providing road improvements, upgrades, and maintenance at an annual rate not to exceed the following
schedule:

A.	Residential property - an increase of $950.00 over and above the current assessment of $250.00 for a total amount of
$1200.00 per year per residential parcel.

B.	Commercial property, described as parcels 109-111-14-100, 109-111 -15-100, 109-111-16-100, 109-111-17-100 and 109-
111-18-100, - an amount of $4000.00 per year.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that a certified copy of this Resolution shall be delivered to the Office of the County Clerk of the County of El Dorado and
that the County Clerk is hereby directed to conduct said election pursuant to applicable laws of the State of California.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that in accordance with applicable laws, the Cameron Estates Community Services District shall reimburse the County of
El Dorado for the costs of such election.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that said special tax shall be levied and collected in accordance with this resolution and that said special tax shall be
collected in the same manner and subject to the same penalty as, or with, other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the District or by the County of
El Dorado.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that pursuant to Government Code § 50075.1 the specific purposes of the special taxes are hereby identified as providing
road improvements, upgrades, and maintenance within the District.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the proceeds shall only be applied to the specific purposes identified above and that a special account shall be
created into which the proceeds of the special tax shall be deposited. It is further understood that an annual report shall be prepared pursuant to
Government Code § 50075.3 to determine the amount of funds collected and expended and to identify the purpose for which the special tax funds have
been expended.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that in the event of any ambiguity, uncertainty or conflict regarding the application of this resolution to a particular parcel of
land, that such ambiguity shall be resolved by formal motion of the Board of Directors of the Cameron Estates Community Services District.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE H

This measure, if approved by 2/3 of the voters voting on the measure, would authorize a special tax on parcels of real property within the
boundaries of the Cameron Estates Community Services District (“District”), to be used to cover the costs of maintaining, upgrading and
improving roads within the District.

This special tax would be in the following amounts:

a.	for all residential parcels, $950 per annum per parcel of land,

b.	for all commercial parcels, $4,000 per annum per parcel of land.

The special tax authorized by this measure would be in addition to any existing taxes or benefit assessments.

The special tax will be listed as a separate item on the county property tax bill for each parcel of land, and will be collected in the same
way as the general property tax. All laws applicable to the levy, collection, and enforcement of county property taxes, including
provisions for penalties and procedure for sale of the property in case of delinquency, shall also apply to the special tax. State law
requires the District to prepare an annual report to determine the amount of special tax funds collected and expended, and to describe
the status of any project required or authorized to be funded by the special tax.

This measure requires an affirmative vote of 2/3 or more of all voters voting on the measure in order to pass.

A "YES" vote is a vote to authorize the special tax provided in the measure.

A "NO" vote is a vote against the special tax provided in the measure.

LOUIS B. GREEN
County Counsel

09-526

09526

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H  The Cameron Estates Community Service District (CECSD) authorized the CECSD to collect a special assessment on May 9, 1989, the amount of that assessment was $250.00 per residential parcel per year. That amount has remained unchanged since the original authorization.  Since 1989, the costs associated with road maintenance and improvements have increased no less than three hundred percent (300%) and continue to rise. Deferred maintenance and several years of hard rains have caused the roads to deteriorate to their present poor condition.  The CECSD's present maintenance program, which is dictated by budget, requires relatively small repairs over a widely dispersed area to be accomplished each year. This method is the least efficient and the most expensive.  The board determined that an increase in the special assessment was necessary for the CECSD to embark on a cost efficient program of road upgrades, repairs and maintenance. To that end, the board performed the following tasks:  1.	Established and published a road guideline for three types of road segments in the District;  2.	Surveyed and recorded the present condition of CECSD roads;  3.	Developed a cost estimate to bring road segments up to the developed guidelines.  The CECSD Board, having arrived at a cost estimate for bringing the road segments up to the adopted guidelines, determined that this measure was necessary to fund the necessary repairs and maintenance.  The longer the District waits to perform the obviously necessary road repairs, the more the roads will degrade resulting in ever more expensive repairs which will, due to budgetary constraints, be deferred resulting in a continuing deterioration of the CECSD roads. Your yes vote on this measure will help improve the safety and livability of CECSD while protecting property values.  Mark Miller, Resident	


REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE H  Costs associated with road maintenance have increased; however, the 16.5 miles of roads within the CECSD, the number of directors and staff has not increased.  The District's operating expenses have increased from $25,000 in 1996, to a budgeted $81,000 for the current Fiscal Year, almost 110% of our current annual parcel assessment. Operating expenses do not include road maintenance, the District's main authorized function.  In 1997 Delta Construction delivered a proposal to improve the District's roads for $750,000. The Board took no action. Now the Board is asking for increased funding that would amount to $439,800 per year.  A five year improvement plan with a supplemental assessment and with a Sunset clause would be much more cost effective and affordable.  The CECSD Board is proposing a 20-year loan for 3.5 million, which would cost more than $2.0 million in interest alone, money that would be better spent on our roads.  The Board's vision on how the roads should look may be sound. The Board's financinq scheme is not sound, nor is the Board's manaqement of its operatinq costs. Past estimates from the Countv's Zone of Benefits are that they could manage the District's overhead for $5,000 or less per year, allowing another $75,000 of our assessments to reach the roads. Do not rush into approval of a new assessment at this time, until a sound financial plan is formed, presented to and voted on by the residents of the CECSD.  VOTE NO ON MEASURE "H"  David Leippe, Resident  Dorothy Duncanson, Resident  Nelson J. Sprague, Resident


ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H  The CECSD Board of Directors would like to increase our current assessment from $250 to $1200 per parcel per year or from $20 to $100 per month per parcel. The $950 increase assessment supposedly will pay for a $3.5 million loan to fund a major road improvement project. The loan will cost $2 million in interest payments over 20 years, or $100,000 in interest per year.  The proposed $3.5 million loan is not based upon any bids from road contractors. The Board discussed amounts that varied between $3 and $5 million dollars, the $3.5 million seems arbitrary. There are contingencies that could render the $3.5 million loan unavailable and/or unaffordable.  The Board acknowledged it was important to have a sunset clause on the increased assessment. The ballot measure has no sunset clause.  Total proposed revenues will exceed the District's Resolution 2006-03 for the FY2006-2007 Appropriations Limitation.  The District's administrative overhead has increased over 300% from $25,663 in 1996 to a budgeted $81,000 for the current Fiscal Year. This does not include maintenance on the same old 16.5 miles of road. The current amount budgeted for overhead exceeds the revenues from our entire annual assessment.  In the past 20 years the Board has infrequently discussed 5 year road plans. The Board recently created a plan with a "vision" for the future of our roads. The Board has not submitted that vision to professionals in the road contracting business requesting information (RFI's), proposals (RFP's), or bids (RFB's).  The Board has worked long and hard on this vision, but until the vision becomes a business plan the taxpayers are not ready to commit to an almost 500% increase in our assessment that will last indefinitely to pay off a twenty year loan.  VOTE NO ON MEASURE "H"  David Leippe, Resident  Dorothy Duncanson, Resident  Nelson J. Sprague, Resident	


REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE H  Cameron Estates CSD has assessed residents $250 since the 1980's. Since that time, repair and improvement costs for the roads have increased tremendously. The present amount assessed is woefully inadequate for road maintenance at today's costs, hence the poor condition of our roadways.  The Board of Cameron Estates CSD has done extensive research over the past two years and has developed a comprehensive plan to preserve our roadways. Professionals have been consulted in the road assessment and cost estimating process.  The Board explored various options to fund this plan, with a conventional loan identified as the most appropriate for this situation. As with homes and businesses, loans require interest to be paid. The District will pursue the most competitive rates.  The $3.5 million budgetary figure was determined after careful data collection and consultation with a road construction contractor and other professionals in the road construction field. It is an estimated figure; the actual cost will be determined at the time the project goes to bid and the Board obtains written proposals.  Administrative costs have increased in the ten years since 1996. The District and County have detailed documentation of all costs involved with District administration.  We need to invest in the future now, not later as construction prices will continue to climb due to increased cost of petroleum products and labor. Vote yes on Measure H.  Doris Miller, Director/Resident  Hope Leja, General Manager, Resident

09-527

09527