JULIAN CUYAMACA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

Proposition S

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

PROPS

Shall the Julian Cuyamaca Fire Protection District
enact a Benefit Fee, as detailed in Ordinance No. 6,
for the construction of a new station and future
maintenance of the entire district’s real property?

This proposition requires approval by two-thirds of the voters.

Full text of this proposition
follows the argument.

COUNTY COUNSEL IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

This proposition, if approved by two-thirds of the voters voting on the proposition, will
approve an annual special benefit tax to be established on property within the Julian Cuyamaca
Fire Protection District (“District") and an increase in the District's appropriation limit.

Purpose of Special Benefit Tax. The District's Board of Directors has adopted Ordinance
No. 6, which proposes for adoption a special benefit tax to be used for the following purposes:

1.	New Station. Constructing, equipping and furnishing a station in proximity to downtown
Julian, capable of housing all presently owned apparatus and providing sleeping quarters for a
crew of seven (four firefighters, two ambulance personnel and one supervisor.)

2.	Maintenance Costs, Maintenance costs incurred by the District at either of the District’s
two stations - Julian or Cuyamaca.

Basis and Maximum Amount of Special Benefit Tax. The maximum amount of the special
benefit tax varies on the basis of parcel, class of improvement to property, and use of property as
set forth in Ordinance No. 6. For example, a freestanding single family dwelling unit Is charged a
maximum amount of $50.00. Vacant land is charged a maximum of $5.00 for an Assessor's
parcel that is four acres or smaller and a greater amount for parcels larger than four acres.

The Board of Directors may impose a special benefit tax lower than the maximum specified
in Ordinance No. 6, but may not exceed the maximum.

Sunset Clause. Ordinance No. 6 provides that when the cost of constructing the new
station, including any debt service, is paid off, the special benefit tax will be reduced to 25% of the
maximum specified in the Ordinance. The reduced special benefit tax must be held in a separate
account for the express purpose of maintenance of all District-owned property.

No Effect on Existing Benefit Fee. The special benefit tax proposed by this proposition has
no effect on the existing benefit fee adopted by District voters in 1984.

Appropriations Limit. If this proposition is approved by the voters, the District's appropriation
limit will be $500,000 plus any adjustments for cost of living and change of population as provided
by State law.

A “YES" vote is a vote in favor of adopting the special benefit tax and the new appropriations

limit.

A "NO" vote is a vote against adopting the special benefit tax and the new appropriations

limit.

SD 020-046

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION S

Julian needs a new community fire station! Why is it needed now? We have the opportunity to
trade our existing station to the Julian Community Services District in exchange for a five acre
building site. With less than ten years left on our lease (with JCSD) now is the time to act.

In the twenty some years since the current station was built an unprecedented and unpredictable
growth spurt has occurred in the backcountry, including Julian. In that time the Julian Cuyamaca
Fire Protection District (JCFPD) has taken over the ambulance service and upgraded it to
Advanced Life Support status. Currently our two ambulance personnel sleep on a bunk bed in
our training/kitchen/meeting room. This station was never designed to house a crew, There is no
space for a crew to spend the night and staff an engine. Our current station would preclude
JCFPD benefiting from any reorganization of the rural fire service. However, if we have a station
designed for an engine crew and there is a reorganization we will very likely get a crew to staff
our engine.

This means an improvement of as much as 5 minutes on our response time to your emergency.
Imagine if you had a fire or a loved one had a medical emergency; by having a station that could
house a crew for the engine and the ambulance you would get a response of five people at least
5 minutes faster than is currently possible. This improved response time does not rely on staffing
from the county. It could be staffed by reserves that, like volunteers, get paid nothing. Unlike
volunteers these reserves need not respond from home saving driving time to the station and thus
arriving at your emergency quicker.

FOR A FASTER FIRE RESPONSE - VOTE YES ON PROPOSITION S!

KEVIN C. DUBLER
Chief, Julian Cuyamaca Fire Protection District

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION S

No argument against the proposition was filed
in the office of the Registrar of Voters.

JAMES BAKER
Fire Chief, Retired

DAVID M. HOMISTON, Ed.D.
Retired School Administrator

CHARLES W. GARTEN
Retired School Administrator

JENNIFER ROBERTS
Marriage & Family Therapist

PR-1910-2

SD 020-047

1

ORDINANCE NO. 6 (NEW SERIES)

AN ORDINANCE DETERMINING AND PROPOSING FOR ADOPTION
AN APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT, AND ANNUAL SPECIAL BENEFIT TAX,

FOR FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES
OF THE JULIAN CUYAMACA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

The Board of Directors of the Julian Cuyamaca Fire Protection District ordains as follows:

Section 1. The Board does hereby determine and propose for adoption an annual
appropriations limit for the Julian Cuyamaca Fire Protection District for fire protection services
within the boundaries of the District, in the amount of $500,000 with adjustments for changes in
the cost of living and population as provided by State law.

Section 2. The Board does hereby determine and propose for adoption an annual special
benefit tax for fire protection services within the boundaries of the Julian-Cuyamaca Fire
Protection District, pursuant to Government Code section 53978, to be levied upon a parcel, class
of improvement to property, and use of property basis, in amount not to exceed the following
schedule.

Parcel, Class of Improvements to Property, Use of Property
Single Family Residential

$50 per freestanding single family dwelling unit. No additional charge for barns, storage sheds,
garages, etc. on the same Assessors’ parcel.

Duplexes. Resorts. RV Parks. Camos. Mobile Home Parks, etc.

$50 base plus $25 for each additional occupied structure to a maximum of $100.

Commercial/lndustrial

$50 per free standing commercial structure on each Assessors' parcel.

Churches. Meeting Halls, etc.

$50 per Assessors’ parcel with improvements
Vacant Land

A.	$5 per vacant Assessor's parcel less than 4 acres

B.	$10 per Assessor’s parcel 4.01 acres to 20 acres

• C. $20 per Assessor’s parcel 20.01 acres or greater

Vacant parcels attached to a parcel containing a structure would be assessed as vacant land.
Fees for structures include the parcel or parcels upon which the building exists, but does not
include contiguous vacant land owned by the same owner. Vacant commercial/agricultural land
is to be assessed at the same rate as stipulated above.

Section 3. Such chargers shall be charged to any parcel, improvement, and use of property
to which fire protection services may be made available, whether or not such fire protection
service is actually used upon such parcel, Improvement, or use of property except such tax shall
not be imposed upon a federal or state governmental agency or other local agency.

Section 4. The special benefit tax shall be imposed for the purposes of constructing,
equipping, and furnishing a station in proximity to downtown Julian, capable of housing all
presently owned apparatus and providing sleeping quarters for a crew of 7 (4 firefighters, 2
ambulance personnel, 1 supervisor). This will allow the district to house an on duty crew for
immediate response to emergencies. This special benefit tax will also allow for maintenance
costs incurred by the district at either of their two stations- Julian or Cuyamaca.

SD 020-048

ORDINANCE NO. 6 (NEW SERIES) - Continued

Section 5. Pursuant to Government Code section 53978, the special benefit tax proposed
by this ordinance shall be submitted to the voter within the boundaries of the Julian Cuyamaca
Fire Protection District. The ballot proposition shall be worded as provided in the resolution of the
Board of Directors within the Julian Cuyamaca Fire Protection District.

Section 6. This ordinance shall become operative as an ordinance of the Julian Cuyamaca
Fire Protection District on July 1, 2007 if this ordinance is approved by 2/3rds of the voters voting
on the question of the adoption of this ordinance.

Section 7. If the proposition is approved, the Board of Directors shall establish schedules
bearing each of the special benefit taxes according to the value of the benefits to each parcel,
improvement, and user of property and according to the availability of fire suppression equipment,
apparatus and personnel to the affected parcel, improvement and use of property. However, the
special benefit taxes shall not exceed the maximum charges set for in Section 2 hereof.

Section 8. If any portion of this ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional, invalid, or
otherwise unenforceable, the other provisions of this ordinance shall remain in full force and
effect.

Section 9. Pursuant to Government Code Section 25123, this ordinance is effective
immediately as an ordinance relating to this election.

Section 10. Before the expiration of 15 days after its passage, this ordinance shall be
published once with the name of the members voting for and against the same, in the Julian
News, a newspaper of general circulation published in the County of San Diego.

Section 11. The special benefit tax proposed by this ordinance shall have no effect upon
ordinance No. 1, commonly known as the Benefit Fee, passed by the voters of the Julian
Cuyamaca Fire Protection District on November 6,1984.

Section 12. Sunset clause: The special-tax proposed by this ordinance shall be adjusted as
follows: When the construction costs and outstanding debt on the new station are paid off, the
special benefit tax will be reduced to 25% of the charges imposed in Section 2 above. This
reduced special benefit tax revenue shall be held in a separate account for the express purpose
of maintenance of all district owned properties. Fees collected under this ordinance may not be
used for any other purpose than the construction and continued maintenance of district
properties.

Section 13. Definitions. The term “fire protection services” includes both fire protection and
emergency medical services.

PASSED AND ADOPTED THIS 25th DAY OF July, 2006 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

AYES: Bragdon, Mazzone, Seifert, Stowers, Tucker

NOES: None

ABSTENTIONS: None

PR-1910-4

SD 020-049