ORDINANCE NO. 06-03

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MAMMOTH LAKES
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the The City of Mammoth Lakes
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Mammoth Lakes hereinafter shall be called
"City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. "Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar
quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date of such
adoption being as set forth beJow.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those

purposes:

A To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of
the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization
in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions
and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject
to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and
operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have

Ordinance No* 06- 03
Page 2

contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless
so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the
City at the rate of .50% (one-half of one percent) of the gross receipts of any retailer from
the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative
date of this ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after
the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the
rate of .50	% (one-half of one percent) of the sales price of the property. The sales price

shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless
of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF
USE TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

1.	The word 'State'1 is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State
Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of

Ordinance No. 06- 03
Page 3

Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring
to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be
to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt
from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the
State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737,6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City'* shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retaileT
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section
6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not
be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradiey-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to he used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his

Ordinance No. 06- 03
Page 4

agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter I (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in feet, his ot her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the
vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to fiirnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an
amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional
right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use
or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and ose tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366
and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any

Ordinance No. 06- 03
Page 5

period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of ary right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the
contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property,
unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order,
either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of
the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 4000) of Divirion 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section
21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address
in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer
liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of
which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any
court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Ordinance No. 06- 03
PageS

Section 14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 15. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting
of the City transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately.

The foregoing Ordinance was introduced on the fifteenth day of February, 2006, and PASSED,
APPROVED, AND ADOPTED on thelst day of March, 2006

ATTEST:

ANITA HATTER, Town Clerk

TOWN OF MAMMOTH LAKES

Notice is hereby given that on February 15, 2006 the Town Council introduced an Ordinance
entitled:

AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF MAMMOTH LAKES,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA, IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.

A copy of the complete text of the Ordinance is posted and may be read at the Town Offices,
Minaret Mall, Old Mammoth Road, Mammoth Lakes, and/or a copy may be obtained from the
office of the Town Clerk at a nominal charge.

Dated: February 16, 2006

ANITA HATTER, Town Clerk
Town of Mammoth Lakes

I

TOWN OF MAMMOTH LAKES

Notice is hereby given that on March 1,2006 the Town Council adopted an Ordinance entitled:

ORDINANCE NO. 06-03

AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF MAMMOTH LAKES,
STATE OF CALIFORNIA IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
AMINTSTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.

by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers Eastman, Harvey, Stapp, Mayor Pro Tern Barrett mid Mayor

Wood

NOES:	None

ABSENT: None

ABSTAIN: None

DISQUALIFICATION: None

A certified copy of the complete text of the Ordinance is posted and may be read at the Town
Offices, Minaret Mall, Old Mammoth Road, Mammoth Lakes, and /or a copy may be obtained
from the office of the Town Clerk at a nominal charge.

Dated: March 2,2006

ANITA HATTER, Town Clerk
Town of Mammoth Lakes

)

STATE OF CALIFORNIA	)

COUNTY OF MONO	)

TOWN OF MAMMOTH LAKES)

ss.

'. )

I,	ANTTA HATTER, Town Clerk of the Town of Mammoth I-akes, DO HEREBY CERTIFY under penalty of
perjury that the foregoing is a true and correct copy of Ordinance No. 06-03, which was introduced at a meeting of
the Town Council of the Town of Mammoth Lakes, California, held on February 15, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES;	Councilmembers	Eastman,	Harvey, Stapp, Mayor Pro Tern Barrett and Mayor Wood

NOES;	None

ABSENT:	None

DISQUALIFICATION:	None

and adopted at a meeting held on March 1, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Eastman,	Harvey,	Stapp,	Mayor	Pro	Tern	Barrett	and	Mayor	Wood

NOES.	None

ABSENT:	None

DISQUALIFICATION:	None



HATTER, Town Clerk

STATE OF CALIFORNIA )	AFFIDAVIT

COUNTY OF MONO	)	ss.	OF PUBLISHING

TOWN OF MAMMOTH LAKES)	AND POSTING

ANITA HATTER, being first duly sworn, deposes and says: That she is the duly appointed Town Clerk
of the Town of Mammoth Lakes; that in compliance with State laws of the State of California, Ordinance No. 06-
03, being;

AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF MAMMOTH LAKES, STATE OF
CAL1FONRNIA, IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE

BOARD OF EQUIALIZATION

was published in summary in The Mammoth Times newspaper on February 23 and March 9, 2006, and was
posted at the Town Administrative Offices.

ANITA HATTER, Town Clerk

. )