Measure O: Park Funding Special Tax, City of Clayton

Shall the Downtown Park's annual operation and maintenance expenses be funded for a period of 10 years by the formation of a citywide Community Facilities District with an initial appropriations limit of $100,600 and an annual levy of special taxes?

Impartial Analysis from County Counsel
Following advertised public hearing on June 20, 2006, the City Council adopted Resolution No. 23-2006 establishing the Clayton Community Facilities District 2006-1 (CFD), the boundaries of which encompass the entire City of Clayton. The purpose of the CFD is to pay for the operation and maintenance of a citizen-designed public park in the Downtown on City-owned property. The types of public services proposed to be provided by the CFD are itemized in Exhibit "A" to the Resolution. They include the operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of depreciated assets for the Downtown Park and its related facilities, equipment and improvements.
In order to pay for these costs and related expenses a special tax is proposed to be levied annually in the following amounts:
	A.  Residential Parcels: - $16.39 per parcel.
	B.  Downtown Core Parcels: - $221.05 per 1/4 acre or fraction thereof.
	C.  Other Commercial Parcels: Outside Downtown Core - $96.92 per 1/4 acre or fraction 	thereof.
	D.  Recreational Open Space Parcels (Private Golf Course): - $48.46 per 1/4 acre or 	fraction thereof.
	E.  Multi-Family Residential Care Facilities Parcels: - $ 50.92 per 1/4 acre or fraction 	thereof.
Further details regarding the above tax rates are set forth in Exhibit "B" to Resolution 23-2006. Each special tax rate may be increased annually by the City Council in an amount not to exceed the most recent full annual adjustment (April to April of the Consumer Price Index-All Urban Consumers (CPI), San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, California area, base period 1982-84 equals 100). The determination to apply any CPI adjustment is made by the City Council at a public meeting. The annual increase may not exceed 3% over the previous year's rate and each rate could not be considered for an increase until Fiscal Year 2008-2009.
The special tax will be levied annually for a period of 10 years commencing with fiscal year 2007-2008 to and including fiscal year 2016-2017 and then will expire.
Resolution No. 24-2006 was adopted by the City Council on June 20, 2006 proposing an annual appropriations limit of $100,600.00 (first year budget). The Resolution also called for a special election to be held on November 7, 2006 to determine whether the special tax shall be levied, and if the appropriations limit for the District (first year budget) shall be as stated above.
Passage of the special tax requires a favorable vote of two-thirds of the votes cast on the measure.
Copies of all relevant reports, a boundary map of the CFD, and Council resolutions concerning the formation of the CFD are available for review in the office of the City Clerk (925-673-7300).
This analysis was prepared as an impartial analysis of the measure as required by California Government Code Section 53327 and Elections Code Section 9280.
Dated: August 14, 2006
	A.	Daniel Adams, Clayton City Attorney

Arguments For Measure O
In 2000, Clayton voters supported developing a central Downtown Park near the Post Office between Main and Center Streets. The park will be a community focal point, drawing people to existing businesses and will help to revitalize our historic town center.
Citizen's committees have surveyed residents, researched other parks, and designed simple plans including shade trees, lawn play areas, picnic tables, restrooms, walking paths and a children's play area. In addition, the CBCA (Clayton Business & Community Assfunds to build a large gazebo for community use.
Using monies that can only be used for one-time capital improvements and a State Parks grant, the city has raised the funds to build the Downtown Park.
However, there is no money available in Clayton's General Fund to finance on-going park maintenance without jeopardizing our balanced city budget and critical city services.
The City Council has clearly stated it will not build the park unless there are dedicated funds to operate and maintain it.
Measure O establishes a dedicated operation and maintenance fund exclusively for the Downtown Park that would not compete with other city priorities or be subject to raids by the State.
Measure O provides that one third of the annual operation and maintenance cost will be paid by Clayton businesses and the remaining two-thirds by residents.
Each residential parcel will pay only $16.39 per year to maintain the Downtown Park. The tax is subject to a maximum 3% annual increase tied to the Consumer Price Index and will expire in ten years.
Clayton residents voted for a Downtown Park. To have it, we must vote to pay for its operation and maintenance or it will not be built. Please vote Yes on Measure O.
Edward A. Moresi, Owner Ed's Mudville Grill Inc.
Lester L. Ipsen, Founder Skipolini's Pizza
Randell F. Gardner, Clayton Dentist
Robert W. Hoyer, First Mayor of Clayton
John J. Rubiales, President CBCA

(No argument against Measure O was submitted.)

Full Text of Measure O
