FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K
STANISLAUS COUNTY TRANSPORTATION TAX
ORDINANCE NO. 06-01

AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE STANISLAUS COUNTY TRAFFIC RELIEF, SAFETY AND ROAD MAINTENANCE PROGRAM

The Stanislaus County Transportation Authority does ordain as follows:

SECTION 1. TITLE AND SUMMARY. This Ordinance (also sometimes referred to as the “Measure”) shall be known as the Stanislaus County Traffic
Relief, Safety and Road Maintenance Program and provides for the imposition of a one-half of one percent retail transactions and use tax by the
Stanislaus County Transportation Authority for local transportation purposes for a period of 30 years.

SECTION 2. PRINCIPLES.

2.1	Purpose. For the purpose of maintaining and improving the quality of life in Stanislaus County, the Stanislaus County Transportation Authority
(“Authority’) has prepared the Stanislaus Countywide Transportation Financial Expenditure Plan (“Financial Expenditure Plan” or “Expenditure Plan”)
to accomplish the following:

2.1.1	.Reduce traffic congestion;

2.1.2.Improve air quality;

2.1.3.	Maintain and improve the cities streets and the county road system; and

2.1.4.	Enhance Stanislaus County’s ability to secure state and federal funding for transportation by providing required local matching

funds.

2.2.	Dedication. The one-half of one percent retail transactions and use tax is dedicated for transportation purposes including the planning,
design, right of way acquisition, environmental mitigation, construction, operation and maintenance of transportation projects, improvements and
programs located within Stanislaus County which cannot be used for other governmental purposes or programs of any kind. This Ordinance
contains specific taxpayer safeguards to ensure that all funding from the Measure’s one-half of one percent transactions and use tax is used in
accordance with the specified voter-approved transportation project improvements and programs. These safeguards include:

2.2.1.	The specific projects and programs included in the Financial Expenditure Plan will be funded in part by revenue raised by the
transactions and use tax. The Financial Expenditure Plan can only be changed upon approval by the Authority.

2.2.2.	An Independent Citizens Advisory Committee (“CAC”) is created to supervise fiscal and performance audits regarding the use of
all sales tax funds and provide for independent review to ensure that all funds are spent in accordance with provisions of this Ordinance and the
Financial Expenditure Plan as approved by the voters. All audits shall be made public and the Authority shall hold a public hearing on the results of
all audits.

2.2.3.	This one-half of one percent transactions and use tax is for transportation programs only and is not intended to replace revenues
generated through locally-adopted development fees and assessment districts.

2.2.4.	The Authority will continue to seek maximum fundig for transportation improvements through State and federal programs. The
Authority will not provide transactions and use tax revenue to any of the Cities or to the County unless all transportation revenues currently used by
that agency are continued to be used for transportation purposes.

2.2.5.	The expenditures for the salaries and benefits of the sales tax program are limited to no more than one percent of the funds
generated.

2.2.6.	A mandatory review of the Financial Expenditure Plan may occur every year to ensure that the program reflects current community
needs as demographics, economics and technology changes.

SECTION 3. MANDATED TAXPAYER SAFEGUARDS.

3.1.	Independent Citizens Advisory Committee 1C ACL No later than July 1, 2007, an Independent Citizens Advisory Committee will be
established as specified in Exhibit B of this Ordinance to provide citizen review and to ensure that all Measure funds are spent in accordance with
provisions of the Financial Expenditure Plan and this Ordinance. Exhibit B contains the specific provisions for an Independent Citizens Advisory
Committee and its role in supervising periodic independent financial and performance audits.

3.2.	Administrative Costs. The Authority shall expend for administrative purposes only the amount of funds generated from the tax that is
necessary and reasonable to carry out its responsibilities for audit, administrative expenses, staff support, and administrative contract services. In
no case shall the funds expended for salaries and benefits exceed one percent of the annual net amount of revenue raised by the tax.

3.3.	Maintenance of Effort. The Authority, by the enactment of this Ordinance, intends the additional funds provided to the Cities and County
by this Measure are to supplement existing local revenues being used for street and highway purposes. Transaction and use tax revenue shall not
be used to replace existing road funding programs or to replace requirements for new development to provide for its own road needs. Under this
Measure, funding priorities should be given to addressing current transportation needs, easing congestion, and improving safety. The Cities and
the County shall maintain their existing commitment of transportation funds for street, highway and public transit purposes, and the Authority shall
enforce this provision by appropriate actions, including fiscal audits of the local agencies. The Cities and County receiving local road improvement
and maintenance funds pursuant to this Ordinance and the Financial Expenditure Plan shall lose that funding for one year if they do not maintain
levels of road funding, which shall be calculated on the prior three year rolling average basis.

SECTION 4. DEFINITIONS. The following definitions shall apply to this Ordinance, including its attachments:

4.1.	“The Financial Expenditure Plan" or “Expenditure Plan” means the Stanislaus County Transportation Authority 30-Year Transportation
Expenditure Plan June 2006 (attached as Exhibit A and adopted as part of this Ordinance) including any future amendments.

4.2.	“Cities” means the incorporated cities with the County of Stanislaus.

4.3.	“County” means the County of Stanislaus.

4.4.	“Authority” means the Stanislaus County Transportation Authority, a local transportation authority formed pursuant to the Local Transportation
Authority and Improvement Act, commencing at Section 180000 of the Public Utilities Code.

4.5.	“Tax” means a one-half of one percent retail transactions and use tax that is adopted pursuant to this Ordinance.

SECTION 5. AUTHORITY. This Ordinance is enacted pursuant to the provisions of Division 19 (commencing with Section 180000) of the Public
Utilities Code and Section 7252.16 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

SECTION 6. IMPOSITION OF RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX.

Upon voter approval, in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of Stanislaus, a transactions and use tax for transportation
purposes (“the Tax”) at the rate of one-half of one percent for a period of thirty 30 years is established. The Tax shall be imposed by the Authority
in accordance with Section 180050 et seq. of the Public Utilities Code and Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code. The provisions of Sections 7261 and 7262 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are incorporated herein by reference as though

fully set forth herein. The Tax shall be in addition to any other taxes authorized by law, including any existing or future state or local sales tax or
transactions and use tax.

SECTION 7. USE OF PROCEEDS. Revenues from the Tax shall be used for transportation purposes only and may include, but are not limited
to, the administration of this Ordinance, including legal actions related thereto and costs of the initial preparation and election, the construction,
maintenance, improvements, and operation of local streets, roads, and highways, state highways and freeways. These purposes include expenditures
for transportation planning, environmental reviews and mitigation, engineering and design costs, related right-of-way acquisition and construction.
Expenditures also include, but are not limited to, debt service on bonds and expenses in connection with issuance of bonds.

SECTION 8. BONDING AUTHORITY. Upon voter approval of the Measure, the Authority shall have the power to sell or issue, from time to time,
on or before the collection of taxes bonds, or other evidence of indebtedness, in the aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding of not
to exceed the estimated proceeds of the Tax, as determined by the Financial Expenditure Plan and to secure that indebtedness solely by way of
future collection of taxes, for expenditures consistent with the purposes set forth in Section 7, including the carrying out of transportation projects
described in the Financial Expenditure Plan.

SECTION 9. ANNUAL APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT. The annual appropriations limit established pursuant to this Ordinance in accordance with
Section 4 of Article XIIIB of the California Constitution and Section 180202 of the Public Utilities Code shall be $ 500 million. The appropriations limit
shall be subject to adjustment as provided by law.

SECTION 10. EFFECTIVE AND OPERATIVE DATES. Upon voter approval this Ordinance shall be effective immediately and this Ordinance shall
become operative on the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after adoption of this Ordinance but in no event
earlier than April 1,2007. Prior to the operative date of this Ordinance, the Authority shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform ail
functions necessary and incidental to the administration and operation of this Ordinance; provided, that if the Authority does not contract with the
State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day
of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

SECTION 11. ELECTION.

11.1.	Call of Election. The Authority requests the Board of Supervisors to call an election for voter approval of this Ordinance which election
shall be held on November 7,2006, and consolidated with other elections to be held on that same date. The election shall be called and conducted
in the same manner as provided by law for the conduct of elections by a county. Approval of the Ordinance and the imposition of the tax shall require
the affirmative vote of two thirds of the electors voting on the proposition provided in subsection 11.2 at the election described in this Section.

11.2.	Proposition. The proposition to be placed on the ballot shall read substantially as follows:

To relieve traffic congestion, improve safety, match state/federal funds by:

•	widening/improving Routes 1-5, 99,132, 219/108, purchasing land for 120 Oakdale Bypass;

•	fixing potholes/resurfacing local roads, synchronizing traffic signals;

•	improving high accident locations countywide;

•	improving commuter rail and transit services for seniors/disabled;

•	requiring Independent Taxpayers’ Oversight Committee to conduct audits ensuring all voter mandates are met;

by authorizing a half-cent transportation sales tax for no longer than thirty years?

SECTION 12. EXPENDITURE PLAN AMENDMENTS.

12.1	The Authority may annually review and propose amendments to the Financial Expenditure Plan to provide for the use of additional federal,
state and local funds to account for unexpected revenues, or to take into consideration unforeseen circumstances. The Authority shall act on only
one package of amendments each fiscal year. The Authority shall establish a process for proposed Financial Expenditure Plan amendment(s)
which ensures that the affected Authority committee(s), established pursuant to this Ordinance, participate in the development of the proposed
amendments).

12.2	Upon completion of this process, amendments(s) to the Financial Expenditure Plan must be passed by a two-thirds majority of the
Authority by a roll call vote entered in the minutes of the Authority. Subsequently, the Authority shall notify the

12.3	Board of Supervisors, the City Council of each city in the county and provide each entity with a copy of the proposed amendments).
Pursuant to Public Utilities Code 180207, proposed amendment(s) shall become effective 45 days after notice is given, unless appealed under the
process outlined in the following paragraph. Should an appeal be filed, the Authority shall hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment(s)
within 45 days of the filing of the appeal.

12.4	In the event that a local jurisdiction does not agree with the Authority’s amendments(s), the jurisdiction’s policy decision-making body
must, by a majority vote, determine to formally notify the Authority of its intent, in writing by registered mail, to obtain an override of the Authority’s
amendments). The appealing jurisdiction will have 45 days from the date the Authority adopts the proposed amendments) to obtain resolutions
supporting an override of the amendments) from a majority of the cities representing a majority of the population residing within the incorporated
areas of the county and from the Board of Supervisors. If a jurisdiction does not obtain the necessary resolutions supporting the override, the
Authority’s amendment(s) to the Financial Expenditure Plan will stand. If the necessary resolutions supporting the override are obtained within 45
days from the date the Authority adopts the proposed amendment(s), then the amendment(s) shall not become effective.

SECTION 13. ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS.

13.1.	This Ordinance may be amended to further its purposes. The Authority shall establish a process for proposed Ordinance amendment(s) which
ensures that the Authority committees established by this Ordinance participate in the development of the proposed Ordinance amendment(s).

13.2.	Upon completion of that process, amendment(s) to this Ordinance must be passed by a two-thirds majority of the Authority by a roll call
vote entered in the minutes of the Authority. The Authority must hold a public hearing on the matter before formal adoption of any amendment to
the Ordinance.

13.3.	In the event that a local jurisdiction does not agree with the Authority's amendments(s), the jurisdiction’s policy decision-making body
must, by a majority vote, determine to formally notify the Authority of its intent, in writing by registered mail, to obtain an override of the Authority’s
amendments). The appealing jurisdiction will have 45 days from the date the Authority adopts the proposed amendment(s) to obtain resolutions
supporting an override of the amendments) from a majority of the cities representing a majority of the population residing within the incorporated
areas of the county and from the Board of Supervisors. If a jurisdiction does not obtain the necessary resolutions supporting the override, the
Authority's amendment(s) to the Ordinance will stand. If the necessary resolutions supporting the override are obtained within 45 days from the date
the Authority adopts the proposed amendment(s), then the amendment(s) shall not become effective.

SECTION 14. IMPOSITION OF RETAIL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

14,1 This Ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated and unincorporated territory of the County of Stanislaus, which territory shall be
referred to herein as “District” or “Authority”.

14.2	Purpose. This Ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted
in order to accomplish those purposes:

14.2.1	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code which authorizes the Authority to adopt this tax Ordinance which shall be operative if a two-thirds
majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

14.2.2	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law
of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code.

14.2.3	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible
deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Sales and Use Taxes.

14.2.4	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance which can be administered in a manner which will be, to the greatest
degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes and at the same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of
this Ordinance.

14.3	Contract With State. Prior to the operative date, the Authority shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the Authority shall not have contracted with
the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first
day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

14.4	Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated and unincorporated territory of the District at the rate of one-half of one percent of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this Ordinance.

14.5	Place Of Sale. For the purpose of this Ordinance all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the
tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-
of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use
tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has more than one
place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed
and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

14.6	Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the Authority of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this Ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of
one-half of one percent of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales
or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

14.7	Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law. Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

14.8	Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection Of Use Taxes. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code:

14.8.1 Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this Authority shall be substituted
therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

(a)	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State

Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

(b)	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this Authority or any agency, officer, or employee
thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

(c)	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to, sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California,
where the result of the substitution would be to:

i.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal
property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject
to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

ii.	impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would
not be subject to tax by the State under the said provisions of that code;

(d)	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

14.8.2 The word “District” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section

6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

14.9	Permit Not Required. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor’s permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

14.10	Exemptions And Exclusions.

14.10.1 There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or
the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

14.10.2There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

(a)	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the County in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers
of persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

(b)	Sales of property to be used outside the District which is shipped to a point outside the District, pursuant to the contract of sales,
by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the District shall be satisfied:

i. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with

50 Stanislaus/ 3/

Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code,
and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9850) of the Vehicle Code by
registration to an out-of-District address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such
address is, in fact, his principal place of residence; and

ii. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-District and declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

(c)	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(d)	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(e)	For the purpose of subparagraph (c) and (d) of this subsection, the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed
not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

14.10.3	There is exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this District of tangible
personal property:

(a)	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and
use tax ordinance.

(b)	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Section 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State
of California.

(c)	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative
date of this Ordinance.

(d)	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a
continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

(e)	For the purposes of subparagraphs (c) and (d) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise
of any right of power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract of lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

(f)	Except as provided in subparagraph (g) of this subsection, a retailer engaged in business in the District shall not be required to
collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the District or
participates within the District in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either
directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the district or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor,
subsidiary, or person in the District under the authority of the retailer.

(g)	“A retailer engaged in business in the District” shall also include any retailer of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration
pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the
vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the District.

14.10.4	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

14.11	Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this
Ordinance; provided, however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this Ordinance.

14.12	Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the Authority, or against any officer of the State or the Authority, to prevent or enjoin the collection under
this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

14.13	Effective Date. This Ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the District transactions and use taxes and shall take effect
immediately.

14.14	Termination Date. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall expire thirty years from the operative date of this
Ordinance.

SECTION 15. SEVERABILITY. If any tax or provision of this Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent
jurisdiction, that holding shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining taxes or provisions, or the existing tax, and the Authority
declares that it would have passed each part of this Ordinance irrespective of the validity of any other part.

7 "	Exrnitermt in Megfamat Planning

^btcmCOG

it an I slant Celt aeAKgffSMW—

Cify of Cctv* * Ciry ef Huffman » City sffhMesh) * City of Newman « £,!fv of OM&k • Ctrv yf ftatersej
Ciry tf iswpteBfc * C%* of TBrtoti.' * Cot tf Bawrinra * i.imitcv af Sianahm

EXHIBIT A

Stanislaus County’s
Local Transportation Improvement Plan

30-Year Countywide Transportation
Financial Expenditure Plan
June 2006

Stanislaus Council of Governments (StanCOG)

900 H Street, Suite D
Modesto, CA 95354

209 558.7830
www.stancog.org

30-Year Countywide Transportation
Financial Expenditure Plan

This document contains the Expenditure Plan of the Stanislaus County Local Transportation Improvement Plan. This Expenditure Plan, which is
required to be adopted by the Stanislaus County Transportation Authority (Authority) pursuant to Public Utilities Code commencing with Section
180000, is the legal document Implementing the local retail transactions and use tax and specifying the method of allocation of the local retail
transactions and use tax revenues and other requirements of the Measure. The full text of the Expenditure plan is provided on the following

pages.

Member Jurisdictions

City of Ceres
City of Hughson
City of Modesto
City of Newman
City of Oakdale
City of Patterson
City of Riverbank
City of Turlock
City of Waterford
County of Stanislaus

Executive Summary

The Stanislaus County 30-Year Countywide Transportation Financial Expenditure Plan will direct the expenditure of more than $1.0 billion in county
transportation funds. The revenue to fund the Plan will be raised through the passage of the Stanislaus County Transportation Measure, if approved
by voters in the November 2006 election.

The Plan was developed to improve major regional transportation corridors in Stanislaus County and address local street and road repairs in each
of the incorporated cities in the county, and unincorporated streets and roads maintained by the County. It seeks to reduce congestion on streets
and highways, improve air quality, enhance Stanislaus County’s ability to secure state and federal funds, and improve mobility for transit commuters,
the disabled and senior citizens.

The Plan was developed as a result of the 2004 Regional Transportation Plan (RTF) which projected significant unmet transportation needs in
Stanislaus County given current funding shortfalls. The RTP identified the need for a supplemental Plan based on the creation of additional revenues
through a Stanislaus County Transportation Measure. The Measure being proposed to the voters in November is a one half percent (1/2%) local
retail transactions and use tax which will be limited to a 30-year period. It is estimated to generate $1.020 billion for programs in 2006 dollars over
the life of the Measure.

50 Stanislaus/ 39

Independent Citizens Advisory Committee

An Independent Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) will be appointed by the StanCOG Policy Board to provide oversight of the Plan and to produce
an Annual Audit to ensure proper accountability to the tax payers of Stanislaus County.

Program Allocations

The Expenditure Plan is composed of seven major programs with funding allocations as follows:

1.

2.

3.

4.

State Highway Corridors

State Highway Interchanges (will require

local, state and federal matching funds)

Local Transportation Improvements

Matching funds for Federal funds

Pavement Management Program

(for pothole repair and curb to curb pavement

overlays on existing city streets and county roads)

Commuter Rail Transit

Paratransit for Seniors and Disabled Persons

42.7% or $435 million
15.7% or $160 million

9.8% or $100 million
3.9% or $40 million
24.4% or $250 million

1.0% or $10 million
2.5% or $25 million

By law, the Local Transportation Authority (LTA) can take no more than one percent (1 %) of gross revenues for administrative salaries and benefits.
Program Descriptions

1.	State Highway Corridors (SR 132, SR 219, SR 108 and SR 120)

These projects will provide improvement upgrades on state highways in Stanislaus County. These projects have regional significance, and will add
additional travel lanes, improve operational characteristics, reduce congestion, increase roadway capacity and construct new expressways and
freeways. Sales tax revenues will be used in conjunction with other state and federal funds to deliver these highway improvements.

2.	State Highway Interchanges (SR 99,1-5)

Improvements on selected State Route 99 and Interstate 5 interchanges are proposed. These improvements will Increase interchange efficiency,
improve operational characteristics and reduce congestion. These projects will require local, state and federal matching funds.

3.	Local Transportation Improvements

Local Transportation Improvements are projects of local significance which also enhance the overall transportation network in Stanislaus County.
Each city and the County of Stanislaus will receive a population-based proportionate share of these sales tax revenues. Jurisdictions may select
projects from a defined list of projects in their areas to expend their allocated funds, or they may use these funds for additional pavement management
projects. Up to 25% of each jurisdiction’s share may be used for pedestrian, bicycle and transit capital projects.

4.	Matching Funds for Federal Funds

Funds would be provided to serve as local matching funds for federal programs. StanCOG’s policy for distribution of federal funds to local
jurisdictions will remain in effect for this program. Matching sales tax revenues will be reimbursed to local agencies upon proof of qualifying
expenditures as federal funds are utilized.

5.	Pavement Management Program

The Pavement Management Program includes projects of local and regional significance. This allocation of sales tax revenues provides for local
street and road repair to include pot hole repair, pavement overlays and slurry seals on existing roadways. Each city and the unincorporated areas
of Stanislaus County will receive their share of these sales tax revenues based on their proportionate share of population in the county.

6.	Commuter Rail Transit

Commuter Rail Transit sales tax revenues would be used to support transit congestion relief on crowded commute corridors in and out of Stanislaus
County. In particular, these funds could be used to promote and upgrade rail commuter service over the Altamorrt and into the Modesto-Stockton-
Sacramento area. Eligible costs include but are not limited to studies, design, rolling stock, track improvements, train and grade crossing

controls.

7.	Paratransit for Seniors and Disabled Persons

These funds will be provided to existing Transit Operators in Stanislaus County based on a formula developed by StanCOG’s Social Services
Transportation Advisory Council. These funds are provided for transportation services aimed at improving mobility for seniors and persons with

disabilities.

Stanislaus County Transportation Authority

The Stanislaus Council of Governments (StanCOG) is designated by the Stanislaus County Board of Supervisors as the Stanislaus County Local
Transportation Authority, pursuant to the provisions of Public Utilities Code Section I, Division 19 commencing with Section 180000.

50 Stanislaus/ 40

StanCOG Board Members

Fiscal Year 2005-2006

City of Ceres
City of Hughson
City of Modesto
City of Modesto
City of Modesto
City of Newman
City of Oakdale
City of Patterson
City of Riverbank
City of Turlock
City of Waterford
Stanislaus County
Stanislaus County
Stanislaus County
Stanislaus County
Stanislaus County
Caltrans (Ex-Officio)

Chris Vierra
Stephen Gualls
Brad Hawn
Janice Keating
Jim Ridenour
E. Timothy Parker
Ferrell Jackson
David Keller
Chris Crifasi
Billy Wallen
Greg Dugovic
Jim DeMartini
Jeff Grover
Raymond C. Simon
Tom Mayfield
William O’Brien
Jane Perez, District 10

30-Year Countywide Transportation
Financial Expenditure Plan

Introduction

The Stanislaus County 30-Year Countywide Transportation Financial Expenditure Plan will direct the expenditure of more than $1.0 billion in county
transportation funds. The revenue to fund the Plan will be raised through the passage of the Stanislaus County Transportation Measure, if approved
by voters in the November 2006 elections.

The Plan was developed to improve major regional transportation corridors in Stanislaus County and address local street and road repairs in each
of the incorporated cities in the county, and unincorporated streets and roads maintained by the County. It seeks to reduce congestion on streets
and highways, improve air quality, enhance Stanislaus County’s ability to secure state and federal funds, and improve mobility for transit commuters,
the disabled and senior citizens. The measure being proposed to the voters in November 2006 is a one half percent (1/2%) retail transaction and
use tax which will be limited to a 30-year period. Estimated revenue generation for the tax measure is $1.020 billion, in 2006 dollars for the life of
the Measure.

Background

As the Regional Transportation Planning Agency (RTPA), the Stanislaus Council of Governments (StanCOG) is responsible for preparing a countywide
transportation plan that forecasts future population and economic growth, projects future traffic conditions on our street and road system, and
proposes safety and capacity improvements to the system to accommodate the desired service level. This Regional Transportation Plan (RTP)
includes a financial strategy that accounts for funding from federal, state, and local sources to pay for transportation capital improvements,
maintenance, and operations.

The 2004 Regional Transportation Plan identified the need for significant additional funding and included an objective of placing a transportation
measure providing a % cent sales tax dedicated solely for transportation programs before the voters of Stanislaus County.

In the spring of 2005, StanCOG participated with Stanislaus Economic Development and Workforce Alliance (Alliance), in completing a Countywide
survey to determine voter support for a one half cent sales tax measure to finance transportation projects and programs. The survey results
presented to the StanCOG Policy Board at its May 2005 meeting indicated that there was an overall voter support of 70% for such a Measure. At
the Board’s direction, a Framework for a 30-Year Transportation Sales Tax Financial Plan has been developed and circulated for public review and
comment and was approved by the StanCOG Policy Board on September 14, 2005.

2004 Regional Transportation Plan Review

The 2004 Regional Transportation Plan for Stanislaus County was adopted by the StanCOG Policy Board on August 11, 2004. The Regional
Transportation Plan (RTP) provides a basis for transportation decisions by local, regional and state officials. The RTP provides an in-depth look at
transportation issues, needs and strategies for Stanislaus County.

The RTP was developed through a process intended to ensure technical accuracy while capturing the transportation imagination of the region.
First, StanCOG asked the community: What do you want the regional transportation system to accomplish? Through an extensive public outreach
process, involving public and private representatives, StanCOG collected feedback from the community on their transportation-related desires and
expectations to define the goals and objectives for the 2004 Regional Transportation Plan.

Concurrently, StanCOG collected massive amounts of information from local governments, Caltrans, and other regional transportation partners,
to describe the needs and potential transportation solutions to achieve the region’s goals and objectives. This information was used to build the
“financially unconstrained” strategy for the region - the total list of projects affecting the regional system.

Finally, to construct a comprehensive transportation strategy that falls within our financial means, StanCOG utilized technical data identifying trouble
spots in the region to create four System Improvement Strategies that responded to the highest priority transportation desires and expectations of
the region. Based on public input, StanCOG then selected one of these strategies - the Combined Priorities strategy - as the preferred long-range
transportation investment strategy for the region.

The RTP establishes regional goals to:

•	Improve mobility for people and freight

•	Operate the regional transportation system safely and efficiently

•	Preserve and enhance environmental quality

•	Support the economic and community vitality of the region

•	Promote equity for system users

To achieve these long term goals the RTP analyzed transportation needs (state highways/regional arterials, Local Road Expansion, Local Road
Maintenance, Public Transit and other projects like bike and pedestrian-ways, traffic operations, enhancements and aviation) versus projected state
and federal funding through year 2030, Table 1 below provides the results of this analysis.

Table 1

Transportation Needs and Revenues, 2004 - 2030
Proposed Investment Strategy for 2004 RTP

		
State Highways and Other Major Regional		
StanCOG Revenues	425,075,000	Funds Baseline and Preferred Alt.
Other Revenues	683,372,000	Funds Baseline and Preferred Alt.
Needs	1,476,248,000	
Shortfall	-367,801,000	
Local Road Expansion, Not in RTP Alternatives		
StanCOG Revenues	0	No Regional revenue available
Other Revenues	539,585,000	From Appendices E and G
Needs	1,143,920,000	
Shortfall	-604,335,000	
Local Road Maintenance		
StanCOG Revenues	256,434,000	
Other Revenues	46,393,000	
Needs	1,259,440,000	
Shortfall	-956,623,000	
Public Transit		
StanCOG Revenues	494,775,000	
Other Revenues	13,728,000	
Needs	508,503,000	
Shortfall	0	
Other*		
StanCOG Revenues	143,331,000	
Other Revenues (Aviation)	21,000,000	
Needs	164,331,000	
Shortfall	0	
TOTAL REVENUES	2,623,683,000	
TOTAL NEEDS	4,552,442,000	

* Other needs include Bicycle and Pedestrian projects, Traffic Operations, Enhancements, and Aviation

The analysis clearly shows an inability to maintain existing levels of transportation or provide adequate capacity enhancements to accommodate
growth without some significant additional source of funding. As one solution to this shortfall, the StanCOG Policy Board, at its Septembers, 2005
meeting, approved the “Framework for a 30-Year Transportation Sales Tax Financial Plan” to be presented to the voters for approval in November
2006.

50 Stanis.____

Statement of Principles

The Stanislaus Council of Governments (StanCOG) is designated as the Stanislaus County Local Transportation Authority under the provisions
of the Local Transportation Authority and Improvement Act (Public Utilities Code §§ 180000 et seq.) in order to carry out the activities described
in this Expenditure Plan. The Plan was prepared by the Stanislaus Council of Governments in concert with community leaders, elected officials,
management and technical staff from member cities and the County and interested members of the general public.

The Local Transportation Authority’s principles are as follows:

1.	It is estimated that there is currently a need for over $2.0 billion to fund:

•	Street repair, safety and improvements on local streets and roads;

•	Congestion relief projects to accommodate existing crowding of streets and highways;

•	Capital and operating assistance for passenger rail and bus service;

•	Local match requirements for state and federal funding.

2.	A balanced transportation network of highways, local streets, rail and bus transit and regional planning is necessary to preserve the quality of
life and a healthy viable economy for Stanislaus County residents

3.	Improved air quality is an important goal for Stanislaus County as well as the entire San Joaquin Valley. Alternatives to the single occupant
automobile are important contributors to improved air quality. The implementation of this Plan must be consistent with the adopted Air Quality
Plan for Stanislaus County and the San Joaquin Valley Air Basin.

4.	State and Federal monies are insufficient to meet Stanislaus County’s transportation needs. A local retail transactions and use tax for
transportation improvements has been demonstrated by other similar county’s to meet these needs.

5.	To implement the Plan, management, technical and most importantly citizen oversight is essential.

Program Allocations

Program Category	Program Percentage (%)	Estimated Program Allocation ($)  {In 2006 dollars)
State Highway Corridors	42.7 %	$435 million
State Highway Interchanges	15.7 %	$160 million
Local Transportation Improvements	9.8 %	$100 million
Matching funds for Federal funds	3.9 %	$40 million
Pavement Management Program	24.4 %	$250 million
Commuter Rail Transit	1.0%	$10 million
Paratransit for Seniors and Disabled Persons	2.5 %	$25 million
Total Allocation	100 %	$1.020 billion

Notes;

1.	By law, the Local Transportation Authority (LTA) can take no more than one percent (1 %) of gross revenues for administrative
salaries and benefits.

2.	Revenue allocations shown are for illustrative purposes and are estimates only. Actual allocations to each program category will
be based on the percentages listed above.

Program Descriptions

STATE HIGHWAY CORRIDORS	42.7 % or	$435	million

• State Route 132 West, East and Connector	20.4 % or	$208	million

0	SR 132 West from SR 99 in Modesto to 1-5

°	SR 132 Connector from SR 132 West to

°	SR 132 East through Modesto

° SR 132 East from Riverside Drive to Empire,

°	Widen	to	4 lanes with turn lanes

° SR 132 East from Empire to Waterford,

°	Add turn lanes

50 Stanislaua/ 43

•	State Route 219-108 Ciaribel Corridor From State Route 99 to

State Route 120 East of Oakdale	20.3	%	or	$207	million

0 SR 219 (Kiernan Avenue) from SR 99 to
0 McHenry Avenue, construct an Expressway
0 SR 108 (Ciaribel Corridor) from McHenry Avenue to
0 SR 120 East of Oakdale, construct an Expressway

•	State Route 120 Oakdale Bypass

Right-of-Way Acquisition	2.0 % or	$ 20 million

STATE HIGHWAY INTERCHANGES	15.7 % or	$160	million

(Will require Local, State and Federal Matching Funds)

•	State Route 99 Interchange Improvements

0 Kiernan Avenue - SR 99/SR 219 in Modesto
0	Pelandale Avenue in Modesto

0	Standiford Avenue/Beckwith Road in Modesto

0	Briggsmore Avenue in Modesto

0	Whitmore Avenue in Ceres

0 Mitchell Road/Service Road in Ceres

0 New Route SR 165 Interchange South of Landers Avenue in Turlock

•	1-5	Interchange	Improvements

0 Sperry Avenue in Patterson and widen Sperry Avenue to Rogers Road
0 Future 1-5 Interchange for Patterson Bypass
0 West Stuhr Road interchange near Newman

LOCAL TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENTS	9.8	%	or	$100	Million

Each City and the County select the Projects or use the funds for additional Pavement Management. Up to 25% of each jurisdiction’s
share may be used for pedestrian, bicycle, and transit capital projects.

Note: Each jurisdiction’s funding share is based on its proportionate share of population within the County.
TOTAL 30 YEAR ALLOCATION TO EACH CITY AND COUNTY

		POPULATION i	%.	
Ceres		38,813	7.7	7,700,000
Hughson		5,942	1.2	1,200,000
Modesto		207,634	41.2	41,200,000
Newman		9,134	1.8	1,800,000
Oakdale		17,439	3.5	3,500,000
Patterson		16,158	3.2	3,200,000
Riverbank		19,988	4.0	4,000,000
Turlock		67,009	13.3	13,300,000
Waterford		7,897	1.6	1,600,000
Stanislaus County		114.468	22.7	22.700.000
	Total	504,482	100.0	100,200,000

Rounded

The population based percentages will be adjusted every even numbered year based on data provided by the California Department of Finance.

iStanislaus County & Cities
January 1,2005 Population Estimates

Source: California Department of Finance

50 Stanislaus/ 44

LOCAL ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS - Eligible Projects

•	Safety Improvements West Main Street corridor from Turlock to Patterson

•	Safety Improvements Hatch Road Corridor at Santa Fe and Geer Rds

•	Safety Improvements W Stuhr Road from 1-5 to SR 33

•	Safety Improvements on State Route 33 in Patterson

•	Crowslanding Road Corridor from SR 33 to SR 99

•	Development of an Expressway Corridor from Turlock to Patterson

•	Intersection Improvements M Street at SR 33 in Patterson

•	Interconnect and synchronize traffic signals

•	Roadway Safety Projects including improvements

•	Railroad Grade Crossings

•	Additional Pavement Management Projects

MATCHING FUNDS FOR FEDERAL SURFACE	3.9%	or $ 40 Million

TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM, CONGESTION
MANAGEMENT AIR QUALITY AND
TRANSPORTATION ENHANCEMENT FUNDS

MATCHING FUNDS FOR FEDERAL FUNDS CALCULATION
Federal Funds 2005/2006
STP - Surface Transportation Program
CMAQ - Congestion Mitigation and
Air Quality Program
TE - Transportation Enhancement
Activities Program
TOTAL

12% match = $1,333,680 per year
30 years = $40,010,400

Funds would be provided to serve as local matching funds for federal programs. StanCOG’s policy for distribution of federal funds to local
jurisdictions will remain in effect for this program. Matching sales tax revenues will be reimbursed to local agencies upon proof of qualifying
expenditures as federal funds are utilized.

PAVEMENT MANAGEMENT PROGRAM	24.4%	or	$250	million

$250 MIL., $8,333 MIL PER YEAR
ADJUST TO $8,400 MIL PER YEAR

(Includes: pot hole repair, curb to curb pavement overlays and slurry seal on existing
city streets and county roads)

ANNUAL ALLOCATION

		POPULATION i	%		
Ceres		38,813	7.7	646,800	
Hughson		5,942	1.2	100,800	
Modesto		207,634	41.2	3,460,800	
Newman		9,134	1.8	151,200	
Oakdale		17,439	3.5	294,000	
Patterson		16,158	3.2	268,800	
Riverbank		19,988	4.0	336,000	
Turlock		67,009	13.3	1,117,000	
Waterford		7,897	1.6	134,400	
Stanislaus County		114.468	22.7	1.906.800	
	Total	504,482	100.0	8,416,800	Rounded

The population based percentages will be adjusted every even numbered year based on data provided by the California Department of Finance.
These sales tax revenues are to supplement existing local revenues being used for street and road purposes. Transaction and use tax revenue shall
not be used to replace existing road funding programs or to replace requirements for new development to provide for its own road needs. Under
this Expenditure Plan, funding priorities should be given to addressing current transportation needs, easing congestion, and improving safety. The
Cities and the County shall maintain their existing commitment of transportation funds for street, highway and public transit purposes, and the
Authority shall enforce this provision by appropriate actions, including fiscal audits of local agencies. The Cities and County receiving local road
improvement and maintenance funds pursuant to this Expenditure Plan shall lose that funding if they do not maintain levels of road funding, which
shall be calculated on the prior three year rolling average basis.

i Stanislaus County & Cities
January 1,2005 Population Estimates

Source: California Department of Finance

$5,431,712
$4,757,864
$ 924.000

$11,114,000 Rounded

COMMUTER RAIL TRANSIT

1.0% or $10 Million

Sales tax revenues would be used to promote and upgrade rail commuter service over the Altamont and into the Modesto-Stockton-
Sacramento area. Eligible costs include but are not limited to studies, design, rolling stock, track improvements, train and grade
crossing controls.

PARATRANSIT FOR SENIORS	2.5%	or $25 Million

These funds will be provided to existing Transit Operators in Stanislaus County based on a formula developed by StanCOQ’s Social
Services Transportation Advisory Council. These funds are provided for transportation services aimed at improving mobility for seniors
and persons with disabilities.

Administration

Local Transportation Authority Administration

The Authority will hire the staff and professional assistance required to administer the proceeds of the tax and carry out the mission outlined in this
Expenditure Plan.

•	The total administrative cost of salaries and benefits of the staff of the Authority shall not exceed one percent (1 %) of the gross
revenues generated by the measure. These costs include salaries, wages, and benefits.

•	An annual independent audit shall be conducted to assure that the revenues expended by the Authority under this section are
necessary and reasonable in carrying out its responsibilities under the Expenditure Plan.

•	The Authority will prepare an annual report, identifying the total expenditures for administration, as well as other costs associated with
delivering the program.

•	An annual budget will be adopted by the Authority each year. The budget will project the expected sales tax receipts, other anticipated
funds, and planned expenditures for administration, programs and projects. The Strategic Plan can serve as the budget.

Authority Committees

The following committee structure will advise the Authority in the administration of the Expenditure Plan.

•	The Technical Advisory Committee shall consist of the Chief Administrative Official, or his/her designee, of each member of the
Authority as designated by the member. The Technical Committee shall advise the StanCOG Executive Committee and the Authority.
The Committee shall annually elect from its own members its Chairperson.

•	The Citizens Advisory Committee

Strategic Plan

The Authority will prepare a Strategic Plan every two years. The Strategic Plan will be the master document for delivery of the Expenditure Plan
projects and programs and can be amended at any time. The purposes of the Strategic Plan are as follows: •

•	Defines the scope, cost, and schedule of each project and program

•	Identifies accomplishments and critical issues

•	Lists a set of amendments to these projects and programs

•	Details the revenue projected and possible financing tools needed to deliver the Expenditure Plan

•	Gathers into one document the policies and procedures of the Expenditure Plan

•	Serves as annual budget

Amendments to the Expenditure Plan

The Authority may annually review and propose amendments to the Expenditure Plan to provide for the use of additional federal, state and local
funds, to account for unexpected revenues, or to take into consideration unforeseen circumstances related to specific projects or programs in the
Expenditure Plan. The Authority shall notify the Board of Supervisors, the City Council of each city in the county and provide each entity with a copy
of proposed amendment(s). Pursuant to Public Utilities Code 180207, proposed amendment(s) shall become effective 45 days after notice is given,
unless appealed under the process outlined in the Ordinance.

Independent Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC)

1. Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Goal and Function. Voter adoption of the Local Transportation Improvement Plan sales tax ordinance
shall result in creation of the Independent Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) as follows:

The CAC shall review the fiscal and program performance of the sales tax transportation program through an annual audit to ensure that all
transportation sales tax funds are spent by the Authority in accordance with all provisions of the voter-approved Expenditure Plan and Ordinance.
The CAC’s other mission is to provide positive, constructive advice to the Authority on how to improve implementation over the thirty-year course of
the program for the benefit of Stanislaus County residents and the community at large, and to study and report on other issues related to the current
or future use of transportation sales tax funds that may be expressly authorized by the Authority Board.

2.	Audit Requirement The CAC shall supervise annual fiscal and performance audits, which shall be performed in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards and Government Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States and based on performance
goals adopted by the Authority Board for each program or project funded in whole or in part with sales tax funds. The first set of performance
goals shall be adopted not later than 90 days after the effective date of the sales tax Ordinance and updated every five years for the life of the
Ordinance.

3.	Role of Financial and Performance Audits. The Authority, with the active involvement of the Executive Director, shall select a professional
auditor to conduct annual fiscal and performance audits of expenditure of all sales tax funds, report findings based on the audits to the Authority
and to the public; and recommend any additional audits for consideration, which the CAC believes may improve the financial operation and integrity
of program implementation, while meeting all voter mandates. No professional audit firm shall conduct more than three consecutive annual audits
during the course of the 30-year sales tax.

The Authority shall hold a publicly noticed meeting included on the agenda of a regularly scheduled Board meeting, with the recommendations of
the CAC, to consider the findings and recommendations of the audits. A report of the findings and recommendations of each audit by the CAC shall
be made readily available to the public in print and on the Authority’s electronic website.

4.	Membership and Selection Process. Each City Council and the County Board of Supervisors shall appoint one member to the Citizens
Advisory Committee. Each City and the County shall develop an open selection process that actively advertises for potential membership recruits
and selects committee members that are all residents of each City and the County. The Chair and the Executive Director of the Authority shall serve
as ex-officio nonvoting members of CAC.

5.	Terms and Conditions for Committee

5.1.	Committee members shall serve staggered four-year terms, in no case shall voting committee members serve more than
eight years on the CAC.

5.2.	Committee members shall serve without compensation, except they shall be reimbursed for authorized travel and other
expenses directly related to the work of the CAC.

5.3.	Committee members cannot be a current local elected official in the county or a full time or part time member of any city, the
county government, local transit operator, or state transportation agency.

5.4.	Non-voting ex-officio committee members shall serve only as long as they remain incumbents in their respective positions
and shall be automatically replaced by their successors in those positions.

5.5.	If and when vacancies on the CAC occur on the part of voting committee members, either due to expiration of term, death or
resignation, the appropriate City or the County shall appoint an appropriate replacement within 90 days of the vacancy to fill the remainder of
the term.

6.	Sales Tax CAC Operation Protocols. Given the thirty-year duration of the sales tax, the CAC shall be appointed no later than July 1,

2007 and continue as long as sales tax funds from the current voter authorization are made available. The Authority Board and staff shall fully
cooperate with and provide necessary financial and staff support to ensure the CAC effectively carries out its duties and obligations. The annual
cost of the activities of the CAC shall be funded by the sales tax annually, adjusted for inflation.

7.	Conflict of Interest. CAC voting members shall have no legal action pending against the Authority and are prohibited from acting in any
commercial activity directly or indirectly involving the Authority, such as being a consultant or vendor to the Authority during their tenure on
the CAC. CAC voting members shall not have direct commercial interest or employment with any public or private entity, which receives the
transportation sales tax funds authorized by the voters in this Ordinance.

EXHIBIT B

INDEPENDENT CITIZENS ADVISORY COMMITTEE (CAC)

1.	Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) Goal and Function. Voter adoption of the Local Transportation Improvement Plan sales tax ordinance shall
result in creation of the Independent Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) as follows:

The CAC shall review the fiscal and program performance of the sales tax transportation program through an annual audit to ensure that ail
transportation sales tax funds are spent by the Stanislaus County Transportation Authority (“Authority”) in accordance with all provisions of the voter-
approved Expenditure Plan and Ordinance. The CAC’s other mission is to provide positive, constructive advice to the Authority on how to improve
implementation over the thirty-year course of the program for the benefit of Stanislaus County residents and businesses, and to study and report on
other issues related to the current or future use of transportation sales tax funds that may be expressly authorized by the Authority Board.

2.	Audit Requirement. The CAC shall supervise annual fiscal and.pei . / *	ance	audrs, w! ' ml be pert •	ore	m re with

50 Stanislaus/ 47

generally accepted auditing standards and Government Auditing Standards issued by the Comptroller General of the United States and based
on performance goals adopted by the Authority Board for each program or project funded in whole or in part with sales tax funds. The first set of
performance goals shall be adopted not later than 90 days after the effective date of the sales tax Ordinance and be updated every five years for
the life of the Ordinance.

3.	Role of Financial and Performance Audits. The Authority shall, under the competitive procurement rules of the Authority select, with the
recommendation of the CAC, a professional auditor to conduct a annual fiscal and performance audit of expenditure of all sales tax funds, report
findings based on the audits to the Authority and to the public; and recommend any additional audits for consideration, which the CAC believes may
improve the financial operation and integrity of program implementation, while meeting all voter mandates. No professional audit firm shall conduct
more than three consecutive annual audits during the course of the 30-year sales tax extension.

The Authority shall hold a publicly noticed meeting included on the agenda of a regularly scheduled Board meeting, with the recommendation of the
CAC, to consider the findings and recommendations of the audits. A report of the findings and recommendations of each audit by the CAC shall be
made readily available to the public in print and on the Authority’s electronic website.

4.	Membership and Selection Process. Each City Council and the County Board of Supervisors shall appoint one member to the Citizens Advisory
Committee. Each City and the County shall develop an open selection process that actively advertises for potential membership recruits and selects
committee members that are all residents of each City and the County. The Chair and the Executive Director of the Authority, and County Auditor
shall serve as ex-officio nonvoting members of the CAC.

5.	Terms and Conditions for Committee

5.1.	Committee members shall serve staggered four-year terms. In no case shall voting committee members serve more than eight years on
the CAC.

5.2.	Committee members shall serve without compensation, except they shall be reimbursed for authorized travel and other expenses directly
related to the work of the CAC.

5.3.	Committee members cannot be a current local elected official in the county or a full time or part time staff member of any city, the county
government, local transit operator, or state transportation agency.

5.4.	Non-voting ex-officio committee members shall serve only as long as they remain incumbents in their respective positions and shall be
automatically replaced by their successors in those positions.

5.5.	If and when vacancies on the CAC occur on the part of voting committee members, either due to expiration of term, death or resignation
the appropriate City or the County shall appoint an appropriate replacement within 90 days of the vacancy to fill the remainder of the term.

6.	Sales Tax CAC Operation Protocols. Given the thirty-year duration of the sales tax extension, the CAC shall be appointed no later than July
1, 2007 and continue as long as sales tax funds from the current voter authorization are made available. The Authority Board and staff shall fully
cooperate with and provide necessary financial and staff support to ensure the CAC effectively carries out its duties and obligations. The annual
cost of the activities of the CAC shall be funded by the sales tax annually, adjusted for inflation.

7.	Conflict of Interest. CAC voting members shall have no legal action pending against the Authority and are prohibited from acting in any
commercial activity directly or indirectly involving the Authority, such as being a consultant or vendor to the Authority during their tenure on the CAC.
CAC voting members shall not have direct commercial interest or employment with any public or private entity, which receives the transportation
sales tax funds authorized by the voters in this Ordinance.

END OF FULL TEXT FOR MEASURE K

50 StanisL-.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K
BY COUNTY COUNSEL

STANISLAUS COUNTY TRANSPORTATION TAX

Measure “K” would authorize the Stanislaus County Local Transportation
Authority to impose a one-half cent Retail Transaction and Use tax for
a maximum of 30 years to fund the specific transportation and traffic
relief projects and safety and road maintenance programs identified in
the Stanislaus County Local Transportation Improvement Plan.

The measure creates an independent Citizen’s Advisory Committee to
supervise fiscal and performance audits regarding the use of all sales
tax funds and to insure that all funds are spent in accordance with the
Financial Expenditure Plan.

On July 12, 2006, the Stanislaus County Transportation Authority
adopted Ordinance No. 06-01, which imposes a Retail Transactions
and Use Tax in Stanislaus County at the rate of one-half of one percent
in addition to any existing or future state or local Retail Transaction and
Use Tax. The revenue received by the Stanislaus County Transportation
Authority will be expended for the transportation improvement projects
and programs set forth in the Stanislaus Countywide Transportation
Financial Expenditure Plan. A copy of the Ordinance, Stanislaus
County’s Local Transportation Improvement Plan, and the 30 year
Countywide Transportation Financial Expenditure Plan are printed in
the sample ballot.

This measure would become effective only upon the affirmative vote
of at least two-thirds of those voting on the measure. If the measure
is approved, the sales tax would be imposed on the incorporated and
unincorporated territory of the County of Stanislaus.

A “yes” vote is to approve Ordinance No. 06-01 and favors the
imposition of the one-half cent sales tax to fund the 30 year Stanislaus
County Transportation Financial Expenditure Plan.

A “no” vote is to disapprove Ordinance No. 06-01 and opposes the
imposition of the one-half cent sales tax to fund the 30 year Stanislaus
County Transportation Financial Expenditure Plan.

Prepared by County Counsel under Election Code Section 9313.

Michael H. Krausnick -County Counsel, Stanislaus County

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K
STANISLAUS COUNTY TRANSPORTATION TAX

It’s time to fix the traffic mess in Stanislaus County. Measure K will
improve traffic safety, fix potholes, maintain our roadways and
improve air quality everywhere in Stanislaus County.

Vote YES on Measure K to:

—	Fix potholes and maintain local streets and roads in every
community.

—	Improve safety at high accident locations and along routes to
schools.

—	Add new lanes and interchanges on Interstate 5 and Highways 99,
108,120,132 and 219.

—	Reduce congestion in urban and high-traffic areas.

—	Improve air quality by reducing transportation-generated pollution.

—	Provide transit services, especially for seniors and disabled
citizens.

Without Measure K, congestion relief will be delayed for decades.

State and federal highway funds alone can’t do the job. Measure K will
provide local matching funds so Stanislaus County can qualify for
hundreds of millions of dollars in additional funding from state and
federal highway programs — funds that now go to other counties that
have a local funding program like Measure K.

Vote YES to improve response times for firefighters, police and
ambulances.

Measure K safeguards your tax dollars:

—	Funds can be spent only in Stanislaus County for transportation

projects.

—	An Independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee will conduct annual
audits and ensure that all vote mandates are met

—	Administrative costs are capped at 1 % of all Measure K funds.

Vote YES on Measure K to guarantee that transportation dollars raised
In Stanislaus County will stay in Stanislaus County to fix unsafe
roads, build new lanes and interchanges and fight traffic congestion.

Stanislaus County residents have waited long enough for better roads
and traffic relief. Business and agricultural interests, chambers of
commerce, community groups and thousands of your neighbors agree:
Vote YES on Measure K.

To learn about Measure K improvements in your area, visit
www.YesOnMeasureK.org. Vote YES on Measure K.

Ernie T. Gemperle - Partner, Gemperle Enterprises
Bill Lyons, Jr. - Rancher / Farmer

Virginia Madueno - Councilmember I Business Owner, City of
Riverbank

Martin Petersen - Stanislaus County Superintendent of Schools
Les Weidman - Stanislaus County Sheriff, Retired

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K
STANISLAUS COUNTY TRANSPORTATION TAX

Governments choose to spend money on their priorities. This fact
should be emphasized: elected officials in Stanislaus County have
never chosen to make roads a top priority.

Developers paid their permit fees as charged. Homeowners and
businesses paid their property and tax bonds every year and you and
I already pay an additional quarter cent sales tax for roads. Where did
that money go?

Suddenly, your elected county and city officials admit they made bad
choices. Their solution is to raise taxes!

Why should we give the very people who are responsible for making
lousy decisions, more money? Why should we believe - that with a little
more of your money, they will make better decisions?

Do you believe that a new sales tax increase will result in smarter
politicians? We don’t think so! “Vote NO on Measure K”

George House- Former State Assemblyman / Area Commander,
California Highway Patrol, Retired
Bill Conrad - Former Vice Mayor of Modesto / Board of Directors,
Central Valley Liberty PAC
Dave Sundy - Oakdale Chief of Police, Retired
Dave Thomas - Past President, Stanislaus Tax Payers Association /
Local Businessman
Georgians A. McDonald - Retired Educator

[

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K
STANISLAUS COUNTY TRANSPORTATION TAX

Measure K is a pure and simple case of taxpayer DECEPTION!

Wealthy building developers and greedy special interest groups want
you to pay more in local sales taxes to cover the costs of future
development. Developers want to use your money to avoid paying
their full share of new development fees. Working families shouldn’t be
expected to make the rich even richer.

These groups are trying to mislead you by promising to fix highway's
99,120 and 132. These highways are the responsibility of the State of
California and you already pay gasoline taxes, use taxes and licensing
fees to cover the costs of construction and maintenance.

Measure K is unnecessary to fix existing roads due to the overwhelming
passage of Proposition 42 in March of 2005. The “ Transportation
Congestion Improvement Act” as Proposition 42 was called, requires
the State of California to stop diverting your gasoline tax money and fix
our State highways by 2008.

Truth is, some developers want to divert your money into building new
infrastructure to support their projects. The building industry must start
paying it’s own way.

Nearly 80% of the proposed tax increase would directly benefit wealthy
individuals in northern Modesto. The vast majority of Stanislaus County
residents would be paying increased taxes to improve the roads to Del
Rio Country Club and the Gallo Performing Arts Center.

Fiscal responsibility demands we start saying no to government now.
Especially when government is controlled by politicians elected by
special interest money.

Don’t let greedy developers take more of your hard earned dollars.

DON'T BE DECEIVED...... .VOTE NO ON MEASURE K!

John Rose -Past President, Stanislaus County Tax Payers Association

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K
STANISLAUS COUNTY TRANSPORATION TAX

Measure K is about taking control of our own future in Stanislaus
County. That’s why police and firefighters, employers and labor unions,
parents and shopkeepers all are voting Yes on Measure K.

Experts say it will take upwards of $48 million a year to make our roads
safer, keep our families mobile and move goods and services critical
to our economy in the future. But Stanislaus County can expect only
about $11 million a year in state and federal support to improve our
local streets, fix potholes and maintain these roadways. Measure K
will help close that gap and get the job done.

Measure K allows us to become a “self-help” county, making us eligible
for state and federal funding we can’t touch today. Eighteen other
“self-help” counties in California have found they can leverage twice
as much from state and federal sources by providing local matching
funds.

San Joaquin County has had a self-help tax for 15 years. We all see their
great results - widening 205, Highway 4 Crosstown Freeway, Ripon’s
Jack Tone interchange, Manteca Bypass and more.

Without Measure K, our roads will continue to deteriorate and
congestion will increase. Critical road improvements will be stalled
for years and costs will go up.

Measure K is a balanced plan to fix potholes and relieve future
congestion. It is a contract with voters, with taxpayer protections
that assure money raised goes only to transportation projects you

approve by your YES Vote on K.

Join us, Vote Yes on Measure K.

Jim Duarte - Farmer

Denny V. Jackman - Manager Growth Advocate
Craig Lewis - Local Businessman
Bill Mattos - Ag Association Executive
Mickey Peabody - Senior Advocate

50 Stanislaus/ 51