ORDINANCE NO. 08102006
MT. SHASTA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
MEASURE J

DETERMINING AND PROPOSING FOR ADOPTION A SPECIAL TAX

The Board of Directors of the Mt. Shasta Fire Protection District ordains
as follows:

SECTION 1: This ordinance is adopted pursuant to Government Code
Section 53978.

SECTION 2: It is determined and proposed that a special tax measure
be submitted to the voters in the Mt. Shasta Fire Protection District.
This proposed special tax is in addition to, and not in lieu of, previously
approved and existing special taxes.

SECTION 3: RATE TO BE CHARGED AS A SPECIAL TAX In addition
to a previous special tax approved by the voters of the Mt. Shasta
Fire Protection District in 1990, and which shall remain in effect,
regardless of the vote on this special tax, there shall be levied on
each parcel within the Mt. Shasta Fire Protection District an additional
special tax of: $50.00 Unimproved Parcels, $100.00 on Improved
Parcels and $150.00 on Commercial Parcels.

This proposed special tax shall not be levied on any property belonging
to the State or Federal Government or another Local Government
Agency.

For purposes of this ordinance, “improved parcels" shall be defined
to mean those parcels which the County Assessor has affixed
an improvement value on the Unsecured or Secured Tax Roll. It
shall not include any well, septic tank, underground pipeline, bridge,
wharf, power line, mineshaft, tunnel, irrigation, ditch, canal, fence or
mineral rights.

“Unimproved parcels" shall be defined to mean all of those parcels
without improved value.

“Commercial parcels” shall be defined to mean all of those parcels
which the County Assessor has affixed an improvement value on the
Unsecured or Secured Tax Roll. It shall not include any well, septic
tank, underground pipeline, bridge, wharf, power line, mineshaft, tunnel,
irrigation, ditch, canal, fence or mineral rights.

SECTION 4. LEVY of CHARGE The Board of Directors finds and
declares that this special tax is not an ad valorem tax. Further, the
Board finds and declares that the most expedient way to levy and
collect this special tax is on all parcels.

SECTION 5. METHOD of COLLECTION The special tax, if confirmed
by the voters, shall appear as a separate item on the tax bill. The special
tax shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as
ordinary County ad valorem taxes are collected and shall be subject to
the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in the case of
delinquency as provided for such ad valorem taxes. All laws applicable
to the levy, collection and enforcement of County ad valorem property
taxes shall be applicable to such tax; except that if for the first year
such tax is levied, the real property to which such tax related has been
transferred or conveyed to a bona fide purchaser for value, or if a lien
of a bona fide encumbrancer for value has been created and attaches
thereon prior to the date on which the first installment of such taxes
would become delinquent, the tax proposed pursuant to this ordinance
will not result in a lien against such real property but instead shall be
transferred to the unsecured roll for collection,

SECTION 6. ELECTION DATE The proposed special tax shall be
submitted to the voters of the Mt Shasta Fire Protection District for
their approval on November 7, 2006.

SECTION 7. EFFECTIVE DATE If the proposed special tax receives
the approval of two thirds of the voters upon the proposition, the
special tax shall be levied effective March 1, 2007.

SECTION 8. AUTHORITY TO DECREASE CHARGE Nothing in this
ordinance shall give the Board of Directors the authority to increase
the special tax levied hereunder without a confirming vote of at
least two thirds of the voters in the Mt Shasta Fire Protection
District voting on such proposal. However, nothing herein will prevent
the Board of Directors from lowering or eliminating such special
tax upon a majority of its own vote after notice and hearing on
such proposal.

SECTION 9. PUBLICATION This ordinance shall be published once

in the Mt Shasta Herald, a newspaper of general circulation, printed
and published in the Mt Shasta Fire Protection District, such publication
being within 15 days after passage thereof.

SECTION 10. SEVERABILITY If any section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this ordinance is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance. The Board of Directors hereby
declares that it would have passed this ordinance and each section,
subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact
that any one or more of the sections, subsections, sentences, clauses
or phrases be declared unconstitutional.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT Ordained by the Board of Directors of the
Mt Shasta Fire Protection District that the following measure
be placed on the ballot for vote at the election to be held on
November, 7 2006.

“SHALL THE MT SHASTA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT LEVY
AN ADDITIONAL SPECIAL TAX IN THE AMOUNT OF $50.00
FOR UNIMPROVED PARCELS. $100.00 FOR IMPROVED PARCELS,
AND $150.00 FOR COMMERCIAL PARCELS PER YEAR. THIS
PROPOSED ADDITIONAL SPECIAL TAX SHALL BE USED TO
OBTAIN, FURNISH, OPERATE AND MAINTAIN FIRE SUPPRESSION
EQUIPMENT, FACILITIES, APPARATUS AND RELATED SERVICES
FOR THE PROTECTION OF LIFE AND PROPERTY WITHIN THE
MT. SHASTA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT.”

Introduced at a special meeting of the Board of Directors held on the
tenth day of August, 2006, and passed and adopted by the Mt. Shasta
Fire Protection District Board of Directors on the tenth day of August,
2006, by the following roll call vote:

AYES: Vern Swenson, David Libby, Frank Koss
NOES: None

ABSENT: Richard Kliwer, John Santi

si Frank Koss

ATTEST:	Chairman,	Board	of	Directors

s/ Leah Valdez
Board Secretary

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASUREJ
MT. SHASTA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
ADOPTION OF A SPECIAL TAX

The Mt. Shasta Fire Protection District is proposing a special tax measure
to be submitted to the voters in the Mt. Shasta Fire Protection District. This
measure, if approved by two thirds of the electors voting on the question,
would authorize the Mt, Shasta Fire Protection District to levy an additional
special tax in the amount of Fifty Dollars ($50.00) for “Unimproved Parcels”,
One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) for “Improved Parcels” and One Hundred
and Fifty Dollars ($150.00) for “Commercial Parcels” as defined in the
ordinance which proposes this special tax. This special tax would be in
addition to, and would not replace, previously approved and levied taxes.

Under this proposal, no additional special tax would be levied on any
property belonging to the state or federal government, or any local
government agency.

If confirmed by the voters, the additional special tax would be levied
effective March 1, 2007. The tax would be collected at the same time
and in the same manner as ordinary County property taxes are
collected and would be subject to the same penalties and procedures
in the case of delinquency.

This special tax would be levied to establish a source of funds so that the
Mt. Shasta Fire Protection District could obtain, furnish, operate and
maintain fire suppression equipment, facilities, apparatus and related
services for the protection of life and property within the Mt. Shasta Fire
Protection District. The funds could not be used for any other purpose.

The Mt. Shasta Fire Protection District Board of Directors would be
given the authority to lower but not increase the amount of the special
tax authorized by this measure. A “yes” vote favors passage of the
special tax: a “no” vote is against the passage of a special tax.

si DONALD R. LANGFORD,

Assistant County Counsel

47-510

47510

NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED	VOTE NO ON MEASURE J  Measure J; an increase in property tax for Mt Shasta Fire Protection District residents is not needed.  The District has been paying for equipment for the past 4 years. This year they will make the last payment on the rescue vehicle, $3,600.00+ per year. Next July they will make the final payment on the breathing apparatus, $11,000.00+ per year. In 2009 they will make the final payments on the 2 engines $44,000.00+per year. All this means they will be paying out almost $60,000.00 per year less.  In 2005 the Board voted to increase the Fire Chiefs wages by 100 percent, they also approved the hiring of an office manager at $17,500.00 per year and they voted to take a water tender/fire engine and make it a water truck they can water roads with at a cost of more than $50,000.00.  The Fire Protection District is responsible for the suppression of fires within structures; CDF is responsible for the suppression of fires outside of structures. The Insurance Service Office, (ISO) evaluates fire departments on their ability to suppress structure fires and structure fires only.  The fire district must have engines and equipment for this purpose, type 3 engines as the district is talking about buying is wildland fires and will give no credit as far as the ISO is concerned. The district should be buying the type of engines they need to keep homeowners insurance rates down; they should also buy additional water tenders to get the water to the fire.  A new station as purposed is much more than the District needs and would be in a part of the District where the fewest residents exist. The new Fire Chief has visions of a new Emergency Operations Center, (EOC), for South County and is looking for this new station to fill that bill. If the County feels they need a second EOC let them foot the bill, not the residents of the District.  The State is still considering a $75.00 per parcel fire tax that would be lived against every parcel statewide in un-incorperated areas, can we afford both.  The undersigned author of the Primary argument Against Ballot Measure J at the election for the County of Siskiyou to be held on November 7, 2006 hereby states that such argument is true and correct to the best of their knowledge and belief.  si Clyde Davis

47-511