REBUTTAL TO THE ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION A

A MILITARY AIRFIELD IS NOT SAFER THAN A COMMERCIAL AIRPORT

The notion that operating fully armed, bomb-laden military aircraft is safer than commercial
aircraft is ludicrous. There have been eight military aircraft crashes outside the Miramar air
station boundary and over 30 mishaps since the 1970s versus only one aircraft mishap near
Lindbergh Field in the same period.

MILITARY AIRCRAFT ARE LOUDER

Just stand by Miramar and listen for yourself. The Joint Strike Fighter will be much louder still.

WE ARE NOT ASKING THE MARINES TO LEAVE

The Airport Authority simply wants direction to talk. Surely the Marines can discuss the future of
military and commercial aviation in our community.

WE MUST START NOW

We need 20 years to plan, approve and build an airport. Sites throughout the San Diego region
and even outside it have been studied exhaustively. There is only one viable site reasonably
located and geographically suitable - Miramar. We truly wish there was another option, but there
is none.

A YES VOTE IS A VOTE FOR THE FUTURE

Think of it this way: You don’t start building your children’s, college funds when they are seniors in
high school. You start when they are in pre-school. Building the infrastructure your children will
need, like highways, roads AND a new airport is a similar process. And just like the day when
your children have their bags packed, ready to head to college, the day will come when San
Diego will need a new airport.

FOR YOUR CHILDREN, VOTE YES ON A

ANTHONY YOUNG	THELLA BOWENS .

San Diego City Council President Pro-Tem PresidentfCEO San Diego County
Regional Airport Authority Board Member	Regional Airport Authority

JOHN CHALKER
Chair, Coalition to Preserve the Economy
Former Navy A-7 pilot

PR-CWOI-5

SD 146-036

CITY OF VISTA
Proposition L

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

nnAn. THE VISTA VITAL PUBLIC SERVICES RESTORATION
r nUr L AND PROTECTION MEASURE. To enhance safety and
vital city services including,-but not limited to, reducing 9-
1-1 emergency response times by hiring additional police officers and
firefighters/paramedics, building new fire stations, replacing the decayed city
hall, repairing streets and potholes, adding youth sports fields, and other
general city services, shall the ordinance be adopted increasing the city
general sales tax by one-half cent, with guaranteed independent annual
financial audits and legally required to end after 30 years?

This proposition requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%) of the voters.

Full text of this proposition follows the arguments/rebuttals.

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Proposition L would raise revenue for the City of Vista by authorizing a one-half percent transaction
and use tax (commonly referred to as a “sales tax”) within the City of Vista. The one-half percent tax
would be paid in addition to current sales taxes. If approved by a majority of the voters, the tax
would go into effect April 1,2007.	*

Proposition L provides that the sales tax is to be used for “the general governmental purposes of the
City and be received into the general fund of the City.” Because this sales tax would be a general
tax, it could be used for any legal municipal purpose. The City would not be legally bound to use the
tax monies for any special purpose or for any particular services, facilities or programs. The tax
would expire in thirty years on March 31,2037.

Proposition L authorizes but does not direct the City Council to use. the proceeds of any bonds
issued by the Vista Joint Powers Financing Authority for any general governmental purposes,
including, without limitation or obligation, the construction or operation of fire facilities, police
facilities, streets and roads, youth athletic fields and facilities, cultural facilities, or a new civic center
facility. It also authorizes the City to appropriate funds for the rent, lease or construction of new
municipal administrative facilities having a contract value in excess of $300,000. This authorization
is intended to comply with Chapter 1.24.030 of the Vista Municipal Code, which was enacted by
Proposition T in the election of November 6, 1979. In addition, to the extent that any provision of
Proposition S, the tax initiative from the election of November 6,1964, could be construed to conflict
with any provision of this sales tax ordinance, then to that extent the conflicting provisions would be
repealed.

Proposition L requires the City’s independent auditors to complete an annual Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance Compliance and Internal Control Audit Report. Their report must review whether the
sales tax revenues collected by the City are collected, managed and expended in accordance with
the requirements of applicable law. The proposition also requires the City Council to establish a
Sales Tax Oversight Committee to review the expenditure of all City sales tax revenues. The
Committee must consist of at least five members appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City
Council, and they must be residents of or employed in Vista. The terms of the Committee members
and their specific duties will be established by resolution of the City Council.

Proposition L would make Vista Ordinance 2006-15 operative. The ordinance, which has also been
reviewed by the State Board of Equalization, is the legal instrument that authorizes the additional
sales tax, but only if it is approved by a majority of the voters at the November 7, 2006, election.
The ordinance was adopted by the Vista City Council on August 8, 2006, and a copy of it is printed
as part of these ballot materials.

Darold Pieper, City Attorney
PR-09N0-1

SD 146-037

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION L

Vista residents and businesses know that our city is a great place to live and work. We enjoy a
high quality of life, a diverse local economy and strong property values. Proposition L is crucial to
our ability to maintain quality of life for local Vistans. In recent years, more and more of our local
tax dollars have been taken by Sacramento. As a result, Vista's ability to keep pace with critically
needed repairs/improvement of basic local infrastructure and adequate staffing of essential
police, fire and life safety personnel has been eroded. Proposition L ensures local tax dollars
remain in Vista to benefit local residents and businesses.

Please consider these facts:

•	As city population has grown, emergency calls have nearly doubled. Despite efforts of
local police and firefighters, emergency/9-1-1 response times are twice the
recommended average.

•	Vista roads are heavily used, congested, and need repair and improvement. Current
resources for annual maintenance are insufficient.

•	City Hall, originally built as a junior high school in 1956, is deteriorated, and outdated
infrastructure/technology is completely inadequate to meet the service needs of the
community. Underground water and sewer systems are even older. Loss of service or
system failure is an ongoing concern.

Proposition L will provide the local funds to:

•	Reduce emergency response times, hiring more firefighters and police officers

•	Construct an up-to-date/efficient Civic Center, including an Emergency
Operations Center (EOC)

•	Add needed fire stations/safety equipment

•	Reduce graffiti/improve neighborhood policing

•	Improve city services, youth sports/recreational fields. Moonlight Amphitheatre,

Funds raised bv Proposition L remain in our community for direct local benefit of residents and
businesses. Proposition L funds cannot be taken by Sacramento. A Citizen's Oversight
Committee will be appointed to oversee expenditures.

We respectfully urge your YES vote.

and improve roadways

GARY FISHER
Fire Chief, City of Vista

Former County Supervisor
Vista Businessman

PAUL ECKERT

BERNIE RAPPAPORT
Former Mayor, Chairman of VCPS

MARTY MILLER

RBV Little League Baseball Manager

MARJORIE B. COSH
President, Friends of the Vista Library

SD 146-036

OUT OF CONTROL SPENDING

•	Vista City politicians have done a poor job of keeping expenses in line with revenues. From
2002 to 2006, the City Council approved a 35+% increase to their own budget, plus a
stunning increase in employee benefits. Before increasing Vista's taxes, real efforts should
be made to streamline bureaucracy, control runaway employee pension costs and cut back
on unnecessary expenses.

■ Oceanside, Carlsbad, Encinitas, San Marcos, Escondido and even San Diego are getting
along without raising their sales tax. So should Vista.

MISLEADING BALLOT STATEMENT

•	Shame on our politicians for attempting to mislead voters with a disingenuous ballot
statement. The proposition grandly touts a guaranteed independent financial audit, but there
is no legal requirement that a DIME of the sales tax be spent on any of the “vital city services”
listed in the measure. The audit will only review whether the sales tax revenues are collected,
managed and expended in accordance with applicable law.

NO ONE CAN GUARANTEE WHAT THIS TAX WILL BE SPENT ON

•	' Approval of this sales tax increase is the equivalent of signing a blank check to city politicians
every year for the next30 years. As author P.J. O’Rourke wryly noted, “Giving [more] money
and power to government is like giving whiskey and car keys to teenage boys.”

Let’s insist that Vista politicians do what we aN do - live within a budget! San Diego Tax Fighters

and the San Diego County Taxpayers Association urge you to reject Prop L.

LANI LUTAR	ED ESTES, JR.

President & CEO, San Diego County	Former Mayor/Councilman

Taxpayers Association

JAMES E. GIBSON	RICHARD M. COOKE

Trustee, VUSD	USMC Retired

RICHARD RIDER
Chair, San Diego Tax Fighters

SD 146-039

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION L

Vista’s tax revenue is continuing to rise at a healthy clip. So why are our politicians telling us
we need to RAISE our taxes??

Too much of this regressive tax will fall on the backs of our seniors and less fortunate
citizens. That's unfair!

If this tax passes, Vista will charge the second highest sales tax in the county (tied with El
Cajon). How come our politicians can’t operate our city government with the sales tax rate
used by almost every other city in the county?

To avoid this tax, we Vista citizens will tend to buy goods outside our own city, and county
consumers will tend to avoid Vista as a place to shop or visit. This helps our economy?

Vista car dealers’ customers who live outside Vista will NOT pay the higher tax, due to state
law!

Even worse, most Vista residents and businesses buy their vehicles outside the city. But we
still will pay the higher Vista sales tax on cars and trucks regardless of where we make our
purchase.

Read the measure carefully. Though the tax hikers claim that the tax increase will be used
for vital city projects, there is NO LEGAL REQUIREMENT that the money be spent that way.
Nonel

Voters are supposed to trust Vista politicians to do the right thing. And not only today’s
politicians, but all the city politicians for the next 30 years while the tax is being collected.
Bad idea!

This ballot is awash with bonds and tax increases. Enough is enough!

If you think that your taxes are already too high, or even just high enough, you should vote
NO on this tax increase.

Reject Prop L!

For more information, contact San Diego Tax Fighters
SDTF@EconomvTelecom.com phone 858-530-3027

RICHARD M. COOKE
Former Vista City Councilman

JOHN W. KUIVINEN
Electronic Engineer

RICHARD G. MILLS
President TPB

MONTE COUGHRAN

RICHARD RIDER

Chair, San Diego Tax Fighters

-09N0-4

SD 146-040

There are three things you should know about the people who signed the argument against
Proposition L.

■	They do not dispute the urgent need to improve public safety and local services in
Vista. In fact, their argument does not even specifically address local needs or quality
of life in our community.

•	They are part of a group that submitted similar arguments against other local
measures throughout San Diego County, regardless of the facts.

•	One of the primary authors does not even live in Vista.

As residents and/or active members of the Vista community, we want you to know the facts.

■	State raids on local funding have meant drastic cuts to public health/safety services,
~~ including sheriff and fire personnel

■	Local seniors/children/residents rely on rapid response to emergency calls. Additional
police, fire and paramedic personnel/equipment/facilities are critically needed to
improve response time to nationally accepted standards.

■	Passage of Proposition L is crucial to maintain/improve local roads, infrastructure,
youth sports facilities, city services and civic/culturah resources important to Vista
residents/businesses.

Proposition L Is the only measure on the ballot that directly benefits Vistans, with not one
cent going to Sacramento. Upon passage of Proposition L, annual independent audits arid
citizen oversight, including local seniors, business, homeowners, and taxpayers, will monitor city
expenditures.^

Proposition L has broad-based, community support. The benefits of Proposition L are essential
to maintain property values and Quality of life for local residents.

We urge your YES vote on Proposition L.

DANIEL X. WRAY
Local Businessman

PAUL ECKERT
Former County Supervisor

RICH WILKINSON

President, Vista Firefighters Assoc.

JAMES F. DUFFY, President
Deputy Sheriffs Association of
San Diego County

MARJORIE COSH
Friends of the Vista Library

SD 146-041

. ORDINANCE NO. 2006-15

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF VISTA, CALIFORNIA,
IMPOSING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

Section 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as the Vista 2006 Transactions and
Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Vista hereinafter shall be called "City.” This ordinance shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the date
of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3. PURPOSE. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other
purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part
1,6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall
be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of
the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from,
the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in
administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize'the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE. Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration
and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have
contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shair nevertheless so
contract and In such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter
following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax Is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City
at the rate of one-half of one percent (0,50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of
all tangible personal property sold at retail In said territory on and after the operative date of this
ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE. For the purposes of this, ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

SD 146-042

ORDINANCE NO. 2006-15 - Continued

Section 7. USE TAX RATE. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at
the rate of one half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price
shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless
of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW. Except as otherwise
provided in this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing
with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE
TAXES. In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made
when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title ’of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution
of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited Jo sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from
this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word “City" shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged
in business in this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit shall not
be required by this ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1. Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

PR-09N0-7

SD 146-043

IE NO. 2006-15 - Continued

ORDINANCE NO. 2006-15 - Continued

s used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside
lie, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or
3r shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes
jtside the City shall be satisfied:

vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
immencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
e with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
der Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
ut-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of

smmercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
alty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be

jersonal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this

sonal property which is a continuing sale of such property,
sor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
this ordinance.

Dparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
!med not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
ty to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
3tice, whether or not such right is exercised.

le use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or
ile personal property:

l the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
ons and use tax ordinance.

ileum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used
tly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common
or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
e laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
Edition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
ode of the State of California.

|ated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to
rative date of this ordinance.

3r the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
e which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
ordinance.

7. “A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D. Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable
for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN. No injunction or writ of mandate
or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court
against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the
collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of
any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof
to any persbn or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application
of such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 15. USE OF PROCEEDS. The proceeds from the retail transaction and use tax
imposed by this ordinance shall be for the general governmental purposes of the City and be
received into the general fund of the City. Nothing herein shall (i) bind the City to use the
proceeds for any specific purpose or function or to (ii) authorize or direct the issuance of bonds
secured by or payable from any sales tax proceeds.

Section 16:	ANCILLARY	AUTHORIZATIONS.	The City Council is hereby authorized but

not directed to use the proceeds of any bonds issued by the Vista Joint Powers Financing
Authority for any general governmental purposes, including, without limitation or obligation, the
construction or operation of fire facilities, police facilities, streets and roads, youth athletic fields
and facilities, cultural facilities, or a new civic center facility.

Section 17. OTHER PROPOSITIONS. In accordance with Chapter 1.24.030 of the Vista
Municipal Code (Proposition T, election of 11-06-1979), the City of Vista is hereby authorized to
appropriate funds for the rent, lease or construction of new municipal administrative facilities
having a contract value in excess of $300,000. To the extent that any provision of Proposition S
(election of 11-06-1984) could be construed to conflict with any provision of this ordinance, then
to that extent the conflicting provisions of Proposition S are hereby repealed.

jbparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or	Section	18.	INDEPENDENT	FINANCIAL	AUDIT.	By	no	later	than	November	30 of each

or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal	year the City’s independent auditors shall complete a Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance

igated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time	Compliance and Internal Control Audit Report. Such report shall review whether the sales tax

rase has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or	revenues collected by the City are collected, managed and emended in accordance with the

right is exercised.	requirements of applicable law.

iubparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
< from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless
■ty into the City or participates within the City in making the
limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
e retailer in the City or through any representative, agent,
;on in the City under the authority of the retailer.

SD 146-044

Section 19.’ SALES TAX OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE. Although not otherwise required by
law, the City Council shall, no later than December 31, 2006, establish a Sales Tax Oversight
Committee to review the expenditure of all City sales tax revenues. The Committee shall consist
of at least five members appointed by the Mayor and approved by the City Council. The
Committee members shall be residents of or employed in the City. The terms of the Committee
members and their specific duties shall be established by resolution of the City Council. All
meetings of the Committee shall comply with the provisions of the Ralph M. Brown Act
(commencing with Section 54950 of the Government Code of the State of California).

PR-09N0-9	SD 146-045

ORDINANCE NO. 2006-15 - Continued

Section 20. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of
the City transactions and use-taxes and shall take effect immediately but it shall not become
operative until approved by a majority of the voters voting at the general municipal election to be
held November 7, 2006.

Section 21. TERMINATION DATE. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
ordinance shall expire March 31,2037.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the City Council held on August 8, 2006,
following introduction and a first reading at a meeting held on August 1, 2006, by the following
vote:

AYES:	GRONKE,	LOPEZ,	RITTER,	MAYOR	VANCE

NOES:	NONE

ABSTAIN: NONE

MORRIS B. VANCE, MAYOR

APPROVED AS TO FORM:	ATTEST:

DAROLD PIEPER, CITY ATTORNEY	MARCI	KILIAN, CITY CLERK

SD 146-046

PALOMAR COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT
Proposition M

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

DDAD ■■ TO better prepare Palomar College students for
rnUr m university transfer and high demand jobs, shall Palomar
Community College District repair/upgrade aging
educational facilities, including classrooms for nursing, emergency medical,
and public safety careers, science and high-tech computer labs, outdated
plumbing, ventilating, roofing, energy, electrical and safety systems, acquire
sites and equipment, and construct new educational facilities, by issuing
$694 million in bonds! at legal rates, with citizen oversight, mandatory audits,
and no proceeds used for administrative salaries?

This proposition requires approval by 55% of the voters.

Full text of this proposition follows the arguments/rebuttals.

11P0-1

SD 146-047