RESOLUTION NO. 2438

A RESOLUTION OF THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FAIRFAX CALLING
AND GIVING NOTICE OF THE HOLDING OF AN ELECTION TO BE HELD
NOVEMBER 7, 2006 AND REQUESTING THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE
COUNTY OF MARIN TO CONSOLIDATE SAID ELECTION; AND AUTHORIZING THE
TOWN CLERK OR HER DULY AUTHORIZED OFFICERS AND AGENCY TO CARRY
OUT ALL THE NECESSARY PROCEDURES FOR SAID ELECTION SUBMITTING
TO THE VOTERS THE QUESTION RELATING TO A SPECIAL TAX FOR

PARAMEDIC SERVICES

Whereas, the Town of Fairfax is considering continuing the special tax for paramedic
services in the Town; and

Whereas, under the provisions of the laws relating to general law cities in the State of
California, an election shall be held on November 7, 2006 for the submission to the
voters of a question relating to a special tax for paramedic services; and

Whereas, it is desirable that the election be consolidated with the statewide election to
be held on the same date and that within the Town, the precincts, polling places, and
election officers of the two elections be the same; and

Whereas, it is desirable that the Marin County Election Department canvass the returns
of the Special Municipal Election and that the election be handled in all respects as if
there were only one election; and

Whereas, the Town Council of the Town of Fairfax desires to submit to the voters at the
election a question relating to the special tax for paramedic services,

NOW, THEREFORE, THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF FAIRFAX,
CALIFORNIA, DOES HEREBY RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE, AND ORDER AS
FOLLOWS:

Section 1. That pursuant to the requirements of the laws of the State of
California relating to General Law Cities, there is called and hereby ordered to be held in
the Town of Fairfax, California, on Tuesday, November 7, 2006, a Special Municipal
Election.

Section 2. That pursuant to the requirements of Section 23302 of the
Elections Code, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Marin is hereby requested to
consent and agree to the consolidation of said election.

Section 3. That the Town Council, pursuant to its rights and authority, does
order submitted to the voters at the election the following question:

To continue emergency paramedic care, shall there be a special tax for
paramedic services in the amount of $39 increasing by $3.00 per year not to exceed $48
for each living unit, and in the amount of $39 increasing by $3.00 per year per 1,500
square feet of structure of each developed parcel in nonresidential use with the
appropriations limit increased by the amount of said tax for the next four years?

Section 4. Pursuant to Elections Code section 5011, the Town Clerk shall
transmit a copy of the measure to the Town Attorney who shall prepare an impartial
analysis of the measure in accordance with said Section 5011. Arguments for and
against said measure may be filed in accordance with applicable provisions of the law.
Pursuant to Section 5014.5 of the Elections Code of the State of California, (the

provisions of which are hereby adopted), when the clerk has selected the arguments for
and against the measure which will be printed and distributed to the voters, the clerk
shall send copies of the argument in favor of the measure to the authors of the argument
against, and copies of the argument against to the authors of the argument in favor. The
rebuttal arguments shall be filed with the Town Clerk not more than 10 days after the
final date for filing direct arguments. Rebuttal arguments shall be printed in the same
manner as the direct arguments. Each rebuttal argument shall immediately follow the
direct argument that it seeks to rebut. The text of the measure shall be printed on the
ballot in the voter information portion of the sample ballot.

Section 5. That the County election department is authorized to canvass the
returns of said election. The election shall be held in all respects as if there were only on
election, and only one form of ballot shall be used.

Section 6. That the Board of Supervisors is requested to issue instructions
to the County Election Department to take any and all steps necessary for the holding of
the consolidated election.

Section 7. That the Town Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of
this resolution with the Board of Supervisors and the Election Department of the County
of Marin.

Section 8. That the polls for the election shall be open at 7:00 a.m. of the
election and shall remain open continuously from that time until 8:00 p.m. of the same
day, when the polls shall be closed, except as provided in Section 14301 of the Elections
Code of the State of California.

Section 9. That in all particulars not recited in this resolution, the election
shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding municipal elections.

Section 10. That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given
and Town Clerk is authorized, instructed, and directed to give further or additional notice
of the election, in time, form, and manner as required by law.

Section 11. That the Town Clerk shall certify to the passage and adoption of
this Resolution and enter it into the book of original resolutions.

I,	the undersigned hereby certify that the foregoing is a full, true, and complete
copy of a resolution duly passed and adopted by the Town Council of the Town of
Fairfax at a regular meeting thereof held on the 2nd day of August, 2006, by the following
vote:

AYES:	Bragman, Brandborg, Tremaine,	Weinsoff

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Maggiore

Attest:

Town Clerk