TOWN OF FAIRFAX MEASURE C

CTo continue emergency paramedic care, shall
there be a special tax for paramedic services in
the amount of $39 increasing by $3.00 per year
not to exceed $48 for each living unit, and in the
amount of $39 increasing by $3.00 per year per 1,500
square feet of structure of each developed parcel in
nonresidential use with the appropriations limit
increased by the amount of said tax for the next four
years?

TOWN ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE C

If this measure is approved by a two-thirds vote, the spe-
cial tax for paramedic services administered by a Joint
Powers Authority originally authorized by the voters on
June 7, 1983 and reconfirmed by the voters on November
6, 1998 will be continued with a tax of $39 increasing by
$3.00 per year not to exceed $48 for each living unit, and
in the amount of $39 increasing by $3.00 per year per

1,500	square feet of structure of each developed parcel in
non-residential use. By approval of this Measure the
appropriations limit established in the Town of Fairfax
pursuant to Article XIHB of the California Constitution
will be increased in an amount equal to the proceeds of the
special tax. The special tax and corresponding increase in
the appropriations limit expire on June 30, 2011.

Dated: August 15, 2006

s/JIM R. KARPIAK
Interim Town Attorney
Town of Fairfax

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Since 1982, voters in the Ross Valley have overwhelm-
ingly approved a special tax to provide paramedic service.
To continue this high standard of emergency medical care
for four more years, you must now re-approve this tax
with a modest proposed increase. The initial Ross Valley
Paramedic Authority tax provided for a single ambu-
lance. The demand for paramedic service from our citizens
dictates that service levels continue to expand and evolve.
We ask that you consider a modest $9 increase the first
year and if needed a $3 annual increase in each of the
remaining 3 years to maintain our current levels of service
and plan for future improvements based on community
demand for high quality, fire department based, advanced
life support paramedic services.

Your parcel tax pays for a significant portion of the para-
medic program and enables us not to directly bill our Ross
Valley resident customers. Additional funds are collected
from medical insurance companies and through billing of
non-resident customers. In addition, your tax covers ex-
penses associated with paramedic training, medical supplies,
equipment and replacement of ambulances when needed.
The Ross Valley Paramedic Authority Board of Directors
has received the Five Year Strategic Plan prepared by
Emergency Services Consulting Inc. It recommends
putting into service what is called a Peak Activity Unit, an
additional Paramedic Ambulance to be located in the
vicinity of Fairfax. Computer generated reports have
shown a need for a PAU transport ambulance in the Upper
Ross Valley between the hours of 7 AM to 7 PM, Monday
thru Friday. It would be staffed with existing paramedics
utilizing overtime to cover stations. The Board will be
making the final decision by year’s end.

Our goal is to continue to provide state of the art para-
medic care in the Ross Valley. Please vote YES to contin-
ue this vital service.
s/LEW TREMAINE
Fairfax Council Member/Ross Valley Fire Board
s/RICHARD BODONY, MD
Emergency Physician (Novato Community Hospital)
s/LARRYBRAGMAN
Fairfax Vice Mayor
s/MICHELLE PERRO, M.D.

Fairfax Urgent Care Physician
s/FRANK EGGER
Ross Valley Paramedic Authority Board Member

FM-1

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE C
WAS FILED.