P PROPOSED COUNTY CHARTER
AMENDMENT NUMBER THIRTY-
EIGHT TO ESTABLISH TERM
LIMITS FOR MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF
SUPERVISORS AND TO ESTABLISH A
REVISED FORMULA FOR DETERMINING
SALARIES OF MEMBERS OF THE BOARD
OF SUPERVISORS. “Shall the Charter of the
County of San Bernardino be amended to
establish term limits for members of the Board
of Supervisors and to establish a revised
formula for determining salaries of members of
the Board of Supervisors?”

PROPUESTA A ENMIENDA DE LA CARTA
CONSTITUTIVA DEL CONDADO NUMERO
TREINTA Y OCHO A FIN DE ESTABLECER LIMITES
DE PERIODO PARA LOS MIEMBROS DE LA JUNTA
DE SUPERVISORES Y PARA ESTABLECER UNA
FORMULA REVISADA PARA DETERMINAR LOS
SALARIOS DE LOS MIEMBROS DE LA JUNTA DE
SUPERVISORES. “iDeberia la Carta Constitutiva del
Condado de San Bernardino ser enmendada con el
proposito de establecer limites de pieriodos a los
miembros de la Junta de Supervisores y para
establecer una formula revisada para determinar los
salarios de los miembros de la Junta de
Supervisores?"

YES/SI 4-
NO/A/O

CITY OF NEEDLES
CIUDAD DE NEEDLES

Q NEEDLES UTILITY ENTERPRISES
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS ACT. A

Special Transactions and Use
(Sales) Tax solely to provide funding for
necessary capital improvements for the utility
enterprises: Shall the sales tax be increased by
one-quarter of one percent, automatically
expiring in 10 years; to be administered by the
California State Board of Equalization; with
funds deposited into a restricted account
guaranteeing future administrations cannot use
the money for other purposes; and requiring
annual financial audits?

LEY DE MEJORAS A LAS EMPRESAS DE
SERVICIOS PUBLICOS DE NEEDLES. Un Impuesto
Especial de Transacciones y Consumo (Ventas)
unicamente para proporcionar fondos para mejoras
necesarias para las empresas de servicios publicos:
i Deberia el impuesto a la venta ser incrementado por
un cuarto de uno por ciento, caducando
automaticamente dentro de 10 ahos; para ser
administrado por la Junta Estabilizadora del Estado de
California; con fondos depositados en una cuenta
restringida que garantice que futuras administraciones
no puedan utilizar el dinero para otros propositos; y
requiriendo auditorias financieras anuales?

YES/SI 4-
NO/A/O

R AMENDMENT TO THE NEEDLES
CITY CHARTER. When an elective
office becomes vacant. Shall Section
402 of the Needles Charter be restated in its
entirety to parallel state law when establishing
criteria for determining when an elective office
becomes vacant?

ENMIENDA A LA CARTA CONSTITUTIVA DE LA
CIUDAD DE NEEDLES. Cuando un ouesto electivo
resulta vacante. iDeberia la Seccion 402 de la Carta
Constitutiva de Needles ser recapitulada en su
totalidad a fin de ponerla en un piano paralelo a la ley
estatal cuando se establece el criterio para determinar
cuando es que un puesto electivo resulta vacante?

YES/SI 4-
NO/A/O 4i ^

AMENDMENT TO THE NEEDLES
CITY CHARTER. Mayor: term of

office._Shall Section 450 of the

Needles Charter be amended to delete the
requirement that the mayor may not serve more
than 4 successive terms?

ENMIENDA A LA CARTA CONSTITUTIVA DE LA
CIUDAD DE NEEDLES. Alcalde: oeriodo de cargo.
I Deberia la Seccion 450 de la Carta Constitutiva de
Needles ser enmendada a fin de eliminar el requisito
de que el alcalde no pueda prestar servicio mas de 4
periodos sucesivos?

YES/S/4i ^
NO/A/O 4i ^

AMENDMENT TO THE NEEDLES
CITY CHARTER. Contracts on
public works. Shall Sec. 1109 of the
Needles Charter be amended to provide that
public works projects above fifteen thousand
dollars shall be let to the lowest responsible
bidder?

ENMIENDA A LA CARTA CONSTITUTIVA DE LA
CIUDAD DE NEEDLES. Contratos en obras oublicas.

I Deberia la Sec. 1109 de la Carta Constitutiva de
Needles ser enmendada para proveer que los
proyectos de obras publicas por encima de quince mil
dolares sean otorgados a I menor postor responsable?

YES/SI+ M
NO/A/O 4- M

Ballot Type 163 Page 11

MEASURE“Q”
ORDINANCE

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NEEDLES,
CALIFORNIA, ADDING ARTICLE VI, SECTIONS 20-29 THROUGH 20-42, TO
CHAPTER 20 OF THE NEEDLES CITY CODE RELATING TO THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF A TRANSACTIONS (SALES) AND USE TAX FOR
NECESSARY CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS FOR THE CITY’S UTILITY
ENTERPRISES, TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF
EQUALIZATION

THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NEEDLES, CALIFORNIA, DOES
ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1: Article VI, Sections 20-29 through 20-42 is hereby added to Chapter 20 of
the Needles City Code and shall read as follows:

Sec. 20-29. Short Title. This Article shall be known as the “City of Needles
Utility Enterprises Capital Improvements Transactions and Use Tax” and shall be
applicable in the incorporated territory of the City of Needles (“City”). This Article shall
complement, and not replace or supersede, the City’s existing sales and use tax, as
such tax is described in Chapter 20 of the City Code.

Sec. 20-30. Purpose. This Article of the Needles City Code has been
adopted for the following purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions
of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code and Section 7285.91 of Part 1.7 of Division 2, which authorizes the
City to adopt this tax. This Article shall be operative if two-thirds of the electors
voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election
called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax that incorporates provisions identical
to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practical to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures
followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the
California State Transactions and Use Taxes;

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax that can be administered in a
manner that will, to the degree possible, be consistent with the provisions of Parts
1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2 of the said Revenue and Taxation Code, and thereby
minimize the cost of collecting City transactions and use taxes, and at the same
time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation
under the provisions thereof.

E.	To provide a source of revenue for necessary capital improvements to the
City’s utility enterprises. The revenue generated by the tax provided herein shall
be restricted to this use. The tax is, therefore, a special tax.

FP-00

Sec. 20-31 Operative Date. "Operative date" means the first day of the
first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this
ordinance, the date of such adoption being set forth below.

Sec. 20-32. Contract with State. Prior to the operative date, the City shall
contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incidental to the
administration and operation hereof. If the City has not contracted with the State Board
of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such
a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
the execution of such a contract. The Council may make any technical amendments to
this Article required by the State Board of Equalization, except for any changes
affecting the tax rate, its manner of collection, or the purpose for which the revenue
from the tax may be used.

Sec. 20-33. Imposition of Transactions Tax. For the privilege of selling
tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the
incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of
any gross receipts of the retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at
retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this Article.

Sec. 20-34. Presumption as to Places of Sale. For the purposes of this
Article, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the retailer, unless
the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-
state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The
gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are
subject to the State sales and use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is
made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or has
more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the Board of Equalization.

Sec. 20-35. Imposition of Use Tax. An excise tax is hereby imposed on
the storage, use, or other consumption in the City of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer on or after the operative date of this Article, at the rate of
one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) of the sales price of the property subject to the tax.
The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to State
transactions or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Sec. 20-36. Adoption of Certain Sections of California Revenue &
Taxation Code bv Reference. Except as otherwise provided in the Article and except
in-so-far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with §
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made
a part of this Article as though fully set forth herein.

Sec. 20-37. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use

Taxes.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency,
the name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall
not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State
Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or
against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or

against the State Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident
to the administration or operation of this Article.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections
referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result
of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales,
storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property which
would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales, storage,
use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the
provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to
tax by the State under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715,
6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

5.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase
"retailer engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the
definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Sec. 20-38. Permit Not Required. If a seller's permit has been issued to a
retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional
transactor's permit shall not be required by this Article.

Sec. 20-39. Exemptions and Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions and use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any
city, city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and
Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions
tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products,
to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County
in which the sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such
aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by
the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment
to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a
point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

FP-00

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of
business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by
the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish
the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the
operative date of this Article.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the
property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this
Article.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or
lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated
pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to
the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Article, the storage,
use or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a
transactions tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax
regulations.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft
and used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use
of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property for hire or
compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in
Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price
pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Article.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the
tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing
purchase of such property for any period of time for which the lessee is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this Article.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage,
use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power
over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant
to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract
or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in
the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the
City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or
indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any
representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City
under the authority of the retailer.

FP-00

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer
of any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1
(commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect
use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Article may credit against that tax
any transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district
imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division
2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of
the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the
use tax.

Sec. 20-40 Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective
date of this Article to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to
sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a
part of this Article, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this Article. Except as provided above, this Article
may be amended only by the voters pursuant to the provisions of Elections Code
section 9217 and as provided by law.

Sec. 20-41 Enjoining Collection Prohibited. No injunction or writ of
mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action, or
proceeding in any court against the State or this City, or against any officer of the State
or this City, to prevent or enjoin the collection hereunder, or Parts 1.6 and 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required
to be collected.

Sec. 20-42 Termination. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this
Article shall remain in effect for a period of ten (10) years, beginning at the
commencement of collection of this tax by the State Board of Equalization, or until
repealed in writing by the City Council. In the event of a repeal by the City Council, the
City shall give the Board of Equalization written notice of the repeal of the City
Ordinance not less than 110 days prior to the operative date of the repeal, which will
be the last day of a calendar quarter.

Section 2:	Severability. If any provision of this Article or the application

thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions or applications of the Article which can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this Article are
severable. The City Council hereby declaresthat it would have adopted this Article
irrespective of the invalidity of any particular portion thereof.

Section 3:	Effective Date. If adopted by the voters at the November 7,

2006 election, this Article shall be in full force and effect ten (10) days after the vote is
declared by the legislative body, pursuant to the provisions of Elections Code sections
9217 and 15400, and as provided by law.

Section 4:	Publication. The City Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this

Article and cause it, or a summary of it, to be published once in a newspaper of
general circulation printed and published within the City of Needles.

MEASURE“Q”
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Measure Q proposes to raise revenue to fund necessary capital improvements to the
City’s utility enterprises by authorizing a one-quarter of one percent (0.25%)
supplementation to the existing retail sales tax within the City of Needles. The tax
would be in addition to current State and local sales taxes and would be collected at
the same time and in the same manner as those existing taxes.

If Measure Q is approved, all funds collected pursuant to this Measure will be
deposited into a restricted account which can only be used for capital improvements to
the City’s utility enterprises. The State Board of Equalization shall administer all funds
collected through Measure Q, which shall remain in effect for a period of ten (10)
years, beginning at the commencement of collection of this tax by the State Board of
Equalization, and then shall automatically terminate.

At its July 26, 2006 adjourned regular meeting, the City Council of the City of Needles
adopted Ordinance No. 485-AC proposing Measure Q and Resolution No. 7-25-06-2
submitting the Measure to a vote of the electors of the City. A “Yes” vote by a two-
thirds majority voting on Measure Q is a vote to approve and allow the City to
supplement the current retail sales tax by one-quarter of one percent (0.25%). A “No”
vote on Measure Q would maintain the sales tax at its current rate of seven and three-
quarters percent (7.75 %).

s/Robert Hargreaves
City Attorney
City of Needles

FP-00

MEASURE“Q”
ARGUMENT IN FAVOR

Use Tax; The additional sales tax is a small amount but over time will raise much
needed revenues to fund improvements to the City's utility system. This avenue to
increase revenue for utility improvements is less painful to Needles citizens than
raising utility rates to fund the necessary improvements.

The City's electric, water and sewer systems are old and need substantial
improvements. The city does not currently have sufficient funds available for that
purpose. One way to acquire the necessary funds would be to raise utility rates.
However, rates have risen to offset the continually raising costs of energy that the city
has to buy. Consequently, the city council does not want to raise rates any more than
absolutely necessary.

The proposed additional sales tax, over the ten-year period, will raise more than a
million dollars that must be used for utility infrastructure improvements only. The
amount of the additional tax is insignificant, just 25 cents for every 100 dollars
purchased. A large portion of the tax will be paid by non-Needles residents who buy
gas and other commodities in Needles. Consequently, the additional sales tax is a
fairer way to raise money for the necessary improvements.

s/Pat Murch
Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE “Q” WAS NOT FILED

FP-00