CITY OFYREKA
MEASURE D

RESOLUTION NO. 2561

RESOLUTION OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE
CITY OFYREKA PROPOSING THE AMENDMENT OF
CHAPTER 3.12 OFTHEYREKA MUNICIPAL CODE TO ENLARGE

THE APPLICATION OF THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX
OF THE CITY OFYREKA TO INCLUDE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE
PARKS AND OTHER RECREATIONAL FACILITIES BE SUBMITTED
TO THE VOTERS FOR APPROVAL, FIXING TIME FOR ELECTION,
PERMITTING FILING WRITTEN ARGUMENTS AND
DIRECTING THE CITY ATTORNEY TO PREPARE AN
IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS REGARDING THE MEASURE

BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of the City of Yreka as follows:

Section 1. Authority. This Resolution is adopted pursuant to
Government Code Section 53720, et seq.

Section 2. Title. This Resolution may be cited as the "Transient
Occupancy Tax Resolution of 2006".

Section 3. Proposal. California Government Code Section 7280
allows cities to tax persons staying 30 days or less in hotels, motels,
and similar lodgings, including mobile homes. The term “other
lodging" includes, but is not limited to, a camping site or a space
at a campground or recreational vehicle park, but does not include
any facilities operated by a local government entity, or a timeshare,
or any campsite in a state park system. Rev. and Tax. Code §7280.

This Measure would permit the expansion of the transient
occupancy tax be accomplished by modifying Yreka Municipal Code
["YMC"] §3.12.030 describing the types of facilities on which the tax
is imposed to include: Hotel, campground, recreational vehicle park;
to define hotel to include bed and breakfast and residential vacation
rentals [YMC 3.12.020(4)]; and, to separately and comprehensively
define campgrounds and recreational vehicles and recreational
vehicle parks [(YMC 3.12.020(1), (YMC 3.12.020(7), (YMC
3.12.020(8)], respectively; to define bed and breakfast [YMC
3.12.020(4)]; to define residential vacation rental [YMC 3.12.020(10)];
and, to clarify the definition of rent [YMC 3.12.020(9)].

Currently the Yreka Municipal Code establishes the City of Yreka's
transient occupancy tax at ten percent (10%), which tax was last
increased in 2004. Because this action would expand the application
of the transient occupancy tax, it is proposed as a general tax
measure so as to apply the transient occupancy tax of ten percent
to these various facilities defined and described in the proposed
ordinance, and that it be submitted to the voters of the City of Yreka
at the statewide primary election on Tuesday, June 6, 2006, which
coincides with the next regularly scheduled municipal election.

Such action is taken pursuant to California Constitution article
XIIIC, '2(b) which requires that any general tax be passed by a two-
thirds vote of the legislative body, and by a majority of the voters
voting in an election on the tax which is consolidated with a regularly
scheduled general election of members of the governing body.

Section 4. The City Council does hereby find expansion of the
application of the transient occupancy tax to the recreational facilities
described and defined in the proposed ordinance, and which would
then become subject to a general tax which will be collected by the
operators of hotels as provided in Chapter 3.12 of the Yreka Municipal
Code, is in the best interests of the City of Yreka.

Section 5. The City Council finds and declares that this is a
general tax, for general governmental purposes, and not a special
or ad valorem tax.

Section 6. Method of Collection. This general tax, if confirmed
by the voters, shall be collected as provided in Chapter 3.12 of the
Yreka Municipal Code.

Section 7. Election Date. The proposed general tax shall be
submitted to the voters of the City of Yreka at the next regularly
scheduled municipal election to be included and consolidated with
the state wide primary election held on June 6, 2006, pursuant to
Yreka Municipal Code Section 2.56.010 and Government Code
Section 36503.5. That pursuant to the requirements of Section 10403
of the Elections Code, the Board of Supervisors of the County of
Siskiyou is hereby requested to consent and agree to the consolidation

of this election with the statewide primary election on June 6, 2006,
for the purpose of the election of the measure, with notice of time
and place of holding the election to be given by the County Clerk,
and the County Clerk is authorized to give further or additional notice
of the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

Section 8. The proposed ordinance for the above-reference
Measure shall be in the form attached hereto as Attachment 1 and
it is hereby incorporated by reference into this Resolution.

Section 9. The ballots to be used at the election shall be in the
form and content as required by law. The Measure shall appear as
designated by the County Clerk.

Section 10. The City Clerk is hereby authorized, instructed and
directed to procure and furnish any and all official ballots, notices,
printed matter and all supplies, equipment and paraphernalia that
may be necessary in order to properly and lawfully conduct the
election.

Section 11. The polls for the election shall be open at the times
and places designated by the County Clerk as required by law.

Section 12. In all particulars not recited in this Resolution, the
election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding
municipal elections.

Section 13. Effective Date of Tax. This Resolution, being for
the enactment and imposition of a general tax, shall be submitted
to a vote of the people by the qualified voters at the statewide
primary election on June 6, 2006. The tax shall become valid and
binding if a majority of the voters voting thereon vote in its favor at
said election and shall be effective on the date following adoption
of the proposed ordinance pursuant to Government Code Section
36933, which shall not occur until the City Council certifies the
results of said election.

Section 14. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this Resolution is for any reason held to be
invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful, by the decision of a
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this Resolution, the application
thereof, and the general taxes imposed shall not be affected thereby
but shall remain in full force and effect, it being the intention of the
voters to adopt each and every section, subsection, part, clause,
sentence phrase regardless of whether any other section, subsection,
part, clause, sentence or phrase or the application thereof is held
to be invalid or unconstitutional. The City Council of the City of Yreka
hereby declares that it would have passed this Resolution and each
section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective
of the fact that one or more of the sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared invalid, unconstitutional or unlawful.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of
the City of Yreka, pursuant to its right and authority, that the following
question is ordered submitted to the voters of the City of Yreka and
placed on the ballot for vote at the statewide primary election to be
held June 6, 2006:

“Measure___transient Occupancy Tax Applicable to Recreational

Vehicle Parks, Campgrounds, Bed and Breakfasts and Residential
Vacation Rentals

"Shall Title 3.12 of the Municipal Code of the City of Yreka be
amended to extend the transient occupancy tax to apply to transients
staying in recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds, bed and
breakfasts, and residential vacation rentals?

“Yes_____________No_________"

NOW THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL DOES FURTHER
RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

Section 15. That the City Council authorizes any and all members
of the City Council to file written arguments in Favor or Against the
City measure in accordance with Article 4, Chapter 3, Division 9 of
the Elections Code of the State of California and to change the
argument until and including the date fixed by the County Clerk after
which no arguments for or against the City measure may be submitted
to the County Clerk.

Section 16. That the City Council directs the City Clerk to transmit
a copy of the measure to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall
prepare an impartial analysis of the measure showing the effect of the
measure on the existing law and the operation of the measure. The
impartial analysis shall be filed by the date set by the County Clerk.

47-501

47501

Section 17. The City Council recognizes that additional costs
will be incurred by the County by reason of this consolidation and
agrees to reimburse the County for any costs. The City Clerk is
hereby directed to file a certified copy of this resolution with the
Board of Supervisors and the County Election Department of the
County of Siskiyou. That the City Clerk shall certify to the passage
and adoption of this resolution.

Passed and adopted at a regularly scheduled meeting of the
City Council, this 2nd day of February, 2006, by the following vote:

AYES: Amaral, Bennett, Greiner, Harms, McNeil
NAYS:

ABSENT:

si Rory McNeil,

Mayor of the City of Yreka

APPROVED AS TO FORM:	Attest:

si Mary Frances McHugh, si Liz Casson, City Clerk
City Attorney

The foregoing is a true and correct copy of Resolution Number
2561 as adopted by the Yreka City Council on 2/2/06 .

s/ Liz Casson, City Clerk

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY CITY ATTORNEY
MEASURE D

The City Of Yreka Submits to the Voters for Approval An
Amendment of The Transient Occupancy Tax Ordinance To
Extend Application Of The Transient Occupancy Tax To Include
Recreational Vehicle Parks And Other Recreational Facilities

The transient occupancy tax is a general tax, not a special tax
or ad valorum tax. Measure “D” would extend the tax to facilities
which do not collect the transient occupancy tax. As a general tax,
Measure “D” requires a majority vote of those voting on the measure.
Measure “D” does not increase the amount of the tax, which is 10%.

Recreational vehicle parks and other recreational facilities are
not currently subject to this tax. Measure “D” would modify the
Yreka Municipal Code to add campgrounds and recreational vehicle
parks to this tax. Measure “D” would expand the definition of hotel
to include bed and breakfast inns and residential vacation rentals;
define the terms campgrounds, recreational vehicles, recreational
vehicle parks, bed and breakfast inns, residential vacation rentals;
and, clarify the definition of rent to include space in any campground,
recreational vehicle park, or for occupancy of any room or portion
thereof in a hotel. These facilities provide transient or temporary
housing for travelers.

Revenue from taxing these facilities would go to the general fund
of the City of Yreka to be used for general governmental purposes,
such as fire, police, recreation, parks, and local access television,
which are services often used by travelers. The tax would be collected
from persons occupying the facilities for 30 consecutive days or less.
It cannot be predicted what amount of revenue might be generated
by Measure “D” as there are a limited number of facilities in the City
which meet the criteria proposed by Measure “D". The potential for
revenue from this tax may arise upon future development in the City
of facilities of this type. Currently, temporary users of these facilities
do not pay the tax. Measure “D” provides a means to collect tax
from facilities which have been exempt thus far and provides equal
treatment of all travelers within the City.

If the proposed general tax receives majority approval by the
voters voting on the measure, the tax would become effective,
following City Council certification of the results of the election, on
a date 30 days after adoption of the enabling ordinance. The proposed
general tax is not limited to any time period. If approved by a
majority of the voters voting on the measure, the tax would remain
in effect until later amended.

A “Yes” vote favors passage of this general tax, while a “No” vote
is against passage of this general tax.

si Mary Frances McHugh

City Attorney, City of Yreka

NO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF OR AGAINST
THIS MEASURE WAS SUBMITTED