SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT MEASURE A

A To maintain existing school programs and
improve the quality of education; to provide
funds to buy updated textbooks and materials for
math, reading, and writing courses; and to enhance criti-
cal computer science, library, and arts programs, shall
the Shoreline Unified School District extend the existing
$151.82 a year parcel tax, increasing annually at 4%, for
no more than six years?

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A

SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
RESOLUTION NO. 4
RESOLUTION ORDERING A SPECIAL TAX
ELECTION, ESTABLISHING SPECIFICATIONS OF
THE ELECTION ORDER, AND REQUESTING
CONSOLIDATION WITH OTHER ELECTIONS
WHEREAS, a high quality, free and community-sup-
ported elementary and secondary public school system is
essential to the preservation and growth of a strong, stable
and democratic society; and

WHEREAS, the ability of society’s political, social and
economic institutions to adapt and effectively function in a
world of rapid change depends upon an informed and well-
educated citizenry; and

WHEREAS, a high-quality local public school program
is vital, to a community’s well-being because among other
effects, it fosters growth of the greatest natural human
resource any society can have - the minds of its youth, it
strengthens the ability of its younger members to cope suc-
cessfully in a competitive society, it preserves and enhances
real property values, it promotes civic pride and participa-
tion in community affairs, it reinforces traditional moral val-
ues, it increases individual awareness of the duties and
responsibilities of citizenship in a participatory system of
government, and because it attracts to the community new
members who share these goals; and

WHEREAS, the Shoreline Unified School District is a
small rural district which in serving a large geographic area
must maintain a number of facilities which results in unique
operational costs; and

WHEREAS, it is the goal of the Shoreline Unified
School District to provide a rich, fully integrated and com-
prehensive academic program for students through the hir-
ing of qualified personnel and the purchase of equipment
and material as recommended by each School Site Council;
and

WHEREAS, Section 4 of Article XTTTA of the California
Constitution and Government Code sections 50075, 50076,
50077,50079 and 53720 et seq. authorize school districts to
levy a special tax to raise funds for the purpose of conduct-
ing its business upon the approval of two-thirds of the votes
cast by voters voting upon such a special tax proposal; and
WHEREAS, the Shoreline Unified School District
Board of Trustees explicitly recognizes that it may not
impose an ad valorem real property tax to meet its special
needs; and

WHEREAS, it is the intention of the Governing Board
of the Shoreline Unified School District to conduct an elec-
tion to maintain and expand school programs on November
7, 2006, at which time the registered voters of the Shoreline
Unified School District will be given an opportunity to vote
on a qualified special tax assessment; and

WHEREAS, the General Election will take place on
November 7, 2006, and it is the desire of the governing
board of the Shoreline Unified School District that this elec-
tion to maintain and expand school programs be consolidat-
ed with the General Election, and

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Gov-
erning Board of the SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT as follows:

Section 1. An election is hereby called to be held with-
in the boundaries of the Shoreline Unified School District to
maintain and expand school programs, and is requested to
be consolidated with the General Election to be held on
November 7, 2006. The following measure shall be submit-
ted to the registered voters within the Shoreline Unified
School District at this election:

Said election is hereby called to be held within the
boundaries of the Shoreline Unified School District at which
election shall be submitted to the qualified voters within the
Shoreline Unified School District the following measure, to
wit:

MEASUREA
To maintain existing school programs and improve the
quality of education; to provide funds to buy updated text-
books and materials for math, reading, and writing courses;
and to enhance critical computer science, library, and arts
programs, shall the Shoreline Unified School District extend
the existing $151.82 a year parcel tax, increasing annually at
4%, for no more than six years?

The parcel tax revenue shall be allocated to provide a
rich, fully integrated and comprehensive academic program
for students through the hiring of qualified personnel and the
purchase of equipment and materials as recommended by
each School Site Council in the following areas:

LIBRARY PROGRAM

COMPUTER SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

MUSIC

ART

FOREIGN LANGUAGE

CLASSROOM AIDES

COUNSELING

DRAMA

FIELD TRIPS

PHYSICAL EDUCATION

NUTRITION EDUCATION

SUPPORT OTHER ACADEMIC/EDUCATIONAL

PROGRAMS (not to exceed 10% of the total parcel tax

revenue)

Section 2. The revenue derived from this qualified spe-
cial tax assessment to maintain and expand school programs
shall be used solely and exclusively for the purposes set
forth above.

SSM-1

Section 3. If any provision of this section or of any other
section of this Resolution or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect other provisions or applications of this section or
of any other section of this Resolution which can be given
effect without the invalid provision or application, and to
this end, the provision of this section and other sections of
this Resolution are severable.

Section 4. The text of the measure as displayed on each
individual ballot shall be abbreviated and shall read as fol-
lows:

SHORELINE UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
QUALIFIED SPECIAL TAX ASSESSMENT FOR
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
“To maintain existing school programs and improve the
quality of education; to provide funds to buy updated text-
books and materials for math, reading, and writing courses;
and to enhance critical computer science, library, and arts
programs, shall the Shoreline Unified School District extend
the existing $151.82 a year parcel tax, increasing annually at
4%, for no more than six years?

______YES	 NO

Section 5. Commencing on July 1, 2007, the special tax
collected annually on all assessor’s parcels at the rate speci-
fied above, shall be collected and administered in the same
manner as ad valorem property taxes are fixed and collected
under provisions of the California Revenue and Taxation
Code.

Section 6. The Marin County and Sonoma County
Boards of Supervisors are hereby requested and authorized
to consolidate this election with any elections to be held on
this same date. The County Clerks are hereby requested and
authorized to: 1) set forth all sample ballots relating to said
election to be mailed to the qualified electors of the Shore-
line Unified School District; and 2) to provide absent voter
ballots for said special tax election for use by qualified elec-
tors of the Shoreline Unified School District who are entitled
thereto in the manner provided by Law.

Section 7. The Clerk of the Shoreline Unified School
District Governing Board is hereby authorized and directed
to certify to the due adoption of this Resolution and to trans-
mit a copy hereof so certified to the Election offices of Marin
and Sonoma Counties.

The foregoing Resolution was moved by Board Member
Tim Kehoe, seconded by Board Member Spirito Ballatore
and adopted by roll-call vote on May 18, 2006, by the fol-
lowing vote:

Board Member Tim Furlong Aye

Board Member Tim Kehoe Aye

Board Member Kerry Weir Absent

Board Member James Lino Absent

Board Member Spirito Ballatore Aye

Board Member Jane Healy Aye

Board Member Madeline Hope Aye

AYES: 5 NOES: 0 ABSENT OR NOT VOTING: 2

WHEREUPON, the President declared the forego-
ing Resolution duly adopted and SO ORDERED.

s/TIM FURLONG
President, Board of Trustees
s/KERRYWEIR
Clerk, Board of Trustees

SSM-2

COUNTY COUNSEL’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE A

The Shoreline Unified School District has called an
election on a special tax measure to fund educational pro-
grams. State law requires voter approval before a school
district can impose a special tax.

Proceeds of the tax would be placed in a special fund
and could only be used for the purposes set out in the mea-
sure, which include maintaining existing school programs;
hiring qualified personnel; purchasing updated textbooks
and materials for math, reading, and writing courses; and
enhancing school programs such as computer science,
library, music, physical education, foreign language study,
and art.

State law establishes accountability measures which
require filing of an annual report by the chief fiscal officer
of the district stating the amount of funds collected and
expended, and the status of any project required or autho-
rized to be funded by the tax measure.

The tax would begin on July 1, 2007, and would
remain in effect for no more than six years. The tax would
be collected and administered in the same manner as reg-
ular ad valorem property taxes, under the provisions of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

If two-thirds of the voters in the Shoreline Unified
School District who vote on this measure vote “yes,” the
measure will pass and the special tax will be levied.

s/PATRICK K. FAULKNER
Marin County Counsel
s/STEVENWOODSIDE
Sonoma County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Our community has wisely supported a local parcel tax
since 1984. This support has enabled the Shoreline Unified
School District to maintain quality programs in the areas
of school libraries, art, drama, music, foreign language,
counseling, and technology. Your parcel tax has also
helped to continue supporting the hiring of classroom
aides where needed. The purchase of current textbooks
and materials to enhance math, reading and writing cours-
es has also been supported by the previous parcel taxes.

Measure A will allow the community’s students to con-
tinue receiving services and instruction in these areas,
along with continuing specialty programs that enrich their
total educational experience.

The programs that are supported by Measure A can
only be maintained by the continuation of this Parcel
Tax. These important programs cannot be maintained
through the general budget.

As the challenges of maintaining a strong quality pub-
lic education for our community’s children continue to
build, so does the importance of maintaining these impor-
tant programs. Our children must be able to compete in a
very demanding world. These programs help give students
a well-rounded quality education. A balanced education is
critical in order for students to develop into educated and
contributing members of our society.

Remember, Measure A is a continuation of the support
the community has given to its schools since 1984. Please
continue this important support by voting YES on MEA-
SURE A.

s/CAROL J. FRIEDMAN
Director, Dance Palace Community Center
s/MICHAEL WHITT
MD

s/JAMES G. LINO

S.U.S.D. Trustee
s/CLAIRETTE C. WILSON
MCOE Trustee
s/TIM FURLONG
Contractor

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE A
WAS FILED.

SSM-3