County of
Del Norte
California

Sample Ballot

& Voter Information Pamphlet

CONSOLIDATED GENERAL
ELECTION

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2006

NOTICE: APPLICATION FOR
ABSENT VOTER BALLOT ENCLOSED

THE LOCATION OF YOUR
POLLING PLACE

IS SHOWN ON BACK COVER

• POLLS OPEN AT 7 A.M. AND CLOSE AT 8 P.M. *

SAVE THIS SAMPLE BALLOT
MARK YOUR CHOICES AND TAKE THEM TO YOUR POLLING PLACE ON ELECTION DAY

Visit us at our web site for election night results

SCHOOL

DEL NORTE COUNTY UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT

Governing Board Member
Trustee Area No. S

BETH GREEN

Retired school Librarian

THOMAS C. COCHRAN

DISTRICT

CRESCENT
FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT

Board Member, Long Term

Volo for no
moro than Three

JOE GREGORIO

Businessman

JONATHAN D. McALISTER

CALEB S. CHADWICK
I;i refigh ter/Corrections 1 Officer

MICHAEL ZECK
Self-Employed

ROBERT L. ATON JR

DAVID SHORT

Salesman______

Board Member, Short Term
CLAY WORDEN

RICK L. KELLEY

Vote for Ono

MEASURES SUBMITTED
TO THE VOTERS
STATE

4 A TRANSPORTATION FUNDING
1 A PROTECTION. LEGISLATIVE

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.

Protects transportation landing for traffic congestion
relief projects, safety improvements, and focal streets
and roads. Prohibits tho state sales tax on motor
vehicle fuels from being used for any purpose othor
than transportation improvements. Authorizes loans of
these funds only in the case of severe state fiscal
hardship. Requires loans of revenues from states
sales tax on motor vehicle fuels to be fully repaid
wilhin the three years. Restricts loans to no more than
twice in any I0*year period. Fiscal
Impact: No revenue elfect or cost effects.

Increases stability of funding to
transportation in 2007 and thereafter.

YES

NO

4 n	HIGHWAY SAFETY, TRAFFIC

1 K	REDUCTION, AIR QUALITY, AND

PORT SECURITY BOND ACT OF 2006.

This act makes safely improvements and repairs to
slate highways, upgrades freeways to reduce
congestion, repairs local streets and roads, upgrades
highways along major transportation corridors,
improves seismic safety of local bridges, expands
public transit, helps complete the stale's network of
car pool lanes, reduces air pollution, and improves
anti-terrorism security at shipping ports by providing
for a bond issue not to exceed nineteen billion nine
hundred twenty-five million dollars ($19,925,000,000).
Fiscal Impact: State costs ol

to repay bonds Additional unknown state
and local operations and maintenance
costs.

YES

NO

4 /N HOUSING AND EMERGENCY
| SHELTER TRUST FUND ACT OF 2006.

For tho purpose ol providing shelters for
battered women and their children, clean and safe
housing for low-income senior citizens;
homeownership assistance for the disabled, military
veterans, and working families; and repairs and
accessibility improvements to apartment for families
and disabled citizens, the state shall issue bonds
totaling two billion eight hundred fifty million dollars
($2,850,000,000) paid from existing state funds at an
average annual cost of two hundred and four million
dollars ($204,000,000) per year over the 30 year life
of Ihe bonds. Requires reporting and
publication of annual independent audited
reports showing use of funds, and limits
administration and overhead costs.

YES

NO

MEASURES SUBMITTED
TO THE VOTERS

STATE

u	KINDERGARTEN-UNIVERSITY

I u PUBLIC EDUCATION FACILITIES
BOND ACT OF 8006. This ten billion
lour hundred sixteen million dollar ($t 0.416,000.000)
bond issue will provldo needod funding to relieve
public school overcrowding and to repair older
schools II wiH improve earthquake safety and fund
vocational educational faciUtes in public schools,
Bond funds must bo spent according to strict
accountability measures. Funds will also bo used lo
repair and upgrade existing public college and
university buildings and lo build now classrooms to
accommodate the growing student enrollment in the
California Community Colleges, the University ol
California, and the California Slate Univorsity. Fiscal
Impact: State costs of about $20.3 billion lo pay oh
both tho principal ($10.4 biBlon) and
interest {$9.9 billion) on the bonds.	yc	c

Payments of about $680 million per year T 1:0

NO

In:	DISASTER PREPAREDNESS AND

t	FLOOD PREVENTION BOND ACT OF

2006. This act rebuilds and repairs
California's most vulnerable flood control structures to
protect homes and prevent loss of life from flood-
related disasters, including levee failures, flash floods,
and mudslides; it protects California's drinking water
supply system by rebuilding delta levees that are
vulnerable to earthquakes and storms; by authorizing
a $4.09 billion dollar bond act. Fiscal Impact: State
costs of approximrtlety $8 bilficn over 30 years to
repay bonds. Reduction in local property lax revenues
of potentially up lo several million dollars
annually. Additional unknown state and
local operations and maintenance costs.

YES

NO

OO SEX OFFENDERS. SEXUALLY
00 VIOLENT PREDATORS. PUNISHMENT,
RESIDENCE RESTRICTIONS AND
MONITORING. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Increases
penalties for violent and habitual sex offenders and
child molesters. Prohibits residence near schools and
parks. Requires Global Poslttonmq System
monitoring of registered sex offenders Fiscal Impact:
Net stale operating costs within ten years of up to a
couple hundred million dollars annually; potential one-
time state construction costs up to several
hundred million dollars; unknown net verc
fiscal impact on local governments	•	to	<

NO <

Q A	WATER QUALITY, SAFETY AND

04	SUPPLY. FLOOD CONTROL.

NATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION.
PARK IMPROVEMENTS. BONDS. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Funds water, flood control, natural
resources, park and conservation projects by
authorizing $5,388,000,000 In general obligation
bonds. Emergency drinking water safety provisions.
Fiscal Impact: State cost ot $30 5 billion over 30 years
to repay bonds. Reducod local property tax revenues
of several million dollars annually,

Unknown slate and local operations and
maintenance costs, potentially tens of
millions of dollars annually.

YES

NO

O C WAITING PERIOD AND PARENTAL
(JO NOTIFICATION BEFORE

TERMINATION OF MINOR'S
PREGNANCY. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Amends California Constitution
prohibiting abortion for unemancipated minor until 48
hours after physician notifies minor's parent/guardian,
except in medical emergency or with parental waiver.
Mandates reporting requirements Authorizes
monetary damages against physicians for violation.
Fiscal Impact: Potential unknown net state costs of
several million dollars annually for health
and social services programs, court
administration, and state health agency
administration combined.

YES

NO

o TAX ON CIGARETTES. INITIATIVE
OU CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND
STATUTE. Imposes additional $2.60 per
pack oxobo tax on cigarettes and indirectly increases
taxes on othor tobacco products. Provides funding for
various health programs, children's lieaith coverage,
and tobacco-related programs Fiscal Impact
Increase in excise tax revenues ol about $2.1 billion
annually in 2007-08 spent Jor Ihe specified purposes
outlined above Other potentially
significant costa and savings for slate and '
local governments due lo program
changes.

YES

NO

O -7	ALTERNATIVE ENERGY. RESEARCH,

O g	PRODUCTION, INCENTIVES. TAX ON

CALIFORNIA OIL PRODUCERS.
INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND
STATUTE. Establishes $4 billion program to reduce
petroleum consumption through incentives for
alternative energy, education and training. Funded by
tax on California oil producers. Fiscal Impact: Stale oil

MEASURES SUBMITTED
TO THE VOTERS
STATE

QQ EDUCATION FUNDING. REAL

PROPERTY PARCEL TAX. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND
STATUTE. Imposes S50 lax on each real property
parcel to provide additional public school funding (or
kindergarten through grade 12. Exempts certain
eldeily. disabled homocwvnofs from tax. Use of funds
restricted to specific educational purposes. Fiscal
Impact State parcel lax revenue of

roughly $450 million annually, allocated lo vcrc	^	_

school districts for specified education	Tfco	m

programs.

NO	■«

on POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS. PUBLIC
FINANCING. CORPORATE TAX
INCREASE. CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTION AND EXPENDITURE LIMITS.
INITIATIVE STATUTE. Provides that eligible
candidates for state elective office may receive public
campaign funding. Increases tax on corporations and
financial institutions by 0.2 percent lo fund program.
Imposes new campaign contribulion/exponditure
limits. Fiscal Impact: Increased revenues (primarily
from increased taxes on corporations and _____________

financial institutions) totaling more lhan
$200 million annually to pay for the public
financing of political campaigns.

YES

NO

GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION,
y REGULATION OF PRIVATE
PROPERTY. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Bars state/local
governments from condemning or damaging private
property to promote olher private projects, uses.

Limits government's authority to adopt certain land
use, housing, consumer, environmental, workplace
laws/regulations. Fiscal Impact: Increased annual
government costs to pay property owners for losses lo
their property associated with new laws
and rules, and for property acquisitions.

These costs are unknown, but potentially
significant on a statewide basis.

YES

NO

COUNTY

MEASURE A

Shall Del Norte County Ordinance number
2006-11, repealing the exemption from
payment of transient occupancy tax for
fc-aeraf or state officers or -------

employees when on official
business be approved?

YES ^	^

NO	mt

MEASURE B

B	Shall Del Norto County Ordinance number 2006-12, increasing tho transient			
	occupancy tax rate from 8% to  10%, be approved?	YES		
		NO		m
	MEASURE C			
C	Shall Ordinance number 200B-13, applying the transient occupancy tax			
	recreational vehicle parks be  approved?	YES		m
		NO		*

SAMPLE BALLOT

□ □

F

A

Shall Del Norte County Ordinance number 2006-11, repealing
the exemption from payment of transient occupancy tax for federal
or state officers or employees when on official business be approved?

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE A
COUNTY OF DEL NORTE
AN ORDINANCE REPEALINGTHE EXEMPTION FROM
PAYMENT OF TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX FOR
FEDERAL OR STATE OFFICERS OR EMPLOYEES
WHEN ON OFFICIAL BUSINESS.

Section One. Section 3.08.040, of Chapter 3.08 of the Del Norte
County Ordinance Code, "Exemptions," is hereby amended by
deleting the current subdivision B, which exempts "Any federal or
state officer or employee when on official business,” from the County's
transient occupancy tax. The amended Section 3.08.040 shall read
in its entirety as follows:

3.08.40 Exemption

"No tax shall be imposed upon:

A.	Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which,
it is beyond the power of the county to impose the tax herein
provided;

B.	Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is
exempt by reason of express provision of federal law or
international treaty.

No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim
therefore, made at the time the rent is collected, under penalty
of perjury upon a form prescribed by the tax administrator.”

Section Two. This ordinance applies an existing transient occupancy
tax to taxpayers who are currently exempt. Funds derived from this
application of the existing tax shall be deposited into the county
general fund and may be used for general government purposes.

Section Three. This ordinance shall take effect only upon its approval
by a majority of the votes cast for or against its passage at the next
general election of the voters of Del Norte County. The effective
date of the tax approved herein shall be the thirty-first calendar day
after confirmation of its passage by the Board of Supervisors.

Section Four. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase
of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or unenforceable,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
of this ordinance. The Board of Supervisors hereby declares that it
would have passed this ordinance and each section, subsection, clause
or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, clauses or phrases be declared invalid or unenforceable.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE A

Like almost all cities and counties in California, Del Norte County
imposes a transient occupancy tax, sometimes called the TOT. This
tax applies to individuals who occupy lodging in the unincorporated
area of Del Norte County for periods of 30 days or less.

Under County ordinance, as currently written, employees of the
state and federal governments do not pay TOT to the County if they
are traveling on official business. The State law authorizing the
County to collect a TOT makes it optional for the County to have
such an exemption.

The Del Norte County Board of Supervisors has adopted
ordinance number 2006 — 11, which repeals this exemption.
However, the ordinance also provides that it does not go into effect
unless it is approved by a majority of the voters.

A YES vote on Measure A approves the ordinance and repeals
the exemption from the TOT for state and federal employees on
official business.

A NO vote continues to exempt state and federal employees on
official business from paying the County TOT.

Any new revenues from the repeal of this exemption are not
earmarked. They can be budgeted for any lawful governmental
purpose by the Board of Supervisors.

si Robert N. Black, Del Norte County Counsel

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT FOR MEASURE A

The transient occupancy tax is a tax imposed by the County of
Del Norte on persons renting rooms and other accommodations at
motels, hotels and similar lodging in the unincorporated areas of
Del Norte County.

The current transient occupancy tax exempts any federal or state
officer or employee when on official business. Approval of this ballot
measure will remove that exemption and generate revenue in the
range of $1,000 to $3,000.

Transient occupancy tax revenue is considered general purpose
revenue and can be used to support such activities as Sheriff, District
Attorney, Health, Mental Health, Social Services, Recreation and
Parks and tourism promotional agencies. There is no fiscal impact
on County residents unless they are federal or state employees on
official business who stay at a motel or hotel in the unincorporated
area of the County.

si Christie Babich
Del Norte County Auditor-Controller

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

Vote yes on Measure A.

Measure A is Tax Equity!

Measure A repeals an exemption from the County transient
occupancy tax that applies only to state and federal employees when
they are traveling on official business.

Local government and school district employees from Del Norte
County are rarely, if ever, given an exemption when they travel to
other parts of our state on official business.

State law gives localities the option of whether to offer this
exemption. There is no reason for Del Norte County to continue
the exemption.

Repealing this exemption is Tax Equity.

Vote YES on Measure A.

s/ Jeannine Galatioto
County Administrative Officer

si Jerry Cochran
County Assessor

s/ Christie Babich
County Auditor

si Dawn Langston
County Treasurer

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

08-501

08'0N

Shall Del Norte County Ordinance number 2006-12, increasing
the transient occupancy tax rate from 8% to 10%, be approved?

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE B
COUNTY OF DEL NORTE
AN ORDINANCE INCREASING THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY
TAX RATE FROM EIGHT PERCENT (8%)

TO TEN PERCENT (10%).

Section One. Section 3.08.030, of Chapter 3.08 of the Del
Norte County Ordinance Code, “Rate - Payment,” is hereby amended
by changing, in the first sentence of that section, the County’s
transient occupancy tax rate from eight percent (8%) to ten percent
(10%). The amended first sentence of Section 3.08.030 shall read
in its entirety as follows, with the remainder of that section to remain
unchanged by this ordinance:

3.08.030 Rate - Payment.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is
subject to and shall pay a tax of ten percent of the rent charged by
the operator.

Section Two. This ordinance increases an existing transient
occupancy tax. Funds derived from this increase of the existing tax
shall be deposited into the county general fund and may be used
for general government purposes.

Section Three. This ordinance shall take effect only upon its
approval by a majority of the votes cast for or against its passage
at the next general election of the voters of Del Norte County. The
effective date of the tax approved herein shall be the thirty-first
calendar day after certification of its passage by the Board of
Supervisors.

Section Four. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or
unenforceable, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance. The Board of Supervisors
hereby declares that it would have passed this ordinance and each
section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses or phrases be
declared invalid or unenforceable.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE B

The Del Norte County transient occupancy tax (TOT) is currently
8% of the rental charge on lodging in “hotels,” as defined in the
county ordinance. Measure B would increase that rate to 10% of
the rental charge. This increase would apply to the unincorporated
area of the County.

The Del Norte County Board of Supervisors has adopted
ordinance number 2006-12, which increases the TOT rate from 8%
to 10%. However, the ordinance also provides that it does not go
into effect unless it is approved by a majority of the voters.

A YES vote on Measure B would approve the amendment to
increase the County TOT rate from 8% to 10%.

A NO vote continues the County TOT rate at 8%.

Any new revenues from the increase from 8% to 10% are not
earmarked. They can be budgeted for any lawful county purpose
by the Board of Supervisors.

si Robert N. Black
Del Norte County Counsel

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT FOR MEASURE B

The transient occupancy tax is a tax imposed by the County of
Del Norte on persons renting rooms and other accommodations at
motels, hotels and similar lodging in the unincorporated areas of
Del Norte County.

The current transient occupancy rate is 8%. Approval of this
ballot measure will increase the rate to 10%. This increase will
generate approximately an additional $62,500.

Transient occupancy tax revenue is considered general purpose
revenue and can be used to support such activities as Sheriff, District
Attorney, Health, Mental Health, Social Services, Recreation and
Parks and tourism promotional agencies. There is no fiscal impact
on County residents unless they stay at a motel or hotel in the
unincorporated area of the County.

s/ Christie Babich
Del Norte County Auditor-Controller

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE B

Vote YES on Measure B.

Measure B is Realistic.

Tourism helps support our economy. The Board of Supervisors
recently committed $62,000 per year to promote tourism in Del Norte

county.

But the influx of tourists has its costs. Local property tax payers
support many services that benefit the welcome travelers through
our community. The dollars must come from someone.

Measure B recognizes that tourists should be paying for some
of the services that protect them and enhance their experience here.

Measure B is Common Sense.

Throughout California, most local governments receive a 10%
transient occupancy tax. Locally, Crescent City and Humboldt County
are already at a 10% TOT. Many of the cities in Humboldt County
already charge 10%.

Travelers already expect to pay local taxes. It makes sense for
Del Norte County to have its tax rate in line with communities
throughout the state.

Measure B is Balanced.	
Vote YES on Measure B.	
si Jeannine Galatioto	si Dawn Langston
County Administrative Officer	County Treasurer
si Jerry Cochran	s/ Christie Babich
County Auditor	County Assessor

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

08-502

08502

□

□

A

Shall Ordinance number 2006-13, applying the transient
occupancy tax to the rental of spaces in recreational vehicle parks
be approved?

FULLTEXT OF MEASURE C

COUNTY OF DEL NORTE
AN ORDINANCE APPLYING THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY
TAX TO THE RENTAL OF SPACES IN
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS

Section One. Section 3.08.020, subdivision A, of Chapter 3.08
of the Del Norte County Ordinance Code, setting forth the definition
of “Hotel" for purposes of that Chapter, is hereby amended by adding
the following sentence to that subdivision, to read as follows, with
the remainder of that section to remain unchanged by this ordinance:
For purposes of this Chapter only, “hotel” also means space
rented in a recreational vehicle park.

Section Two. This ordinance applies the existing transient
occupancy tax to a new category of taxpayers. Funds derived from
this increase of the existing tax shall be deposited into the county
general fund and may be used for general government purposes.

Section Three. This ordinance shall take effect only upon its
approval by a majority of the votes cast for or against its passage
at the next general election of the voters of Del Norte County. The
effective date of the tax approved herein shall be the thirty-first
calendar day after certification of its passage by the Board of
Supervisors.

Section Four. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or
unenforceable, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance. The Board of Supervisors
hereby declares that it would have passed this ordinance and each
section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses or phrases be
declared invalid or unenforceable.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE C

The Del Norte County transient occupancy tax does not currently
apply to the rental of spaces in RV parks. Measure C would apply
the County’s TOT to the rental of spaces in RV parks in the
unincorporated area of Del Norte County.

As with other occupancies, the TOT on space rentals in RV parks
would apply to rentals of 30 days or less.

The Del Norte County Board of Supervisors has adopted
ordinance number 2006-13, which amends the TOT ordinance to
include the rental of spaces in RV parks as part of the definition of
“hotel,” for purposes of the TOT ordinance only. This has the effect
of extending the TOT to those rentals. However, the ordinance also
provides that it does not go into effect unless it is approved by a
majority of the voters.

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT FOR MEASURE C

The transient occupancy tax is a tax imposed by the County of Del
Norte on persons renting rooms and other accommodations at motels,
hotels and similar lodging in the unincorporated areas of Del Norte
County.

The current transient occupancy tax is not applied for space rented
in a recreational vehicle park. Approval of this ballot measure will
expand the definition of “hotel” to include space rented in a
recreational vehicle park. This increase will generate approximately
an additional $130,000.

Transient occupancy tax revenue is considered general purpose
revenue and can be used to support such activities as Sheriff, District
Attorney, Health, Mental Health, Social Services, Recreation and
Parks and tourism promotional agencies. There is no fiscal impact
on County residents unless they rent a RV space in a recreational
vehicle park in the unincorporated area of the County.

si Christie Babich
Del Norte County Auditor-Controller

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Vote YES on Measure C.

Measure C is logical.

Travelers who stay in Del Norte County hotels and motels pay
transient occupancy taxes. They help support local health and law
enforcement. This benefits travelers by helping keep our community
safe.

Those who rent space in RV parks should pay the same tax.
It’s only logical.

Measure C is fair.

The Board of Supervisors has agreed to contribute $62,000 per
year to promote tourism to our county. RV parks will benefit from
this promotion.

Measure C brings consistency.

Crescent City already applies TOT to the rental of RV spaces.
Measure C makes the County consistent with the City.

Vote YES on Measure C.

si Jeannine Galatioto
County Administrative Officer

si Jerry Cochran
County Assessor

si Christie Babich
County Auditor

si Dawn Langston
County Treasurer

A YES vote on Measure C would approve the ordinance and
extend the County transient occupancy tax the rental of spaces in
RV parks.

A NO vote continues to exclude spaces in RV parks from the
County TOT.

Any new revenues from the application of TOT to the rental of
spaces in RV parks are not earmarked. They can be budgeted for
any lawful governmental purpose by the Board of Supervisors.

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

si Robert N. Black
Del Norte County Counsel

08503

SCHOOL

DEL NORTE COUNTY UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT

Governing Board Member
Trusted Area No. 5______

THOMAS C. COCHRAN

BETH GREEN
Retired School Librarian

CITY

CITY OF CRESCENT CITY

Member of City Council

Vote for no
more than Two

DENNIS BURNS

RICHARD G. ENEA
Appointed Incumbent

NOYA RENO
Admin Asst/Firefighter

DOTTIE LINVILLE
Business Owner__

KELLY SCHELLONG
Business Woman_

MEASURES SUBMITTED
TO THE VOTERS
STATE

U TRANSPORTATION FUNDING
PROTECTION. LEGISLATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.
Protect* transports ion funding lor traffic congestion
relief projects, safely improvements, and local streets
end roads. Prohibits the state sales lax on motor
vehicle fuels from being used (or any purpose olher
lhan transportation improvements. Authorizes loans of
these funds only in the case of severe state fiscal
hardship. Requires loans of revenues from slales
sates tax on motor vehicle fuels to be fully repaid
within the three years. Reslricts loans to no more lhan
twice in any 10-year period. Fiscal
Impact: No revenue effect or cost effects.

Increases stability o( funding to
transportation in 2007 and thereafter.

YES

NO

4 n HIGHWAY SAFETY, TRAFFIC
1 PI REDUCTION, AIR QUALITY, AND

PORT SECURITY BOND ACT OF 2006.
This act makes safety improvements and repairs to
state highways, upgrades freeways to reduce
congestion, repairs local streets and roads, upgrades
highways along nrajtx transportation corridors,

a roves seismic safoly ol local bridges, expands
Be transit, helps complete the slate's network of
car pool fanes, reduces air potto Iron, and improves
anti-terrorism security at shipping ports by providing
lor a bond issue not to exeeod nineteen Wlion nine
hundred twomy-fivo million dollars {$19,926,000,000).
Fiscal Impact- Slate costs of
approximately $38,9 billon over 30 years
to repay bonds Additional unknown state
and local operations and maintenance
costs

YES

NO

4 A HOUSING AN0 EMERGENCY
| I, SHELTER TRUST FUND ACT OF 2006.

For ihe purpose of providing shelters for
battered women and mr children. clean and safe
housing for low-income senior citizens;
homoownership assistance for the disabled, military
veterans, and working tomMios, and repairs and
accessibly improvements to apartment lor families
and cksabled citizens, Ihe state shad issue bonds
totaling two billion eight hundred fifty miftion dollars
($2,850,000,000) paid from existing state funds al an
overage annual coat of two hundred and four million
doltora ($204,000,000) per year over the 30 year life
of the bonds Requires reporting and
publication of annual independent audited '
reports showing use of funds, and limila
administration and overhead costs

YES

NO

4 p.	KINDERGARTEN-UNIVERSITY

| N	PUBLIC EDUCATION FACILITIES

* ** BOND ACT OF 2006. This ten billion
four hundred sixteen million dotar ($10,416,000,000)
bond issue mil provide needed funding to relieve
pubic school overcrowding and to repair older
schools. It will improve earthquake safety and fund
vocational educational facilities In public schools
Bond funds must bo spent according to strid
accountability measures, Funds wift also be used lo
reparr and upgrndo existing public college and
university buildings and to build new classrooms to
accommodalo the growing student enrollment in live
CoMorrHa Community Colleges, the Unlvorsdy of
California, and the CaMotnla Stale Uiwersity, Fiscal
Impact: Stole coals of about $20 3 billion to pay off
both the principal ($10.4 billon) and
inieresl (S9.9 bWion) on the bonds.

Payments ol about $880 million per year

YES

NO

MEASURES SUBMITTED
TO THE VOTERS
STATE

4 r DISASTER PREPAREDNESS AND
I t FI-OOD PREVENTION BOND ACT OF
2006. Tnis act rebuilds and repairs
CaMomia’s most vulnerable flood control slrocfuros to
protect homes and prevent loss ol Wo from flood-
related disasters, inducting tovoo tenures, hash floods,
and mudslides: il protects California's drinking water
supply system by rebuilding delta levees that are
vulnerable to earthquakes and storms; by authorizing
a $4.09 billion dollar bond act Fiscal Impact State
costs ol approximately S3 billon over 30 years to
repay bonds Reduction in local property lax revenues
of potentially up to several mi Aon dotLvs
annually Additional unknown stole and vcc
local operations and maintenance costs *t5>

' NO

ft o SEX OFFENDERS. SEXUALLY
00 VIOLENT PREDATORS. PUNISHMENT,
RESIDENCE RESTRICTIONS AND
MONITORING. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Increases
penalties for violent and habitual sex oflondeis and
child moieslers. Profiibils residence near schools and
parks- Requires Global Portioning System
monitoring of registered sex offenders. Fiscal impact
Net stoic operating coats w-thm ten years of up to a
couple hundred million dollars annuniy; potential one-
time state construction coals up to several
hundred million dollars; unknown nei
fiscal imped on local governments

YES

NO

ft a WATER QUALITY, SAFETY AND
04 SUPPLY. FLOOD CONTROL.

NATURAL RESOURCE PROTECTION.
PARK IMPROVEMENTS. BONDS. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Funds water, flood control, natural
resources, park end conservation protects by
authorizing SS,388,000,000 in general obligate
bonds. Emergency drinking water safety provisions
Fiscal Impact: Slate cost of $10.5 baton over 30 yearn
lo repay bonds. Reduced local property tax revenues
ol several miftion dollars annually
Unknown slate and focal operations and
maintenance costs, potentially tons ol
mlftions of dollars annually,

YES

NO

O C WAITING PERIOD AND PARENTAL
OD NOTIFICATION BEFORE

TERMINATION OF MINOR'S
PREGNANCY. INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Amends California Constitution
prohibillng abortion loi unemancipaiod minor until 48
hours nlior physician notifies minor's pnrcnl/guartlion.
except in medical emergency or with parental waraer
Mandates reporting requirements Authorizes
monetary damages against physicians for violation
Fiscal Impact: Potential unknown nei state costs d
several miHion dollars annually for health
and social services programs, court
administration, and slate heaflli agency
administration combined.

YES

NO

O ft TAX ON CIGARETTES. INITIATIVE
O0 CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND
STATUTE. Imposes additional $2.60 per
pack excise lax on cigarettes and indirectly increases
taxes on oihar tobacco products- Provides funding lor
various health programs, children's health coverage,
and lobacco-roloiod programs. Fiscal Impact
Increase in excise tox revenues ol about S2.1 tolilon
annuafty m 2007-08 spent tor the specified purposes
outlined above Oitier potentially
spgrvtft-ant costs trad savings for slate and '
local governments duo to program
changes.

YES

NO

ft -7	ALTERNATIVE ENERGY. RESEARCH,

O /	PRODUCTION, INCENTIVES. TAX ON

CALIFORNIA OIL PRODUCERS.
INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND
STATUTE. Establishes S4 billion program fo reduce
petroleum consumption through Incentives lor
alternative onergy, education and training, Funded by
tax on California oil producers Fiscal Impact State oH
lax rovonoQS of $225 million to $485 milkon annually
for flUemativa enemy programs totaling
$4 billion. State and local revenue
reductions up to low lens of motions ol
dollars annually.

YES

NO

DQ EDUCATION FUNDING. REAL

PROPERTY PARCEL TAX. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND
STATUTE. Imposes $50 lax on each teal pioperty
parcel lo provide additional public school tending lor
kindergarten through grade 12, Exempts certain
elderly, disabled homeowners from tox. Use of tends
resiriclcd to specific educational purposes. Fiscal
Impact: State parcel lax revenue of
roughly $450 million annually, allocated lo ‘
school districts for specified educalion
programs.

YES

NO

MEASURES SUBMITTED
TO THE VOTERS
STATE

Oft POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS. PUBLIC
Qy FINANCING. CORPORATE TAX
INCREASE. CAMPAIGN
CONTRIBUTION AND EXPENDITURE LIMITS.
INITIATIVE STATUTE. Provides thal eligible
candidates for stale elective olflce may receive pubto
campaign tending Increases tax on corporations and
financial Institutions by 0.2 percent to tend program
Imposes now campaign conlribolion/Mpenditure
limits Fiscal Impact: Increased revenues (primarily
from Increased taxes on corporations and
financial institutions) totaling more than
$200 mHtton annualy to pay tor Hie public
financing of pobtical campaigns

YES

NO

ftft GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION,
yU REGULATION OF PRIVATE
PROPERTY. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT. Bars stetoflocei
governments from condemning or damaging prorate
property to promote other private protects, uses
Limits government's authority to adopt certain Land
use. housing, consumer, environmental, workplace
laws/ragulations Fiscal Impact: Increased annual
government costs to pay pioperty owners for losses lo
their properly associated with new laws
and rules, arkl lor properly acquisitions
These costs are unknown, but potentially
significant on a statewide basis

YES

NO

COUNTY

MEASURE A

Shaft Dot Norte County Ordinance number
2006-11. repeating toe exemption from
payment of transient occupancy tox tor

federal or state officers or -------

employees when on official
business be approved?

YES

NO

MEASURE B

B

Shall Del Node County Ordinance number
2006-12, increasing the transient
occupancy tax rate from lo	V|_ c

10%, be approved?	■	^a

NO

MEASUREC

Shalt Ordnance number 2006-13,
applying the transient occupancy tax
to the rental cl spaces in
recreational vohicto parks be
approved?

YES

NO

CITY

CITY OF CRESCENT CITY

MEASURE D____________

Shall the City Counci of too Cay oi
Crescent City me re ass by two percent
(2%) tho general tax for the privdegu of
Irnnsteni occupancy in any hotel or other
todgmg as defined in Chapter 3 20 of Ihe
Crescent City Municipal Code, which
increase would set too total

transient occupancy tax at twelve
percent (12*) of Hie rent charged
by the operator?

YES

NO

08-SB2A2

SAMPLE BALLOT

08SB2A2

Shall the City Council of the City of Crescent City increase by
two percent (2%) the general tax for the privilege of transient
occupancy in any hotel or other lodging as defined in Chapter 3.20
of the Crescent City Municipal Code, which increase would set the
total transient occupancy tax at twelve percent (12%) of the rent
charged by the operator?

FULL TEXT OF MEASURED

CITY OF CRESCENT CITY INCREASE OF TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCYTAX

Section 1. Authority. This resolution is adopted pursuant to
Government Code Section 53720, et seq.

Section 2. Title. This resolution may be cited as the Transient
Occupancy Tax Resolution of 2006.

Section 3. Proposal. California Government Code Section 7280
provides that cities may levy a tax on the privilege of occupying a
room or other lodging for not more than 30 days. This privilege is
called a transient occupancy tax. Section 3.20.020 of the Crescent
City Municipal Code and Crescent City Resolution 1993-17 currently
establish City of Crescent City's transient occupancy tax at ten percent
(10%), which tax was last increased on July 1, 1993.

It is proposed that a general tax measure to increase the transient
occupancy tax to twelve percent (12%) be submitted to the voters
of the City of Crescent City at the general election on Tuesday,
November 7,2006, which coincides with the next regularly scheduled
municipal election.

Such action is taken pursuant to California Constitution Article
XIIC, ‘2(b) which requires that any general tax be passed by a two-
thirds vote of the legislative body, and by a majority of the voters
voting in an election on the tax which is consolidated with a regularly
scheduled general election of members of the governing body.

Because this action would not limit the increase of the transient
occupancy tax to any specific purpose, it is proposed as a general
tax measure.

Section 4. Rate to be Charged as a General Tax. The city council
does hereby find that a general tax, which is an increase of the
transient occupancy tax by two percent (2%), and which the
operators of hotels will collect as provided in Chapter 3.20 of the
Crescent City Municipal Code, is in the best interest of the City of
Crescent City.

Section 5. The city council finds and declares that this is a general
tax, for general government purposes, and not a special or ad valorem
tax.

Section 6. Method of Collection. This general tax, if confirmed
by the voters, shall be collected as provided in Chapter 3.20 of the
Crescent City Municipal Code.

Section 7. Election Date. The proposed general tax shall be
submitted to the voters of the City of Crescent City at the next
regularly scheduled municipal election to be included and consolidated
with the state-wide general election held on November 7, 2006,
pursuant to Crescent City Resolutions 2006-16 and 2006-17
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 10403 of the California
Elections Code, the Board of Supervisors of the County of Del Norte
is hereby requested to consent and agree to the consolidation of
this election with the state-wide election on November 7, 2006, for
the purpose of the election of the measure, with notice of time and
place of holding the election to be given by the county clerk, and
the county clerk is authorized to give further or additional notice of
the election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

Section 8. The ballots to be used at the election shall be in the
form and content as required by law. The measure shall appear as
designed by the county clerk.

Section 9. The city clerk is hereby authorized, instructed and directed
to assist the county clerk with any reasonable requests in order to
properly and lawfully conduct the election.

Section 10. The polls for the election shall be open at the times
and places designated by the county clerk as required by law.

Section 11. In all particulars not recited in this resolution, the
election shall be held and conducted as provided by law for holding
municipal elections.

Section 12. Effective Date of Tax. The qualified voters at the
general election shall submit this resolution, being for the enactment
and imposition of a general tax, to a vote of the people on November
7, 2006. The tax shall become valid and binding if a majority of
the voters voting thereon vote in its favor at said election and shall
be effective on the date that the city council certifies the results of
said election and passes a resolution adopting same as set forth
in Chapter 3.20 of the Crescent City Municipal Code.

Section 13. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence,
clause or phrase of this resolution is, for any reason, held to be
invalid, unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful by the decision of a
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this resolution, the application
thereof, and the general taxes imposed shall not be affected thereby
but shall remain in full force and effect, it being the intention of the
voters to adopt each and every section, subsection, part, clause,
sentence or phrase regardless of whether any other section,
subsection, part, clause, sentence or phrase or the application thereof
if held to be invalid or unconstitutional. The City Council of the City
of Crescent City hereby declares that it would have passed this
resolution and each section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase
thereof irrespective of the fact that one or more of the sections,
subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid,
unconstitutional or unlawful.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the City Council of
the City of Crescent City, pursuant to its right and authority, that
the following question is ordered submitted to the voters of the City
of Crescent City and placed on the ballot for vote at the election to
be held November 7, 2006:

“Measure D: Transient Occupancy Tax Resolution of 2006

"Shall the City Council of the City of Crescent City increase by
two percent (2%) the general tax for the privilege of transient
occupancy in any hotel or other lodging as defined in Chapter 3.20
of the Crescent City Municipal Code, which increase would set the
total transient occupancy tax at twelve percent (12%) of the rent
charged by the operator?

“YES______________ NO_______________________________”

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL DOES FURTHER
RESOLVE, DECLARE, DETERMINE AND ORDER AS FOLLOWS:

Section 14. That the city council authorizes any and all written
arguments in favor or against the city measure, in accordance with
Article 4, Chapter 3, Division 9 of the Elections Code of the State
of California, and to change the argument until and including the
date fixed by the county clerk, after which no arguments for or
against the city measure may be submitted to the county clerk.

Section 15. That the city council directs the city clerk to transmit
a copy of the measure to the city attorney. The city attorney shall
prepare an impartial analysis of the measure showing the effect of
the measure on the existing law and the operation of the measure.
The impartial analysis shall be filed by the date set by the county
clerk.

Section 16. The city council recognizes that additional costs will
be incurred by the county by reason of this consolidation and agrees
to reimburse the county for any costs. The city clerk is hereby
directed to file a certified copy of this resolution with the Board of
Supervisors and the County Election Department of the County of
Del Norte. That the city clerk shall certify to the passage and
adoption of this resolution.

08504

The City of Crescent City submits to the voters for approval of
an Increase Of The Transient Occupancy Tax.

The City of Crescent City is proposing a General Tax Measure to
be submitted to the voters in the City of Crescent City. The proposed
tax is a general tax, for general governmental purposes, and not a
special or ad valorem tax.

The tax requires a majority vote of those voting on the measure.
Revenue raised by the tax would go to the general fund of the City
of Crescent City to be used for general governmental purposes.
Examples of general governmental purpose expenditures are local
services such as fire, police, recreation, parks, senior programs,
street maintenance and tourism marketing, which are services that
benefit travelers.

The transient occupancy tax of the “City of Crescent City is contained
in Chapter 3.20 of the Crescent City Municipal Code and Resolution
1993-17. This tax would apply to hotels and other lodging facilities
as defined in the Crescent City Municipal Code, from persons
occupying hotels for 30 consecutive days or less. California city's
transient occupancy tax rates have an approximate range of 8% to
19%. The current tax of the City of Crescent City is ten percent
(10%) of the rent charged by the lodging operator. This measure
would increase the tax by two percent (2%).

If the proposed general tax receives the approval of a majority of
the voters voting on the measure it will pass. The tax would become
effective on the date the City Council certifies the results of the
election and passes a Resolution indicating the amount of the new
tax ads passed. The proposed general tax is not limited to any time
period. If approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure,
the tax would remain in effect until later amended.

A “Yes” vote favors passage of this general tax on transient occupancy
only, while a "No” vote is against passage of this general tax on
transient occupancy.

si Thomas C. French
City Attorney, City of Crescent City

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure D.
If you desire a copy of the Resolution proposing the Increase
of the Transient Occupancy Tax, please call the Del Norte
County Clerks Office at 707 464-7216, and a copy will be
mailed to you at no cost.

FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT FOR MEASURE D

Measure D will increase the Transient and Occupancy Tax (TOT)
rate from 10% to 12%. A twenty percent increase from this revenue
source is anticipated if Measure D is approved by the voters of
Crescent City. During the July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006 fiscal year the
City of Crescent City received revenues of $821,340 from the TOT.
Passage of Measure D would result in a projected annual revenue
increase of $164,268 to the City of Crescent City.

s/ Edwin Erickson
Finance Director of the City of Crescent City

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Measure D is an increase in the Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT) of
Crescent City from 10 percent to 12 percent. The TOT is paid by
visitors to Crescent City who stay in hotels, motels, and RV/trailer
parks. The residents of Crescent City do not pay TOT unless they
stay in one of the above.

The TOT goes directly to the General Fund of Crescent City. The
City Council placed the 2 percent TOT increase on the ballot primarily
to fund tourism promotion and other services that directly benefit
the tourism industry. This action is in response to businesses and
residents that approached the City requesting funding of tourism
marketing efforts to further promote Crescent City and Del Norte
County as a destination travel location.

Please remember that the TOT is paid by visitors and travelers to
Crescent City, and not by the residents of Crescent City. Using the
bulk of the 2 percent TOT increase for tourism and services that
benefit tourism will grow the tourism industry locally, create jobs for
residents, sales dollars for local businesses, and sales tax revenue
to assist the City in providing additional services. Measure D is a
win-win for the entire community!

si Eli Naffah
City Manager
City of Crescent City

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED

08-505

08505