FULL TEXT OF MEASURE F-06

Shall an assessment increase from $7 to $25 be imposed by the
Cambria Community Healthcare District per unimproved parcel per year
and from $20 to $85 per improved parcel per year, on all real property
(except that of federal, state, or local governmental agency) within the
boundaries of said Heafthcaro District, for the purpose of upgrading
enera! district operations and increase paramedic staffing within said
oundaries?

YES	NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F-06

This measure will determine whether an assessment increase shall
bo imposed by tho Cambria Community Health Care District (“the
District’) for the purpose of upgrading general district operations and
increasing paramedic staffing within the District's boundaries.

The District currently imposes an annual assessment in tho
amount of seven dollars ($7.00) per unimproved parcel and twenty
dollars ($20.00) per improved parcel on all real property within the
boundaries of the District. On February 21, 2006 the District Board
determined that it is in the best interests of property ownors, residents,
and visitors of the District to provide improvements to the general
district operations, including, but not limited to. the hiring of additional
paramedics. The District has determined that these improvements can
only be paid for by an increase in the amount of tho assessment
currently levied by tho District on all unimproved and improved real
property within the District.

Article XIII of tho California Constitution requires that the
imposition, extension or increase of any assessment imposed by the
District be approved by two-thirds (Z'3's) of the qualified voters of the
District. If this measure is approved, the current annual assessment
imposed on each parcel of unimproved real property within the District
shall increase from $7.00 to $25.00, and tho current annual assessment
imposed on each parcel of improved real property within the District
shall increaso from $20.00 to $85.00.

If approved, the District may provide for the collection of tho
increased assessment by tho San Luis Obispo County Tax Collector in
tho same manner, along with and at the same time, and subject to the
same penalties, as other property taxes collected by the County Tax
Collector.

A “yes’ vote on this Measure is a voto in favor of increasing the
annual assessment currently levied on each parcel of unimproved real
property within the District from $7.00 to $25.00. and increasing tho
annual assessment currently lowed on each parcel of improved real
property within the District from $20.00 to $85.00. for tho purpose of
providing improvements to tho general district operations.

A “no' vote on this Measure is a vote against increasing the annual
assessment currently levied on each parcel of unimproved real property
within tho District from $7.00 to $25.00, and increasing the annual
assessment currently levied on each parcel of improved real property
within the District from $20.00 to $85.00, for the purpose of providing
improvements to tho genoral district operations.

JAMES B. LINDHOLM. JR.

County Counsel

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F-06

Imagine someone has been injured in a vohlclo accident on tho highway
nortn of San Simoon. Our paramedic ambulance is dispatched and is
transporting the patient to the hospital. Suddenly, you begin having
crushing chest pain and shortness of breath. After sevoral mmutos you
tell your family to call 911 but the next available paramedic ambulance
is 30 minutes away. It is now well over an hour before you are in the
emergency room at a hospital getting the definitive treatment you need
to survive.

The Cambria Community Healthcare District has provided ambulance
service to the North Coast of San Luis Obispo County for tho past 55
years. With the dedication of paramedics and emergency modical
technicians (EMTs) committing countless hours providing coverage of
the District’s second ambulanco. the scenario above has rarely
occurred.

Tho availability of those paramedics and EMTs has decreased over the
past few years duo to retirement, relocation, and other commitments.
Wo now have a minimal number of individuals putting in countloss
hours to keep the second ambulance staffed.

The current system of staffing the second ambulanco will cease to exist
within the next year or two due to additional retirements and personnel
relocating to other areas of tho County. The above scenario could
become an increasingly common occurrence if we don't act now.

For about $5.00 a month, Measure F-06 will provide funding to ensuro
that there is a paramedic on duty with tho second ambulance 24 hours
a day. seven days a week. This will allow the North Coast to havo tho
paramedic ambulanco coverage that is needed well into the future.

A yos voto on measure F-06 will save lives, and the life you save could
be your own I

S'1 DONALD L. MELENDY

Administrator. Cambria Community Healthcare District

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F-06 WAS SUBMITTED

PR-1080-1

SL OOO OOO

CAMBRIA COMMUNITY HEALTHCARE DISTRICT
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE AA-06

To improve paramedic staffing and uparado general operations, shall
the Cambria Community Healthcare District impose an assessment
increase as follows: from $7 to $25 flat rate per unimproved parcel and
from $20 to $65 flat rate per improvod pared per year, on all real
property (except that of federal, stato. or local governmental agencies)
within the district boundaries, annually adjusted by tho change in the
Consumer Price Index for the Greater Los Angeles Area?

YES	NO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE AA-06

This measure w*i determine whether an assessment increase shall
be imposed by ihc Cambria Community Health Caro District (the District') lor
the purpose of upgrading general district operations and increasing paramedk:
staffffig wrthn tho District's boundaries

The Distort currently imposes an annual assessment in me amount
of a flat rate of $7.00 per unimproved parcel and a Hat rate of $2000 per
improved parcel on all real property within the boundaries of the District. On
July 25. 2006, ttie Drslnct Board determned thaf rt is m Ihe best interests ol
property owners, residents, and visitors of the District to provide improvements
to the general district operations, including, but not limited to, tho hiring of
additional paramedics. The District Board has determined that due to an
escalation m tho costs of providing general district operations, the general fund
and current assessment can no longer support necessary service
improvements The Dtslnci has determined that such improvements can onfy
be paid for by an increase in the amount of the assessmenl currently levied by
the Dstnrt on all improved and unimproved real property within tho Dtslrcl

Article XIII ot the California Constitution requires thal the imposition,
extension or mcroaso of any assessment imposed by the District be approved
by two-thuds (2<3's) of the qualified voters of Ihe District ff this measure is
approved, the current annual assessment imposed on each parcel of
unimproved real property within the Dstoct shall increase from a flat rate of
$7.00 to $25 00. and the current annual assessment imposed on each parcel of
improved real property within the Distort shall ncrease from a flat rate of $20 00
to $85 00 These rales may be adjusted annually based on a change in the
Consumer Price Index lor ihe Greater Los Angles Area

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE AA-06

Cambria Community Healthcare Distort has served tho emergency modcal
Is of ihe North Coast for over 55 years. During that tmo tho evolution of
Emergency Medfcal Services and population changes to the area have been
3ram3bc.

Because tho North Coast is a very large area and hospitals are a long way off
Ihe Distort s primary ambulance can often be committed to a call for an hour or
[two. Throughout its history the Healthcare District has provided backed up
toverago by depending on tho availability of local off-duty employees to staff a
second ambulance when needed.

Now e a cntcal time for the District. Due to high housing costs lower
employees Irve in the area; meaning fewer are able to respond «\tien off-duty to
start a second ambulance When no cne Is available the next closest unit most
come from Metro Bay or Templeton. When minutes can mean the drrterence
between life and death SUCH DELAYS ARE UNACCEPTABLE.

Ballot measure AA-06 will allow the District lo increase its full time slalf to
provide immediate local response cf a second ambulance. Approval will raise
iho yearly assessmenl on improved proporty by $65 and by $16 on unimproved
parcels. This measure must pass by a two-thirds majority to be approved, to
the June election the measure tailed by onfy 2.5% or 74 votes.

Make a life saving coaswn and vote YES on Measure AA-06

s' Gregory D. Bates

Trustee. Cambria Community Mearthcare District
s' Rosa Lee Cullen

Trustee, Cambria Community Healthcare District
&■' Runo J. Lemming

Trustee, Cambria Community Healthcare District
s/ Ed Hugheil

Trustee, Cambna Communay Healthcare Distort
s/ Franks. Fratto

Trustee. Cambna Community Healthcare Distort

II approved, the Distort may provide for Ihe collection of the	^	-,ini„rTr^

increased assessment by the San Luts Otxspo County Tax Collector in the ^0 ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE AA-06 WAS SUBMITTED
same manner, along wtfi and at the same time, and subject to (he same
pennies, as other property taxes collected by the County Tax Coloctor.

A -Yes* vote on this Measure <s a vote »n favor of increasing the
annual assessment currently levied on each parcel ol unimproved real property
within the Distnct horn a tlal rate of S7.00 lo $25.00. and increasaig ttvo annual
assessment currently lowed on each parcel of improved real property within the
Distnct from a flat rate of $20.00 to $65 00. for the purpose ol improving
paramedic staffing and upgrading general operations of the District

A 'No' vote on this Measure is a vote against increasing tho annual
assessmenl currently levied on each parcel of unimproved real property within
the Distort from $7.00 to $25 00. and increasing the annual assessment
currently levied on each parcel of improved real property within the District from
$20.00 lo $85.00. for the purpose of improving paramedc staffing and
upgrad-ng general operations of tho Distnct

S' JAMES B.LINDHOLM, JR
County Counsel

PR-1070-1