City of
Ciudad de

www.ci.norwalk.ca.us

SAMPLE BALLOT

and Voter Information Pamphlet

SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
TUESDAY, APRIL 11,2006

POLLS OPEN at 7 A.M.

AND CLOSE at 7 P.M.

MUESTRA DE BALOTA

y Panfleto de Information para el Votante

ELECCION MUNICIPAL ESPECIAL
11 DE ABRIL DEL 2006

LUGAR DE VOTACldN ABRE a las 7 A.M.
y Cl ERR A a las 7 P.M.

NOTE: “VOTE BY MAIL” Ballot Application on Back Cover

POLLING PLACE: Your polling place may have changed!

See back cover for your polling place location.

AVISO: La Solititud de Boleta para “Votar por Correo”
aparece al dorso de la ultima pagina

CENTRO ELECTORAL: jSu centro electoral puede haber cambiado!
Vea atras de la ultima pagina para encontrar el lugar de su centro electoral.

co m 3j o h o m r- m ^ aj ^	i	cozo—iocuhwz- o z—io<

1

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS

To vote on any measure, completely fill in the oval • in the
area to the right of the arrow pointing from the word "YES" or
from the word "NO" with a BLACK OR DARK PEN ONLY!

All marks except the voting mark are forbidden. All distin-
guishing marks or erasures are forbidden and make the
ballot void.

If you wronalv mark, tear or deface the ballot card, return it
to the precinct board member and obtain another.

INSTRUCCIONES A LOS ELECTORES

Para votarporalguna medida, llene completamente el ovalo
• a la derecha de la flecha de la palabra “SI"o de la palabra
“NO” con un PLUMA NEGRA U OSCURA SOLAMENTE.

Se prohibe toda marca, excepto las de votacion. Se prohlben
todas las marcas distintivas o borraduras, ya que estas haran
que su boleta electoral sea anulada.

Si por error marca. rompe o estropea la boleta electoral,
devuelvala al miembro de la junta electoral v obtenaa otra.

OFFICIAL BALLOT

CITY OF NORWALK
SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION
TUESDAY, APRIL 11,2006
BOLETA ELECTORAL OFICIAL
CIUDAD DE NORWALK
ELECCION MUNICIPAL ESPECIAL
MARTES, 11 DE ABRIL DEL 2006

THIS BALLOT STUB SHALL BE REMOVED AND RETAINED BY THE VOTER
ESTA CONTRASEfiA DEBESER REUOVIDA Y GUARDADA POR EL ELECTOR

Mark your choice by FILLING IN OVAL •
completely with a BLACK OR DARK PEN ONLY.
Marque su eleccion LLENANDO EL OVALO
completamente con una PLUMA NEGRA U
OSCURA SOLAMENTE.

No. 12345

I HAVE VOTED - HAVE YOU? - YO VOTE -1VOTO UD?

CITY OF NORWALK
CIUDAD DE NORWALK

MEASURE SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS
MEDIDA PRESENTADA A LOS ELECTORES

Shall Ordinance No. 06-1568	YES/SI
A be adopted to continue the	
existing 10% tax that is paid	NO/A/O

only by guests in hotels and

motels and that provides funds for vital City
general services, such as public safety, parks
and recreation, and street improvements?

cDeberfa la Ordenanza No. 06-1568 ser
adoptada para continuar el existente
impuesto del 10% que es pagado solamente
porhuespedes en hotelesymoteles para que
proporcione fondos como servicios generates
dela Ciudad deseguridadpublica, parquesy
recreacion, y mejoramiento de calles?

END OF BALLOT
FIN DE BOLETA

Norwalk 4/11/06

o

o

I

I

I

i^^ajOHOrnr-rn i* h m i- O 00 mo 1* 3q -i c/> rn C 5 i HOrr>0J mnj§> w

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE A

Measure A approves the City’s existing transient
occupancy tax (TOT) rate of 10%. The TOT is a tax paid
by persons who stay at Norwalk hotels and motels. The
tax is not levied on Norwalk residents unless they stay in
a motel or hotel in the City.

If Measure A is not approved, the tax will be
reduced to 6%. Under current law, the City will not be
permitted to raise the tax beyond 10% without a vote of
the people if Measure A is approved.

The revenues from the TOT are not designated
for any specific purpose, and are used for general City
functions such as police protection, recreation services,
graffiti removal, and street and park maintenance and
repairs.

The amount of the tax included in Measure A
generates approximately $340,000 per year to pay for
City services. The City would be required to lower the
City budget by this amount if Measure A is defeated
unless new sources of equivalent revenue to the City can
be found. These reductions could adversely impact the
services listed above.

The City lawfully adopted an ordinance raising the
TOT in 1989 based on the case law existing at that time.
Subsequently, the California Supreme Court overruled
these prior cases. Even later, the California Supreme
Court held that the new decision was retroactive. In
response to those cases, a City resident, represented by
the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association, filed a claim
contending the increase authorized in 1989 was not
valid.

Instead of expending City funds to litigate this
issue, the City voluntarily agreed to submit the TOT rate
increase to the voters, and the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association indicated that it would take a neutral position
on the TOT and would neither support nor oppose it.

A “Yes” vote on Measure A will continue the City’s
existing 10% TOT rate that has been in effect for more
than 10 years. A “No” vote would reduce the TOT to 6%
and reduce the City’s annual budget by approximately
$340,000 unless new sources of equivalent revenue can
be found.

Steven L. Dorsey
City Attorney

The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Measure A. If you desire a copy of the Measure,
please call the City Clerk’s office at (562) 929-5720
and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

ANALISIS IMPARCIAL DE LA INICIATIVA DE LEYA

La Iniciativa de Ley A aprueba la tasa municipal
actual del 10% del impuesto al hospedaje transitorio
(TOT, segun su siglas en ingles). El TOT es un impuesto
que pagan los huespedes que se alojan en hoteles y
moteles de Norwalk. El impuesto no se cobra a residentes
de Norwalk a menos que se alojen en un motel u hotel de
la Ciudad.

Si no se aprueba la Iniciativa de Ley A, el impuesto
se reducira al 6%. Segun la ley actual, la Municipalidad
no podra aumentar el impuesto a mas del 10% sin el
voto del pueblo si la Iniciativa de Ley A se aprueba.

Las recaudaciones del impuesto TOT no
se destinan a ningun fin especffico, y se usan para
actividades municipales generales como por ejemplo
proteccion policfaca, servicios de recreacion, eliminacion
de graffiti y mantenimiento y reparaciones de calles y
parques.

El monto del impuesto que se incluye en la
Iniciativa de Ley A genera alrededor de $340,000 por ano
para pagar los servicios municipales. La Ciudad tendria
que reducir el presupuesto municipal en esta suma si no
se aprueba la Iniciativa de Ley A, a menos que puedan
encontrarse nuevas fuentes de ingreso equivalentes para
sus gastos. Estas reducciones podrian perjudicar los
servicios que se enumeran mas arriba.

En 1989, la Ciudad adopto legalmente una
ordenanza que aumenta el impuesto TOT basandose en
precedentes jurisprudenciales en vigor en ese momento.
La Corte Suprema de California luego denego estos
casos previos. Incluso mas tarde, la Corte Suprema de
California sostuvo que la nueva decision era retroactiva.
En respuesta a dichos casos, un residente municipal,
representado por la [asociacion] Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association, entablo una demanda que sostenfa que el
aumento autorizado en 1989 carecfa de validez.

En vez de gastar fondos municipales para litigar
el caso, la Ciudad acordo voluntariamente someter
el aumento de la tasa del impuesto TOT al voto de los
electores, y la [asociacion] Howard Jarvis Taxpayers
Association indico que asumirfa una posicion neutral con
respecto al impuesto TOT y que no se pronunciarfa a
favor ni en contra.

Un voto a favor de la Iniciativa de Ley A hara que
continue la tasa municipal actual del 10% del impuesto
TOT que ha tenido vigencia desde hace mas de diez
ahos. Un voto en contra reducirfa el impuesto TOT al 6%
y disminuirfa el presupuesto municipal anual en alrededor
de $340,000, a menos que se puedan encontrar nuevas
fuentes de ingresos equivalentes.

Steven L. Dorsey
Fiscal Municipal

La declaracion que antecede es un analisis imparcial
de la Iniciativa de Ley A. Si desea obtener una copia
de la Iniciativa de Ley, por favor Name a la oficina del
Secretario Municipal al (562) 929-5720 y se le enviara
una copia por correo sin costo para usted alguno.

Norwalk / 7

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE A

The Transient Occupancy Tax (TOT), commonly known
as the “Hotel Tax,” is a fee added to the nightly room
rate charged to guests in hotels and motels located in
Norwalk. The Hotel Tax has been set at 10 percent since
October 1, 1990, and is the same or lower than almost
every other neighboring city.

Measure A will NOT increase the current rate.

The TOT ensures that the thousands of hotel visitors who
travel our streets, frequent our restaurants and retail areas
and rely daily on our police, fire and medical response
services pay their fair share.

The revenues generated by Norwalk’s TOT go into
the City’s general fund and offset not only the costs
associated with visitors, but also bolster City programs in
the areas of public safety, graffiti removal, public works,
parks and recreation, code enforcement, and capital
improvements.

Because the fee is critical to maintaining existing programs
and services, we strongly encourage you to vote YES on
Measure A. The following are some important points to
consider:

•	Approving Measure A will not increase current taxes
one penny; it just continues an existing fee.

•	Approving Measure A will protect $400,000 of
Norwalk’s General Fund. These dollars help ensure
that visitors to Norwalk pay their fair share for City
services they use while staying in town.

•	TOT revenues help pay for essential services that
enhance our community and thus increase property
values.

•	Norwalk residents will never have to pay the TOT
unless they stay in a motel or hotel located in
Norwalk.

•	Measure A sets a TOT rate that is generally less or
the same as most cities in our area.

To preserve the quality of life that makes Norwalk a great
place to live, we urge you to VOTE YES ON MEASURE

A.

Gordon Stefenhagen, Mayor
Jesse M. Luera, Vice Mayor
Cheri Kelley, Councilmember
Michael Mendez, Councilmember
Rick Ramirez, Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST WAS FILED

ARGUMENTO A FAVOR DE LA INICIATIVA DE LEYA

El impuesto al hospedaje transitorio (TOT, segun su
siglas en ingles), comunmente denominado “Impuesto
Hotelero”, es un recargo que se agrega a la tarifa diaria
de habitacion que se cobra a los huespedes de hoteles
y moteles de Norwalk. El impuesto hotelero se ha fijado
[al] en un 10 por ciento desde el 1° de octubre de 1990,
y es igual o menor al de casi todas las otras ciudades
vecinas.

La Iniciativa de Ley A NO aumentara la tasa actual.

El impuesto TOT garantiza que los miles de huespedes
de hoteles que viajan por nuestras calles, frecuentan
nuestros restaurantes y zonas comerciales y confian
diariamente en nuestros servicios de policia, bomberos y
asistencia medica paauen la parte que les corresponde.

Los ingresos que genera el impuesto TOT de Norwalk
se destinan al fondo municipal general y absorben no
solo los costos relacionados con los visitantes sino que
tambien sustentan programas municipales de seguridad
publica, eliminacion de graffiti, obras publicas, parques
y recreacion, cumplimiento de codigo y mejoras de
capital.

Dado que el recargo es fundamental para mantener
los programas y servicios actuales, le sugerimos
seriamente que vote A FAVOR de la Iniciativa de Ley A.
A continuacion figuran algunos importantes puntos para
tomar en cuenta:

•	La aprobacion de la Iniciativa de Ley A no aumentara
los impuestos actuales ni un centavo, simplemente
mantiene un recargo en vigencia.

•	La aprobacion de la Iniciativa de Ley A protegera
$400,000 del Fondo General de Norwalk. Este dinero
ayuda a garantizar que los visitantes de Norwalk
paguen la parte que le corresponde de los servicios
municipales que usan mientras [visitan] permanezcan
en la ciudad.

•	Las recaudaciones del impuesto TOT ayudan a pagar
servicios esenciales que mejoran nuestra comunidad
y por lo tanto aumentan el valor de la propiedad.

•	Los residentes de Norwalk jamas tendran que pagar
el impuesto TOT a menos que se alojen en un motel
u hotel situado en [la Ciudad] Norwalk.

•	La I niciativa de Ley A establece una tasa del im puesto
TOT que, en general, es menor o igual a la de la
mayoria de las ciudades de nuestra zona.

Para conservar la calidad de vida que hace que
Norwalk sea un gran lugar para vivir, le recomendamos
encarecidamente que VOTE A FAVOR DE LA INICIATIVA
DE LEYA.

Gordon Stefenhagen, Alcalde
Jesse M. Luera, Vicealcalde
Cheri Kelley, Concejal
Michael Mendez, Concejal
Rick Ramirez, Concejal

NO SE PRESENTARON ARGUMENTOS EN CONTRA

Norwalk / 8

ORDINANCE NO. 06-1568

AN ORDINANCE OF THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF
NORWALK RATIFYING THE CITY’S EXISTING
TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX OF TEN PERCENT (10%)

AND AMENDING SECTION 3.32.030 OF THE NORWALK
MUNICIPAL CODE

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF NORWALK DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section A. Chapter 3.32 of the Norwalk Municipal Code (‘Code’) entitled
Transient Occupancy Tax’ which applies a ten percent (10%) tax rate on all hotel room
charges in the City of Norwalk is hereby amended as of July 1, 2006 as set forth in
Chapter 3.32 of the Code, attached hereto as Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by
this reference to affirm the Transient Occupancy Tax often percent (10%).

Section B. The City is hereby authorized to continue to impose and collect the
Transient Occupancy Tax as provided by the terms set out in Chapter 3.32 of the Code.

Section C. In no event may the City Council alter the provisions of section

3.32.030	to increase the ten percent (10%) rate on hotel rooms without the approval of
a majority of voters of the City, voting on the question of the tax rate; provided, however,
the City Council is hereby authorized to amend any other provisions of Chapter 3.32 of
the Code by three (3) affirmative votes of its members to, without limitation, carry out
the general administrative purposes of Chapter 3.32 of the Code to reasonably
implement the collection of the transient occupancy tax through hotel proprietors as
authorized in Chapter 3.32 of the Code.

Section D. It is the intent of the voters to apply the provisions of Chapter 3.32 of
the Code to the fullest extent permitted by the law to ratify the City’s previous and
continued collection of the tax.

Section E. This Ordinance shall be effective only if approved by a majority of
voters voting thereon and shall go into effect ten (10) days after the vote is declared by
the City Council.”

ADOPTED AT A SPECIAL ELECTION OF THE CITY OF NORWALK held on
the 11th day of April, 2006.

■O

CD

-I—'

CL

O

"O

CD

c8 a

* §
CD
o
c

CD £

E o

■So

o

o>5

c -*-<

° ^
0)-Q

2 CO
O o

«- O

<D CM

(0 _
-G iZ
Q.
>- <
It c
t °

0£ -a
LU a)

0	-c

SI

III O

a ®

uj a>

1	CO

O .&
° E

CO 3

E E
>2 co

co 8
o ®

co

UJ

H

. cn

=| ro
CO

g CO
o CD

^ E

CO

5°

CD ^
£ ro
h— ?

O O

z

® ■S

o >,

O 03

§o

aj <d

Q a.

to 2
(0 0
- Q_

0

8 <o

el

-Q

in

|.	tn
vO ‘ O ■	; UJ
	>-
°i  IN [	i	
N.,	

vO

<0

S!Z X
a uj g
aiu p

IN

Q. ,S

(A

£

3

(A

V

ec.

75

u

fc

O

75

c

-I CO
UJ h U

-J 9 In

< j <

£ < W!

U CQ

tn

<! _

►H j Q

Util

111 Q/ M
Q- uj Q£
(O I— LU

, to H
v H O
>1

< s
si“

a

01

2
ll
O

fc.-

Cl

in

#

rs

Ol

VO

in

in

#

IN

O

in

co

CN

CO

IN

#

CO

00



m

oo

oo

cn

in

IN

o

VO

IN

VO

CN

rs

m

CO

O

VO

3

IN

Ol

Ol

IN

VO

#

CO

CO

in

in

oo

rH

IN

CO

in

co

a

m

vo

00

IN

IN

Ol

CO

CO

ri

CO

CN

VO

m

CO

N,

IN

	rs	
vo	o	VO
N	vO	m
H	IN	

PM

rs

00

VO

IN

Ordinance No. 06-1568

Page 2 of 8

THERESA DEVOY
CITY CLERK 0\

ORDINANCE 06-1568
EXHIBIT “A”

Chapter 3.32 UNIFORM TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX	
Sections:	
3.32.010	Title.
3.32.020	Definitions.
3.32.030	Tax imposed.
3.32.040	Exemptions.
3.32.050	Operator’s duties.
3.32.060	Registration.
3.32.070	Reporting and remitting.
3.32.080	Penalties and interest.
3.32.090	Failure to collect and report tax--Determination of tax by Finance Director.
3.32.100	Appeal.
3.32.110	Records.
3.32.120	Refunds.
3.32.130	Actions to collect.
3.32.140	Violations.
3.32.010	Title.

This chapter shall be known as the uniform transient occupancy tax ordinance.
(Prior code § 9-2.1)

3.32.020	Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

"Hotel" means any structure, or any portion of any structure, which is occupied or
intended or designed for occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel,
bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house, dormitory, public or
private club, mobilehome or house trailer at a fixed location, or other similar structure or
portion thereof, when so occupied, intended or designed.

"Occupancy" means the use or possession, or the right to the use or possession
of any room or rooms or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes, and "occupy" means to have such use, possession or right.

"Operator" means the person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the
capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, or any other
capacity. Where the operator performs his or her functions through a managing agent or
any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be
deemed an operator for the purpose of this chapter and shall have the same duties and
liabilities as his principal. Compliance with the provisions of this chapter by either the
principal or the managing agent shall, however, be considered to be compliance by
both.

Ordinance No. 06-1568

Page 3 of 8

"Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, social
club, fraternal organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business
trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.

"Rent" means the consideration charged, whether or not received, for the
occupancy of space in a hotel, valued in money, whether to be received in money,
goods, labor or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and services
of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.

"Tenant" means any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy
by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement.

"Transient" means any tenant who exercises occupancy or is entitled to
occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement
for a period of thirty (30) consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of
calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a hotel shall be
deemed to be a transient until the period of thirty (30) days has expired unless there is
an agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant providing for a longer
period of occupancy; provided, however, that persons making their regular residence in
and occupying a room or rooms as tenant for rental periods of not less than one week in
a hotel which does not rent or offer to rent rooms for lesser periods and which does not
hold itself out as a "motel" or "hotel" shall not be deemed a transient. In determining
whether a person is a transient, uninterrupted periods of time extending both prior and
subsequent to the effective date of this chapter may be considered. (Prior code § 9-2.2)

3.32.030	Tax imposed.

For the privilege of occupancy in any hotel or motel, each transient (guest) is
subject to and shall pay a tax in the amount of ten percent (10%). This tax constitutes a
debt owed by the transient to the City which is extinguished only by payment to the
operator or the City. The transient shall pay the tax to the operator of the hotel at the
time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax
shall be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient’s
ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to the
operator of the hotel, the Finance Director may require that such tax shall be paid
directly to the Finance Director. (Prior code §9-2.3)

3.32.040	Exemptions.

No tax shall be imposed upon:

A.	Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the
power of the City to impose the tax provided in this chapter;

B.	Any federal or State of California officer or employee when on official
business;

C.	Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason
of express provisions of federal law or international treaty.

No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim therefor made at the time
rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by the Finance
Director. (Prior code § 9-2.4)

Ordinance No. 06-1568

Page 4 of 8

3.32.050	Operator’s duties.

Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this chapter to the same extent
and at the same time as the rent is collected from each transient. The amount of tax
shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent charged, and each transient shall
receive a receipt for payment from the operator. No operator of a hotel shall advertise or
state in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be
assumed or absorbed by the operator, or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if
added, any part will be refunded except in the manner provided in this chapter. Any
operator failing or refusing to collect any tax imposed by this chapter shall be liable for
the full amount thereof, and shall remit the same to the Finance Director at the same
time as taxes collected are required to be so remitted by Section 3.32.070. (Prior code §
9-2.5)

3.32.060	Registration.

Within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this chapter, or within thirty (30)
days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator of any hotel renting
occupancy to transients shall register the hotel with the Finance Director and obtain
from him or her a "Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate," which certificate shall
thereafter be at all times posted in a conspicuous place on the premises. Such
certificate shall among other things, state the following:

A.	The name of the operator, and of the managing agent, if any;

B.	The address of the hotel;

C.	The date upon which the certificate was issued;

D.	The following statement:

This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the person
named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Uniform Transient Tax
Ordinance of the City of Norwalk by registering with the Finance Director of the City of
Norwalk for the purpose of collecting from transients the Transient Occupancy Tax and
remitting said tax to the Finance Director. This certificate does not authorize any person
to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful
manner, nor to operate a hotel without strictly complying with all applicable local laws,
including but not limited to those requiring a permit or business license from any
department or office of this City. This certificate does not constitute a permit or business
license.

(Prior code §9-2.6)

3.32.070	Reporting and remitting.

Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following the close of
each calendar quarter, or at the close of any shorter reporting period which may be
established by the Finance Director as provided in this chapter, make a return to the
Finance Director, on forms provided by him or her, of total rents charged and received
and the amount of tax collected for transient occupancy, and shall also report the total
rents charged upon which it is claimed no transient occupancy tax was or is due. At the
time the return is filed, the full amount of the tax collected shall be remitted to the
Finance Director. The Finance Director may establish shorter reporting periods for any
certificate holder if he or she deems it necessary in order to insure collection of the tax;

Ordinance No. 06-1568

Page 5 of 8

provided that, such certificate holder has established a record of being delinquent in
reporting and/or remitting taxes accruing hereunder, and the Finance Director may also
establish such shorter reporting periods for any certificate holder upon request
therefrom. (Prior code §9-2.7)

3.32.080	Penalties and interest.

A.	Original Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by
this chapter within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten (10) percent of the
amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax.

B.	Continued Delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of thirty (30) days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penalty of ten (10)
percent of the amount of the tax in addition to the amount of the tax and the ten (10)
percent penalty first imposed.

C.	Fraud. If the Finance Director determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this chapter is due to fraud on the part of such operator, his or her
agents or employees, a penalty of twenty-five (25) percent of the amount of the tax shall
be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in subsection A and B of this
section.

D.	Interest. In addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails to
remit any tax imposed by this chapter shall pay interest at the rate of one-half of one
percent per month or fraction thereof on the amount of the tax, exclusive of penalties,
from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.

E.	Penalties Merged with Tax; Waiver. Every penalty imposed and such
interest as accrues under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax
required to be paid. Any penalty may, for good cause, be waived; provided that, a report
thereof is made to the City Council. (Prior code §9-2.8)

3.32.090	Failure to collect and report tax-- Determination of tax by Finance Director.

If any operator shall fail or refuse to collect the tax or to make, within the time
provided in this chapter, any report and/or remittance of such tax or any portion thereof
required by this chapter, the Finance Director shall proceed in such a manner as he or
she may deem best to obtain facts and information on which to base his or her estimate
of the tax due as soon as the Finance Director shall procure such facts and information
as he or she is able to obtain upon which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by
this chapter and payable by any operator who has failed or refused to collect the same
or to make such report and remittance, he or she shall proceed to determine and
assess against such operator the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this chapter.
In case such determination is made, the Finance Director shall give a notice of the
amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United States
mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at his or her last known
place of address. Such operator may, within ten (10) days after the serving or mailing of
such notice, make application in writing to the Finance Director for a hearing on the
amount assessed, if application by the operator for a hearing is not made within the time
prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the Finance Director
shall become final and conclusive and immediately due and payable by such operator. If

Ordinance No. 06-1568

Page 6 of 8

such application is made, the Finance Director shall give not less than five days written
notice in the manner prescribed in this chapter to the operator to show cause at a time
and place fixed in such notice why such amount specified therein should not be fixed for
such tax, interest and penalties. At such hearing, the operator may appear and offer
evidence why such specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After
such hearing the Finance Director shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and
shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed in this chapter
of such determination and of the amount of such tax, interest and penalties. The amount
determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen (15) days unless an appeal is taken
as provided in Section 3.32.100. (Prior code §9-2.9)

3.32.100	Appeal.

Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the Finance Director with respect to
the amount of such tax, interest and penalties may appeal to the City Council by filing a
notice of appeal with the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days of the serving or mailing of
the determination of tax due. The City Council shall fix a time and place for hearing such
appeal, and the City Clerk shall give notice in writing to such operator at his or her last
known place of address or at the address designated in the notice of the appeal. The
findings of the City Council shall be final and conclusive and shall be served upon the
appellant in the manner prescribed above for service of notice of hearing. Any amount
found to be due shall be immediately due and payable upon the service of notice
thereof. (Prior code §9-2.10)

3.32.110	Records.

It shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment to the
City of any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of three
years, all records which may be necessary to determine the amount of such taxes as
may have accrued to the City and for the collection or payment of which such operator
is responsible. The Finance Director shall have the right to inspect such records at all
reasonable times, but shall hold the same in confidence and utilize the same only for
the purposes of this chapter. (Prior code §9-2.11)

3.32.120	Refunds.

A.	Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid or
paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the
City under this chapter it maybe refunded as provided in subsections B and C of this
section provided a claim in writing therefor, stating under penalty of perjury the specific
grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with the Finance Director within three
years of the date of payment. The claim shall be on forms furnished by the Finance
Director.

B.	An operator may claim a refund or take as a credit against taxes collected
and to be remitted the amount previously overpaid, paid more than once, or paid after
being erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established in a manner
prescribed by the Finance Director that the person from whom the tax has been
collected was not a transient; provided, however, that neither a refund nor a credit shall
be allowed unless the amount of the tax to be refunded or credited, if collected from a

Ordinance No. 06-1568

Page 7 of 8

tenant or other person, has either been refunded to such person or credited to rent
subsequently payable by such person to the operator.

C.	A tenant may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than once or
erroneously or illegally collected or received by the City by filing a claim in the manner
provided in subsection A of this section, but only when tax was paid by the tenant
directly to the Finance Director, or when the tenant, having paid the tax to an operator,
establishes to the satisfaction of the Finance Director that the tenant has applied for and
been unable to obtain a refund from the operator who collected the tax.

D.	No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the
claimant establishes his or her right thereto by written records showing entitlement
thereto. (Prior code §9-2.12)

3.32.130	Actions to collect.

Any tax required to be paid by any transient or operator under the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed a debt owed by such transient or operator to the City. Any
such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the City shall be deemed a
debt owed by the operator to the City. Any person owing money to the City under the
provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the City for
the recovery of such amount, which remedy shall be in addition to all other remedies,
civil or criminal, provided by law, including the provisions of the Norwalk Municipal
Code. (Prior code §9-2.13)

3.32.140	Violations.

Any operator or other person who fails to register as required in this chapter, or
to furnish any return required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a
supplemental return or other data reasonably required by the Finance Director, or who
renders a false or fraudulent return or claim, or who fails to permit reasonable inspection
by the Finance Director of his or her records as provided in this chapter, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any report or claim
who makes any false or fraudulent report or claim with intent to defeat or evade the
determination of any amount due, which determination is required by this chapter to be
made, is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior code §9-2.14)

Ordinance No. 06-1568

Page 8 of 8