IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE F

This Measure is intended to provide an annual
source of funding for the proposed Modoc Area Recreation
and Parks District (“District”). If Measure E is passed, the
new District will be formed. If this Measure is passed by
two-thirds vote, the District will assess a $25.00 per year
special tax on each property owner owning property within
the new District. If Measure E passes but Measure F fails,
it is doubtful the District will have sufficient funding. In the
event the District has insufficient funding, it could be
subject to being dissolved. This Measure approves a
$25.00 per year assessment. Any increase in assessment
would require a new vote of the registered voters within
the District.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE F

No property owner will pay more than $25 per year,
regardless of the number of properties owned. The
assessment will allow the district to construct and maintain
the Modoc Aquatic and Recreation Center. The center will
include an indoor HEATED pool and gym. Property owners
who pay the $25 per year will receive a $25 credit to use
at the Modoc Aquatic & Recreation Center. This center
will increase the health, wellness and recreation choices
available to Modoc County citizens, from children to
seniors. As a community facility, the center will be owned
and operated by the citizens of Modoc County through
the Modoc Parks and Recreation District.

The Modoc Aquatic & Recreation Center will provide year-
round access to physical fitness, aquatic/physical therapy
and recreation activities, as well as community gatherings
and functions. The center will have an indoor HEATED
25-meter pool, a wading pool, locker rooms, and reception
area with a snack bar, full-size gym, and walking track. A
weight room, exercise/meeting room, racquetball court and
a Jacuzzi/sauna room will be added as funding becomes
available. The facility will be open year-round, seven days
a week, except holidays.

Benefits include an increase in:

Economic development

Senior health and wellness programs

Aquatic rehabilitation

Mentoring - Adult/child and youth/child

Health and fitness for all

Sense of Community

Organized recreation

Youth & family recreation

We request your YES vote for this assessment.

Modoc Aquatic & Recreation Committee

/s/ Teresa Jacques
/s/ Michael Mason
/s/ Rod Bodmer
/s/ Sheila Gilliam
/s/ Peter Currer

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE F
(None Filed)