BEFORE THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE

SPRINGVILLE MEMORIAL DISTRICT

FILED

JUL 2 7 2006

TULARE COUNTY
REGISTRAR OF VOTERS

In the Matter of Proposing the	)

)

Authorization of District to own, operate ) RESOLUTION NO. 03- (OG>

)

and maintain parks, and Adoption of a )

)

Special Tax to Raise Revenue to Operate )

)

and Maintain District’s Property	)

)

Including Memorial Building and	)

)

Grounds, Parking Lot and parks Located	)

)

in Springville; Ordering a Special	)

)

Election thereon and Consolidation of	)

)

Elections; and Specifications of the	)

)

Election Order	)

WHEREAS, owing to the present and continuing need to authorize the District to own,
operate and maintain parks located in the Springville Memorial District, so the District may
decide to own, operate and maintain parks if funds become available to the District, this Board
has determined that it would be in the best interests of this District and the people in the
community and landowners in the District to authorize the district to own, operate and maintain
parks; and

WHEREAS, owing to the present and continuing need to operate and maintain property

including but not limited to the memorial building, grounds (hereinafter referred to as

“Building”) and parking lot located at 35944 Highway 190, Springville, CA 93265, and any
park owned by the District and located in the Town of Springville, CA, this Board has
determined that it would be in the best interests of this District and the people in the community
and landowners in the District to provide for ongoing and additional operations and projects of
the District, including the operation and maintenance of Building, parking lot, parks and other
property owned by District, and to provide for ongoing and additional operations and projects of
the District, as allowed by law; and

WHEREAS, owing to the limited amount of funding, increased maintenance costs, and
the need to provide for ongoing and additional operations and projects of the District, including
the operation and maintenance of Building, parking lot, parks and other property owned by

District, as allowed by law, this Board has further determined that it would be it) the best

\

interests of this District and the people and landowners thereof to finance said maintenance and
operation with the proceeds from a special tax and other available District funds; and

WHEREAS, section 1191 of the Military and Veterans Code authorize this District to
order an election to allow the electorate to determine whether the District shall provide and
maintain the outdoor parks and recreation facilities; and

WHEREAS, section 1192.5 of the Military and Veterans Code and sections 50075
through 50077 of the Government Code authorize this District to order an election to allow the
electorate to determine whether such special tax shall be levied; and

WHEREAS, said Government Code sections require that notice be given and a public
hearing be held before a resolution proposing an election on the question of a special tax may be
adopted; and

WHEREAS, at its duly noticed Special Meeting on July 12, 2006, this Board did adopt a
resolution that called a Special Meeting of this Board for July 26, 2006, set said Special Meeting
as the time to consider authorizing the District to own, operate and maintain Springville Park,
and as the required public hearing for proposing an election on the question of adopting the

2	of 6

special,tax, published notice of the public hearing as required by law, and for considering any

and all public comments on this matter; and

WHEREAS, this Board desires to place the questions of authorization of the Springville
Memorial District to own, operate and maintain parks, and a special tax on the ballot in
conjunction with the November 7, 2006 general election;

WHEREAS, the electors who will be entitled to vote on this authorization to own,
operate and maintain parks and special tax measure shall be those electors who reside within the
boundaries of the Springville Memorial District; and

WHEREAS, approval of a majority of such electors voting upon the measure to authorize
the District to own, operate and maintain parks is required for the passage of said measure; and
WHEREAS, approval of two-thirds (2/3rds) of such electors voting upon the special tax
measure is required for the passage of said measure;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:

1.	This Board has determined that it is in the best interests of this District to
submit to the qualified electors of this District the question of whether the Springville Memorial
District should be authorized to own, operate and maintain parks, and whether it should be
authorized to levy a special tax to provide for ongoing and additional operations and projects of
the District, including the operation and maintenance of the District’s Building, parking lot,
parks and other property, as allowed by law; and

2.	A special election is hereby called and ordered to be held within the
boundaries of the Springville Memorial District on the 7th day of November 2006, at which
election there shall be submitted to the qualified electors the following measure, to wit:

MEASURE A: AUTHORIZE SPRINGVILLE MEMORIAL DISTRICT TO
OWN, OPERATE AND MAINTAIN PARKS, LOCATED IN THE
SPRINGVILLE MEMORIAL DISTRICT.

3	of 6

. Shall the Springville Memorial District be authorized to own, operate and
maintain parks located in the Springville Memorial District?

Upon authorization to own, operate and maintain the parks, Springville Memorial
District may decide to acquire, own, operate and maintain parks if it determines it
has adequate or additional funding,

MEASURE B: SPRINGVILLE MEMORIAL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX TO
PROVIDE FOR ONGOING AND ADDITIONAL OPERATIONS AND
PROJECTS OF THE DISTRICT, INCLUDING THE OPERATION,

MAINTENANCE, REPAIR AND RENOVATION OF THE SPRINGVILLE
MEMORIAL BUILDING, PARKING LOT, AND PARKS, AS ALLOWED BY
LAW

Shall the Springville Memorial District be authorized to levy a special tax, on an
annual basis, upon all persons owning assessable parcels of land within the
Springville Memorial District, at the rates of eight dollars and fifty cents ($8.50)
per taxable parcel?

The proceeds of this special tax shall be used solely and exclusively for the
purpose of providing for ongoing and additional operations and projects of the
District, including the operation and maintenance of Building, parking lot, parks
and other property owned by District, as allowed by law.

2.	The Board of Directors of the Springville Memorial District may cancel or
reduce any or all of the special tax at any time if the District receives sufficient funds for the
above-mentioned purposes.

3.	The text of the aforementioned measures, as displayed on each individual
ballot, shall be abbreviated and shall read as follows so as not to exceed the 75 word limit per
measure, as required by Elections Code Sections 9 and 13247:

4	of 6

MEASURE A: AUTHORIZE SPRINGVILLE MEMORIAL DISTRICT TO OWN,
OPERATE AND MAINTAIN PARKS, AS ALLOWED BY LAW.

Shall Springville Memorial District be authorized to own, operate and maintain parks,
located in Springville Memorial District? YES_____ NO________

MEASURE B: SPRINGVILLE MEMORIAL DISTRICT SPECIAL TAX TO
PROVIDE FOR ONGOING AND ADDITIONAL OPERATIONS AND PROJECTS,
INCLUDING THE OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF DISTRICT’S
MEMORIAL BUILDING, PARKING LOT AND PARKS, AS ALLOWED BY LAW.
Shall Springville Memorial District be authorized to levy a special tax, on an annual
basis, upon persons owning assessable parcels of land within Springville Memorial
District, at rates of $8.50 per taxable parcel? YES__ NO

4.	As provided in sections 10403 and 23300 et seq. of the Elections Code,
this Board hereby requests that this special memorial district election be consolidated with the
regular statewide general election to be held in the Springville Memorial District on the 7th day
of November 2006.

5.	The polls for this election shall open and close at the times required by
law. The precincts, places of holding the special election and officers appointed to conduct the
special election shall be the same as those provided for the regular statewide general election
within the Springville Memorial District boundaries.

6.	The special tax on all parcels of land, at the rates specified above, shall be
collected by the County of Tulare through the regular property tax collection process.

7.	The Secretary of this Board shall immediately deliver a copy of this
resolution to the Board of Supervisors and the Tulare County Auditor/Controller/Registrar of
Voters.

5	of 6

8.	The County Auditor/Controller/Registrar of Voters Tulare County is
hereby directed to take all steps necessary for the holding of this consolidated election on
November 7, 2006.

9.	Within fifteen (15) days after the passage of this resolution, the Secretary
of this Board shall cause it to be published in the Porterville Recorder in accordance with the
Elections Code.

The foregoing Resolution was adopted upon motion of Director
seconded by Director	7^TiT£ig^Al.	at	a	Special	Meeting	on	this	26th	day	of	July,	2006,

by the following vote:

AYES: OULLu^(Et7 y	N^	TV^Arft-cj^TJ C , OTT^X, /V\ c CC^M-y'

NOES:

ABSTAINED:

NFD/07.03.2006/BOS20061/] 54658.doc

6	of 6