CITY COUNCIL

CITY OF CARMEL-BY-THE-SEA
RESOLUTION 2006 - 31

A RESOLUTION OF THE CITY OF CARMEL-BY-THE-SEA SUBMITTING TO THE
QUALIFIED VOTERS OF THE CITY OF CARMEL-BY-THE-SEA AT THE
NOVEMBER 7, 2006 GUBERNATORIAL GENERAL ELECTION, A BALLOT
MEASURE AMENDING SECTIONS 5.08.010 AND 5.08.020 OF THE CARMEL-BY-
THE-SEA MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO BUSINESS LICENSE TAXES;
APPROVING THE FORM OF THE BALLOT QUESTION; SETTING FORTH
PROCEDURES FOR BALLOT ARGUMENT AND REBUTTAL ARGUMENTS AND
DIRECTING THE SUBMISSION OF THE MEASURE TO THE CITY ATTORNEY

FOR IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS.

WHEREAS, the City of Carmel-by-the-Sea, California, desires to submit to the
voters of the City a ballot measure amending Business License Taxes, Licenses, and
Regulations; and

WHEREAS, the City Council is authorized and directed by statute to submit the
proposed measure to the voters; and

WHEREAS, for the ease and convenience of the registered voters within the City
and in order to take advantage of any possible reduction in election costs, it is desirable
that this City election be consolidated with the Gubernatorial General Election of
November 7, 2006, to be held within Monterey County on the same day.

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARMEL-BY-
THE-SEA, CALIFORNIA, DOES RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:

1. That the City Council hereby submits to the qualified voters of the City of
Carmel-by-the-Sea at the Gubernatorial General Election the following question:

To provide funding for Carmel-by-the-Sea general City services, shall an
Ordinance amending Sections 5.08.010 and 5.08.020 of the Carmel-by-
the-Sea Municipal Code to increase the business license taxes charged to
businesses operating within the City of Carmel-by-the-Sea be approved?

2.	That the proposed ballot measure amending Chapter 5.08, Sections 5.08.010
and 5.08.020 of the Carmel-by-the-Sea Municipal Code shall appear and be printed upon
the ballots to be used at the Election and shall read as follows:

CHAPTER 5.08 - DEFINITION AND INDEX OF GENERAL BUSINESS
CLASSIFICATIONS AND TAX RATE

Every person commencing or carrying on a business within this City shall pay a license
tax in an amount determined in accordance with the nature of the business as hereinafter
set forth:

SECTION 5.08.010

5.08.010	Classifications.

For purposes of this title only, all general business classifications with the
exception of special events and transportation of persons/goods are subject to a
license tax of $1.00 per $1,000 gross receipts per year. Listed below are general
business classifications. This does not preclude any business not specifically
listed below:

A.	Administrative Office. Any business operation where the principal business
transacted consists of providing administrative or management-related services
such as, but not limited to, record keeping, data processing, research, advertising,
public relations, personnel administration and legal and corporate headquarters
services to other locations where the operations of the same business are
conducted which lead more directly to the production of the gross receipt.

B.	Contractors. Any person who is licensed as a contractor by the State of
California and who undertakes to or offers to undertake to or purports to have the
capacity to undertake to or submits a bid to, or does himself or by or through
others, construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck or
demolish any building, highway, road, railroad, excavation or other structure,
project, development or improvement, or to do any part thereof, including the
erection of scaffolding or other structures or works in connection therewith, is
defined as contractor. The term “contractor” includes subcontractor and specialty
contractor.

C.	Hotel/Motel. Any person conducting, managing, or carrying on a business
involving the operation of a hotel or motel for the purpose of providing temporary
lodging to persons visiting the City.

D.	Manufacturers. Any person conducting, managing or carrying on a business
consisting mainly of manufacturing, packing, or processing any goods, wares,
merchandise or produce.

E.	Professions. Any person, group, association, partnership, firm or corporation
engaged in a profession or vocation licensed by the State, related to a licensed
profession or vocation, and/or requiring a period of specialized training such as,
but not limited to, physicians, dentists, attorneys, and accountants.

F.	Public Utilities. Any person engaged in the business of providing utility
services to the general public or private businesses including such services as
electric, gas, sanitary and garbage, cable television and telephone.

G.	Recreation and Entertainment. Any person engaged in the business of
providing directly recreation, entertainment, or amusement services.

H.	Rental of Residential Property. Any person engaged in the business of renting
or letting a building or structure to a tenant for purposes of dwelling, sleeping or
lodging (i.e., apartment, duplex, condominium or other residential property rental)
excluding hotels/motels.

I.	Rental of Nonresidential Property. Any person engaged in the business of
renting or letting a building or structure to a tenant for purposes of conducting
business (i.e., commercial retail space, office buildings, warehouses or other
nonresidential property use). (Note: As is the case in other California
jurisdictions, those included under this classification are typically owners of the
building, or those who are in the business of leasing space for the express purpose
of subletting. Space occupied by the owner is typically exempt. Leasing agents
and property managers are typically taxed under the services classification.)

J.	Food Stores. Any person conducting, managing or carrying on the business
consisting mainly of selling at retail food and/or grocery items.

K.	Restaurants. Any person conducting, managing or carrying on the business
consisting mainly of serving and selling prepared meals, food stuffs and/or
beverages.

L.	Retail. Any person conducting, managing or carrying on the business of selling
at retail any good or merchandise, excluding food.

M.	Services. Any business providing services, repairs or improvements to or on
real and personal property, renting or leasing personal property to businesses or
persons, providing services to businesses such as, but not limited to, bookkeeping
and secretarial services, providing services to persons such as, but not limited to,
real estate agents and brokers, laundries, cleaning and dyeing, shoe repair, barber
and beauty shops, and photographic studios.

N.	Wholesale. Any person conducting, managing or carrying on the business
consisting mainly of selling at wholesale any goods.

O.	Miscellaneous. Any person engaged in a business not specifically taxed by
other provisions of this chapter and not otherwise exempt. (Prop. 218, approved
by general election 4/98).

SECTION 5.08.020

5.08.020	Exceptions.

For purposes of this title only, teachers having less than 10 pupils shall not be
subject to the tax rate. Teachers having more than 10 students shall pay a business
license tax of $1.00 per $1,000 gross receipts. (Prop. 218, approved by general
election 4/98).

3.	That notice of the time and place of holding the election is given and the City
Clerk is authorized, instructed and directed to give further or additional notice of the
election, in time, form and manner as required by law.

FURTHER, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CARMEL-BY-THE-
SEA DOES DOES RESOLVE AS FOLLOWS:

1.	That written arguments for and against the ballot measure submitted to
the voters of the City of Carmel-by-the-Sea to be considered at the
November 7, 2006 Gubernatorial General Election shall not to exceed
300 words and shall be submitted to the City Clerk by August 11, 2006.

2.	That the authors may prepare and submit rebuttal arguments not
exceeding 250 words to the City Clerk by August 18, 2006.

3.	That pursuant to Section 9280 of the California Elections Code this
Council hereby directs that the City Attorney prepare an impartial
analysis of the measure to be placed before the electorate and submit it
to the City Clerk by August 18, 2006.

4.	That no additional materials shall be authorized for submission to the
City Clerk or shall be submitted by proponents or opponents of this
measure to be mailed in addition to the Sample Ballot and Voters’
Pamphlet.

5.	That in all other respects the provisions of Section 9280 through 9287
of the California Elections Code and other provisions of law pertaining
thereto shall govern.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
CARMEL-BY-THE-SEA this 6th day of June 2006, by the following roll call vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:

NOES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:

ABSENT:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS:

BETHEL, HAZDOVAC,
ROSE & McCLOUD

CUNNINGHAM

NONE

SIGNED,

SUE McCLOUD, MAYOR

ATTEST,