Shall an initiative measure be adopted imposing a 10-year parcel tax of $75 on single-family parcels, $40 for occupied rental units and an equivalent rate
for commercial and industrial properties, to be restricted for law enforcement purposes only?

FULL TEXT

City of East Palo Alto Violence Prevention and Public Safety Act

Section 1. Title.

This Act shall be known and may be cited as the City of East Palo
Alto Violence Prevention and Public Safety Act.

Section 2. Findings and Purpose.

The people of the City of East Palo Alto hereby make the following
findings and declare their purpose in enacting the Act is as follows:

(a)	The community and citizens of East Palo Alto would benefit
greatly from reduction in crime, the arrest and prosecution of drug dealers
and offenders, the elimination of illegal gang activity, and the protection of
innocent citizens from crime and violence; and

(b)	Violence and crime occur at workplaces, on school grounds,
and in residential neighborhoods within East Palo Alto. Crime in East Palo
Alto disrupts local commercial activity, reduces business and industrial
productivity, deters tourism and outside financial investments, and
depreciates the value of real estate.

(c)	Investing in a coordinated system of early intervention,
community policing, and violence-prevention efforts before injury occurs
will reduce economic and emotional costs and be a cost-effective use of
taxpayer dollars.

(d)	In an effort to prevent violence and crime, East Palo Alto has
been attempting to develop a coordinated system of early intervention,
community policing, and violence prevention to address crime in the City;
but these programs are limited in scope or have been cut due to funding
constraints; and

(e)	Additional funding is needed to attract and retain quality
police officers, increase the size and frequency of police patrols throughout
the City, protect the safety of police officers on duty, improve police
emergency response times, and generally improve public safety services
for City residents Because of budget constraints, the City’s police
department is staffed at a level significantly lower than cities of similar size
in the United States.

(f)	Needed additional funding can be provided by a special
parcel tax approved by two-thirds of the City’s voters in compliance with
Propositions 13 and 218 and imposed on City property owners.

(g)	In order to assist the East Palo Alto police force with
reducing crime, arresting drug offenders and dealers, and protecting
innocent residents from crime and violence, this Act will impose a parcel
tax of $75 per single family equivalent unit to fund new and improved
police services.

(h)	Any additional funding raised by a special tax must not be
used to subsidize a reduction in current police funding; and

(i)	Any additional funding raised by a special tax will be
subjected to strict auditing and evaluation to insure that money is expended
only for police equipment, salaries, training, and related necessary
expenses to provide new, enhanced, and fully effective police services to
the community.

Section 3. General Provisions.

3.01	Purpose. The special parcel taxes imposed by this Act shall
be used solely for the purpose of enhancing police services and programs
to prevent violence and crime in the City of East Palo Alto. They will be
deposited in a special fund restricted to expenditures for the services and
programs specified in section 4 of this Act, and will be otherwise
administered strictly in accordance with its terms and directions.

3.02	Basis and Apportionment of Special Parcel Tax. The special
parcel taxes imposed by this Act are based on a community assessment of
innovative crime prevention strategies, and is intended to be proportional
to, and based on, estimates of typical uses and benefits from these
municipal services.

3.03	Intensity of Prevention Efforts. The apportionment of the
parcel taxes to various types of properties is based, in part, on the intensity
of policing and violence prevention needed for different kinds of land uses
and on the average number of occupants of a parcel of each type of
property. Users of residential property typically generate more calls for
service to the police and fire departments, and the intensity of use of police
and fire protection services increases as the number of residential units on
a parcel increases. On the other hand, because of the typically large size of
commercial and industrial parcels, and because the employees who work
for businesses located on such parcels and the customers who visit such
business generally outnumber the residents of even a similarly-sized parcel
of residential property (partly because non-residentially developed real
property often has more than one business operating on it), the tax on
commercial/industrial properties is calculated based on single family
equivalent units.

3.04	Density of Residential Development. As the density of
residential development increases, the cost of providing policing and
violence and crime prevention services also increases. The differing tax
rates accurately reflect the differing costs of providing services to the
different densities of residential development. Some services, such as an
additional neighborhood police officer in each community policing beat,
are not based on density of population.

3.05	Estimates of Use and Benefit. The parcel tax rates established
by this Act are proportional to and based on estimates of typical use of and
benefit to occupants of different residential parcels of policing and violence
prevention services. The rates are not tailored to individual use both
because such tailoring is not administratively feasible and because the City
must make police services available to all parcels and owners of parcels
equally.

3.06	Value of Services. Each occupant of a parcel derives value from
the availability of policing and crime and violence prevention services. The
value of such services lies in their availability and benefit to all residents,
and it would be unfair to charge their costs only to those persons who
actually use the services. Even if such services are not presently used by
an occupant, they may be used in the future and, in any event, their
availability benefits each occupant. The City’s policing and violence
prevention enhance the health, safety, and welfare of all occupants of
property in the City and improve their quality of life both directly and
indirectly. Reducing violence and crime is vitally important to the health,

Compiled by the City of East Palo Alto Deputy City Clerk/CEA Minette Warren

17

safety, and welfare of occupants.

3.07	Property Owner Recovery of Tax for Tenants.
Notwithstanding any provision of the East Palo Alto Rent Stabilization
Ordinance, any rule or regulation of the Rent Stabilization Program, or any
other City ordinance, rule, regulation, policy, or practice, owners may
recover the full amount of the parcel tax imposed by this Act from their
tenants or occupants unless the rental or occupancy agreement expressly
and affirmatively forbids such a recovery. The recovery allowed by this
paragraph shall be over the above any and all rents and other sums the
owner may be legally entitled to charge the tenant or occupant.

3.08	No Lien on Property. Non-payment of the tax will not result
in a lien on property, but will be solely a personal obligation of the
occupant or owner.

3.09	Collection of Tax from Owners. It is not feasible for the City
to collect the tax from the non-owner occupants on whom it is imposed
because the records available to the City do not include the names of
non-owner occupants. Therefore, the only practical way to collect a tax
imposed on occupants is to collect it from the owners of the occupied
properties.

3.10	No Impact on General Business License Taxes. There are
existing general business license taxes the proceeds of which are deposited
in the general fund. This Act shall have no impact on these taxes which
shall continue to be deposited into the general fund and used in the City’s
discretion for general governmental purposes. This tax is a special tax the
revenues of which will be placed in a special fund with expenditures
restricted as provided in section 4 of this Act.

Section 4.	Restricted Use of Tax Proceeds, Monitoring, and Oversight.

4.01	Restricted Use of Funds. No part of the tax proceeds raised
by this Act shall be expended except for: (a) police services for community
policing and violence prevention as described in sections 4.02 and 4.03
below; (b) evaluation costs described section 4.04 below; (c) annual audit
costs for the audit described in section 4.05 below; or (d) expenses of the
Violence Prevention and Public Safety Oversight Committee described in
section 4.06 below.

4.02	Community or Neighborhood Policing

a.	Neighborhood beat officers. Each community policing
beat will have at least one neighborhood officer assigned solely to serve the
residents of that beat to provide consistent and familiar contact between
residents and officers, continuity in problem solving, and availability of
immediate, street-level police response in each neighborhood of the City.

b.	School safety. Supplemental police services will be
available to respond to school safety and truancy.

c.	Crime reduction team. Additional officers will
investigate and respond to illegal substance transactions and commission of
violent crimes in identified hot spots.

d.	Domestic violence and child abuse intervention.
Additional officers will team with social service providers to intervene in
situations of domestic violence and child abuse, including child
prostitution.

e.	Officer training and equipment. Supplemental funds
will support training in community-policing techniques, establishing
police-social services referrals, and equipping officers provided in this
section.

f.	Follow-up investigations. Funds will be used to provide
follow-up in the investigation of crimes, including the training and
assignment of officers to investigations after initial incident reports are

recieved.

4.03	Violence Prevention Among Youth and Children. Funding
will be available for additional police officers who will work with youth
and children to prevent violence.

4.04	Evaluation. Not less than 1% nor more than 3% of funds
raised by this Act shall be set aside for an annual evaluation of the police
services and programs paid for by this Act. The evaluation shall be
conducted by an independent police expert evaluator not previously hired
or employed by the City and not currently hired or engaged by the City to
provide any services apart form the annual evaluation. No evaluator shall
be hired or engaged for more than two years, whether consecutive or non-
consecutive.

4.05	Annual Audit. An annual independent audit shall be
performed to assure accountability and the proper disbursement of the
proceeds of this tax in accordance with the objectives stated herein in
accordance with Government Code sections 50075.1 and 50075.3. The
auditor shall not have been previously hired or engaged by the City, shall
not currently be hired or engaged by the city to provide any services apart
from the audit, and shall not be engaged or hired for more than two years,
whether consecutive or non-consecutive.

4.06	Oversight. To ensure proper administration of revenue
collection, spending, and implementation of the programs mandated by this
Act, the city council shall appoint three members of a “Violence Prevention
and Public Safety Oversight Committee.” The committee shall review the
annual audit and evaluation, shall examine the administration of services
and programs, and shall make recommendations to the city council for any
new regulations, resolutions, or ordinances for the implementation of this
Act.

4.07	Special Fund. All funds collected by the City from the
special taxes imposed by this Act shall be deposited into a special fund in
the City treasury and appropriated and expended only for the purposes
authorized by this Act as described in section 4.

Section 5. Minimum Police Staffing Prerequisite at Fiscal Year
05-06 Level.

5.01	No tax authorized imposed by this Act may be collected in
any year that the City’s actual expenditure for staffing of police officers
drops below the sum of eight million six hundred thousand dollars
($8,600,000), the amount of the 2005-2006 police officer budget, plus an
additional 3% per year for each year after the fiscal year 2005-2006.

Section 6. Term of Tax Imposition

6.01	The taxes imposed by this Act shall become effective on
July 1, 2006, and shall continue in effect for 10 years.

Section 7. Regulation.

7.01	The city council is hereby authorized to promulgate such
regulations or ordinances as it shall deem necessary in order to implement
the provisions of this Act.

Section 8. Challenge to Tax.

8.01	Any action to challenge the taxes imposed by this Act shall
be brought pursuant to Government Code section 50077.5 and Code of
Civil Procedure section 860 et seq.

Section 9. Imposition and Calculation of Parcel Tax.

9.01	Definitions. For purposes of this Act, the following terms
shall be defined as set forth below:

(a)	“Building” shall mean any structure having a roof
supported by columns or by walls and designed for the shelter or housing

of any person, chattel, or property of any kind. The word “Building”
includes the word “structure.”

(b)	“Family” shall mean one or more persons related by
blood, marriage, domestic partnership, or adoption, who are living together
in a single residential unit and maintaining a common household. Family
shall also mean all unrelated persons who live together in a single
Residential Unit and maintain a common household.

(c)	“Hotel” shall mean hotel as defined by East Palo Alto
Municipal Code section 3.68.020.

(d)	“Multiple Residential Unit Parcel” shall mean a parcel
zoned for a building, or those portions thereof that accommodates or is
intended to contain two or more residential units.

(e)	“Non-Residential Parcel” shall mean parcel that is not
classified by this ordinance as a residential parcel, and shall include, but
not be limited to, industrial, commercial, and institutional improvements,
whether or not currently developed.

(f)	“Occupancy” shall be as defined by East Palo Alto
Municipal Code section 3.68.020.

(g)	“Operator” shall be as defined by East Palo Alto
Municipal Code section 3.68.020.

(h)	“Owner” shall mean the Person having title to real
estate as shown on the most current official assessment role of the San
Mateo County Assessor.

(i)	“Parcel” shall mean a unit of real estate in the City of
East Pa o Alto as shown on the most current official assessment role of the
San Mateo County Assessor.

(j)	“Person” shall mean an individual, firm, partnership,
limited liability company, joint venture, association, social club, fraternal
organization, joint stock company, corporation, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, trustee, syndicate, or any other entity, group, or combination
acting as a unit.

(k)	“Senior Citizen ” shall mean a person 65 years of age or

who owned the parcel on that date.

9.03	Tax Rates. The tax hereby imposed shall be at the following
rates, subject to annual adjustment as provided in Section 9.05:

(a)	For owners of all Single Family Residential Parcels, the
tax shall be at the annual rate of $ 75.00 per Parcel.

(b)	For owners of all Multiple Residential Unit Parcels, the
tax shall be at the annual rate of $40.00 per occupied Residential Unit.
Owners of units that are vacant for six months or more per year may apply
to the director of finance to have the rate reduced by 50% to $37.00 per
vacant Residential Unit located on the Parcel.

(c)	The tax for a Non-Residential Parcel is calculated using
both frontage and square footage measurements to determine total Single
Family Residential Unit Equivalents. A frontage of 80 feet for a
commercial/industrial parcel is equal to one (1) single family resident unit
equivalent. An area of 6,400 square feet for the commercial industrial
parcel is equal to one (1) single-family resident unit equivalent. The tax
shall be the annual rate of $75.00 multiplied by the total number of Single
Family Equivalents (determined by the frontage and square footage).

Frontage and square footage measurements for each land use category that
are equivalent to one (1) Single Family Unit are shown in the following
table:

LAND USE CATEGORY	FRONTAGE	AREA (SF)
Commercial  Institutional	80	6,400
Industrial	100	10,000
Public Utility	1000	100,000

For example, the assessment calculation for an owner of a commercial parcel
with a frontage of 160 feet and an area of 12,800 square feet would be:

1.	Frontage -160 feet:	3.	Add	Single Family Equivalents

160 ft/80 ft= 2 SFE	From	Frontage	and	Area:

2SFE + 2 SFE = 4 SFE

older.

(l)	“ Possessory Interest,” as it applies to property owned
by any agency of the government of the United States of California, or any
political subdivision thereof, shall mean possession of, claim to, or right to
the possession of, either land or improvements and shall include any
exclusive right to the use of such land or improvements.

(m)	“Residential Unit” shall mean a Building or portion of
a Building designed for or occupied exclusively by one Family.

(n)	“Single Family Residential Parcel” shall mean a parcel
zoned for single-family residences, whether or not developed.

(o)	“Transient” shall mean any individual who exercises
Occupancy of a hotel or is entitled to Occupancy by reason of concession,
permit, right to access, license or other agreement for a period of thirty (30)
consecutive calendar days of less, counting portions of calendar days as full
days. Any individual so occupying space in a Hotel shall be deemed to be
a Transient until the period of thirty (30) consecutive days as elapsed.

9.02 Imposition of Special Parcel Tax. There is hereby imposed a
special tax on all Owners of parcels in the City of East Palo Alto for the
privilege of using municipal services and the availability of such services.
The tax shall be assessed on the Owner unless the Owner is by law exempt
from taxation, in which case the tax shall be assessed on the holder of any
Possessory Interest in such parcel, unless such holder is also by law exempt
from taxation. The tax is imposed as of July 1 of each year on the person

2. AREA - 12.800 SF:	4.	Tax	=	Annual Rate ($75.00)

From Frontage and Area:	Multiplied	bv	total	SFE

12,800 SF/6,400 SF = 2 SFE	4	SFE	x	$75.00	=	$300.00	tax

(d)	Owners of undeveloped parcels are exempt from tax if
the owner can prove that the parcel was undeveloped for at least six months
of the year in question.

9.04	Hotels. The tax imposed by this Act shall be imposed on
each Hotel within the City in accordance with the following:

(a)	Residential Hotels. If rooms in a hotel are occupied by
individuals who were not transients for 80% or more of the previous fiscal
year, such hotel shall be deemed a residential hotel, and such rooms shall
be deemed residential units. The remainder of the Building shall be subject
to the applicable Square Footage tax computed in accordance with the
Single Family Residential Unit Equivalent calculations described in section

9.03	above.

(b)	Transient Hotels. Notwithstanding the previous
sub-section, if 80% or more of the operator’s gross receipts for the previous
fiscal year were reported as rent received from transients on a return filed
by the operator in compliance with Chapter 3.68 of the East Palo Alto
Municipal Code (commonly known as the Transient Occupancy Tax of the
City of East Palo Alto), such hotel shall be deemed a transient hotel. The
entire building shall be deemed a Non-Residential Parcel, categorized as
Commercial Institutional, and shall be subject to the Square Footage and

Single Family Residential Unit Equivalent calculations set forth in section

9.03	above, and the parcel tax imposed on Residential Units shall not apply.

9.05	Tax Rate Adjustment.

(a)	Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the
tax rates imposed by this ordinance are maximum rates, and may not be
increased by the city council. The tax imposed by the ordinance may be
suspended, reduced, or eliminated by the city council for a subsequent
fiscal year upon a vote of the city council on or before June 30^ in any year
in which the city council determines that after such suspension, reduction
or elimination there will be sufficient revenues available to balance the city
council’s adopted budget and to provide the services and programs
described in section 3 above. Any such suspension, reduction, or
elimination shall be effective for the fiscal year following the vote, after
which the tax shall resume unless suspended, reduced, or eliminated for the
subsequent fiscal year.

(b)	Beginning in Fiscal Year 2007-2008, and in each year
thereafter, the city council may increase the tax imposed hereby only upon
a finding that the cost of living in the immediate San Francisco Bay Area,
as shown on the Consumer Price index (CPI) for all items in the
San Francisco Bay Area as published by the U.S. Department of Labor
Statistics, has increased. The percentage increase of the tax shall not
exceed such increase, using Fiscal Year 2004-2005 as the index year, and
in no event shall any annual adjustment exceed 5% (five percent).

Section 10. Duties of the Director of Finance.

10.01	It shall be the duty of the Director of Finance to collect and
receive all taxes imposed by this Act and to keep an accurate record thereof.

10.02	The Director of Finance is charged with the enforcement of
this Act, and with such other duties as are assigned to the Director
elsewhere in this ordinance or by law. Subject to the superseding regulatory
powers of the city council prescribed in section 7.01, the Director may
prescribe, adopt, and enforce rules and regulations relating to the
administration and enforcement of this Act including provisions for the re-
examination and correction of returns and payments. The Director may
prescribe the extent to which any ruling or regulation shall be applied to
transactions, events, or occurences before the date of the ruling or
regulation.

Section 11. Examination of Books, Records, and Witnesses.

11.01	The Director of Finance or their designee is hereby
authorized to examine assessment rolls, property tax records, records of the
San Mateo County Recorder, and any other records deemed necessary in
order to determine ownership of any parcel and the computation of the tax
imposed by this Act.

11.02	The Director of Finance or their designee is hereby
authorized to examine the books, papers and records of any person subject
to the tax imposed by this Act for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of
any petition, claim or return filed and ascertain the tax due. The Director of
Finance or their designee is further authorized to examine any person under
oath for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any petition, claim, or
return filed or to ascertain the tax due under this Act and for this purpose
may compel the production of books, papers, and records before the
Director, whether from parties or witnesses, whenever the Director believes
such persons have knowledge of such matters. The refusal of any
examination by any person subject to the tax shall be deemed a violation of
this Act.

Section 12. Collection of Tax; Interest and Penalties.

12.01	The tax levied and imposed by this Act shall be due and
payable on July 1 of each year, but it may be paid in two installments due

no later than December 10 and April 10. The tax shall be delinquent if not
received on or before the delinquency date set forth in the notice mailed to
the owner’s address as shown on the most current assessment roll of the
San Mateo County Tax Collector and shall be collected in such a manner
as the city council may decide.

12.02	A one-time penalty, at a rate to be set by the city council
which in no event shall exceed 25% of the tax due per year, is hereby
imposed by this Act on all taxpayers who fall to make timely payment of
the tax. In addition to the foregoing, interest shall be assessed at the rate of
1% per month on the unpaid tax and the penalty thereon.

12.03	Every penalty imposed and any accrued interest under the
provisions of this Act shall become a part of the tax required to be paid.

12.04	The city council may authorize the taxes imposed by this Act
to be collected by the County of San Mateo in conjunction with, and at the
same time and in the same manner, as the county’s collection of property
taxes for the City. If the City elects to so collect the tax, penalties and
interest shall be those applicable to the nonpayment of property taxes. In
no event shall anything herein be construed to impose or allow a tax lien on
any parcel to secure payment of the tax.

12.05	The amount of any tax, penalty, and interest imposed under
the provisions of this Act shall be deemed a debt to the City. Any person
owing money under the provisions of this ordinance shall be liable in an
action brought in the name of the City for the recovery for such amount.

Section 13. Refund of Tax, Penalty, or Interest Paid More Than Once
or Erroneously or Ilegally Collected.

13.01	Whenever the amount of any tax, penalty, or interest imposed
by this Act has been paid more than once, or has been erroneously or
illegally collected or received by the City, it may be refunded provided a
verified claim in writing therefore, stating the specific ground upon which
such claim if founded, is filed with the Director of Finance within one (1)
year from the date of payment.

13.02	The claim shall be filed by the person who paid the tax or
such person’s guardian, conservator, or executor of her or his estate. No
claim may be filed on behalf of other taxpayers or a class of taxpayers. The
claim shall be made on forms provided by the Director of Finance and shall
be reviewed by the Director. Filing a claim shall be a condition precedent
to legal action against the City for a refund of the tax.

13.03	If the claim is approved by the Director of Finance, the
excess amounts collected or paid may be refunded or may be credited
against any amounts then due and payable form the person form who it was
collected or by whom paid, and the balance may be refunded to such
person or his/her administrators or executors.

13.04	Upon disallowing any claim, the Director of Finance shall
mail written notice of denial to the claimant at their address as shown on
the San Mateo County Assessor’s property tax rolls.

Section 14. Exemption for Senior Citizen Property Owners.

14.01	Qualifications for Exemption. Any senior citizen or person
who is disabled may qualify for an exemption from the tax, whether as a
property owner, tenant, or occupant, by establishing, to the satisfaction of
the City’s Director of Finance, that the person seeking the exemption is
either: (1) 65 years of age or older; or (2) totally disabled and receiving
benefits under the U.S. Social Security Act.

14.02	Application for Exemption. Applications for an exemption
pursuant to this section shall be submitted to the City’s Director of Finance
on such form as the Director shall prescribe. The application shall be
accompanied by such evidence as the Director deems necessary to

determine eligibility for the exemption. No fee shall be charged for filing
or processing the application.

14.03	Granting of Exemption. Upon a determination by the
Director of Finance that the applicant qualifies for an exemption, the
Director of Finance shall issue to the applicant a certificate of exemption
and cause the tax to be removed from the applicant’s property tax bill. In
the event the tax, or any portion thereof, has already been paid, the City
shall refund such payment to the applicant.

14.04	Expiration and Renewal of Exemption. An exemption
pursuant to this section may be granted for a period of one year. The
exemption may be renewed for additional one year periods upon the filing
of an application for renewal which the Director of Finance on such form
as the Director shall prescribe. No fee shall be charged for such
application. The application shall be granted and a renewed certificate of
exemption shall be issued if the Director determines that the applicant still
qualifies.

14.05	Termination of Exemption. An exemption granted pursuant
to this section shall automatically terminate upon any sale of other transfer
by the exempt person of their interest in the property, or upon any change
in fact or circumstance which would disqualify such person form receiving
the exemption. It is unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to
knowingly receive the benefits of an exemption provided by this section
when the basis for such exemption does not exist or ceases to exist.

14.06	Any decision or determination made by the Director of
Finance with respect to the granting or denial of an exemption, or renewal
of an exemption, may be appealed to the City council as provided by
Section 15 of this Act.

Section 15. City Council Appeal.

15.01	Any person dissatisfied with any decision of the Director of
Finance adversely affecting the rights or interests of such person may
appeal to the city council by filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk
within ten days after the date on which such decision was rendered.

15.02	The city clerk shall set the matter for hearing at the next
available regular meeting of the city council and shall mail notice of such
hearing to the applicant and to any other interested person requesting the
same.

Section 18. Effective Date.

The provisions of this Act shall become effective upon the approval of the
voters of the City of East Palo Alto pursuant to California Elections Code
section 9217.

Section 19. Severability.

If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this Act is found
to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality,
or invalidity shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause section or
part of this Act, and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining
provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or parts of this Act. The people
declare that they would have adopted this ordinance had such
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid provision, sentence, clause, section or
part thereof not been included herein.

If any tax imposed by this Act is found to be unconstitutional, illegal
or invalid, the amounts, services, programs and personnel (as described in
section 4) required to be funded from such tax shall be reduced
proportionately by any revenues lost due to such unconstitutional,
illegality, or invalidity.

15.03	The City council shall either affirm the decision of the
Director of Finance or make such modifications, amendments, or
corrections thereto as the council deems appropriate.

15.04	Any tax, penalty or interest found to be owed following
appeal is due and payable at the time of the city council’s decision becomes
final.

15.05	All decisions rendered by the city council on appeal shall be
final when they are issued, and no further administrative appeal of these
decisions is provided or intended.

Section 16. Misdemeanor Violation.

16.01 Any owner who willfully violates or fails to perform any
duty or obligation imposed by this Act shall be guilty of misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
$1,000 or by imprisonment for a period of not more than one year, or by
both such fine and imprisonment. The misdemeanor penalties provided in
this section are in addition to the several remedies provided in this Act, or
such other remedies as may be provided by law.

Section 17. Amendment.

This Act may be amended only by the voters at a City election.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE D

This proposed initiative measure, if adopted by voters, would impose a
parcel tax for a term of 10 years for the limited purpose of enhancing police
services and programs to prevent violence and crime in East Palo Alto. As
a parcel tax, it is a special tax under California law, requiring approval by
two-thirds (2/3) of the voters voting on the measure.

Tax funds would be restricted to the following types of activities:

•	Community and neighborhood policing;

•	Violence prevention among youth and children;

•	Evaluation of programs by independent police experts;

•	Annual audits of expenditures;

•	Creation of a three-person oversight committee to make
recommendations to the City Council

The tax could not be collected in any year in which the actual
expenditure for police services drops below $8.6 million, as adjusted for
inflation. Conversely, the parcel tax could be increased annually to adjust
for inflation.

Owners of property would be responsible for paying the following tax:

•	$75 for each single-family residential parcel;

•	$40 for each occupied unit in a multi-family residential building
or a reduced rate if the unit is vacant for six months or more;

•	a single-family residential ‘equivalent’ rate for non-residential
parcels (i.e., commercial, industrial, public utility) based on the
frontage and square footage of the parcel, but would be
approximately for times (4x) the $75 single-family residential
rate.

Hotels would likely pay the ‘equivalent’ commercial rate. Vacant
parcels would be exempt if vacant for six months or more.

This proposed measure sets forth administrative details for
implementing the measure, including exemptions for qualified senior
citizens or disabled persons.

/s/ Michael Sanderson Lawson	August	28,	2006

City Attorney, East Palo Alto

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

Yes on Measure D - 100% of the money goes to increased police patrols
in East Palo Alto.

Yes on Measure D - 100% of the money goes to adding more police
officers in East Palo Alto.

Yes on Measure D - 100% of the money goes to attracting and training
new East Palo Alto police officers.

If we are going to increase our taxes to help reduce crime and drugs in East
Palo Alto, shouldn’t 100% of the money go to improving our police
department?

If we are going to increase our taxes to be sure that we have enough police
officers on the streets, shouldn’t 100% of the money go for police

services?

If we are going to increase taxes to improve police emergency response
times, shouldn’t 100% of the money go for police services?

Measure D guarantees that 100% of the money goes into increased and
improved police services.

Measure D costs you less than Measure C ($75 versus $100 per year) and
it puts more money directly into improving police services, response times
and hiring new officers than the other measure.

Yes on Measure D protects senior citizens on fixed incomes and disabled
individuals. They can be exempted. Homeowners pay $75 per year -
landlords must pay $40 for every occupied apartment in their building.
Commercial business must pay their fair share also based upon square
footage.

Special oversight and audit provisions have been included in Measure D. A
three person “Oversight” Committee must review money spent from
Measure D and report to the community. Annual audits are also required
and must be made public.

If we really want to do something about crime and drugs in East Palo Alto,
we have to commit serious and 100% of new resources to the problem.

YES on Measure D.

/s/ Dallas Price

Businessman

/s/ Tammy Saukitoga

Renter

/s/ Ruby J. Tyler

Home Owner

/s/ Geneva Whatley

Renter

/s/ Elizabeth Price

Retied

August 18, 2006
August 18, 2006
August 18, 2006

August 18, 2006

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE D

•	NO on Measure D - There is no provision for violence prevention
services that have an emphasis on youth and children.

•	NO on Measure D - $75 per resident parcel tax does not cover the
expense necessary to monitor Multiple Residential Unit Parcels.

•	NO on Measure D - The assessment calculation for an owner of a
commercial parcel is not justified, reasonable, and balanced as
compared to the Single Family Residential Unit Equivalents.

•	NO on Measure D - The proposed Oversight Committee will consist of
only 3 persons not 15 as recommended in Measure C to insure
community involvement in all decisions related to the parcel tax.

•	NO on Measure D - The vast majority of the City of East Palo Alto’s
elected city officials are against Measure D.

• NO on Measure D - The vast majority of the faith-based community of
the City of East Palo is against Measure D.

• NO on Measure D - According to Chief Ron Davis “enforcement alone
cannot reduce crime. Crime reducction can only occur when
enforcement is balanced with alternatives and opportunities.”

•	NO on Measure D - 100% of the money does not go to increased and
improved police services. The Measure also describes spending the
money on a Financial Director, an Oversight Committee, evaluation
costs, and annual audit costs.

/s/ Paul Bains

/s/ Lawrence C. Goode

/s/ Viliami N. Teu

/s/ Clifton Bennett

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

•	Vote No on this Initiative and YES on Measure C. East Palo Alto needs
enhanced public safety through a balanced, comprehensive
crime-reduction strategy, not through the incarceration of our kids.

•	This Measure is counter to the Police Department’s community
policing plan and is not consistent with the values of the East Palo Alto
community.

•	This Measure fails to provide funding for intervention programs for at-
risk youth, anti-gang programs, or child abuse and domestic violence
prevention programs..

•	This Measure represents an archaic view of policing that uses
incarceration as the primary tool to reduce violence.

In 1992, East Palo Alto was dubbed the ‘murder capital” of the United
States. Through a collaborative effort involving the City and community,
the City drastically reduced homicides from 42 in 1992 to 4 in 1993.

Violence is once again on the rise. Last year, the City experienced
15 homicides which was the highest violence per-capita rate in the
Bay Area and one of the highest rates in California. At the direction of the
City Council, the Police Department developed a comprehensive
community policing and violence-reduction plan that has resulted in drastic
reductions in 2006 amid alarming violence rates in the Bay Area..
Homicides are down over 72% and assaults with a firearm are down
over 58%.

This violence-reduction plan focused on enforcement, education and
prevention. The Police Department relied heavily on community-based
organizations to provide at-risk alternatives to gangs and crime. According
to Chief Ron Davis, “...enforcement alone cannot reduce crime. Crime
reduction can only occur when enforcement is balanced with alternatives
and opportunities.”

/s/ Ruben Abrica
/s/ Patricia Foster
/s/ Donna Rutherford

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE D

The City Council makes the best case for a YES vote on Measure D and
a NO vote on Measure C. Their quotes: “The violence rate in
East Palo Alto continues to be the highest in San Mateo County... Violence
is on the rise again... last year the city experienced 15 homicides”.

YES on D means funds go directly to improving and enhancing law
enforcement in East Palo Alto.

YES on D is less expensive to you than the City Council sponsored
Measure C (D is $75 / their measure C costs you $100) AND you get an
improved police department and additional officers from D than C.

If you want increased police patrols - more community policing - and a
safer community - join our coalition and vote YES on Measure D.

Just this past election, we voted down the City’s scheme to give half of a
new tax raised to their pet charity groups. Don’t they listen? Vote down
their latest scheme - Vote NO on C and YES on D.

“If we are going to improve our community, we need more police
on the street. YES on Measure D means more police and less cost
to taxpayers than Measure C.” Officer Name, East Palo Alto Police
Officers’ Association.

“Nothing about Measure D prevents the City from funding at-risk
youth and anti gang programs. Measure D simply puts the new
taxes raised directly into increased law enforcement and more
police officers. I urge YES on Measure D” Resident name, X year
East Palo Alto resident.

YES ON D for a safer East Palo Alto.

/s/ John L. Wilson	August 25, 2006
Renter	
/s/ Ana Peralta	August 25, 2006
Renter	
/s/ Martha Hanks	August 26, 2006
Teacher	
/s/ Orian J. Julian	August 26, 2006
Home Owner	
/s/ Verna Winston	August 26, 2006
Home Owner	