PAGE

CITY

EL MONTE CITY SPECIAL MUNICIPAL ELECTION

P Shall the El Monte Public Safety Funding Act of 2006 be adopted, to fund
and maintain adequate and essential Public Safety Services, such as police
patrols, fire protection and emergency medical response services
(including paramedic services), school crossing guards, park safety patrols and
code enforcement prosecutions, by establishment of a special public safety
beginning with Fiscal Year 2006-2007?

262	YES-*
263	NO-<;

tax on real property

END OF BALLOT

11-001E

LA 174-016

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P

Measure P, otherwise known as the El Monte Public Safety Funding Act of 2006,
is submitted by the City of El Monte to propose a special tax to fund and
maintain essential Public Safety Services in the City of El Monte. The Measure
has been put forward to address anticipated budget shortfalls which will likely
result in the scaling back of essential public safety services such as police, fire and
emergency medical response services as well as reductions in staff and resources
needed to enforce City code provisions.

How will Measure P revenues be used?

By law, Measure P revenues may only be used to fund those activities and
purposes listed under the Measure, namely.

-	Police patrols for streets and parks;

-	Police equipment and training;

-	Wages, salaries and benefits for police officers and other support staff;

-	Fire protection services and equipment;

-	Emergency medical response services (including paramedic services);

-	Emergency medical response equipment and training;

-	Wages, salaries and benefit for fire protection or emergency medical response
personnel;

-	Crossing guards; and

-	Code enforcement personnel and equipment.

Who is exempt from the tax?

Owner-occupied residential dwelling units are exempt from paying the tax if the
owner-occupant:

-	Is 75 years of age or older; or

-	Is a “disabled veteran” under Section 295.7 of the California Vehicle Code;
or

-	Has a household income that qualifies as low or very low income as defined
under the Measure.

Also exempt are churches, schools, government agencies and other institutions
exempt pursuant to California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 214.

When does the tax expire?

The special tax will terminate after the close of the 2012-2013 fiscal year.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901140-1

LA 174-022

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE P (Continued)

How will the tax be assessed?

Owners of residential properties will pay $120 per year for each “residential
dwelling unit” contained within their residential property, For example, a single
family home represents one “residential dwelling unit.” Accordingly, the tax
imposed upon the owner of that home would be $120 per year. Alternatively, an
eight-unit apartment complex will constitute eight “residential dwelling units,”
meaning the owner of the complex will pay $120 per year for each of the eight
units or $960 per year total.

Owners of non-residential property will pay $132 per parcel contained within
their non-residential property plus 6 cents ($0.06) per each square foot of
building square footage. For example, if the non-residential property contains
one parcel and 1,000 square feet of building square footage, the total tax liability
will be $132 plus $60 or $192 per year. The foregoing notwithstanding, the total
annual tax imposed on a non-residential property may not exceed $15,000.

Each component of the tax rates established under the Measure may be
increased annually by the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index or 5%,
whichever is smaller.

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure P. If you desire a copy
of the measure, please contact the El Monte City Clerk at (626) 580-2016 and a
copy will be mailed at no cost to you.

PR-901140-2

LA 174-023

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

Imagine our City with one less fire station, 31 fewer police officers and 38 less
school crossing guards causing an increase in gang violence, car accidents
involving children, and dramatic increases in firefighter and paramedic response
times.

This scenario will happen unless voters help make up part of El Monte’s 10
million dollar budget shortfall that supports public safety services.

Our city has already lost millions in state and federal funding, instituted a hiring
freeze and reduced its budget by 17.5 %.

In order to keep public safety at our current high standard, we are asking you to
Vote Yes on Measure P on June 6lh.

Measure P will cost each homeowner 33 cents/day and can only be used for
public safety services.

A Citizens Oversight Committee composed of residents, taxpayers, police and
fire personnel has been set up to make sure Measure P funds arc spent
appropriately and wisely.

Measure P will end in seven years.

AH residents 75 and older, disabled veterans and low-income families are
exempt from paying this tax.

Measure P is endorsed by:

El Monte Police Officers Association
El Monte Taxpayers Association
L.A. County Firefighters Local 1014

Councilmembers Emily Ishigaki, “J” Gomez, and Art Barrios
El Monte School District Superintendent Jeff Seymour
El Monte Museum Curator Donna Crippen

If you want to learn more about Measure P: (626) 536-7371 or
safeelmonte@sbcglobal.net.

We strongly urge you to vote Yes on Measure P to keep El Monte safe.

ERNEST “ERNIE” GUTIERREZ
Mayor, City of El Monte

GEORGE MENDOZA

President, El Monte Police Officers Association

ANDRE QUINTERO

Member, Rio Hondo College Board of Trustees
DAVE GILOTTE

President, L.A. County Firefighters, Local 1014

PR-901140-3

LA 174-024

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE P

The City of El Monte needs to begin to live within a budget based on the money
they receive, not make a budget based on the money they would like to spend.

We the Taxpayers have only so much money coming in to our households and
that is the only money we can spend, we believe the city should do the same.

Vote no on Proposition P.

FRANCIS C. NEILSON
Resident Home Owner

RUTH JUAREZ
Home Owner

HILARIO JUAREZ
Home Owner

JANET R. LAICH
Home Owner

ROSALIE MARTINEZ
Home Owner

PR-901140-4

LA 174-025

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

The “El Monte Public Safety Funding Act of 2006”, is just another name for
another tax. This proposed tax will cost each residential property owner an
additional $120 per year on their property taxes, and up to $15,000 per year on
Non-residential Properties, Condominiums and Mixed-use Developments, each
with a possible 5% increase each year.

The average person has had to live with increases to their cost of living, with no
additional money coming in. They can’t ask their bosses for more money, and
expect them to hand it over.

We the Taxpayers are your bosses and we can not afford another Tax right now.
We already support a 7% Utility Tax for Public Safety, a Library Assessment
Tax, up to Four School Bonds and the City Tax for Retirements. Just how much
do we have to shoulder? Find a way without taxing us more. Eliminate or defer
raises, get employee help on benefit increases.

We want a safe community, so don’t try to scare us with the fact that there will be
major cuts to our safety. Ten years ago, we had less Police Officers and were
among the safest cities in the country. What you do with what you have is the
key, adding more, just costs more.

Consider eliminating some no longer needed programs. Accomplish savings by
dropping services performed by other agencies or departments. Try Non-sworn
personnel handling non-safety issues.

We the Taxpayers support you, but can only afford so much. VOTE NO!

VALENTIN RODRIGUEZ, JR.

Resident

ARTHUR A. LOPEZ, III
Resident

THOMAS J. BIODROWSKI

El Monte Planning Home Owner Commissioner

PATRICIA BERGER
Home Owner

EDWIN E. WALLACH
Home Owner

PR-901140-5

LA 174-026

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE P

El Monte government is stripped to the bone; the city has slashed its current
budget by 17.6%. El Monte is $10 million in the red because millions in state and
federal funding have been eliminated. Every city department’s budget will be cut
over 30% in the coming year and there is a hiring freeze.

If Measure P does not pass, one fire station will close, and the jobs of 31 police
officers, 12 essential support personnel and 38 school crossing guards will be
eliminated.

Let’s correct distorted information about Measure P and set the record straight:

Condo owners will pay the same 33 cents a day as other homeowners pay; they
will not pay $15,000.

No El Monte resident pays for 4 school bonds.

El Monte Police Chief Ken Weldon says, “Instead of proactively fighting crime,
El Monte will now blindly react to crime. We can’t afford fewer police officers on
our streets and continue our outstanding record: murder’s down by 87% and
major crimes down by 44% in the last 10 years.”

El Monte Fire Battalion Chief Johnny Jee says, “If we close one fire station in El
Monte, there is no doubt that response times for firefighters and paramedics
would increase substantially.”

If you face an emergency or are a victim of a crime, minutes, even seconds, can
mean the difference between life and death. 33 cents per day seems like a small
price to pay to maintain your public safety services at their current high levels.

Keep El Monte safe. Vote Yes on Measure P.

JEFF SEYMOUR
Educator

GEORGE MENDOZA
EMPOA PAC

ERNEST G. GUTIERREZ
Mayor

EMILY A. ISHIGAKI

Vice-Mayor

PR-901140-6

LA 174-027

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE P

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF EL MONTE, CALIFORNIA ADDING
CHAPTER 3.30 ENTITLED “EL MONTE PUBLIC SAFETY FUNDING ACT
OF 2006” TO TITLE 3 (REVENUE AND FINANCE) OF THE EL MONTE
MUNICIPAL CODE.

THE PEOPLE OF THE CITY OF EL MONTE DO ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. The El Monte Municipal Code is hereby amended by the addition
of Chapter 3.30 (El Monte Public Safety Funding Act of 2006) to Title 3
(Revenue and Finance) of the El Monte Municipal Code. This newly added
Chapter 3.30 shall read as follows:

Chapter 3.30

El Monte Public Safety Funding Act of 2006

Sections:	
3.30.010	Short Title
3.30.020	Definitions
3.30.030	Exemptions
3.30.040	Special Tax
3.30.050	Dedication for Public Safety
3.30.060	Special Fund
3.30.070	Tax Rate
3.30.080	Tax Rate Adjustment
3.30.090	Collection with Property Taxes
3.30.100	Administration Determinations; Appeal
3.30.010	Short Title

This Chapter 3.30 shall be known and may be cited as the “El Monte Public
Safety Funding Act of 2006.”

3.30.020	Definitions

The following words and phrases whenever used in this Chapter shall be
construed and defined in this Section as follows:

“Area” shall mean the land area of a Parcel as shown on the records of the Los
Angeles County Tax Assessor, unless the Tax Administrator determines on the
basis of substantial evidence that a Parcel has a different area than reflected in
those records.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901140-?

LA 174-028

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE P (Continued)

“Building Square Footage” shall mean the interior floor area of improvements
on a Parcel reflected in the records of the Los Angeles County Tax Assessor,
unless the Tax Administrator determines on the basis of substantial evidence that
the improvements on a Parcel have a different interior square footage than
reflected in those records.

“City” or “City of El Monte” means the City of El Monte, a municipal
corporation and duly organized city, and all the territory lying within the
municipal boundaries of the City of El Monte as presently existing or as such
boundaries may be reduced, expanded or otherwise altered over time.

“Condominium Development” means any development, project, renovation
undertaking or other construction undertaking which results in an estate in real
property consisting of an undivided interest in common in a Parcel of real
property together with a separate interest in space in a residential, industrial or
commercial building; such as, an apartment, office or store. In addition, a
condominium may include a separate interest in other portions of such real
property.

“Mixed-Used Development” means any development, project, renovation
undertaking or other construction undertaking which combines or otherwise
integrates residential land uses with any other non-residential land use (including
but not limited to commercial, industrial, light manufacturing, storage, parking,
retail or office uses) within a single building, structure or Parcel or within a
combined set of Parcels.

“Non-Residential Property” means a Parcel which the records of the Los
Angeles County Tax Assessor reflect as being improved for any non-residential
use, including but not limited to commercial, industrial, light manufacturing,
office, storage or retail uses. For purposes of this Chapter, the term “Non-
Residential Property” also includes (i) vacant property as defined below,
regardless of zoning; and (ii) all Parcels within a Mixed-Use Development as well
as all Building Square Footage within a Mixed-Use Development that is
designed, constructed and/or lawfully used for non-residential uses, including but
not limited to commercial, industrial, office, storage or retail uses.

“Parcel” shall mean a parcel of real property having a separate assessor’s parcel
number as shown on the last equalized county assessment roll.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901140-8

LA 174-029

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE P (Continued)

“Residential Property” means a Parcel which the records of the Los Angeles
County Tax Assessor reflect as having been improved with one or more
Residential Dwelling Units, including but not limited to attached or detached
single-family residences; second units; multi-family buildings or structures
(including but not limited to apartment buildings, Condominium Developments,
Residential Dwelling Units within a Mixed-Used Development); and mobile
home parks.

“Residential Dwelling Unit” means any legally authorized residence, abode or
habitation designed, occupied or intended for occupancy as a separate and
primary living quarter by one or more persons for living, sleeping, cooking and
eating. With respect to mobile home parks each space used, rented, leased or
offered for use, rent or lease to accommodate a mobile home shall be considered
a “Residential Dwelling Unit” for purposes of this Chapter.

“Tax Administrator” means the City Manager of the City or his or her designee.

“Vacant Property” means a Parcel which the records of the Los Angeles County
Tax Assessor reflect as containing no improvements or improvements valued at
less than $10,000.

3.30.030	Exemptions

(a)	Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon any
person when imposition of such tax upon that person would be in violation of
either the Constitution of the United States or the Constitution of the State of

California.

(b)	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied upon the federal
government, the state government, any state agency, or any local government
agency.

(c)	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied against a property
owner with respect to any Parcel exempt from the ad valorem property tax
pursuant to Section 214 of the California Revenue and Taxation Code, as that
section has been interpreted by the laws, administrative regulations and judicial
opinions of the State. This exclusion extends to, but is not limited to, those
Parcels owned by houses of worship, schools or charitable or community service
organizations that are exempt from ad valorem property taxes pursuant to
Section 214.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901140-9

LA 174-030

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE P (Continued)

(d)	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied against any Residential
Dwelling Unit in which: (i) the title owner of the unit (or at least one of the title
owners of the unit, if more than one) occupies the unit as his or her primary
place of residence; and (ii) the total household income for the title owner(s) is
equal to or lesser than the income of those households qualifying as low and very
low-income households. For purposes of this Chapter, “low and very low-
income” means those income levels determined periodically by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development based on the Los Angeles
County Area Median Income levels adjusted for family size. A “low-income”
household shall be a household earning over fifty but less than or equal to eighty
percent of the Los Angeles County Area Median Income, adjusted for family
size. A very low-income household shall be a household earning less than or
equal to fifty percent of the Los Angeles County Area Median Income, adjusted
for family size. “Los Angeles County Area Median Income” means the median
family income for Los Angeles County as periodically estimated by the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development accordance with Section
8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937.

(e)	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied against any Residential
Dwelling Unit in which the title owner of the unit (or at least one of the title
owners of the unit, if more than one) is seventy-five (75) years of age or older,
provided the title owner who is seventy-five years of age or older also occupies
the Residential Dwelling Unit as his or her primary place of residence.

(f)	The tax imposed by this Chapter shall not be levied against any Residential
Dwelling Unit in which the title owner of the unit (or at least one of the title
owners of the unit, if more than one): (i) qualifies as a “disabled veteran” within
the meaning of Section 295.7 of the California Vehicle Code as its provisions
presently exist or as the same may be modified, amended or updated from time
to time; and (ii) the “disabled veteran” title owner also occupies the Residential
Dwelling Unit as his or her primary place or residence.

(g)	Each individual or entity claiming an exemption under this Section must
annually and timely present to the Tax Administrator an application for such
exemption on a form established for that purpose by the Tax Administrator.
Such form shall enumerate the variety of documentation and/or material that
must be presented to the Tax Administrator in order to reasonably corroborate
an individual’s or entity’s claim to an exemption.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901140-10

LA 174-031

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE P (Continued)

3.30.040	Special Tax

(a)	There is hereby imposed a special tax on all Residential Properties and all
Non-Residential Properties in the City of El Monte to fund and maintain
adequate levels of service for those essential public safety services identified in
Section 3.30.050 of this Chapter, below. As to Residential Properties, the special
tax consists of a base charge component imposed on each Residential Dwelling
Unit within the Residential Property. As to Non-Residential Properties, the
special tax consists to two components: (i) a base charge imposed on each Parcel
within the Non-Residential Property plus (ii) an additional charge based on total
Building Square Footage within the Non-Residential Property.

(b)	This tax is levied pursuant to Section 50075 et seq. of the California
Government Code and is a tax upon each Parcel of property. The amount of the
tax on a Parcel is not measured by the value of the Parcel.

(c)	This Chapter shall remain in effect only until the end of the City’s 2012-
2013 fiscal year, to wit, June 30, 2013. This Chapter shall be repealed effective
July 1, 2013. The foregoing shall not restrict or otherwise prohibit the City from
receiving or attempting to collect delinquent or otherwise unpaid taxes imposed
during the effective period of the special tax, even if such receipt or such
attempted collection occurs after the close of the City’s 2012-2013 fiscal year.

3.30.050	Dedication	for	Public Safety

(a) The additional revenue generated by this Chapter 3.30 shall be dedicated to
and for the purpose of funding and maintaining adequate levels of police, fire
protection and emergency medical response services; crossing guards; and code
enforcement prosecution in the City of El Monte, including but not limited to
funding for:

1.	Police patrols for City streets and parks;

2.	Police equipment and personnel training;

3.	Competitive wages, salaries and/or benefit enhancements for Police
Department personnel, including police officers, police dispatchers, records
keepers and other police administrative support staff to allow the City to
more effectively compete in the labor market for qualified personnel;

4.	Fire protection services and equipment whether retained by contract with
outside public agencies or provided directly by the City by City-employed
personnel;

5.	Emergency medical response services (including paramedic services) whether
retained by contract with outside public agencies or private vendors or
provided directly by the City by City-employed personnel;

(Continued on next page)

PR-901140-11

LA 174-032

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE P (Continued)

6.	Emergency medical response equipment and personnel training;

7.	Competitive wages, salaries and benefit enhancements for fire protection or
emergency medical response personnel that may from time to time be employed
directly by the City so as to allow the City to more effectively compete in the
labor market for qualified fire protection and emergency medical response
personnel;

8.	Crossing guard personnel whether employed directly by the City or retained
by contract with outside public agencies or private vendors;

9.	El Monte Municipal Code enforcement personnel and equipment, including
wages, salaries and benefits for code enforcement officers, administrative
support staff and City prosecution services.

(b)	The proceeds of the tax may also be used to enforce and administer this tax,
including costs for submission of any measure to the voters for establishment and
alteration of the tax.

(c)	The City may advance general funds for the purposes specified in this
section for expenditure on or after July 1, 2006 and, if the City does so, it may be
reimbursed from the special fund established pursuant to Section 3.30.060.

3.30.060	Special Fund

(a)	There is hereby established a special fund entitled “Public Safety Special
Tax Fund.” Proceeds of the tax levied pursuant to this Chapter, and any interest
earned thereon, shall be deposited into the Special fund and shall be used
exclusively for the specific purposes set forth in Section 3.30.050 of this Chapter.

(b)	No later than June 30, 2007, and at least annually thereafter, the City
Manager shall file a report with the City Council setting forth: (i) The amount of
funds collected and expended; and (ii) the status of each project required or
authorized to be funded as set forth in Section 3.30.050 of this Chapter.

3.30.070	Maximum Tax Rate

(a) Residential Properties. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the
maximum tax rate for Residential Properties for tax year 2006-2007 shall be a tax
of $120.00 per Residential Dwelling Unit, whether or not occupied, within
Residential Property.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901140-12

LA 174-033

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE P (Continued)

(b)	Non-Residential Properties. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter,
the maximum tax rate for Non-Residential Properties for tax year 2006-2007
shall be a base tax of $132.00 per Parcel within the Non-Residential Property
plus 6 cents for each foot of Building Square Footage. The foregoing
notwithstanding, the annual tax liability imposed upon each Non-Residential
Property pursuant to this Chapter may not exceed the cap sum of $15,000.00.

(c)	Condominiums. As to Condominium Developments (including
Condominium Developments integrated into Mixed-Use Developments), the
title owner of each Residential Dwelling Unit within the Condominium
Development shall be responsible for paying the tax imposed upon that unit
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section.

(d)	Mixed-Use Development. As to Mixed-Use Developments, the total annual
tax imposed under this Chapter shall consist of both a residential tax component
calculated pursuant to paragraph (a), and a non-residential tax component
calculated pursuant to paragraph (b), of this Section. The component based on
the non-residential tax calculation shall be subject to the cap sum of $15,000.00,
as described in paragraph (b). The title owner of each Residential Dwelling Unit
within a Mixed-Use Development shall be responsible for paying the tax imposed
upon that unit pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section. Pursuant to paragraph
(b) of this Section, the title owner(s) of the Non-Residential Property portion of
a Mixed-Use Development shall be responsible for paying the tax imposed upon
the number of Parcels within the Mixed-Used Development and the amount of
Building Square Footage contained within the Non-Residential Property portion
of the Mixed-Use Development.

(e)	By Resolution adopted after public hearing the City Council shall, for each
tax year:

1.	Determine the amount of revenue necessary to provide services funded
pursuant to this Chapter for that tax year; and

2.	Establish a tax rate applicable for that tax year, which shall not be in excess of
the amount anticipated to be needed to meet the determined revenue need.

3.	Insure the tax rate established by the Council with respect to any tax year
shall not exceed the maximum tax rate applicable to that tax year, as adjusted
pursuant to Section 3.30.080.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901140-13

LA 174-034

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE P (Continued)

3.30.080	Cap on Tax Rate Adjustment for Inflation

Each component of the maximum rate established pursuant to Section 3.30.070
of this Chapter shall be increased annually by the lesser of (i) five percent (5%);
or (ii) the percentage by which the consumer price index (CPI) prepared by the
Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Government for All Urban
Consumers for the Los Angeles - Riverside - Orange County statistical area, or
any successor index, changes during the twelve months which ended on March
31, preceding each fiscal year. The Tax Administrator shall annually recalculate
the maximum tax amounts pursuant to this paragraph and shall give notice of
that determination in the manner required by law for notice of ordinances of the
City.

3.30.090	Collection	With	Property	Taxes

(a)	The special tax imposed by this Chapter shall be due in the same manner,
on the same dates, and subject to the same penalties and interest as established
by law for other charges and taxes fixed and collected by the County of Los
Angeles on behalf of the City of El Monte. The special tax imposed by this
Chapter, together with all penalties and interest hereon, shall constitute a lien
upon the Parcel upon which it is levied until it has been paid, shall constitute a
personal obligation of (i) the title owner(s) of each Residential Property and/or
Residential Dwelling Unit subject to this Chapter; and/or (ii) the title owner(s)
of each Non-Residential Property subject to this Chapter; whichever the case
may be.

(b)	In the event the County of Los Angeles does not collect any tax due under
this Chapter, then the Tax Administrator shall have the power and duty to
enforce all the provisions of this Chapter. In such cases, an assessment may be
made against the owner of a Parcel in the manner provided by law. Any unpaid
tax due under this Chapter shall be subject to all remedies provided under the El
Monte Municipal Code and as provided by law.

3.30.100	Administrative	Determinations;	Appeal

(a) Requests for adjustments involving imposition of this special tax shall be
filed with the Tax Administrator. Upon determination of an error in the
computation of the tax, or exemption there from, the Tax Administrator shall
cause the tax to be recalculated; and shall so advise the Los Angeles County Tax
Collector or other appropriate official. If the Tax Administrator denies this
claim, he/she shall notify the claimant in writing along with the reasons for such
denial.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901140-14

LA 174-035

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE P (Continued)

(b)	Any claims for refunds of tax payments, overpaid or paid more than once,
must be filed with the Tax Administrator within one year of the date of the
claimed overpayment. All such claims for refund of the amount of the
overpayment must be filed on forms furnished by, and in the manner prescribed,
by the Tax Administrator.

(c)	The records of the Los Angeles County Assessor, as of March 1st of each
year, shall determine the use and improvement of each Parcel for the calculation
of the tax applicable to that Parcel in the following fiscal year, unless additional
and more current and accurate information is determined by the Tax
Administrator, in which case that information may be used instead.

(d)	The Tax Administrator shall administer this Chapter. Appeals of any
determination of the Tax Administrator shall be submitted in writing to the City
Council, no later than July 1st of the fiscal year for which the tax is imposed. The
City Council shall consider the appeal and issue a decision to the appellant in
writing.

(e)	The Tax Administrator may adopt reasonable administrative rules for the
enforcement of this Chapter which shall take effect when notice of those rules is
given as is required of adopted ordinances of the City.

Section 2. Amendment or Repeal. The City Council is hereby authorized
to adopt additional provisions consistent with the intent of this measure and to
amend the provisions of this ordinance without voter approval, provided such
amendments do not extend the special tax to a taxpayer who would otherwise not
pay it or increase the amount of the tax beyond the amount authorized by this
ordinance. Any amendment to this ordinance which extends the special tax to a
taxpayer who would otherwise not pay it or increases the amount of the tax
beyond the maximum tax rates authorized by this ordinance must be approved
only by a vote of the people of the City of El Monte.

Section 3. Severability. If any provision, section, paragraph, sentence or
word of this Ordinance, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance,
is rendered or declared invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the
remaining provisions, sections, paragraphs, sentences or words of this Ordinance,
and their application to other persons or circumstances, shall not be affected
thereby and shall remain in full force and effect and, to that end, the provisions
of this Ordinance are severable.

(Continued on next page)

PR-901140-15

LA 174-036

PROPOSED ORDINANCE OF MEASURE P (Continued)

Section 4. Effective Date. Pursuant to California Elections Code section
9217, this Ordinance shall take effect ten days after City Council certification of
the results of the election at which it is adopted.

Section 5. Certification. The Mayor is hereby authorized to subscribe this
Ordinance where indicated below to evidence its adoption by the voters of the
City and upon that subscription, the City Clerk shall certify to the passage and
adoption of this ordinance and shall cause it to be posted according to law.

PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 7th DAY OF March 2006.

PR-901140-16

LA 174-037