CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K
CITY OF RIO VISTA

Measure K, if approved by a majority of the voters voting on the
measure, would adopt Ordinance Number 618, which would replace the
City's existing 8% Hotel and Motel Gross Receipts Tax with a 10% Transient
Occupancy Tax. The Transient Occupancy Tax would be imposed on guests
staying at any hotel or motel within the City of Rio Vista.

The City's existing Hotel and Motel Gross Receipts Tax imposes
an 8% tax on the gross receipts of each hotel and motel in the City of Rio
Vista. The City Municipal Code also provides that 1% of the Hotel and Motel
Gross Receipts Tax is forwarded to the Rio Vista Chamber of Commerce for
community promotional purposes. Currently, the Chamber of Commerce is
required to provide the City with a report on the use of the tax funds on an
annual basis.

The proposed Transient Occupancy Tax requires that guests of
a hotel or motel must pay a ten percent tax on the amount of rent charged
by the operator of the hotel or motel. For example, if a person is charged
one hundred dollars for a hotel room, the Tax would equal ten dollars, or ten
percent of the amount charged for the room. The total amount to be paid by
the hotel guest would be one hundred ten dollars. The lax would be collected
by the hotel or motel at the same lime as the rent charged, and would then be
passed through to the City on a quarterly basis. The Transient Occupancy Tax
would only be applicable to people who stay in the hotel for a period of thirty
consecutive days or less.

The Tax is a "general tax," meaning that the revenue raised from
the tax would go into the City's general fund and could be used for any legal
governmental purpose, including, but not limited to, fire, general administrative,
library, parks and recreation, and police services. The City would not be bound
to use the tax monies for any special purpose or lor any particular projects,
facilities, or programs. The City additionally is not required to forward a portion
of the Transient Occupancy Tax to the Chamber of Commerce, as is currently
required for the Hotel and Motel Gross Receipts Tax. II passed, the Transient
Occupancy Tax would replace the Hotel and Motel Gross Receipts Tax and
would become effective on December 1,2006.

Dated: August 15. 2006
si Ethan Walsh

NO ARGUMENTS FOR OR AGAINST MEASURE K
WERE SUBMITTED

MEASURE K
CITY OF RIO VISTA
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE K

ORDINANCE NO. 618
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF RIO VISTA
AMENDING CHAPTER 3.20 OF THE RIO VISTA MUNICIPAL CODE
(HOTEL AND MOTEL GROSS RECEIPTS)

WHEREAS, Chapter 3.20 ol the Rio Vista Municipal Code currently levies a lax upon hotel and motel gross receipts within the City of Rio Vista; and

WHEREAS, the City of Rio Vista desires to amend and update Chapter 3.20 as set forth herein;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF RIO VISTA DOES HEREBY ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1:	Amendment	of	Chapter 3.20. Chapter 3.20 of the Rio Vista Municipal Code is hereby amended lo read as set forth in Exhibit A, attached

hereto and incorporated herein by this relerence, subject to the conditions ol this ordinance.

SECTION 2:	Voter	Approval, Chapter 3.20, as amended, shall impose a general tax as defined by Government Code section 53723, and therefore must

be approved by a majority ol voters voting in an election on the tax. Approval ol this ordinance is therefore subject to and conditioned upon the approval by the
voters ol the imposition ol the general lax imposed by this Ordinance. If a majority of the voters voting in the election do not vote in lavor of the imposition ol the
lax, this ordinance shall not take effect.

SECTION 4.	Severability.	If	any	section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of the Ordinance is, for any reason, found to be invalid or unconstitutional,

such finding shall not affect the remaining portions of this Ordinance.

The City Council hereby declares that il would have passed this ordinance by section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase irrespective of the fact that any one
or more sections, subseclions, sentences, clauses, or phrases are declared unconstilulional.

SECTION 5.	Inconsistency.	To the extent that the terms of provisions of this Ordinance may be inconsistent or in conflict with the terms or conditions of

any prior City ordinance(s), motion, resolution, rule, or regulation governing the same subject matter thereof and such inconsistent and conflicting provisions of
prior ordinances, motions, resolutions, rules, and regulations are hereby repealed.

SECTION 6.	Elleclive	Dale. This Ordinance shall go into effect and be in full force and effect at 12:01 a.m. on the 31st day after ils passage, provided,

however, that the effective dale is subject to and conditioned upon approval by the voters as set forth in Section 2 of this ordinance..

Introduced at a regular meeting of the City Council held on July 6,2006, and passed and adopted by the City Council of the City of Rio Vista on July 20, 2006 by
the following roll call vote:

PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this twentieth day of July 2006 by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCILMEMBERS

NOES:	COUNCILMEMBERS

ABSENT: COUNCILMEMBERS
ABSTAIN: COUNCILMEMBERS

Bhakta, Jones, Kelly, Vick, Woodruff

None

None

None

Is/

James E. Woodruff, Mayor

ATTEST:

Isl

Interim City Clerk

■

K

H

a

a

a

a

a

a

a

i

a

a

a

a

a

a

a

a

EXHIBIT A

Chapter 3.20 Transient Occupancy Tax
3.20.010 Definitions.

For Ihe purposes ol this article, Ihe following words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:

Hotel. Any structure or any portion ol any structure, which is occupied or intended or designed lor occupancy by transients for dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes, and includes any hotel, inn, tourist home or house, motel, studio hotel, bachelor hotel, lodging house, rooming house, apartment house, dormitory,
public or private club, mobile home or house trailer at a fixed location, or other similar structure or portion thereof.

Occupancy. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any room or portion thereof, in any hotel for dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes.
Operator. The person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or any other capacity.
Where the operator performs his or her functions through a managing agent of any type or character other than an employee, Ihe managing agent shall also be
deemed an operator for the purposes of this article and shall have the same duties and liabilities as his or her principal. Compliance with the provisions of this
article by either the principal or Ihe managing agent shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.

Rent. The consideration charged, whether or not received, for Ihe occupancy of space in a hotel valued in money, whether to be received in money, goods, labor
or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and property and services of any kind or nature, without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.

Transient. Any person who exercises occupancy or is entitled to occupancy by reason of concession, permit, right of access, license or other agreement for a
period of thirty consecutive calendar days or less, counting portions of calendar days as full days. Any such person so occupying space in a hotel shall be deemed
to be a transient until Ihe period of thirty days has expired unless there is an agreement in writing between the operator and the occupant providing for a longer
period of occupancy.

3.20.020 Levied; amount of tax; payment by transient.

Effective on and after December 1,2006, for Ihe privilege of occupancy in any hotel, each transient is subject to and shall pay a tax in Ihe amount of (ten percent)
ol the rent charged by the operator. Such tax constitutes a debt owed by the transient to the city, which is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the
city. The transient shall pay the tax to Ihe operator ol Ihe hotel at Ihe time the rent is paid. If the rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the tax shall
be paid with each installment. The unpaid tax shall be due upon the transient's ceasing to occupy space in the hotel. If for any reason the tax due is not paid to
the operator of the hotel, Ihe director of finance may require that such tax shall be paid directly to the director of finance.

3.20.030 Exemptions from imposition.

(a)	No tax under this article shall be imposed upon:

(1)	Any person as to whom, or any occupancy as to which, it is beyond the power of Ihe city to impose the tax.

(2)	Any officer or employee of a foreign government who is exempt by reason of express provision of federal law or international treaty.

(b)	No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim for exemption made at the time rent is collected and under penalty of perjury upon a form prescribed by
the director of finance.

3.20.040 Collection by operators; advertisement that tax not to be collected, etc., prohibited.

Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this article to the same extent and at the same time as the rent is collected from every transient.

The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the amount of the rent charged, and each transient shall receive a receipt for payment from the operator. No
operator of a hotel shall advertise or state in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator,
or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if added, any part will be refunded except in Ihe manner provided in this article.

3.20.050 Registration of hotels; registration certificate.

Within thirty days after the effective dale of this chapter or within thirty days after commencing business, each operator of any hotel renting occupancy to transients
shall register the hotel with the director of finance and obtain from him or her a Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate” to be at all times posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises. Such certificate shall, among other things, state the following:

{z) The name of the operator.

(b)	The address of the hotel.

(c)	The date upon which the certificate was issued.

(d)	This Transient Occupancy Registration Certificate signifies that the person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the requirements of the Uniform Transient
Occupancy Tax Ordinance by registering with the Director of Finance for the purpose of collecting from transients the Transient Occupancy Tax and remitting said
tax to the Director of Finance. This certificate does not authorize any person to conduct any unlawful business or to conduct any lawful business in an unlawful
manner, nor to operate a hotel without strictly complying with all local applicable laws, including but not limited to those requiring a permit from any board,
commission, department or office of this city. This certificate does not constitute a permit."

3.20.060 Reporting and remitting of collections.

Each operator shall, on or before the last day of the month following the close of each calendar quarter, or at Ihe close of any shorter reporting period which may
be established by the director of finance, make a return to the director ol finance, on forms provided by him, of the total rents charged and received and the amount
of tax collected for transient occupancies. At the time Ihe return is filed, Ihe full amount of Ihe tax collected shall be remitted to the director of finance. The director
of finance may establish shorter reporting periods for any certificate holder if he deems it necessary in order to insure collection of the tax and he may require
further information in the return. Returns and payments are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Alt taxes collected by operators pursuant
to this article shall be held in trusl for the account of the city until payment thereof is made to the director of finance.

3.20.070 Penalties and interest.

(a)	Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this article wilhin the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent ol the amount
of Ihe lax in addition to Ihe amount of the tax.

(b)	Continued delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent remittance on or before a period of thirty days following Ihe dale on which the remittance
first became delinquent shall pay a second delinquency penally of len percenl of Ihe amount of the lax in addition to Ihe amount of Ihe lax and Ihe len percent
penalty first imposed.

(c)	Fraud. If Ihe director of finance determines that Ihe nonpayment of any remittance due under this article is due to fraud, a penalty of twenty-live percenl of Ihe

amounl of the tax shall be added thereto in addition to the penalties stated in subsections (a) and (b) of this section.

(d)	Interest, tn addition to the penalties imposed, any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed by this article shall pay interest at the rate of one-hall of one
percent per month or fraction thereof on the amounl of the tax, exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until paid.

(e)	Penalties merged with tax. Every penalty imposed and such interest as accrues under the provisions of this section shall become a part of the tax required
to be paid.

3.20.080 Failure to collect and report tax; determination of tax due.

II any operator shall fail or refuse to colled the tax imposed by this article and to make, within the time provided in this article, any report and remittance of the
lax or any portion thereof required by this article, the director of finance shall proceed in such manner as he may deem best to obtain facts and information on
which to base his or her estimate of the tax due. As soon as the director ol finance shall procure such facts and information as he or she is able to obtain upon
which to base the assessment of any tax imposed by this article and payable by any operator who has failed or refused to collect the same and to make such
report and remittance, he or she shall proceed to determine and assess against such operator the tax, interest and penalties provided for by this article. In case
such determination is made, the director of finance shall give a notice of the amount so assessed by serving it personally or by depositing it in the United Stales
mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the operator so assessed at his or her last known place of address. Such operator may within ten days after the serving or
mailing of such notice make application in writing to the director of finance for a hearing on the amount assessed. If application by the operator for a hearing is not
made within the time prescribed, the tax, interest and penalties, if any, determined by the director of finance shall become final and conclusive and immediately
due and payable. If such application is made, the director of finance shall give not less than five days' written notice in the manner prescribed in this section to
the operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in the notice why the amount specified therein should not be fixed for such tax, interest and penalties. At
such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why such specified tax, interest and penalties should not be so fixed. After such hearing the director of
finance shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall thereafter give written notice to the person in the manner prescribed herein of such determination
and the amounl of such tax, interest and penalties. The amount determined to be due shall be payable after fifteen days unless an appeal is taken as provided
in section 3.20.090.

3.20.090 Appeals.

Any operator aggrieved by any decision of the director of finance with respect to the amount of such tax, interest and penalties, if any, may appeal to the city council
by filing a notice ol appeal with the city clerk within fifteen days of the serving or mailing of the determination of tax due. The city council shall fix a time and place
for hearing such appeal, and the city clerk shall give notice in writing to such operator at his or her last known place of address. The findings of Ihe city council
shall be final and conclusive and shall be served upon the appellant in Ihe manner prescribed above for service of notice of hearing. Any amount found to be due
shall be immediately due and payable upon the service of notice.

3.20.100 Records to be kept.

ft shall be the duty of every operator liable for the collection and payment to the city of any tax imposed by this article to keep and preserve, for a period of three
years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he may have been liable for the collection of and payment to the city, which records
the director of finance shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times.

3.20.110 Refunds.

(a)	Whenever the amount of any tax, interest or penalty has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by
the city under this article, it may be refunded as provided in subsections (b) and (c) of this section provided a claim in writing therefor, stating under penalty of
perjury the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded, is filed with Ihe director of finance within three years of the date of payment. The claim shall be on
forms furnished by the director of finance.

(b)	An operator may claim a refund or take as credit against taxes collected and remitted Ihe amount overpaid, paid more than once or erroneously or illegally
collected or received when it is established in a manner prescribed by the director ol finance that the person from whom the tax has been collected was not a
transient; provided, that neither a refund nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amounl ol use lax so collected has either been refunded to the transient or credited
to rent subsequently payable by the transient to the operator.

(c)	A transient may obtain a refund of taxes overpaid or paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received by the city by filing a claim in the
manner provided in subsection (a) of this section, but only when the lax was paid by the transient directly to the director of finance, or when the transient having
paid Ihe tax to the operator, establishes to the satisfaction of the director of finance that Ihe transient has been unable to obtain a refund from the operator who
collected the tax.

(d)	No refund shall be paid under the provisions ol this section unless Ihe claimant establishes his or her right thereto by written records showing entitlement
thereto.

3.20.120 Collection by court action.

Any tax required to be paid by any transient under the provisions ol this article shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient to the city. Any such tax collected by
an operator which has not been paid to the city shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the city. Any person owing money to the city under the provisions
ol this article shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the city lor the recovery of such amount.

3.20.130 Violations.

No operator or other person shall fail or refuse to register as required in this article, or to furnish any return required to be made, or fail or refuse to furnish a
supplemental return or other data required by the director ol finance, or render a false or fraudulent return or claim. No person required to make, render, sign or
verify any report or claim shall make any false or fraudulent report or claim with intent to defeat or evade the determination of any amount due required by this
article lo be made.