CITY OF MORRO BAY
FULL TEXT OF MEASURE Q-06

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MORRO BAY
ADDING CHAPTER 3.22 TO TITLE 3 OF THE MORRO BAY
MUNICIPAL CODE ESTABLISHING A TRANSACTIONS
AND USE TAX TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE
STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The City Council of the City of Morro Bay does ordain as follows:

Section 1.	Authority.

The City Council enacts this ordinance in accordance with the
authority granted to cities by Article XI, Section 7, of the
California Constitution.

Section 2.	Addition of Chapter.

Chapter 3.22 is hereby added to Title 3 of the Morro Bay Municipal
Code.

3.22.010	Title.

This Chapter shall be known as the City of Morro Bay Transactions
and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Morro Bay hereinafter
shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in
the incorporated territory of the City.

3.22.020	Operative Date.

“Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter
commencing more than 110 days after the later of the
adoption of this ordinance and chapter, the date of such
adoption being as set forth below, or the approval of the
voters of the City of a measure approving the imposition of the
transaction and use tax set forth herein; provided that if the
City shall not have entered into a contract with the State
Board as required herein prior to such date, the Operative
date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following
execution of such a contract.

3.22.030	Purpose.

The purpose of this chapter is to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be
interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance
with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of
Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax
ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the qualified voters of
the City voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax
at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law
of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent
with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that can be
administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a
manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the
least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative
procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering
and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that
can be administered in a manner that will be, to the greatest degree
possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the
transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden
of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions
of this ordinance.

3.22.040	Contract With State.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax
ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted
with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative
date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the
operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract.

3.22.050	Transactions Tax Rate.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax
is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated
territory of the City at the rate of one half of one percent
(0.5%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in the City on and
after the operative date of this ordinance.

3.22.060	Place Of Sale.

For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless
the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer
or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when
such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the
event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the
State or has more than one place of business, the place or
places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be
determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and
adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

3.22.070	Use Tax Rate.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the incorporated territory of the City of
tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and
after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or
other consumption in the City at the rate of one-half of one
percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The sales
price shall include delivery charges when such charges are
subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to
which delivery is made.

3.22.080	Adoption Of Provisions Of State Law.

Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and Chapter and
except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of
Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all
of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby
adopted and made a part of this Ordinance and Chapter as
though fully set forth herein.

3.22.090 Limitations On Adoption Of State Law And Collection
Of Use Taxes.

In Adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as
the taxing agency, the name of this City shall be substituted therefore.
However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State
Controller, State Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of
Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be
taken by or against this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof
rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing
the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance.

PR-0970-1

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to
sections referring to the exterior boundaries of the State of California,
where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain
sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while such sales,
storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not be
subject to tax by the State under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence
thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code.

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in
the phrase “retailer engaged in business in this State” in Section 6203
and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

3.22.100	Permit Not Required.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067

of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's

permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

3.22.110	Exemptions And Exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the
transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any sales tax or use tax
imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or
county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax
Law or the amount of any State-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount
of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or
petroleum products, to operators of aircraft to be used or consumed
principally outside the County in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States,
or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is
shipped to a point outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by
delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the
retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the
purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles)
subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City
address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the
buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a
place of business out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury,
signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is
obligated to furnish the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing
sale of such property, for any period of time for which the lessor is
obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease prior to
the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
the sale or lease of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to
be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this
ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption in this City of tangible
personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been
subject to a transactions tax under any state-administered transactions
and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by
operators of aircraft and used or consumed by such operators directly
and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this
State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is
in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a
fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date
of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power
over, the tangible personal property arises under a lease which is a
continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for which
the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section,
storage, use, or other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any
right or power over, tangible personal property shall be deemed not to
be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for
which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is
exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged
in business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the
purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer ships or
delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in
making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of
the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the
retailer.

7. “A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also
include any retailer of any of the following:	vehicles subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with
Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels
registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3,5 (commencing with Section
9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use
tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or
aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may
credit against that tax any transactions tax or reimbursement for
transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the
property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject
to the use tax.

3.22.120 Citizens Oversight Committee.

A.	Citizens Oversight Committee Established. There shall be
a permanent citizens’ advisory committee called the “Citizens Oversight
Committee” (hereinafter “Committee”), which shall annually review
revenues and expenditures from the collection of the tax.

B.	Committee Membership. The Committee shall have 5
citizen-members appointed by the City Council. Appointees shall be
residents of the City; however, no member of the Committee shall be an
elected official.

C.	Committee Organization Procedures. The committee shall
select one of its members as Chairperson. The Committee shall follow
the rules of procedure of the City unless and until, upon the report and
recommendation from the Committee, the City Council adopts a specific
set of procedural rules for the Committee.

PR-0970-2

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE Q-06

D.	Regular Meeting; Provision of Support Services and
Information. The Committee shall be subject to the provisions of the
Brown Act (California Government Code sections 54950 et seq.) and
shall meet at least once each calendar year. A regular meeting
schedule shall be determined in accordance with the Brown Act and
thereafter meetings shall be noticed by the City Clerk. The City
Manager or his/her designee shall serve as executive staff to the
Committee. In addition to receiving materials directly related to the
functioning of the Committee, the Committee members shall also
receive all agenda material and other primary staff reports (other than
those which are confidential) as are provided to the City Council.

E.	Citizens Oversight Committee Functions. The Committee
shall have the following function:

Annual Report: The Committee shall review an annual
expense report of the City relative to activities funded with the additional
general purpose local sales tax monies. Not later than the last day of
the sixth month following the end of the each City fiscal year, the
Committee will present its findings and conclusions to the City Council
for its review.

3.22.130 Amendments.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part

1.6	and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and
all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to
affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

3.22.140	Enjoining Collection Forbidden.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable
process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against
the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount
of tax required to be collected.

3.22.150	Severability.

If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the
ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Effective Date.

This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City
transactions and use taxes and shall take effect immediately and shall
be published within 15 days after adoption in a paper of general
circulation published and circulated within the City of Morro Bay.

The Morro Bay Vital Public Services Restoration and Protection
Measure “Q” proposes to raise revenue for general purposes for the
City of Morro Bay by authorizing a one-half percent (1/2%) transaction
and use tax (commonly referred to as a “sales tax”) within the City of
Morro Bay. The one-half percent tax would be paid in addition to current
sales taxes and would be collected at the same time and in the same
manner as existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 authorizes the
City Council to levy a transaction and use tax at a rate of 0.25 percent
or a multiple thereof, provided the tax is approved by a majority of the
voters voting in an election on that issue. The proposed tax will increase
the local sales tax rate in Morro Bay from the current 7.25% to 7.75%

The Morro Bay Vital Public Services Restoration and Protection
Measure “Q” states that the one-half (1/2) percent sales tax is to be
used for City services such as “fire, paramedics, street and pothole
repairs, storm drains, police, youth and park programs and other
general community services”. Because this sales tax would be a
“general tax,” the tax would go into the City’s general fund and could be
used for any legal municipal purpose.

Measure “Q” requires the City Council to appoint a five member Citizen
Oversight Committee to annually review and publicly report upon the
expenditures of the tax revenues to ensure they were made in
accordance with the requirements of the ordinance.

s/ Robert Schultz
City Attorney

PR-0970-3

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q-06

Vote YES on measure Q on Tuesday, November 7, to provide local
revenue for Morro Bay and Save Our Services.

As a result of State takeaways, 9/11 effects on tourism, reduction of our
fishing industry, and earthquake damage, our city has lost over $8
million in revenue over the past 12 years, while operational and
equipment costs continue to increase.

Morro Bay is at the lowest sales tax level in the state, 7.25%, of which
the city retains only 1%.

A half-cent sales tax increase adds only 50 cents on a $100
purchase.

This small additional tax could provide $750,(WO or more in annual
revenue, all of which stays in Morro Bay. And sales tax is paid by our
visitors in addition to our residents.

Local surveys indicate that the issues most important to our citizens are:

•	Replacing our aged and damaged fire station;

•	Equipping our firefighter/paramedics with emergency equipment and

protective clothing;

•	Repairing and maintaining all 50 miles of our city streets;

•	Renovating and staffing the North Morro Bay fire station;

•	Maintaining city buildings, parks and restrooms;

•	Repairing storm drains to prevent toxic runoff into the bay;

•	Replacing aging emergency vehicles and restoring police officers;

•	Restoring after-school programs.

Accountability to these priorities by City Council and Staff will be
assured by an independent citizens oversight committee and annual
audits.

The city has already reduced personnel and cut the annual budget by
$2 million. Failure of this measure will result in increasingly reduced
emergency services and continued deterioration of our streets, storm
drains and public buildings.

Please join your neighbors and friends in supporting the future of Morro
Bay.

Vote YES on Measure Q to Save Our Services.

si Homer Alexander, Co-chair, Committee in Support of Measure Q

si Betty Forsythe, Co-chair, Committee in Support of Measure Q

si Linna Thomas, Business Owner

si John Lomison, Accountant

si John Weiss, Businessman

The City of Morro Bay cannot continue spending more money than it
takes in. City officials’ irresponsible decisions have led to Morro Bay’s
financial difficulties. Example: Morro Bay has spent thousands to
promote this Sales Tax increase.

Morro Bay has been spending General Fund Reserves for operating
expenses, against City policy of having 27.5% of the cost of one year’s
operations in Reserves. The City’s $5,400,000 in Reserves in June
2001 are now depleted to approximately $285,000.

Morro Bay purchased Branigans Restaurant and the adjacent trailer
park for $2,700,000 three years ago. The appraisal valued these
properties at $2,200,000 partly based on future rental income, which
was never realized.

Personnel costs (salaries, benefits, pension) absorb 75% of Morro
Bay’s operating budget but Morro Bay officials have failed to address
this unsustainable burden on taxpayers. Contracts for senior managers
rolled over without attempts to renegotiate in 2005, when Morro Bay
was operating in the red. A senior manager, earning $139,000 a year,
could retire at age 55 and 30 years of service with an annual pension of
about $115,000. Morro Bay, a city of 10,500 people, has nine officials
with salaries ranging from $101,751 to $139,128, plus an average 40%
for benefits.

Rank and file employees earned an average of $49,900 yearly and
received about a 6% pay increase in 2005. Senior managers got an
average 9% pay hike. At least 4 rank and file employee positions
(those providing direct services to residents) were eliminated in FY05-
06; no manager was let go. In fact, a new six-figure-salary position,
Assistant City Manager, was created.

In addition to taxes and fees residents now pay, sewer bills are
expected to double or triple to pay for needed upgrades. Citizens must
live within their means, so must the City. Vote NO on Measure Q.

s/ Don Boatman, Electrical Power Generation Consultant

s/ Michael D. Durick, Arbitrator; Commissioner Federal

Mediation & Conciliation Service (Ret.)

si Chuck Reasor, Business Tax Administrator California State
Board Of Equalization (Ret.), former
Councilman and Planning Commissioner

si Jim Ross, Business Owner, Electrical Contractor

si Nelson Sullivan, Commercial Albacore Fisherman (Ret.)

PR-0970-4

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE Q-06

Don’t be misled! Of course we all want smooth streets, good police
and fire protection, and after-school programs! But the proponents
would have you believe these priorities are guaranteed with passage of
Measure Q through their so-called Oversight Committee. This
Committee is a paper tiger with no fiscal or fiduciary authority to
guarantee anything. State law is clear. If a City wants a sales tax
increase for a designated purpose, it takes a 2/3 majority vote of the
electorate. Measure Q requires a simple majority vote and therefore
cannot be earmarked for any specific purposes. In other words, Morro
Bay can spend this estimated $750,000 any way it wants. That means
business as usual!

Yes Morro Bay is at the lowest tax rate in the State, but of 468
incorporated cities only 38 have a higher tax rate than we do!

The real issue is not more revenue, it’s not putting money in services
we need. Morro Bay budgeted $9,389,474 for 2005-2006, which
included 76% personnel costs, 19% services, 4% supplies and 1%
miscellaneous. That’s over $7.1 million for salaries and benefits and
only $1.7 million for services. And a new position was added at the
top: Assistant City Manager at $113,000. What services were cut to
create this new job?

Morro Bay citizens must pay increasingly more for housing, gasoline,
medical care, utilities and other necessities. Any increased sales tax is
an added burden. Where do we go for more money to make ends
meet?

Vote No on Measure Q.

s/ Don Boatman, Electrical Power Generation Consultant

s/ Michael D. Durick, Arbitrator; Commissioner Federal

Mediation & Conciliation Service (Ret.)

s/ Chuck Reasor, Business Tax Administrator California State
Board Of Equalization (Ret.), former
Councilman and Planning Commissioner

si Jim Ross, Business Owner, Electrical Contractor

si Nelson Sullivan, Commercial Albacore Fisherman (Ret.)

MEASURE Q WILL SAVE OUR SERVICES

The argument against Measure Q contains several inaccuracies.

Just two examples: The Brannigan's appraisals were $2.2m in 2000;
$2.8m when purchased in 2002; currently over $4.m, a substantial
increase in value.

The “new” Assistant City Manager job is actually a combination of two
previous positions, saving the city over $55,000 annually.

Personnel costs are usually the largest item in a city budget, but city
personnel, such as our firefighter/paramedies, provide services our
citizens need and rely on. Service is our only “product” and our
employees provide it.

Competitive salaries attract and retain quality employees. Our city
salaries are not out of line when compared to other SLO County cities.
Benefit increases, primarily for health insurance, are largely dictated by
the State.

Due to millions of dollars in State takeaways and other economic
conditions, city revenues have not kept pace with costs. ALL of this
new local sales tax revenue, paid partly by our visitors, will remain in
Morro Bay. It will enable us to improve our emergency services and
street conditions, and help maintain the services our residents enjoy
and expect.

An additional 50 cents on every $100 of taxable purchases is a

reasonable amount to pay (and have our visitors pay) to provide quality
emergency protection, streets, and services in Morro Bay.

Vote YES on Measure Q to Save Our Services

si Ray McKelligott, Retired
s/ Keith Taylor, Friends of the Fire Dept.
si Mick Theis, Morro Bay Business Owner
si Grace Poletti, Citizen of Year 2005
si Lanny McKay, Retired Business Owner

PR-0970-5