CITY OF MILL VALLEY MEASURE E

E Shall the special tax be levied within the City of
Mill Valley Community Facilities District No.
2006-1 (Municipal Services) to pay costs of
facilities and services (including maintenance, repair
and improvement of streets and storm drains, landslide
repairs, and fire suppression activities) and shall the
appropriations limit be established, all as specified in
Mill Valley City Council Resolution No. 06-30?

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E

EXHIBIT 1
RESOLUTION NO. 06-30
A RESOLUTION OF FORMATION OF THE
CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MILL VALLEY
TO ESTABLISH CITY OF MILL VALLEY
COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2006-1
(MUNICIPAL SERVICES), TO MAKE ENVIRON-
MENTAL FINDINGS AND DETERMINATIONS
WITH RESPECT THERETO PURSUANT TO THE
CALIFORNIA ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY ACT,
TO ESTABLISH AN APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT
THEREFOR, TO AUTHORIZE THE LEVY OF A
SPECIAL TAX THEREIN, AND TO SUBMIT THE
ESTABLISHMENT OF AN APPROPRIATIONS
LIMIT AND THE LEVY OF A SPECIAL TAX
TO THE QUALIFIED ELECTORS THEREOF
RECITALS:

WHEREAS, the City Council (the “City Council”) of
the City of Mill Valley (the “City”), has previously adopt-
ed a resolution entitled “A Resolution of Intention of the
City Council of the City of Mill Valley to Establish City of
Mill Valley Community Facilities District No. 2006-1
(Municipal Services) and to Authorize the Levy of a Spe-
cial Tax within City of Mill Valley Community Facilities
District No. 2006-1 (Municipal Services)” (the “Resolu-
tion of Intention to Establish District”) stating its intention
to conduct proceedings to form City of Mill Valley Com-
munity Facilities District No. 2006-1 (Municipal Services)
(the “District”) pursuant to the Mello-Roos Community
Facilities Act of 1982, as amended, commencing with
Section 53311 of the California Government Code (the
“Act”) to finance certain public facilities and services (the
“Facilities and Services”) to serve the District; and

WHEREAS, a copy of the Resolution of Intention to
Establish District setting forth a description of the pro-
posed boundaries of the District, the Facilities and Ser-
vices to be financed by the District, including incidental
expenses, and the rate and method of apportionment of the
special tax proposed to be levied within the District (the
“Rate and Method”) is on file in the office of the City
Clerk of the City (the “City Clerk”); and

WHEREAS, the Resolution of Intention to Establish
District set August 7, 2006 as the date of a public hearing
on the establishment of the District, the extent of the
District, the furnishing of Facilities and Services to serve
the District, and the proposed rate and method of appor-
tionment of the special tax within the District; and

WHEREAS, a notice of the public hearing was pub-
lished and was mailed to all registered owners residing
within the territory of the District and to all landowners
proposed to be included in the District in accordance with
the Act; and

WHEREAS, prior to the date of the public hearing
there was filed with the City Council a report containing a
description of the facilities and services necessary to ade-
quately meet the needs of the District and an estimate of
the cost of financing such facilities and services as
required by Section 53321.5 of the Act (the “Report”); and
WHEREAS, at the public hearing all persons desiring
to be heard on all matters pertaining to the establishment
of the District, the extent of the District, the furnishing of
Facilities and Services to serve the District, and the pro-
posed rate and method of apportionment of the special tax
were heard and a full and fair hearing was held; and
WHEREAS, at the public hearing evidence was pre-
sented to the City Council on the matters before it and the
City Council at the conclusion of the hearing is fully
advised as to all matters relating to the formation of the
District and the levy of the special tax; and

WHEREAS, written protests with respect to the estab-
lishment of the District, the extent of the District, and the
furnishing of Facilities and Services to serve the District
have not been filed with the City Clerk by fifty percent or
more of the registered voters residing within the territory
of the District or property owners of one-half or more of
the area of land within the District and not exempt from
the levy of the special tax; and

WHEREAS, the special tax proposed to be levied in
the District to pay for the costs of the Facilities and Ser-
vices has not been eliminated by protest by fifty percent or
more of the registered voters residing within the territory
of the District or property owners of one-half or more of
the area of land within the District and not exempt from
the levy of the special tax; and

WHEREAS, the City has determined that this project
will not have any significant environmental impacts and is
exempt from the California Environmental Quality Act,
commencing with Section 21000 of the California Public
Resources Code and the California Environmental Quality
Act Guidelines, Article 5 of Chapter 3 of Division 6 of
Title 14 of the California Code of Regulations, (collec-
tively “CEQA”), pursuant to Section 15273 (Rates, Tolls,
Fares and Charges) of the State CEQA Guidelines; and
WHEREAS, the City Council desires to proceed with
the establishment of the District;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE
CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF MILL VALLEY:

1.	Recitals. The above recitals are all true and correct.

2.	Finding of Validity. Pursuant to Section 53325.1(b)
of the Act, the City Council finds and determines
that all of the proceedings prior hereto were valid
and taken in conformity with the requirements of
the law, and specifically the provisions of the Act.

3.	Name of District. The City Council hereby estab-
lishes and declares the formation of a community

MVM-1

facilities district pursuant to the Act to be designat-
ed “City of Mill Valley Community Facilities
District No. 2006-1 (Municipal Services).”

4.	Boundaries of District. The exterior boundaries of
the District are shown on the map entitled “Boun-
dary Map of Proposed Community Facilities Dis-
trict No. 2006-1 (Municipal Services)” (the “Map”)
and recorded in the Marin County Recorder’s office
in Book 2006, Page 146, of Maps of Assessment
and Community Facilities Districts. The Map is
hereby approved and incorporated herein by refer-
ence.

5.	Facilities and Services. The type of Facilities and
Services proposed to be provided to serve the
District and to be financed under the Act shall con-
sist of those facilities and services set forth on
Exhibit “A” and incorporated herein by reference.
The City Council hereby finds that the proposed
Facilities and Services are necessary to meet
increased demands placed upon the City as a result
of development occurring in the District.

6.	CEOA. The City Council hereby finds and deter-
mines that this project is exempt from CEQA pur-
suant to Section 15273 (a) of the State CEQA
Guidelines because this project is the formation of a
community facilities district as a funding mecha-
nism for operating expenses incurred by the City for
on-going municipal service activities including but
not limited to road maintenance, fire suppression
services, flood control facility maintenance, land-
slide repair and stabilization, and vegetation re-
moval. The project will allow for continued funding
of capital project necessary to maintain existing ser-
vices to the City. The City Council therefore directs
City staff to prepare and file a Notice of Exemption
with the County Clerk within five days of the adop-
tion of this Resolution pursuant to Section 21080 of
the California Public Resources Code and Section
15062 of the State CEQA Guidelines.

7.	No Majority Protest. The City Council hereby finds
that written protests against the establishment of the
District, against the furnishing of a specified type of
facility or services within the District, or against the
levying of a specified special tax within the District
have not been filed by fifty percent or more of the
registered voters residing within the territory of the
District or property owners of one-half or more of
the area of land within the District and not exempt
from the levy of the special tax. Therefore, the City
Council finds and declares that the special tax to be
levied in the District has not been precluded by
majority protest pursuant to Section 53324 of the
Act.

8.	Special Tax.

a.	Except where funds are otherwise available
to pay for the Facilities and Services, a spe-
cial tax (the “Special Tax”) is hereby autho-
rized, subject to approval by two-thirds of
the votes cast within the District, to be levied

annually, commencing Fiscal Year 2008-
2009, in accordance with the procedures of
the Act within the boundaries of the District
sufficient to pay for the costs thereof, includ-
ing incidental expenses. Incidental expenses
are defined in Exhibit B to the Resolution of
Intention as costs associated with formation
of the District, determination of the amount
of the Special Tax, collection of the Special
Tax, payment of the Special Tax, costs
incurred in order to carry out the authorized
purposes of the District, and the costs of
engineering, inspecting, coordinating, com-
pleting, planning and designing the Facilities
and Services, including the costs of environ-
mental evaluations. The Special Tax will be
secured by recordation of a continuing lien
against all non-exempt real property in the
District and will be collected in the same
manner as ordinary ad valorem property
taxes are collected, or in such other manner
as may be provided by the City Council
including, without limitation, direct billing
of the affected property owner, and shall be
subject to the same penalties, procedure, sale
and lien priority in case of delinquency as
applicable for ad valorem property taxes. In
the first year in which the Special Tax is
levied, the levy shall include a sum sufficient
to repay to the City all amounts, if any, trans-
ferred to the District pursuant to Section
53314 of the Act and interest thereon. The
authority to levy the Special Tax will expire
following Fiscal Year 2017-2018.

b.	The Rate and Method, which is the proposed
rate and method of apportionment of the
Special Tax among parcels of real property
in the District, in sufficient detail to allow
each resident or landowner to estimate the
maximum amount such resident or owner
will have to pay, is shown in Exhibit “B”,
attached hereto and incorporated herein by
reference. The City Council hereby deter-
mines the Rate and Method set forth in
Exhibit “B” to be reasonable.

9.	Notice of Special Tax Lien. Upon recordation of a
notice of special tax lien with respect to the District
pursuant to Section 3114.5 of the California Streets
and Highways Code, a continuing lien to secure
each levy of the Special Tax shall attach to all
nonexempt real property in the District, and this
lien shall continue in force and effect until collec-
tion of the Special Tax by the City Council ceases.

10.	Appropriations Limit. An appropriations limit for
the District is hereby established, subject to voter
approval, as an amount equal to all the proceeds of
the Special Tax collected annually within such
District and as defined by Article XIIlb of the
California Constitution, as adjusted for changes in
the cost of living and changes in population.

MVM-2

11.	Preparation of Annual Roll. The then current Direc-
tor of Finance, 26 Corte Madera Avenue, Mill
Valley, California 94941, telephone number (415)
388-4033, is designated to be responsible for
preparing annually, or authorizing a designee to
prepare, a current roll of Special Tax levy obliga-
tions by assessor’s parcel number and for estimat-
ing future Special Tax levies pursuant to Section
53340.2 of the Act.

12.	Report. The Report is hereby approved, made a part
of the record of the public hearing regarding the
formation of the District, and ordered to be kept on
file in the office of the City Clerk and open for pub-
lic inspection.

13.	Special Tax Accountability Measures. Pursuant to
and in compliance with the provisions of
Government Code Section 50075.1, the City
Council hereby establishes the following account-
ability measures pertaining to the levy by the
District of the Special Tax described in Section 8
above:

a.	Such Special Tax shall be levied for the spe-
cific purposes set forth in Section 8(a) here-
of.

b.	The proceeds of the levy of such Special Tax
shall be applied only to the specific purpos-
es set forth in Section 8(a) hereof.

c.	The District shall establish an account or
accounts into which the proceeds of such
Special Tax shall be deposited.

d.	The City Manager, or his or her designee,
acting for and on behalf of the District, shall
annually file a report with the City Council
as required pursuant to Government Code
Section 50075.3.

14.	Election. The proposition relating to the levy of the
Special Tax, together with a proposition to establish
an appropriations limit for the District, shall be sub-
mitted by the City Council to the qualified electors
of the District, such electors being the registered
voters within the District, with each voter having
one vote. The City Council hereby directs that the
ballot proposition relating to the levy of the Special
Tax and the proposition relating to the establish-
ment of the appropriations limit be combined into
one ballot proposition.

15.	Transmittal to Election Official. The City Council
hereby authorizes and directs, within three business
days following adoption of this Resolution, that
there be transmitted to the Election Official a certi-
fied copy of this Resolution and a certified copy of
the boundary map described in Section 4 hereof and
a sufficient description to allow the Election
Official to determine the boundaries of the District.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 7th day of August, 2006,

by the following vote:

AYES:	Councilmembers	Berman, Marshall,

Raker, Solem
NOES:	None

ABSENT: Councilmember Swanson
ABSTAIN: None

s/ANNE B. SOLEM
Mayor

ATTEST:

s/MARY H. HERR
City Clerk

EXHIBIT “A”

DESCRIPTION OF FACILITIES AND SERVICES

Authorized Facilities and Services shall be the follow-
ing:

•	Maintenance, Repair, and Improvement of Streets and
Roads

•	Maintenance, Repair, and Improvement of Flood
Control Facilities

•	Repair and Stabilization of Areas Damaged Due to
Landslides

•	Fire Suppression Activities, Including Removal of
Vegetation

•	All other tangible property with an expected useful life
of 5 years or longer necessary or useful for, or in con-
nection with, the authorized Facilities and Services
listed above.

EXHIBIT “B”

RATE AND METHOD OF APPORTIONMENT
OF SPECIAL TAX
COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT NO. 2006-1
(MUNICIPAL SERVICES)

CITY OF MILL VALLEY
MARIN COUNTY, STATE OF CALIFORNIA

I.	Definitions

“Act” means the Mello-Roos Community Facilities Act of
1982, as amended, commencing with section 53311 of the
Government Code of the State of California.

“City” means the City of Mill Valley, California.

“CFD 2006-1” means Community Facilities District No.
2006-1 (Municipal Services), City of Mill Valley, Marin
County, State of California”.

“Commercial Property” means any Property used for busi-
ness, commercial or industrial purposes.

“Council” means the City Council of the City of Mill
Valley, Marin County, California.

“Dwelling Unit” means a residential living space contain-
ing at least bathroom and kitchen facilities.

“Fiscal Year” means the period from July 1st of any cal-
endar year through June 30th of the following calendar
year.

“Improved” means a Property for which a certificate of
occupancy has been issued.

MVM-3

“Maximum Annual Special Tax” means the Maximum
Annual Special Tax, determined in accordance with
Section II below, that may be levied in any Fiscal Year. It
is anticipated that each year, the Council will levy the
Maximum Annual Special Tax authorized.

“Multiple Family Residential Property” means a Property
consisting of two or more Dwelling Units that share com-
mon walls, including, but not limited to, duplexes, triplex-
es, townhomes, condominiums, and apartments.
“Occupied” means a Property that is occupied as a resi-
dence or used for commercial purposes for any portion of
a Fiscal Year.

“Property” means legal parcels (as of March 1 of the pre-
vious Fiscal Year, or later if adjustments are made by the
County of Marin in its property tax roll after that date, and
whether residential or commercial) of real property in pri-
vate ownership within CFD 2006-1.

“Residential Second Unit” means an attached or detached
Dwelling Unit in addition to the primary unit allowed in
all residential zoning districts that provides complete inde-
pendent living facilities for one or more persons. A
Residential Second Unit may include a kitchen or cooking
area, sleeping area, or sanitation facilities on the same par-
cel as the primary unit.

“Resolution” means the Council’s Resolution of Intention
to form Community Facilities District No. 2006-1 and
levy a special tax.

“Single Family Residential Property” means Property for
which a building permit has been issued for purposes of
constructing one Dwelling Unit or for which building per-
mits have been issued for the purposes of constructing one
Dwelling Unit and one Residential Second Unit.

“Special Tax” means the Special Tax levied pursuant to
Sections II and III below to fund the Special Tax
Requirement and expiring following Fiscal Year 2017-
2018.

“Special Tax Requirement” is an amount to be determined
annually by the Council. It shall be: (i) the amount neces-
sary to pay for the types of public facilities and services as
set forth in Exhibit “A” of the Resolution and for the types
of incidental expenses as set forth in Exhibit “B” of the
Resolution and such incidental expenses include the
administrative costs and expenses to carry out the autho-
rized purposes of CFD 2006-1, less (ii) the amount of any
funds available to pay for the types of public facilities and
services as set forth in Exhibit “A” of the Resolution and
for the types of incidental expenses as set forth in Exhibit
“B” of the Resolution.

II.	Maximum Annual Special Tax

A.	Maximum Annual Special Tax Rate
Each fiscal year, commencing with Fiscal Year 2008-2009,
each Property shall be subject to the Maximum Annual
Special Tax as follows:

1.	$195.00 for an Occupied Dwelling Unit of a
Single Family Residential Property and $97.50
for a Residential Second Unit of a Single
Family Residential Property.

2.	$195.00 for the first Dwelling Unit of a Multiple

Family Residential Property and $97.50 for
each additional Dwelling Unit of a Multiple
Family Residential Property, the total to be allo-
cated equally to each unit; provided, however,
that if no unit on a Multiple Family Residential
Property has more than 700 or more square feet,
then the rate shall be $97.50 for each unit.

3.	$195.00 per Occupied Commercial Property
containing 2,071 square feet or less.

4.	$0.09 per square foot for Occupied Commercial
Property containing more than 2,071 square
feet.

Where a Commercial Property is Occupied by more than
one business, commercial, or industrial establishment, the
Maximum Annual Special Tax is to be allocated pro rata to
each establishment on the basis of its square footage.

Any Property which is Occupied for any portion of a
Fiscal Year shall be considered Occupied for the entire
Fiscal Year for purposes of determining the Maximum
Annual Special Tax applicable to that Property for that
Fiscal Year.

A Single Family Residential Property or a Multiple Family
Residential Property that is never Improved or Occupied
during the Fiscal Year shall be subject to a Maximum
Annual Special Tax of $48.75 per year. A Commercial
Property which is never Improved or Occupied during the
Fiscal Year shall be subject to a Maximum Annual Special
Tax of $48.75 per year. Proof of such vacancy or unim-
proved status for the specified Fiscal Year shall be docu-
mented on forms provided by the City Manager of the City
of Mill Valley. Such forms must be submitted in the man-
ner and at the time specified by the City Manager.

B.	Exemptions
There are exceptions to this application of the Special Tax
set forth below. Where proof is required, the proof must be
submitted by June 1 in order for the exception to apply in
the next Fiscal Year. The exceptions are:

1.	Parcels in public ownership, which are being
used in the performance of a public function,
shall not be subject to the Special Tax; provid-
ed, however, that where public property is
leased for private use, the private leasehold
interest shall be subject to the Special Tax on the
unsecured tax roll;

2.	Property exempt from regular ad valorem prop-
erty taxation shall not be subject to the Special
Tax - this exception contemplates, for example,
churches, condominium complex common
areas (to the extent the value of such areas is
distributed among the condominium units for
purposes of ad valorem taxation), and welfare
exemptions;

3.	Property which is not buildable or developable
because of some reasonably permanent incapac-
ity shall not be subject to the Special Tax - this
contemplates odd parcels which for historical or
other reasons have not been merged into adja-
cent parcels, but which, because of size or other

reasonably permanent disability, do not or can-
not comprise a separate building site - provided
the owner thereof has supplied proof of these
facts satisfactory to the City (such as confirma-
tion from the planning department) and has
agreed to notify the City of any change in these
facts (if these facts change, and notification is
not given, the parcel shall be subject to the
Special Tax from and including the year of the
change, plus interest, penalties and costs as if
the Special Tax had been levied and not paid);
and

4.	A Dwelling Unit of a Single Family Residential
Property owned and occupied by a resident over
65 years of age and whose income falls at or
below the Housing Authority of Marin County’s
Median Income Scale shall be exempt from the
Special Tax.

HI. Method of Apportionment

The Special Taxes shall be levied for each Fiscal Year by
the Council so that the amount of Special Tax levied equals
the Special Tax Requirement. The Special Tax as deter-
mined by the Council shall be stated as a percentage of the
Maximum Annual Special Tax. The Special Tax on each
Property shall be that same percentage of its Maximum
Annual Special Tax. It is intended that the Special Tax will
be levied at the Maximum Annual Special Tax Amount.
The Special Tax may not be levied beyond the 2017-2018
Fiscal Year. Should the Special Tax ever be levied at less
than 91 % of the maximum Annual Special Tax, then under
no circumstances will the Special Tax levied against any
Property be increased from year to year as a consequence
of delinquency or default by the owner or owners of any
other Property or Properties within CFD 2006-1 by more
than ten percent (10%) per year. The levy may never, under
any circumstances, exceed the Maximum Annual Special
Tax authorized for any Property.

IV.	Collection

The Resolution provides that the Special Tax is to be col-
lected by the County of Marin in the same manner as ordi-
nary ad valorem property taxes are collected and, is to be
subject to the same penalties and the same procedure, sale,
and lien priority in case of delinquency as is provided for
ad valorem property taxes.

V.	Appeals and Interpretation Procedure

Any landowner or resident who pays the Special Tax and
who feels that the amount of the Special Tax levied on his
or her property is in error, may file an application with the
City contesting the levy of the Special Tax within 90 days
of the delinquency date of the questioned installment. If
not filed within that time, the objection is forever waived.
The City Clerk, or her or his appointee, shall promptly
review the application, and if necessary, meet with the
applicant. If the findings of the City Clerk or the appointee
verify that the Special Tax should be modified or changed,
a recommendation to that effect will be made to the
Council, and as appropriate, the modified or changed
Special Tax shall be granted. If the City Clerk or the
appointee denies the application, the taxpayer may appeal

that determination within 14 days of the mailing of notifi-
cation of denial, to the Council under such procedures as
the Council shall establish. The determination of the
Council on the appeal shall be final for all purposes. The
filing of an application or an appeal shall not relieve the
taxpayer of the obligation to pay the Special Tax when
due. Any claims for refund of a Special Tax installment,
except as otherwise set forth herein, shall be filed in accor-
dance with the procedures set forth in the Mill Valley
Municipal Code and applicable State law.

Interpretations may be made by Resolution of the Council
for purposes of clarifying any vagueness or ambiguity as
it relates to any of the terms or provisions of this Exhibit.

MVM-5

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE E

The City of Mill Valley currently imposes a municipal
services tax on residential and commercial properties in the
City. This tax was first authorized in 1985 at the existing
base rate of $145 per single family residence per year. The
tax in its current form as part of a community facilities dis-
trict was approved by the voters in 1997 and will expire on
June 30, 2008. In anticipation of the expiration of this tax,
the City Council recently formed City of Mill Valley
Community Facilities District No. 2006-1 (the “District”)
to pay for the maintenance, repair and improvement of
streets and storm drains, landslide repairs, and fire sup-
pression activities. The exterior boundaries of the District
are identical to the city limits of Mill Valley.

Measure E has two components:

First, Measure E seeks the voters’ approval for the
District to levy an annual special tax to pay for the above-
described facilities and services at the following maxi-
mum rates:

(1)	$195.00 per occupied single family residential unit
and $97.50 per second unit

(2)	$195.00 per first dwelling unit of a multiple family
residential property and $97.50 per additional
dwelling unit, unless no unit has more than 700
square feet, then the rate shall be $97.50 per unit

(3)	$195.00 per occupied commercial property con-
taining 2,071 square feet or less

(4)	$0.09 per square foot for occupied commercial
property containing more than 2,071 square feet

(5)	$48.75 per residential or commercial property that
is not occupied or issued a certificate of occupancy
during the fiscal year

Exempted from the special tax are publicly-owned
parcels, property exempt from property taxation, property
that cannot be developed, and single family residential
parcels owned and occupied by residents over 65 years of
age with qualifying incomes.

The measure would renew the current municipal ser-
vices tax, when it expires on June 30, 2008, with the max-
imum tax being increased to the levels stated above. If
approved, the proposed special tax will be levied annually
for ten years, commencing in fiscal year 2008-09, in the
same manner as ad valorem property taxes. The special tax
proceeds can be spent only on the purposes specified in
City Council Resolution No. 06-31.

Second, Measure E would establish an appropriations
limit for the District, which prevents the District from
spending more money on facilities and services than is
projected to be collected in special tax revenues.

A “Yes” vote on this Measure is a vote in support of the
proposed special tax and the establishment of an appropri-
ations limit for the District.

A “No” vote on this Measure is a vote against the pro-
posed special tax and the establishment of an appropria-
tions limit for the District.

The Measure must be approved by 2/3 of those voting
at the election to be adopted.

s/GREGORY STEPANICICH
City Attorney
City of Mill Valley
The above statement is an impartial analysis of
Measure E. If you desire a copy of Resolution 06-31,
which more fully sets forth the details regarding the
special tax and the appropriations limit, please call the
City Clerk at (415) 388-4033 and a copy will be mailed
at no cost to you.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

Since 1987, Mill Valley residents have supported the City’s
Municipal Services Tax to fund its long-term program of
street rehabilitation and fibre prevention services, including:

•	Maintaining, repairing and improving streets (safety
curbing and striping, regular repaving of most-trav-
eled streets, and improving less-traveled streets)

•	Preventing wildfires by removing brush and vegeta-
tion, creating fire breaks, and improving emergency
vehicle access

•	Repairing and improving storm drains

•	Restoring areas damaged by landslides

To date, 35 of our 57 miles of streets have been repaired.
The City has cleared 5,000 tons of roadside brush and
established a system of fire breaks to act as wildfire buffer
zones. The dollars spent have improved the condition of
city streets and storm drains, reduced fire hazards, and
shortened emergency response times.

These large annual expenditures are beyond the means of
our small city and cannot continue without the supplemen-
tal funds generated by a renewed Municipal Services Tax.
The amount of the Tax has remained constant for the past
20 years, despite continual increases in the cost of labor
and materials. Measure E provides for a tax of $195 per
occupied dwelling unit, a $50 increase over the historic
level, to assure that the steady pace of 20 years of invest-
ment in our infrastructure does not stall in the face of
increased costs over the next decade.

The devastating floods we experienced last winter and the
ever present threat of a catastrophic wildfire in our hills are
reminders of the need to keep our streets in good condition.
A well-maintained street system and ongoing fire preven-
tion programs are fundamental to our safety, to the accessi-
bility and value of our homes, and to civic life and com-
merce. Let’s keep these crucial programs on track by
renewing the Municipal Services Tax. Please vote YES on
Measure E.
s/ANNE B. SOLEM
Mayor, Mill Valley
s/DENNIS P. FISCO
s/ROBERT F. CANEPA
s/SCOTT HARRINGTON
s/STEPHANIE MOULTON-PETERS

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE E
WAS FILED.

MVM-7