Consolidated General Election • City and County of San Francisco

Tuesday, November 7, 2006

Voter Information Pamphlet & Sample Ballot

DOCUMENTS nFPT.

The polls will be open from 7 a.m. to 8 p.m.

An Absentee Ballot Application is provided on the back cover of this pamphlet.

g*«BS<9SRiro^fl9 -	415-554-4367	.

IMPORTANTE: Si usted ha solicitado materiales electorales en espanol, en octubre se le em/iara un folleto por correo. El folleto en
espanol no contendra una copia de la balota de muestra; guarde este Folleto de Informacion para los Electores para poder consultar
su balota de muestra. Para solicitar una copia del folleto en espanol o algun otro tipo de asistencia, por favor llame al 415-554-4366.

Check the back cover of this pamphlet for your polling place address. Your polling place may have changed!  Verifique la direction de su lugar de votacibn en la cubierta trasera de este folleto. jSu lugar de votacion puede que haya cambiado!	
Published by:	Department of Elections: 415-554-4375
Department of Elections	Biltf : 415-554-4367
City and County of San Francisco	Departamento de Elecciones: 415-554-4366
1 Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett Place, Room 48	TTY: 415-554-4386
San Francisco, CA 94102-4634	www.sfgov.orgelectlon

38-FC-11150-EN-N06-34

Ballot Type 34

Parking Tax Ordinance

PROPOSITION E

Shall the City's parking tax be increased from 25 percent to 35 percent and apply to valet
parking services even if the valet company does not pay for the property where it parks
the cars?

Digest

by the Ballot Simplification Committee

THE WAY IT IS NOW: The City currently imposes a 25 percent tax
on the cost of parking in most paid parking spaces located in San
Francisco.

This parking tax does not apply to fees for valet parking services
when the valet parking company does not pay for the use of the
property where it parks the cars.

THE PROPOSAL: Proposition E is an ordinance that would
increase from 25 percent to 35 percent the total tax paid for most
paid parking spaces located in San Francisco. This additional rev-
enue would be deposited in the City's General Fund.

A “YES” VOTE MEANS: If you vote “yes,” you want to increase
the parking tax from 25 percent to 35 percent and you want the 35
percent parking tax to apply to valet parking services even if the
valet company did not pay for use of the property where it parked
the cars.

A “NO” VOTE MEANS: If you vote “no,” you do not want to make
these changes.

Proposition E would also apply this 35 percent parking tax to fees
for valet parking services even if the valet company did not pay for
use of the property where it parked the cars.

Controller’s Statement on “E”

City Controller Edward Harrington has issued the following
statement on the fiscal impact of Proposition E:

Should the proposed ordinance be approved by the voters, in
my opinion, it would generate parking tax revenues for the City of
about $26 million each year, starting January 1, 2007.

The ordinance increases the parking tax from the current 25%
to 35% as of January 1, 2007, and extends the parking tax to
include parking valet services.

Revenue generated by the proposed tax could be spent by the
City for any public purpose.

How “E” Got on the Ballot

On August 9, 2006 the Department of Elections received a pro-
posed ordinance with supporting signatures from Supervisors
Ammiano, Daly, Mirkarimi and Peskin.

The City Elections Code allows four or more Supervisors to
place an ordinance on the ballot in this manner.

THIS MEASURE REQUIRES 50%+1 AFFIRMATIVE VOTES TO PASS.

ARGUMENTS FOR AND AGAINST THIS MEASURE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW THIS PAGE. THE FULL TEXT BEGINS ON PAGE 135.
SOME OF THE WORDS USED IN THE BALLOT DIGEST ARE EXPLAINED ON PAGE 62.

38-CP127-EN-N06

38-CP127-EN-N06

Parking Tax Ordinance

PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION E

VOTE YES ON E TO IMPROVE PUBLIC TRANSPORTA-
TION, EASE COMMUTER TRAFFIC CONGESTION AND
REDUCE GLOBAL WARMING!

Despite being rich in public transit options, San Francisco's
downtown streets remain clogged with excessive commuter traf-
fic, making daily hazards for pedestrians, worsening air pollution
and contributing to global warming.

Recent traffic surveys have shown more than 60% of down-
town's commuter parking lots are filled with out-of-town cars.

Prop E will increase the parking tax on downtown garages,
encouraging commuters to use BART and Muni.

Studies have found that traffic congestion is the largest cost to
Muni of downtown development and that increasing the parking
tax discourages drive-alone commuting, which frees parking
spaces for shopping, restaurants, and entertainment. Less traffic
makes our streets safer for pedestrians and more attractive to
shoppers and visitors.

Prop E will add about $22 million to fund City services, with
minimal impact to our pocket books. The new revenue will sup-
port essential City services and cover unexpected increases in

Muni's operating costs, such as the cost of diesel, which has
tripled in the past six years.

Unlike other taxes, Prop E is not regressive, does not reduce
jobs nor increase costs for employers.

Prop E is fair. It asks out-of-town commuters to pay a fair share
of maintaining our roads, public transit and other city services we
all rely upon.

Prop E will not increase neighborhood parking permit fees or
parking meter rates.

VOTE YES ON E AND IMPROVE PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION

LIVABLE CITY

Howard Strassner, Chair Sierra Club SF Group Transportation
Committee*

*For identification purposes only

REBUTTAL TO PROPONENT’S ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION E

No More Parking Fee Hikes to Cover-Up Incompetence!

Current parking fees are sufficient to accomplish present and
future improvements if voters and taxpayers would be more
aggressive in demanding fiscal integrity and competence. Most
present and past Parking and Traffic commissioners, politically
appointed, leave much to be desired as ethical, competent, caring
fiscal overseers. Competitive businesses earn consumer patronage
before hiking up prices. City Hall bureaucrats do not see us as
consumers, but as hostages.

It is odd that super liberal San Francisco City Hall still needs to
deal with labor unions, also sources for superfluous inflation of
government budgets. Sweetheart deals have no impact on improv-
ing the quality of government services. It is apparent that politi-
cally rigged pay and benefit increases are not synonymous with
fiscal accountability and efficiency.

It is detrimental to the city's economy to choke auto drivers for
refusing to use public transportation. Outside the safety net of

government jobs, there are a myriad of professions, responsibili-
ties, time-crucial schedules, transportation of goods or sensitive
materials, and/or personal safety that would be jeopardized if
forced to use unstable public transportation.

San Francisco's longtime resident taxpayers subsidize everyone
else's access to our city's services. Resident property owners and
small business owners carry the burden for San Francisco, yet
benefit the least. At least, they deserve special considerations.

Vote No on E.

Gail E. Neira, the only community-diverse skillful and savvy
woman elected to the San Francisco Republican Central
Committee, San Francisco Republican Alliance president*,
415-820-1430

*For identification purposes only

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP128-EN-N06

Parking Tax Ordinance



OPPONENT’S ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION E

Auto consumers have rights too!

We pay enough parking fees to support present and future main-
tenance costs. It is not the increase in parking fees that will alle-
viate problems, it is replacing the current fiscal administrators of
our public funds that is needed - desperately!. We should not pay
the unjust consequences for the slugs running our city services
and the politicos conspiring with them. We taxpayers and trans-
portation consumers are becoming like mice in a cage with no
exit. We are being held hostage by our City Hall bureaucrats. We
should not have to be exploited anymore.

These government bureaucratic jokers will, if we are dumb
enough to keep them in government posts years from now, gradu-
ate down to taxing the homeless with grocery carts once they have
chased away their more reliable sources of exploitation. Bicyclists
beware for they too will be taxed - eventually.

Unfortunately, too many City Hall bureaucrats and politicos are
transplants from elsewhere and bring their personal baggage into
this already fragile city. They secure salaried posts with authority
at City Hall which explains the goofy legislation and incompe-
tence at fiscal management, especially with other peoples' monies.

All those so-called pro-business and property ownership advo-
cacy groups in this town must be impotent. They are letting self-
serving, incompetent managers of public funding resources get
away with more incompetence.

Native San Franciscan; San Francisco Republican Alliance
president*; the only community-diverse compassionate elected
member of S.F. Republican Party*, 415-820-1430

Vote No on E.

Gail E. Neira

*For identification purposes only

REBUTTAL TO OPPONENTS ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION E

Proposition E will help make San Francisco a more livable city
— a city with less traffic congestion and air pollution, faster and
more reliable public transit, and safer streets for pedestrians. It
funds Muni and other city services without reducing jobs or
increasing costs to city employers.

Proposition E is one of few revenue measures that asks out-of-
town commuters to pay for their fair share of the city services and
they use, and for the congestion and wear-and-tear on our roads
they create, instead of making San Francisco taxpayers and busi-
nesses shoulder the entire burden.

Congestion, air pollution, crumbling streets, traffic accidents,
and transit delays cost the region billions of dollars each year.
Proposition E encourages commuters to take public transit into
downtown. Local businesses benefit from increased parking avail-
ability for shopping, restaurants, and entertainment, while reduced
traffic congestion attracts customers and eases deliveries.

Prop E is friendly to neighborhood residents and businesses; it
will not increase neighborhood parking permit fees or increase the
rates at parking meters.

The pessimists want to convince you that San Francisco can't do
better. We believe that San Franciscans deserve a better city, and
that Proposition E will help move us in the right direction. We also
think that our city should lead in addressing problems like global
warming. Please join us in working for a better future for San
Francisco, and vote yes on Prop E.

Visit www.livablecity.org for more information.

VOTE YES ON E FOR A MORE LIVABLE CITY!

The Sierra Club
Livable City

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP129-EN-N06

Parking Tax Ordinance

PAID ARGUMENTS IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION E

DEMOCRATS SUPPORT PROP E!

Vote YES on E

Prop E is an important first step in improving our environment
by reducing unnecessary car trips and encouraging the use of pub-
lic transit and alternative methods of transportation.

As Supervisor, I will fight to assure that these new funds will be
used to:

•	Reverse MUNI's service cuts

•	Complete the Citywide Bike Lane Network

•	Fund pedestrian improvement projects including ADA curb
ramps.

VOTE YES ON E!

AI lx Rosenthal

Candidate for District 8 Supervisor
www.VoteAlix.com

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is Alix
Rosenthal.

Prop E WONT affect parking meter rates. It will only be levied
on private parking businesses and valet parking services. This
increase will be minor for valet services to pay but provide signif-
icant benefits to the city's General Fund.

Vote Yes on Prop E!!

Senior Action Network

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the Senior Action Network.

ORGANIZED LABOR SUPPORTS PROP E!

Quality city services, like reliable Muni, health care, and emer-
gency services, are essential to keeping San Francisco livable for
working families. Prop E increases funding for Muni and other
vital services while supporting jobs, reducing traffic congestion,
and improving the environment.

Service Employees International Union, Local 790

The true source of funds used for the printing of this argument is
Robert Haaland.

A recent report by the San Francisco Planning and Urban
Research Association concluded that “To become the transit sys-
tem that San Francisco needs, Muni needs more revenue.” Prop E
will provide needed revenue to Muni, and to other city services.

Prop E also asks out-of-town commuters to pay their fair share
of maintaining San Francisco's roads, transit, and city services.
Regional transportation programs consistently shortchange San
Francisco by allocating funding to where people sleep, rather than
where they work. Prop E will help San Francisco remain a vital
economic center for the region without unfairly burdening its res-
idents and businesses.

Vote yes on E for a vital economy, better public transit, quality
city services, a cleaner environment.

San Francisco Democratic Party

The true source of funds used for the printing of this argument is
Robert Haaland.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP130-EN-N06

Parking Tax Ordinance

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION E

VOTE NO ON PROPOSITION E - It’s EXPENSIVE!

Here's another tax increase on everyday consumers.

A 35% tax on public parking, sponsored by ONLY 4 of the 11
supervisors - the “never-met-a-tax-they-didn't like” supervisors.

Why not tax strolling in Golden Gate Park? The sponsoring
supervisors might just do that if Prop E passes.

VOTE NO ON PROP E!

Mara Kopp

Good Government Alliance

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Kopp's Good Government Committee.

VOTE “NO” ON PROPOSITION E

The proposed 40 percent increase in the parking tax rate will
affect residents and visitors alike. By driving up the already astro-
nomical cost of parking, it will hurt retail establishments and the
city's economy.

At 35 percent of receipts, the new tax will be the second high-
est in the country, and the funds won't even be used for transit
projects or purposes.

Vote “NO” on E.

San Francisco Association of REALTORS*®

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Association of REALTORS®.

This measure was placed on the ballot with no public input or
discussion, and no economic impact analysis. It violates the spir-
it of the city's Sunshine laws for a more open government.

The 10% parking tax rate increase is not actually a 10%
increase, it's a 40% hike, based upon the current 25% tax of park-
ing rents. No other industry is taxed at this high level.

San Francisco's current 25% tax rate on parking is already
among the highest in the country, without raising them further.

Parking taxes are regressive, and hurt the working poor the
most. That's not fair to working parents, sales persons, construc-
tion workers, and others who need their cars for work.

Increasing the parking tax will hurt commerce in the city,
reduce sales tax revenues, and cause job loss.

VOTE NO to higher parking taxes in San Francisco!

BOMA San Francisco Ballot Measure FAC

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the BOMA San Francisco Ballot Measure PAC.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. TST Mission 2. Wilson Meany Sullivan 3. Standard
Parking.

Vote NO on E.

Supervisor Daly put this 40% parking tax INCREASE on the
ballot WITHOUT public hearings, WITHOUT studying the eco-
nomic impact, WITHOUT knowing how it will be spent.

What we do know is if you drive downtown you already pay $3
an hour at a meter and over $20 an hour in some garages.
Downtown parking rates are the THIRD HIGHEST in the nation!

City spending is increasing at more than twice the rate of infla-
tion. The budget is $5.7 BILLION, which is balanced without this
huge increase in neighborhood and downtown parking rates. And
there is no guarantee that any of this new tax will go to transit.

Keep the money in your pocket and out of Supervisor Daly's.

Vote NO on E.

San Francisco Chamber of Commerce

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce.

Proposition E is a Regressive, Discriminatory $26 Million
Blank Check

Prop E will raise the parking tax by 10% on most parking
spaces in San Francisco, and apply the 35% total parking tax to
valet parking services, hurting:

•	Seniors, disabled, and people with babies or toddlers who
can't risk public transportation;

•	Young people employed by valet parking services who will
lose their jobs when their employers lose their customers;

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP131-EN-N06

Parking Tax Ordinance

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION E

• Large and small businesses that will see more customers
leave town to shop where parking is free.

The Mayor and the Supervisors will have another $26 million
tax dollars to plump up our already bloated $5.7 billion annual
budget - larger than the budgets of 20 states. None of it is ear-
marked for MUNI, as past parking taxes have been. This $26 mil-
lion will go directly to the General Fund, meaning, to bulk up the
city's payroll and cater to the various special interests that pull the
strings of our politicians.

Taxpayers need to stop writing blank checks.

Save your money for gas. Vote NO on E.

San Francisco Taxpayers Union

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Taxpayers Union.

Vote No on E.

Proposition E will increase the parking tax by 40% and will
have a dramatic, negative impact on San Francisco residents and
businesses who already pay among the highest parking tax rates in
the country.

This measure will discourage regional tourism, damage retail
sales, and force businesses out of the City. Any increased revenue
will not be earmarked to improve public transportation (MUNI),
but will go to the General Fund.

San Francisco Republican Party

Officers:

Mike DeNunzio, Chairman

Christopher L. Bowman, Vice Chair - Political Affairs

Howard Epstein, Vice Chair -Communications

Jennifer DePalma, Esq., Treasurer

Barbara Kiley, Vice Chair - Finance

Sue C. Woods, Vice Chair - Special Events

Ex Officio Member:

Ramiro Maldonado, Jr., Republican Nominee, 13th AD
Members:

12th Assembly District
Mike Antonini, DOS
Terence Faulkner, J.D.

Harold M. Hoogasian
Leo Lacayo
Stephanie Jeong

13th Assembly District
Christine Hughes
Dana Walsh

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is the San Francisco Republican Party.

The three largest contributors to the true source recipient commit-
tee are: 1. San Francisco Police Officers Association 2. Greater
San Francisco Association of Realtors 3. San Francisco Apartment
Association.

Support Muni Riders, Seniors and First Responders: Vote NO
on E

Proposition E was put on the ballot without the benefit of a pub-
lic hearing, or even an accounting of where this proposed sur-
charge is going. Until recently, senior citizen programs were fund-
ed by the San Francisco Parking Tax. That's not happening now.
This tax, currently $45,000,000 a year, is specific, and as such
should be 4‘earmarked” to fund improvements in Muni, programs
for seniors, and vitally needed emergency services in San
Francisco.

Unfortunately, Proposition E does not guarantee that any of
these needs will receive a dime from the proposed surcharge.

Join me in voting NO on Proposition E

Frank Kelly

San Francisco Firefighters - Local 798

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Teamsters Local 278.

The Hotel Council of San Francisco strongly urges you to vote
NO on Proposition E. Affordable parking is essential to the eco-
nomic health of San Francisco. This onerous 40% tax increase
will discourage visitors from surrounding counties to come to San
Francisco for theatre, dining, or shopping. What will the econom-
ic impact be? This is simply not the time for new taxes when San
Francisco is just now beginning its economic recovery.

Patricia Breslin

Hotel Council of San Francisco

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is No on Proposition E: Stop the Unfair Tax Increase.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP132-EN-N06

Parking Tax Ordinance

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION E

San Francisco's union families ask you to Vote NO on
Proposition E

After many years, the economy of San Francisco is just now
recovering. This proposed surcharge is a regressive tax that hurts
working families and costs jobs. For many people, parking is not
a luxury - it's a job requirement. Please join working families and
unions from around this City in voting NO on Proposition E.

Terry McHugh, Business Representative
Teamsters Local 278

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is Teamsters Local 278.

As San Franciscans, we get around our city in cars, on bikes,
MUNI, BART, on foot or in wheelchairs. We do what we can to
make ends meet and we still manage to call this place home.

Proposition E is a regressive tax that hurts those who must use
their cars: parents with children, seniors, people who work shifts,
people who make sales calls, the disabled, and construction work-
ers, to name a few.

San Francisco currently has the nations HIGHEST parking tax
at 25%. Even Manhattan's parking tax is ONLY 18.25%, and Los
Angeles, the next highest in the state, is at 10%! Proposition E
will raise San Francisco's tax to an astronomical 35%!

Proposition E could cost families more than $500 a year. Worse,
it contains NO guarantee that money raised will be spent on need-
ed services, like MUNI.

Many economists worry that Proposition E could severely dam-
age the viability of our small businesses and costs some San
Franciscans their jobs. Other cities have tried this kind of tax with
disastrous results.

Furthermore, now is the wrong time for this tax increase. San
Francisco just adopted its largest budget ever. Overflowing state
revenues have brought millions more to San Francisco, including
$30 million in unanticipated new funds for MUNI.

The current tax already generates over $50 million annually, but
additional funds go uncollected. San Francisco recently adopted a
new law to address this problem. Let it take effect.

Despite all of these facts, some of our colleagues on the Board
of Supervisors want you to pay even more, or force those in need
to get rid of their cars. We respectfully disagree.

We believe in improving public transportation before outlawing
cars. We believe in an affordable San Francisco. Vote NO on
Proposition E.

Supervisor Michela Alioto-Pier
Supervisor Sean Elsbernd

The true sources of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
are Supervisor Michela Alioto-Pier and No on Proposition E: Stop
the Unfair Tax Increase.

Don't Support BAD public policy: Vote NO on E

The Board of Supervisors should have done their homework
before rushing this measure to the ballot. No public comment was
accepted when Proposition E was placed on the ballot. Indeed, not
a single San Franciscan signed a petition to bring Proposition E
before the voters.

Service to the community requires that changes in public poli-
cy get a full hearing. That's not what happened with Proposition
E. It turns out that seniors, the disabled and other vulnerable San
Franciscans will not merit exemption from this regressive tax.
City residents who require doctor visits in downtown San
Francisco will pay the same parking surcharge that out-of-town
conventioneers pay. That's not fair.

Reject Bad public policy

Please join union members, community activists and small
business owners in voting NO on Proposition E.

Larry Mazzola

U.A. Plumbers and Steamfitters Local 38

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is
Teamsters Local 278.

Proposition E is a poorly planned 40% tax increase that will dis-
courage shoppers and visitors from spending their money in our
stores, staying in our hotels, enjoying our City, and supporting our
local economy. Let's send a message that visitors are welcome in
San Francisco - Vote NO on PROPOSITION E.

Union Square Association

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is No on Proposition E: Stop the Unfair Tax Increase.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP133-EN-N06

Parking Tax Ordinance

PAID ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROPOSITION E

This regressive tax - a 40% increase - was rushed to the ballot
at the last minute without proper review. It will cost working fam-
ilies up to $600 per year and put jobs at risk as fewer shoppers
come to San Francisco to spend money and pay local taxes. Other
cities have tried this with disastrous results.

The last thing we need is a last minute tax plan that could hurt
more than it helps. Please join me in voting NO on Proposition E.

Mayor Gavin Newsom

The true source of funds used for the printing fee of this argument
is No on Proposition E: Stop the Unfair Tax Increase.

The Economic competition from suburban communities sur-
rounding San Francisco is increasing. Parking in these communi-
ties is free. San Francisco needs to promote visits from Bay Area
residents to shop, dine and support our economy.

A parking tax increase will drive up already high parking rates.
San Francisco cannot afford to provide any further obstacles to
attracting Bay Area residents into the City.

Please vote No on E

Golden Gate Restaurant Association

The true source of funds for the printing fee of this argument is the
Golden Gate Restaurant Association PAC.

The three largest contributors to the true source committee are: 1.
Southern Wine & Spirits of America, Inc. 2. Nixon Peabody LLP. 3.
Tia Margarita Inc.

Arguments printed on this page are the opinion of the authors and have not been checked for accuracy by any official agency.

38-CP134-EN-N06

LEGAL TEXT OF PROPOSITION E

Ordinance amending Article 9 of the
Business and Tax Regulations Code, the Tax
on Occupancy of Parking Space in Parking
Station, to (1) add a new Section 602.6 to
impose an additional 10-Percent surcharge
on the rent for occupancy of a parking sta-
tion in San Francisco; (2) amend the defini-
tions of “Operator,” “Occupant,” “Parking
Station” and “Rent” in Section 601 and of
“rent” in Section 602-A to extend the tax to
valet services even if there is no charge for
the use of property to park a vehicle; and (3)
stating January 1, 2007 operative date for
Ordinance.

Note: Additions are single-underline
italics Times New Roman:
deletions are strikethrough ital
ics Times New Roman.

Board amendment additions are
double underlined.

Board amendment deletions are
strikethrough normal.

Be it ordained by the People of the City
and County of San Francisco:

Section 1. Pursuant to Article XIIIC of
the Constitution of the State of California, this
ordinance shall be submitted to the qualified
electors of the City and County of San
Francisco, at the November 7, 2006 consolidat-
ed general election and shall become operative
only if approved by the qualified electors at that
election.

Section 2. Article 9 of the San Francisco
Business and Tax Regulations Code is hereby
amended by adding new Section 602.6 to read
as follows:

SEC. 602.6. IMPOSITION OF ADDI-
TIONAL 10-PERCENT SURCHARGE.

There shall he an additional tax of 10
(ten) percent on the rent of every occupancy of
a parkins space in a parking station in the City
and Countv of San Francisco on and after
January L 2007. This tax is in addition to: (1)
the 15 (fifteen) percent tax imposed by Section
602: and (2) the 10 (ten) percent surcharge
imposed by Section 602.5. After the operative
date of this Section, the total tax on the rent of
every occupancy of a parking space in a park-
ing station shall be 35 (thirty-five) percent.

When rent is paid. charged. billed or
falls due on either a weekly, monthly or other
term basis. the rent so paid, charged, billed or
falling due shall be subject to the tax of 25
(twenty-five) percent to the extent that it covers
any portion of the period prior to January 1.
2007. and to the tax of 35 (thirty-five) percent
to the extent that it covers any portion of the
period on and after January 1. 2007. and such
payment, charge, bill or rent due shall be
apportioned on the basis of the ratio of the
number of days falling within said periods to
the total number of days covered thereby.
Where any tax has been paid hereunder upon
any rent without any right o f occupancy there-

for. the Tax Collector may by regulation provide
for credit or refund of the amount of such tax
upon application therefor as provided in this
Code.

The surcharge tax so collected shall be
deposited in the General Fund and subject to
the budget and fiscal provisions o f the Charter
may be expended for any City purpose.

Section 3. The San Francisco Business
and Tax Regulations Code Article 9 is hereby
amended by amending Sections 601 and 602-
A, to read as follows:

SEC. 601. ADDITIONAL DEFINI-
TIONS.

When used in this Article the following
terms shall mean or include:

(a)	“Operator.” Any person operating
a parking station in the City and County of San
Francisco, including but not limited to, the
owner or proprietor of such premises, lessee,
sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee, a
valet parking service, or any other person oth-
erwise operating such parking station. A person
who otherwise qualifies as an operator as here-
in defined shall not, by reason of the fact that he
was exempt from the tax herein imposed, be
exempted from the obligations of an operator
hereunder.

(b)	“Occupant.” A person who, for a
consideration, uses, possesses or has the right
to use or possess any space for the parking of a
motor vehicle in a parking station under any
lease, concession, permit, right of access,
license to use or other agreement or otherwise,.
including a person who delivers a motor vehi-
cle to a valet parking service for parking.

(c)	“Occupancy.” The use or posses-
sion or the right to the use or possession of any
space for the parking of a motor vehicle in a
parking station.

(d)	“Parking Station.” The term “park-
ing station” shall include, but is not limited to:

(1)	Any outdoor space or uncovered
plot, place, lot, parcel, yard or enclosure, or any
portion thereof, where motor vehicles may be
parked, stored, housed or kept, for which any
charge is made;

(2)	Any building or structure, or any
portion thereof in which motor vehicles may be
parked, stored, housed or kept, for which any
charge is made: and

(3)	Any place where a valet parking
service parks a motor vehicle, whether or not
any charge is made for use of the property for
parking.

(e)	“Motor Vehicle.” The term “motor
vehicle” includes every self-propelled vehicle
operated or suitable for operation on the high-
way.

(f)	“Rent.” The consideration received
for occupancy or for valet parking services,
from the occupant or any other person, valued
in money, whether received in money or other-
wise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property or services of any kind or nature, and
also the amount for which credit is allowed by

the operator to the occupant or any other person
without any deduction therefrom whatsoever.

(g)	“Parking Meter.” Any device
which, when the recording device thereof is set
in motion, or immediately following the
deposit of any coin, shall register the period of
time that any motor vehicle may be parked
adjacent thereto.

SEC. 602A. CHARGES SUBJECT TO

TAX.

The term “rent,” as defined in Section
601(f), shall be deemed to include the total
charges required to be paid by an occupant or
any other person (including but not limited to,
any separately stated valet or service labor
charge) in connection with the use or occupan-
cy of parking space or for valet parking servic-
es; provided that nothing herein shall require
the payment of parking tax on the sale of petro-
leum products, automobile parts, or the like, or
the rendering of services (including car-wash
services) totally unconnected with the use or
occupancy of parking space. The Board of
Supervisors hereby declares its intent that from
its initial enactment, the parking tax was
intended to include and exclude the charges set
forth in this Section 602A. The Board of
Supervisors further declares that the addition of
this Section 602A is not intended to make any
substantive change in the Parking Tax
Ordinance, but is enacted for clarification pur-
poses only.

Section 4. The operative date of this
Ordinance will be January 1, 2007.

38-CP135-EN-N06

135

38-CP135-EN-N06