FULL TEXT OF MEASURE J

EXHIBIT A

RESOLUTION NO. 2006-130

A RESOLUTION OF THE LODI CITY COUNCIL
ESTABLISHING LOW-INCOME DISCOUNTS FOR
WATER AND SEWER SERVICES

WHEREAS, with the implementation of new water, sewer,
and refuse rates and charges adopted April 27, 2004, the Lodi
City Council adopted Ordinance No. 1750 amending Lodi
Municipal Code Chapter 13.04, §13.04.130, "Low-Income
Adjustments,” at its September 15, 2004, City Council
meeting; and

WHEREAS, the City Council now desires to adopt a
resolution establishing Water and Sewer Services discounts
for eligible low-income residents, and further desires to place
the Measure on the November 2006 ballot for citizen
approval.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AND ORDERED
that the Lodi City Council does hereby approve and establish
low-income discounts for water and sewer services as shown
below, which shall become effective the first billing period
following the effective date of this Resolution:

For Residential Customers who qualify for the Electric
SHARE Program discount:

Water	20% Discount on the Residential Flat Rate

Wastewater 20% Discount on the Residential Flat Rate
for Disposal to the Domestic System

OR,

For Residential Customers who qualify for the Electric
Senior/Fixed-Income discount:

Water	10% Discount on the Residential Flat Rate

Wastewater 10% Discount on the Residential Flat Rate
for Disposal to the Domestic System

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the water and
wastewater discounts shall be funded by the ratepayers,
collected with utility bills; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the programs will be
limited to two percent (2%) of the revenue of each utility. At
current revenue levels, this equals $164,234.00 in the water
utility and $164,630.00 per year in wastewater; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the City Council does
hereby direct staff to institute a verification program whereby
every three years, 10% of one third (1/3) of the applicants’
eligibility is re-confirmed; and

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this Measure shall be
placed on the November 7,2006, Ballot for citizen approval.

Dated: July 5,2006

I hereby certify that Resolution No. 2006-130 was passed
and adopted by the City Council of the City of Lodi at its
regular meeting held July 5,2006, by the following vote:

AYES:	COUNCIL	MEMBERS - Beckman, Hansen, and

Mayor Hitchcock
NOES:	COUNCIL MEMBERS - Johnson and Mounce

ABSENT: COUNCIL MEMBERS - None
ABSTAIN: COUNCIL MEMBERS - None

JENNIFER M. PERRIN
City Clerk

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE J
Prepared by Lodi City Attorney

LOW INCOME WATER AND WASTEWATER
DISCOUNT INITIATIVE

The Low Income Water and Wastewater Discount Initiative
proposes to continue the existing discount programs
established by Ordinance 1750 and Resolution 2004-158,
both adopted August 4, 2004. These programs are currently
funded by water and wastewater rates and provide a 20
percent discount to low income residents and a 10 percent
discount to seniors who are on a fixed income. Because the
programs already exist and the Initiative proposes to continue
them, the Initiative would not result in a rate increase.

The Initiative does make one change from the existing
programs. That change is establishing a cap on the total
revenue available to fund the discounts of 2% of revenue of
the water and wastewater funds. At present revenue levels,
this would equal $164,630 in wastewater and $164,734 in
water.

39-556	SJ	050-021

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE J

Low Income Discounts for Water & Sewer Services

There Is no economic benefit or reason to support the Low
Income Discount Measure except that it is the right thing to
do. We have in our community people that need financial
assistance.

Unfortunately, our utility bills have increased and are a burden
on low-income residents. The City currently has in place a
Low-Income Discount program, which provides relief to
approximately 2000 eligible Lodi households. Recent
California legislation requires voters to affirm the discount
program in order for cities to continue it. A “yes” vote on this
ballot measure maintains the program without increasing
current water or sewer rates; the discount is presently built
into rates. If this ballot measure fails the discount will be
discontinued.

Voting in favor of Measure “J” gives Lodians an opportunity to
provide beneficial assistance for the less fortunate and needy
in Lodi. The cost to most citizen ratepayers is measured in a
few cents per day, less than one-dollar per month for a three-
bedroom, two-bath home. However, the benefit to those who
receive this discount may be as much as ten-dollars a month.

For an individual struggling to survive on Social Security it can
be the difference between a meal and medicine or an
unbearably hot July day/night and some degree of relief. To
qualify for the program, a couple must make less than
$22,000 annually and must re-qualify every three-years, so
the discount is not a lifetime benefit.

Most of us grumble about our utility bill, but pay it and at the
end of the day we manage to get by. But to some, paying
their utility bill requires great sacrifice or worse yet, going
without basic necessities. Vote yes on Measure “J” because
it is the right thing to do.

Submitted by:

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE J

The Argument in Favor of Measure “J” says it is the right thing
to do.

Helping the poor in our community IS the right thing to do. As
a Christian I know it is my duty to help the poor and I do that.

But Measure “J" is not about whether or not we should help
the poor. Measure “J” is about WHO should help the poor.
Measure “J” promotes a system where the poor rely on
government for assistance. In this system government must
continually spend more money to meet the needs of an ever
growing class of people who need assistance. The
government continues to raise taxes, fees and rates in order
to continue the flow of money to the poor. When the taxes,
fees and rates increase those who give regularly to the poor
have less money available to do so and so the needs of the
poor grow more and thus government increases the taxes,
fees and rates to meet the need. It is a vicious cycle with no
end.

The right thing to do is for us to take care of our neighbor in
need. Will that care come from you and your friends at the
Salvation Army, the Loel Center, the Concilio, and your local
church, or from a faceless government bureaucracy? Make a
donation today and start making a difference. And vote NO
on Measure “J”.

Submitted by:

/s/ John Beckman,

Council Member

/s/ Susan Hitchcock, Mayor, City of Lodi
/s/ Larry D. Hansen, Lodi City Council
/s/ Mark D. Price, Senior Pastor,

St. Paul Lutheran Church, Lodi
/s/ JoAnne Mounce, Lodi City Council

39-557

SJ 050-022

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE J

This November the voters of Lodi have a rare opportunity to
decide who should take care of our poor, the Government or
individual citizens.

The City of Lodi has established water and sewer rates at a
rate that is higher than it needs to be. The current rate was
set slightly higher for most citizens so that some residents can
have lower rates. The City is conducting charity on your
behalf.

But, before you cast your vote on Measure J ask yourself, are
you willing to assist the low-income members of our
community with your own charitable dollars? If you answer
yes then vote NO on Measure J. But if you vote NO on
Measure J, then get out your checkbook and begin writing
monthly checks to a local charity. The poor in Lodi must be
taken care of. If you will not do it yourself then the City of
Lodi will do it for you.

If you prefer the Nanny State, if you like your government to
raise fees, rates and taxes each year so that more of the poor
can be taken care of with more government programs, then
vote yes on Measure J.

The gift of charity should come freely from a caring and
considerate person. Gifts of public money like the low-income
discount create a sense of entitlement. They deprive both the
recipient and the donator of the joy that is true charity.

I ask you to do the right think on November 7, 2006. Make a
decision to help the poor and needy of Lodi. Make a decision
to donate regularly to the local charity of your choice. Make a
decision to help your fellow citizens with your own money and
stop allowing the Government to do it for you. Vote NO on
Measure J.

Submitted by:

/s/ John Beckman,

Council Member

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE J

If we lived in a perfect world there would be no poor in Lodi or
any place else. As the opponent of Measure “J” agrees the
poor in Lodi must be taken care of. The cost of the ballot
proposition before the voters is less than $1.00 per month for
a three-bedroom, two-bath home.

The opponent of the proposition is suggesting a check be
written to charity to provide the necessary assistance to offset
the monthly support provided through the Low-Income
Discount program. This is impractical. To what charity would
one write the check? How much? Who would administer the
program? Who would screen for eligibility? Who would see
the money goes for rate reduction?

The City is in the most efficient position to administer the
existing Low-Income Discount program. The eligibility
screening is done under a State mandated program. The
money goes where it is supposed to go and is easily
collected.

The low-income discount does not undermine the need to
make charitable contributions. Quite the contrary! Charitable
contributions should be made with a generous heart and
citizens are encouraged to continue current giving practices.

The right thing to do is continue the existing Low-Income
Discount program to provide a reduced water/waste water bill
to citizens living at the poverty level. Measure “J” will not
increase rates for anyone. Vote “Yes” on Measure “J.”

Submitted by:

/s/ Susan Hitchcock, Mayor, City of Lodi
/s/ Larry D. Hansen, Council Member
/s/ JoAnne Mounce, Council Member
/s/ Mark D. Price, Pastor,

St. Paul Lutheran Church, Lodi

