ORDINANCE NO. 595

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF INDIAN WELLS, CALIFORNIA,
REGARDING THE IMPOSITION OF A TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY TAX FOR
CONDO HOTEL RENTERS, ESTABLISHING A FEE IN-LIEU OF TRANSIENT
OCCUPANCY TAX FOR CONDO HOTEL UNIT OWNERS' PERSONAL USE
OVER SIXTY (60) DAYS IN A CALENDAR YEAR, AND ESTABLISHING
AND IMPOSING AN AMENITY FEE TAX

THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF INDIAN WELLS ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

SECTION 1. Section 3.12.190 is added to the Indian Wells Municipal Code to read in
its entirety as follows:

"3.12.190 Transient Occupancy Tax. For the privilege of occupancy, other than Personal Use,
by any person of a Condominium Hotel Unit, as those terms are defined in Chapter 21.33,
regardless of the length of such occupancy, the occupant is subject to and shall pay the
Transient Occupancy Tax ("Tax") imposed by section 3.12.030 for each and every day of
occupancy commencing on the first day of occupancy and continuing until such occupancy
ceases. This section shall not apply to any person whose use constitutes Personal Use as
defined in section 21.33.020. The Tax constitutes a debt owed by the occupant to the City,
which debt is extinguished only by payment to the operator or to the City. The occupant shall
pay the Tax to the operator at the time the rent or other consideration for the Condominium
Hotel Unit is paid or on the last day of each month of occupancy, whichever occurs first. If the
rent is paid in installments, a proportionate share of the Tax shall be paid with each
installment. Separate and apart from and in addition to the foregoing, any unpaid Tax shall be
paid by the occupant to the operator when the occupant ceases to occupy the Condominium
Hotel Unit. If for any reason the Tax due is not paid to the operator of the Condominium Hotel,
the Tax Administrator may require that such Tax be paid directly to the Tax Administrator. The
Tax on occupancies furnished to transients that is chargeable but not charged, or is provided in
exchange for services or other consideration of any kind, is due and payable to the operator
and to the City by the operator, and the amount of Tax shall be determined on the basis of nine
and one-quarter percent (9.25%) of the cash rental value of the Condominium Hotel Unit based
on the value of Condominium Hotel Units during the period of occupancy, in the same
Condominium Hotel or similar accommodations in the City, whichever the Tax Administrator
determines to be most applicable. The Tax is also payable upon the sale or transfer of an
ownership interest in a Condominium Hotel Unit and shall be paid to the Tax Administrator by
the Condominium Hotel Unit Owner in such event. The operator shall notify the Tax
Administrator of the name and address of all record owners of Condominium Hotel Units within
the operator's Condominium Hotel and shall, within thirty (30) days of any change in such
owner(s) of any Condominium Hotel Unit or their address, notify the Tax Administrator of the
name and address of any and ail new owner(s). The Tax Administrator is authorized to adopt
and interpret such rules and regulations as may be necessary or convenient to implement this
section, provided however, that such rules and regulations and the interpretation of such rules
and regulations shall not be contrary to applicable law, including, without limitation, this Code,
or any state or federal statute or constitutional provision, including, without limitation,
Proposition 218 (Cal. Const., Arts. XIIIC and XIIID)."

City of Indian Wells
Ordinance No. 595
Page 2

SECTION 2. Section 3.12.180 is added to the Indian Wells Municipal Code to read in
its entirety as follows:

"3.12.180 In-Lieu Amount. For the privilege of occupancy of any Condominium Hotel Unit, as
defined by one or more terms set forth in section 21.33.020, for Personal Use (as that term is
defined in section 21.33.020), the Unit Owner (as defined in section 21.33.020) is subject to
and shall pay an amount ("In-Lieu Amount") of a maximum of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per
day subject to automatic increase as set forth hereinafter, for each and every day of Personal
Use (as defined in section 21.33.020) of each Condominium Hotel Unit in every calendar year
beyond the first sixty (60) days of Personal Use (as defined in section 21.33.020). The In-Lieu
Amount shall be paid in-lieu of, and not in addition to, the transient occupancy tax imposed by
this Chapter. The maximum twenty-five dollar ($25.00) amount set forth above shall be
automatically increased as set forth herein. Notwithstanding any provision contained in this
section or in section 3.12.030, no Unit Owner shall be required to pay the In-Lieu Amount or
the Tax imposed by section 3.12.030 for the first sixty (60) days, whether consecutive or non-
consecutive, of Personal Use during any calendar year. On July 1 of each calendar year the
maximum In-Lieu Amount shall be automatically increased (there shall be no decrease in any
year) by an amount equal to the increase in the CPI (defined below). The CPI to be used shall
be the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers in the Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside
area (or any successor index or other comparable index selected by the City) for each twelve
(12) month period ending April 30 prior to each July 1 adjustment date (provided that any CPI
adjustment shall be rounded up to the nearest full dollar). The In-Lieu Amount constitutes a
debt owed by the Unit Owner to the City, which debt is extinguished only by payment to the
operator or to the City. The Unit Owner shall pay the In-Lieu Amount to the operator within ten
(10) calendar days following the end of each calendar month during which there is Personal Use
of the Condominium Hotel Unit that causes the In-Lieu Amount to be due and payable. If for
any reason the In-Lieu Amount due is not paid to the operator of the Condominium Hotel, the
Tax Administrator may require that such In-Lieu Amount shall be paid directly to the Tax
Administrator. The In-Lieu Amount payable upon the sale or transfer of interest in a
Condominium Hotel Unit shall be payable to the Tax Administrator. The operator shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the name and address of all record owners of Condominium Hotel
Units within the operator's Condominium Hotel and shall, within thirty (30) days of any change
in such owner(s) of any Condominium Hotel Unit, notify the Tax Administrator of the name and
address of any new owner(s). Notwithstanding the maximum amount of the In-Lieu Amount,
the City Council is authorized to periodically increase or decrease by ordinance (including
without limitation an ordinance adopting a development agreement pursuant to Government
Code Section 65864, et seq.) or resolution, the In-Lieu Amount provided that the resulting In-
Lieu Amount does not exceed the maximum In-Lieu Amount. The City Council may also impose
an In-Lieu Amount, not to exceed the maximum In-Lieu Amount, from time to time in different
amounts for different Condominium Hotels based upon the following criteria: (a) the size or
number of Units in a Condominium Hotel, (b) the quantity, quality and type of amenities which
are located within or are a part of a complex comprised, at least in part, of a Condominium
Hotel, (c) the likelihood that a Condominium Hotel will produce other revenues and/or benefits
to the City and/or the City's residents, and (d) any other factors which, in the reasonable
determination of City Council, would mitigate against assessing as high an In-Lieu Amount as
required to be paid by others in the City. For this purpose, the City Council understands and
determines that there is a rational basis for charging a different In-Lieu Amount upon different
taxpayers, due to the foregoing factors. Any one or more of the factors relate to varying needs
imposed upon the City to provide services to, and/or varying generation of revenue by, different

City of Indian Wells
Ordinance No. 595
Page 3

Condominium Hotels, thereby justifying different tax rates for different taxpayers. In order to
decrease or increase the In-Lieu Amount for any calendar year as permitted hereunder, the City
Council shall do so on or before January 1 to take effect the following July 1; except that any
In-Lieu Amount established by an ordinance adopting a development agreement pursuant to
Government Code Section 65864, et seq., shall take effect when specified in the development
agreement. The Tax Administrator is authorized to adopt and interpret such rules and
regulations as may be necessary or convenient to implement this section, provided however,
that such rules and regulations and the interpretation of such rules and regulations shall not be
contrary to applicable law, including, without limitation, this Code, or any state or federal
statute or constitutional provision, including, without limitation, Proposition 218 (Cal. Const.,
Arts. XIIIC and XIIID)."

SECTION 3. Section 3.12.020(c) of the Indian Wells Municipal Code is hereby
amended to read as follows:

"3.12.020(c) Operator. 'Operator' means the person who is proprietor of the hotel, whether in
the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee in possession, licensee or any other
capacity. Where the operator performs his functions through a managing agent of any type or
character, the managing agent shall also be deemed an operator for the purpose of this
Chapter, and shall have jointly and severally the same duties and liabilities as his principal.
Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter by either the principal or the managing agent
shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both. The term ’operator' also includes the
Condominium Hotel Association and the management entity or company required by Chapter
21.33 of this Code."

SECTION 4. Section 21.33.130 is added to the Indian Wells Municipal Code to read in
its entirety as follows:

"21.33.130 Amenity Fee Tax. Each Unit Owner of a Condominium Hotel Unit, as those terms
are defined in section 21.33.020, is subject to and shall pay to the City an amenity fee tax of a
maximum of Two Thousand Four Hundred Dollars ($2,400.00) per year (subject to automatic
increase as set forth hereinafter), and any portion of a full year, during which a certificate of
occupancy is valid for that Condominium Hotel Unit. Such amenity fee tax may be used by the
City of Indian Wells for any lawful purpose. The maximum amenity fee tax shall automatically
be increased on July 1 of each calendar year (there shall be no decrease in any year) to reflect
cost of living increases. Each increase shall be in an amount equal to the percentage change in
the CPI (defined below) during the prior twelve month period (as set forth below, and
calculated as provided below), and this product shall be added to and become part of the
maximum amenity fee tax. The CPI to be used shall be the Consumer Price Index for All Urban
Consumers in the Los Angeles-Anaheim-Riverside area (or any successor index or other
comparable index selected by the City). On each adjustment date, the Index for the calendar
month that is two months prior to the adjustment date shall be compared with the Index for
the calendar month that is one year prior thereto, and the percentage increase shall be
multiplied by the amount of the maximum amenity fee tax then in effect to determine the
increase in the maximum amenity fee tax for the ensuing year. Notwithstanding the maximum
amount of the amenity fee tax, the City Council is authorized to periodically increase or
decrease by ordinance (including without limitation an ordinance adopting a development
agreement pursuant to Government Code Section 65864, et seq.) or resolution, the amenity fee
tax provided that the resulting amenity fee tax does not exceed the maximum amenity fee tax.

City of Indian Wells
Ordinance No. 595
Page 4

The City Council may also impose an amenity fee tax, not to exceed the maximum amenity fee
tax, from time to time in different amounts for different Condominium Hotels based upon the
following criteria: (a) the size or number of Units in a Condominium Hotel, (b) the quantity,
quality and type of amenities which are located within or are a part of a complex comprised, at
least in part, of a Condominium Hotel, (c) the likelihood that a Condominium Hotel will produce
other revenues and/or benefits to the City and/or the City's residents, and (d) any other factors
which, in the reasonable determination of City Council, would mitigate against assessing as high
an amenity fee tax as required to be paid by others in the City. For this purpose, the City
Council understands and determines that there is a rational basis for charging a different
amenity fee tax upon different taxpayers, due to the foregoing factors. Any one or more of the
factors relate to varying needs imposed upon the City to provide service to, and/or generation
of revenue by, different Condominium Hotels. In order to decrease or increase the amenity fee
tax for any calendar year as permitted hereunder, the City Council shall do so on or before
January 1 to take effect the following July 1; except that any amenity fee tax established by an
ordinance adopting a development agreement pursuant to Government Code Section 65864, et
seq., shall take effect when specified in the development agreement. All laws applicable to the
levy, collection and enforcement of general ad valorem taxes of the City of Indian Wells,
including, without limitation, those pertaining to the matters of delinquency, correction,
cancellation, refund and redemption, are applicable to such amenity fee tax. The Tax
Administrator is authorized to adopt and interpret such rules and regulations as may be
necessary or convenient to implement this section, provided however, that such rules and
regulations and the interpretation of such rules and regulations shall not be contrary to
applicable law, including, without limitation, this Code, or any state or federal statute or
constitutional provision, including, without limitation. Proposition 218 (Cal. Const., Arts. XIIIC
and XIIID)."

SECTION £. If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person
or circumstances is held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect any other provision or application, and to this
end the provisions of this Ordinance are declared to be severable. The City Council and the
electorate by referendum, do hereby declare that they would have adopted this Ordinance and
each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, parts or portions thereof, be
declared invalid or unconstitutional.

SECTION fi. This Ordinance shall become effective only if approved by a majority of
the voters of the City of Indian Wells voting at a General Municipal Election to be held on
November 7, 2006, and shall become effective ten (10) days after the City Council has, by
resolution, declared the results of that General Municipal Election.

City of Indian Wells
Ordinance No. 595
Page 5

SECTION Z- The Mayor shall certify to the passage and adoption of this Ordinance by
the electorate voting thereon on the 7th day of November, 2006.

I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was PASSED, APPROVED AND
ADOPTED by the people of the City of Indian Wells on the 7th day of November, 2006.

Dated: December 7, 2006

ATTEST:

APPROVED AS TO FORM: