Sample Ballot

F

OFFICIAL BALLOT

General Election
Lake County

November 7, 2006

This ballot stub shall be removed and retained by the voter.

MEASURES SUBMITTED TO THE VOTERS

SCHOOL

YUBA COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT

To repair/upgrade Yuba and Woodland Com-
j murety Colleges, improve |ob training, umver-
J sity transfer, provide more courses to students
dose to home; repairtexpand classrooms for
math, sdence. healthcare, nursmg, police, lire, public safety I
programs; upgrade electrical, heating, ventilation systems. I
repair leaky roofs, improve disabled access; upgrade tech-1
nology. repair, construct, acquire, equip buildings, class-
rooms, sites, computer labs, shall Yuba Community College
District issue Si90 million m bonds, at legal rates, with man-1
datory audits and cAzen oversight to monitor spending'’

CITY

CITY OF CLEARLAKE

Yes 1

No

APPROVAL OF A GENERAL TRANSAC-
7 TIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX AT THE
L RATE OF ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT OF
THE RETAIL SALES PRICE, WHICH SHALL
BE ADMINISTERED BY THE CALIFORNIA STATE BOARD
OF EQUALIZATION CLEARLAKE TRANSACTIONS AND
USE TAX ACT. Shall the sales lax be ncreased by one-half
percent to provide additional fundmg tor City services, auto-
matxaly expiring »i 20 years, with funds deposited into the
General Fund; overseen by an independent citizen s oversight
committee; and requiring annual financial audits?

I HAVE VOTED—HAVE YOU?

This page was intentionally left blank.
Examine both sides of each card for
voting opportunities.



004 17-FOi 1 -NON TURN CARD OVER

F|

17-N999

TURN CARD OVER

N



Sample Ballot

CITY OF CLEARLAKE

GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX

MEASURE Z

MEASURE: APPROVAL OF A GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE (SALES) TAX AT THE
RATE OF ONE-HALF OF ONE PERCENT OF THE RETAIL SALES PRICE, WHICH SHALL BE
________ADMINISTERED	BY	THE CALIFORNIA STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.____

CLEARLAKE TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX ACT.

Shall the sales tax be increased by one-half percent to provide additional funding for City services,
automatically expiring in 20 years; with funds deposited into the General Fund; overseen by an indepen-
dent citizen’s oversight committee; and requiring annual financial audits?

Yes_____ No,

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE Z

Measure Z would authorize a one-half of one percent
(0.50%) supplementation to the existing retail sales and
use tax within the City of Clearlake. The tax would be
paid in addition to current state and local retail sales and
use taxes and would be collected at the same time and in
the same manner as the existing retail sales and use tax-
es.

All funds collected through Measure Z would be
administered by the State Board of Equalization. Measure
Z would remain in effect for a period of twenty (20) years,
beginning at the commencement of collection of this tax
by the State Board of Equalization and thereafter auto-
matically terminating unless earlier repealed by the City
Council.

If approved, Measure Z would create a Citizens
Oversight Committee. The Citizens Oversight Committee
would be responsible for reviewing expenditures of funds
collected through Measure Z, recommending public pro-
grams or projects in need of such funds, and issuing
annual public reports on their findings.

The City Council of the City of Clearlake adopted a
resolution on August 10, 2006, calling this election and
submitting this Measure to a vote of the electors of the
City. A “Yes” vote by a majority voting on Measure Z is a
vote to approve and allow the City to supplement the cur-
rent retail sales and use tax by one-half of one percent
(0.50%). A “No” vote on Measure Z would maintain the
retail sales and use tax at its current rate of seven and
three quarters percent (7.75%).

s/ Tom Gibson, City Attorney
City of Clearlake

If you desire a complete copy of Resolution No.
24-2006, please call the Lake County Registrar of
Voters Office at 263-2372 and a copy will be mailed
to you at no cost.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Z

The measure is the implementation of a 1/2 cent

general sales tax.

The majority of the infrastructure within the City of
Clearlake was constructed to standards and conditions in
affect in the 1930 and 1940 era and is unable to meet
today’s demands. A pavement management study was
completed for Clearlake’s street system. The report cited
that Clearlake streets have the lowest pavement condi-
tion rating of any city the consultant evaluated. The aver-
age pavement condition rating for the City’s streets was
38 on a 100-point scale.

Proceeds of the 1/2 cent sales tax are deposited in
the general fund. The City intends the additional funds
provided by this tax to supplement existing local revenues
being used for infrastructure-related purposes. The City
will maintain their existing commitment of local funds for
street maintenance. The City developed a proposed
Expenditure Plan for the proceeds. This Plan allocates
5% of the general sales tax to purchase replacement
equipment to use in the maintenance of the City’s infra-
structure. The Expenditure Plan covers a 20-year period,
and is broken down into five-year planning segments.
The initial years are proposed to be devoted to the reha-
bilitation of the major arterial streets within the City of
Clearlake.

Through this measure, visitors and people who come
to Clearlake to shop help pay for needed improvements.
The resolution includes an oversight committee whose
responsibility is to make recommendations to the City
Council regarding the use of funds. This measure distrib-
utes the payment for the use of City facilities and infra-
structure between our residents and visitors to the City of
Clearlake.

The needed improvements and maintenance on the
City of Clearlake infrastructure far exceed the available
revenues for the activities. This measure may produce
revenues of approximately $800,000 annually.

s/ Joyce Overton, Mayor

s/ Judy Thein, Vice-Mayor

s/ Courtlandt M. Giambruno, Councilmember

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE Z SUBMITTED

ORDINANCE NO.124-2006

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF CLEARLAKE, CALIFORNIA,
ESTABLISHING A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

THE CITY COUNCIL OF CLEARLAKE, CALIFORNIA DOES ORDAIN AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. SHORT TITLE

This Ordinance shall be known as the "City of Clearlake Transactions and Use Tax.” This tax shall
complement, and not replace or supersede, the City’s existing sales and use tax, and shall be applicable in
the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 2. OPERATIVE DATE.

"Operative Date" means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after
the Effective Date, as set forth in Section 15 of this Ordinance.

Section 3. PURPOSE.

This Ordinance has been adopted for the following purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof
be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6
(commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of
Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax Ordinance. This Ordinance shall be
operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an
election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporate provisions identical to
those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not
inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a
measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that
adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and
administrative procedures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California
State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner
that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, and thereby minimize the cost of collecting the City’s transactions and use taxes, and at the
same time minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 4. CONTRACT WITH STATE.

Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all
functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions and use tax Ordinance; provided,

1

that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it
shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first calendar
quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 5. TRANSACTIONS TAX RATE.

For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all
retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the gross
receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after
the Operative Date of this Ordinance.

Section 6. PLACE OF SALE.

For the purposes of this Ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the place of business of the
retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state
destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such
sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business
in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

Section 7. USE TAX RATE.

An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in the City of tangible
personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the operative date of this Ordinance for storage,
use or other consumption in said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of
the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to state sales or
use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 8. ADOPTION OF CERTAIN SECTIONS OF THE REVENUE AND TAXATION CODE BY
REFERENCE.

Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the
provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and
made a part of this Ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 9. LIMITATIONS ON ADOPTION OF STATE LAW AND COLLECTION OF USE TAXES.

In adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A. Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of
this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer,
State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or
any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in performing
the functions incident to the administration or operation of this Ordinance.

2

3,	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax while
such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision
of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715,6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B. The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged in
business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 10. PERMIT NOT REQUIRED.

If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code,
an additional transactor's permit shall not be required by this Ordinance.

Section 11. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of
any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant to
the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or
use tax.

B.	There are exempt from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts

from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of
aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the authority of the
laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the
City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery by the
retailer to a earner for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point
outside the City shall be satisfied:

a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented vessels
registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-
of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address
is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

3

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated from
that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for
a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property,
for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease
prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease
upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this Ordinance, the storage, use or other
consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under
any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or
consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to
the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to
a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this Ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of
time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
operative date of this Ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other
consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any party to the
contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not
such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City
shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the property,
including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of
business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or
person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of •

4

Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or licenses
the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this Ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a
transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale
to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 12. AMENDMENTS.

All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this Ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6
and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this Ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this
Ordinance.

Section 13. ENJOINING COLLECTION FORBIDDEN.

No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or
proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to
prevent or enjoin the collection under this Ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 14. SEVERABILITY.

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to
be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the remaining portions of the Ordinance. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have passed and adopted this Ordinance and each of the provisions thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more such provisions be declared invalid and/or unconstitutional.

Section 15. EFFECTIVE DATE.

If this Ordinance is approved by a majority of the voters voting on the measure at the November 7,
2006, Election, pursuant to Elections Code Sections 9217 and 9222, this Ordinance shall become effective
ten (10) days after the City Council declares the results of the election, and the Transactions and Use Tax
shall become operative on the “operative date” as defined in Section 2 of this Ordinance.

Section 16. TERMINATION.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Ordinance shall expire twenty (20) years from the
“operative date" as defined in Section 2 of this Ordinance, unless otherwise terminated by the City Council
by adoption of an ordinance setting forth the termination. If the City Council terminates the tax imposed by
this chapter, the City shall notify the State Board of Equalization in writing of such termination. The
operative date of any termination pursuant to this section shall be the end of the quarter immediately
preceding the first calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the City Council’s approval of
that termination.

5

Section 17. PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.

The City Clerk shall certify to the adoption of this Ordinance and cause it, or a summary of it, to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation printed and published within the City of Clearlake within
fifteen (15) days of its adoption.

PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Clearlake,
California, held on 24th day of August, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES:	Mayor	Joyce	Overton,	Vice	Mayor	Judy	Thein,	Council	Member	Peggy	Smith,	Council

Member Curt Giambruno

NOES:	None

ABSENT:	Council Member Bob Malley

ABSTAIN:

6