
<full> FULL TEXT OF MEASURE C

COUNTY OF DEL NORTE
AN ORDINANCE APPLYING THE TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY
TAX TO THE RENTAL OF SPACES IN
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS

Section One. Section 3.08.020, subdivision A, of Chapter 3.08
of the Del Norte County Ordinance Code, setting forth the definition
of “Hotel" for purposes of that Chapter, is hereby amended by adding
the following sentence to that subdivision, to read as follows, with
the remainder of that section to remain unchanged by this ordinance:

For purposes of this Chapter only, “hotel” also means space

rented in a recreational vehicle park.

Section Two. This ordinance applies the existing transient
occupancy tax to a new category of taxpayers. Funds derived from
this increase of the existing tax shall be deposited into the county
general fund and may be used for general government purposes.

Section Three. This ordinance shall take effect only upon its
approval by a majority of the votes cast for or against its passage
at the next general election of the voters of Del Norte County. The
effective date of the tax approved herein shall be the thirty-first
calendar day after certification of its passage by the Board of
Supervisors.

Section Four, if any section, subsection, sentence, clause or
phrase of this ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid or
unenforceable, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this ordinance. The Board of Supervisors
hereby declares that it would have passed this ordinance and each
section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, clauses or phrases be
declared invalid or unenforceable. <fullend>





<impartial> IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE C

The Del Norte County transient occupancy tax does not currently
apply to the rental of spaces in RV parks. Measure C would apply
the County’s TOT to the rental of spaces in RV parks in the
unincorporated area of Del Norte County.

As with other occupancies, the TOT on space rentals in RV parks
would apply to rentals of 30 days or less.

The Del Norte County Board of Supervisors has adopted
ordinance number 2006-13, which amends the TOT ordinance to
include the rental of spaces in RV parks as part of the definition of
"hotel," for purposes of the TOT ordinance only. This has the effect
of extending the TOT to those rentals. However, the ordinance also
provides that it does not go into effect unless it is approved by a
majority of the voters.

A YES vote on Measure C would approve the ordinance and
extend the County transient occupancy tax the rental of spaces in
RV parks.

A NO vote continues to exclude spaces in RV parks from the
County TOT.

Any new revenues from the application of TOT to the rental of
spaces in RV parks are not earmarked. They can be budgeted for
any lawful governmental purpose by the Board of Supervisors. <impartialend>





<impartialsigs> s/ Robert N. Black
Del Norte County Counsel <impartialsigsend>





<fiscal> FISCAL IMPACT STATEMENT FOR MEASURE C

The transient occupancy tax is a tax imposed by the County of Del
Norte on persons renting rooms and other accommodations at motels,
hotels and similar lodging in the unincorporated areas of Del Norte
County.

The current transient occupancy lax is not applied for space rented
in a recreational vehicle park. Approval of this ballot measure will
expand the definition of “hotel'’ to include space rented in a
recreational vehicle park. This increase will generate approximately
an additional $130,000.

Transient occupancy tax revenue is considered general purpose
revenue and can be used to support such activities as Sheriff, District
Attorney, Health, Mental Health, Social Services, Recreation and
Parks and tourism promotional agencies. There is no fiscal impact
on County residents unless they rent a RV space in a recreational
vehicle park in the unincorporated area of the County. <fiscalend>





<fiscalsigs> s/ Christie Babich
Del Norte County Auditor-Controller <fiscalsigsend>






<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE C

Vote YES on Measure C.

Measure C is logical.

Travelers who stay in Del Norte County hotels and motels pay
transient occupancy taxes. They help support local health and law
enforcement. This benefits travelers by helping keep our community
safe.

Those who rent space in RV parks should pay the same tax.
It’s only logical.

Measure C is fair.

The Board of Supervisors has agreed to contribute $62,000 per
year to promote tourism to our county. RV parks will benefit from
this promotion.

Measure C brings consistency.

Crescent City already applies TOT to the rental of RV spaces.
Measure C makes the County consistent with the City.

Vote YES on Measure C. <favorend>





<favorsigs> s/ Jeannine Galatioto
County Administrative Officer

s/ Jerry Cochran
County Assessor

s/ Christie Babich
County Auditor

s/ Dawn Langston
County Treasurer <favorsigsend> 

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST THIS MEASURE
WAS SUBMITTED


