CITY OF NATIONAL CITY

Proposition D

(This proposition will appear on the ballot in the following form.)

Shall an ordinance be approved imposing a one
n	^	percent transactions and use tax (a sales tax) for up

I*nUr iJ	t0	years for City services, facilities and

programs?

This proposition requires approval by a simple majority (over 50%) of the voters.

Fun text of this proposition
follows the arguments.

CITY ATTORNEY IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS

Ballot Proposition "D" proposes to raise revenue for general purposes for the City of National City
by authorizing a one percent transaction and use tax (commonly referred to as a "sales tax")
within the City of National City. The one percent tax would be paid in addition to current sales
taxes and would be collected at the same time and In the same manner as existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section 7285.9 authorizes the City Council to levy a
transaction and use tax at a rate of 0.25 percent or a multiple thereof, provided the tax is
approved by a majority of the voters voting In an election on that issue. If approved, the tax would
go into effect October 1, 2006 (the "Operative Date").

Proposition “D" states that the one percent sales tax is to be used "for City services, facilities and
programs." Because this sales tax would be a "general tax,1' the tax would go into the City’s
general fund and could be used for any legal municipal purpose. The City would not be legally
bound in any way to use the tax monies for any special purpose or for any particular services,
facilities or programs.

The authority to levy the tax imposed by Proposition "D" would expire ten years from the
Operative Date, unless the'Clty Council prior to that date determines that the levy and collection
of the tax is no longer necessary, in which case the City Council has the authority to reduce the
rate of tax, or terminate the Imposition of the tax.

Proposition "D" provides that every five years the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council,
shall appoint an Independent committee comprised of three experts in financial matters, who will
report their recommendation to the Mayor and City Council as to whether the transaction and use
tax should remain in effect at the rate of one percent, or whether the City Council should reduce
the rate of tax or terminate the imposition of the tax.

09J0-1

N SD 254-060

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF PROPOSITION D

■	Proposition ”D" is to raise the sales tax to cover the City General Fund $6.7 million shortfall

■	Every resident from senior citizens, students to infants would be affected by the outcome of
this proposition

■	The sales tax will automatically expire in ten years

■	National City residents have continually stated that public safety is their number #1 priority

■	72% of the total National City General Fund budget is given to the police and fire department

-WHY YOU SHOULD VOTE "YES'1 ON D

■	If Proposition "D" does not pass the following will happen:

■	The City will be required to reduce their general fund budget by 20%

•	The Police Department and Fire Department will be required to terminate employees to
reach the 20% cut

■	The Fire Department will not be able to adequately man the Euclid Street Fire Station

■	The response time by the Police and Fire Department will be greatly reduced

•	The new Public Library will be required to terminate employees and be forced to close more
days

WHAT IS TAXED AND WHAT IS NOT TAXED

■	No tax on medicine, non-prepared food (groceries), rent, mortgage, utilities or property tax

■	Per State Law no new tax on car, motorcycle, boat or plane sales made to consumers from
outside the city, but residents pay

■	Car dealerships will pay taxes on all vehicle repair and parts sold

NATIONAL CITY RESIDENTS WILL NOT BE REQUIRED TO COVER 100% OF SHORTFALL

■	Projections show that one-half to two thirds .of the tax will be paid by non-National City
residents who purchase merchandise in the City

WHY THE SHORTFALL

■	The State of California keeps millions of dollars in revenue (to help balance their budget)
that should be returned to the City

■	Larger mandatory employee pension contribution than expected

ROBERT "DUKIE" VALDERRAMA ADOLFO GONZALES
Port Commissioner	Chief of Police

ANNE CAMPBELL	ROBERT V. MEDINA

City Librarian	President, National City

Firefighters Association

ROSALIE "ROSIE" ALVERADO
President, National School District

N SD 254-061

ARGUMENT AGAINST PROPOSITION D

What?! Another tax increase?

We’ve already voted down this tax once before. But the politicians won’t listen.

They're trying AGAIN to raise taxes, and this time we’re being told that essential police and fire
services may be cut! But we’re ALREADY paying for public safety!

In 1993 we voters approved Prop. 172, a sales tax for public safety funding. According to the
Union-Tribune, National City collects about $7.75 MILLION annually in sales tax for "local public
safety protection and improvement." Where’s THAT money, now that we need it??

Much of this repressive tax will fall on the backs of our poorer citizens. That’s unfair!

If this tax passes, National City will charge the highest sales tax in the county. To avoid this tax,
National City citizens will tend to buy goods outside their own city, and county consumers will
tend to avoid National City as a place to shop or visit. That means more closed local businesses
and more lost jobs.

Citizens of National City will pay an additional one percent on any taxable item they buy locally.
But the National City car dealers’ customers who live outside National City will NOT pay the
higher tax, due to state law. That’s unfair!

Read the measure carefully. Though the tax hikers claim that the tax increase will be used for
vital city services, there is NO LEGAL REQUIREMENT that the money be spent that way. Nonel

Voters are supposed to trust National City politicians to do the right thing. And not only today’s
politicians, but all the city politicians for the next 10 years while the tax is being collected. Bad
idea!

If you think that your taxes are already too high, or even just high enough, you should vote NO on
this tax increase.

Reject this tax!

www.lesstax.org/PropD

RICHARD RIDER

Chair, San Diego Tax Fighters

MARIA RAQUEL D. ASTORGA
Working Mother

EDWARD TEYSSIER

Chair, San Diego Libertarian Party

EDWARD G. LOHLEIN
Small Business Owner

MARTHA SANCHEZ
Small Business Owner

N SD 254-062

ORDINANCE NO. 2006 - 2278

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL
OF THE CITY OF NATIONAL CITY ADDING
CHAPTER 4.60 TO THE NATIONAL CITY MUNICIPAL CODE
TO IMPOSE A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX TO BE
ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

BE IT ORDAINED by the People of the City of National City as follows:

Section 1. That Title 4 of the National City Municipal Code is hereby amended by
adding Chapter 4.60 to read as follows:

Chapter 4.60
TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX

Sections:

4.60.010	Title
4.60.020	Definitions
4.60.030	Operative date
4.60.040	Purpose
4.60.050	Contract with State Board of Equalization
4.60.06Q	Transactions tax rate
4.60.070	Place of sale
4.60.080	Use tax rate
4.60.090	Adoption of provisions of state law
4.60.100	Limitations on adoption of State law and collection of use taxes
4.60.110	Permit not required
4.60.120	Exclusion; exemptions
4.60.130	Permissible uses
4.60.140	Amendments
4.60.150	Enjoining collection forbidden
4.60.160	Severability
4.60.170	Expiration
4.60.180	Independent committee
4.60010	Title. This chapter shall be known as the “City of National City Transactions

and Use Tax Ordinance”. This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the
City.

4.60.020_______Definitions. As used in this chapter, "City’’ means the City of National City

and "tax” means the transactions and use taxes, sometimes also referred to as "sales tax”,
imposed under the provisions of this ordinance; "tax revenue” and "tax revenues” mean all
proceeds of the tax received by the City from the State Board of Equalization.

4.60.030_______Operative date. "Operative date" means the first day that the tax is imposed

and collected. The operative date shall be October 1, 2006, unless a later operative date
becomes effective under the provisions of Section 4.60.050.

4.60.040_______Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among other

purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those
purposes:

. A. To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part
1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section
7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall

N SD 254-063

be operative if a majority vote of the electors voting on the measure vote to approve the
imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides
a measure therefore that can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in
a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation
from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by the State Board of
Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and
use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping upon persons subject to
taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

4.60.050 Contract with State Board of Equalization. Prior to the operative date, the
City shall contract with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City
shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the operative date, it shall
nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall be the first day of the first
calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

4.60.060 Transactions tax rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property
at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the
rate of 1% (one percent) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of this ordinance.

4.60.070 Place of sale. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is
delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for
delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall include delivery
charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax, regardless of the place to
which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of business in the State or
has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to be prescribed and adopted by
the State Board of Equalization.

4.60.080 Use tax rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other
consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in said territory at the rate'
of 1% (one percent) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery
charges when such charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which
delivery is made.

4.60.090 Adoption of provisions of state law. Except as otherwise provided in this
ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1 (commencing with Section
6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of
this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

4.60.100_______Limitations on adoption ol state law and collection o( use taxes. In adopting

the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code;

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as. the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefor.. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution
of the State of California;

N SD 254-064

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this
City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of
Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this
Ordinance. ■

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the
exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use
or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from
this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State
under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or;

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under
the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737,
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

B.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer engaged
in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

4.60.110______Permit not reouired. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under

Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be
required by this ordinance.

4.60.120 Exclusion: exemptions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the
amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and
county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the
amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross
receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is
made and directly and exclusively in the use of. such aircraft as common carriers of persons or
property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside
the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or
by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes
of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

■ a. With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle
Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and
undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9640) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penally of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b. With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be
operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this
ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property,
for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by
the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs 3 and 4 of this subsection B, the sale or lease
of tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease
for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to
terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

09J0-6

NSD 254-065

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or
other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax
under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used
or consumed by such operators direclly and exclusively In the use of such aircraft as common
carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience
and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign
government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and
6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to
a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any
period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a
lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subparagraphs 3 and 4 of this subsection C, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time
for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or
lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph 7 of this subsection C, a retailer engaged in
business in the City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible
personal property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or
receiving the order, either directly or Indirectly, at a place of business of the.retailer In the City or
through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person In the City under the
authority of the retailer.’

7.	"A retailer engaged In business in the City" shall also include any retailer of any of
the following: vehicles subject to-registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section
4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft llfcensod in compliance with Section 21411 of the
Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Division 3.5 (commencing with
Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any
purchaser who registers or licenses Ihe vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address In the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable
for a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with
respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax.

4.60.130_______Permissible uses., The revenues of the tax shall be deposited in the City's

general fund and may be used for any legal municipal purpose.

4.60.140 Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the effective date of this
ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use
taxes and which are not Inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 ot Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance, provided however, that no
such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

4.60.150_______Enjoining collection forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal

or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or
the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under
this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected.

N SD 254-066

4.60.160 Severability. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of
such provision to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

4.60.170 Expiration. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this Chapter shall expire
ten (10) years from the Operative Date, unless the City Council prior to that date determines that
the levy and collection of the tax is no longer necessary, in which case the City Council has the
authority to reduce the rate of tax, or to terminate the imposition of the tax. The City shall
immediately notify the State Board of Equalization in writing in the event that the tax is reduced or
terminated. The operative date of such rate reduction or termination shall be the first (1st)
calendar quarter commencing more than one hundred and ten (110) days after the Board of
Equalization receives such notice of termination.

4.60.180 Independent committee. Every five (5) years the Mayor, with approval of the
City Council, shall appoint an independent committee comprised of three (3) experts in financial
matters, who will report their recommendations to the Mayor and City Council as to whether the
transaction and use tax should remain in effect at the rate of one percent (1%), or whether the
City Council should reduce the rate of tax or terminate the imposition of the tax pursuant to
Section 4.60.170.

Section 2. This ordinance, following its adoption by at least 4 affirmative votes of the
City Council and its publication, shall become effective upon the approval of the tax imposed
hereunder by a majority of the voters of the City voting thereon at an election called for that
purpose, The “operative date” of the tax imposed hereunder shall be as provided in Section
4.60.030.

PASSED and ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of National City, California, on

February 7, 2006, by the following vote, to-wit:

Councilmembers: Inzunza, Morrison, Natividad, Parra, Zarate.

None.

None.

None.

Ayes:

Nays:

Absent:

Abstain:

09J0-8

N SD 254-067