To fund general city services including police, emergency preparedness, street and storm drain maintenance and libraries, shall the City of Menlo Park
impose a 3.5% utility users tax on electricity, natural gas and water, and a 2.5% tax on communications, to address a budget imbalance and to be reviewed
by the City Council every two years and terminated if findings are not made that the tax is necessary for the City’s financial health?

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE K

Measure K, if approved by a majority vote, would authorize the collection
of a utility users tax in the City of Menlo Park. The tax would be imposed
at the rate of not to exceed two and one-half percent (2.5%) on
communications services (such as telecommunications and video services)
that are primarily used within the City’s boundaries and not to exceed three
and one-half percent (3.5%) on the use of electricity, natural gas and water
supplied to service users within the City. The City Council has authority to
reduce the tax rate(s) or to eliminate the tax at any time by a simple
majority vote of the Council.

The utility users tax is a general tax intended to alleviate an ongoing
general operating budget deficit. All revenue generated by the tax would
go to the City’s general fund to provide general city services including,
police, emergency preparedness, street and storm drain maintenance,
libraries, youth and senior services. It is estimated that the tax will
generate approximately $2.5 million per year, which represents
approximately 7.7% of the City’s general operating budget.

Several exemptions to the tax are expressly provided. Low income
electricity and gas users who qualify for the California Alternate Rates for
Energy (CARE) Program pursuant to the California Public Utilities Code
are exempt from the tax on gas and electricity usage. Electricity produced
for self-use by solar electricity generation or co-generation is exempt for
six years (which may be extended). The tax would not be levied against
entities exempt by law, including federal and state agencies and public
schools.

The tax would be computed on the basis of monthly usage and service
charges, and would be collected by the utility service provider. The
maximum annual cumulative tax payable by any service user for
electricity, gas and water pursuant to this measure would be $12,000.00 per
fiscal year. A service user with more than one meter or billing invoice per
utility service at a single contiguous location may combine all billings for
purposes of calculating the maximum tax amount.

The levy of the utility users tax is subject to review by the City Council not
later than June 30, 2008, and every two years thereafter. If the Council fails
to make findings by a two thirds vote that such tax is necessary for the
financial health of the City, the levy of the tax will terminate on December
31st of the year in which the Council fails to make the required findings.

A “Yes” vote means the voter is in favor of authorizing the City to collect
a utility users tax. A “No” vote means the voter is not in favor of the City
collecting a utility users tax. In order for the City to collect a utility users
tax, the ballot measure must be approved by more than fifty percent (50%)
of the voters voting on the measure.

/s/ William L. McClure

City Attorney

City of Menlo Park

The above statement is an impartial analysis of Measure K. If you
desire a copy of the Measure, please call the City Clerk’s Office at
650/330-6620, and a copy will be mailed at no cost to you. A copy of
the Measure may also be found at www.menlopark.org

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE K

We face difficult choices about city services in Menlo Park.

Budget projections show a recurring shortfall of $2.2 million in coming
years. This is despite service cuts and other savings of $5.5 million -
including eliminating 35 full time city positions - already slashed from the
budget since 2000.

While Menlo Park City Council has made aggressive efforts to find new
sources of revenue - the new hotel to be built on Sand Hill Road is one
example - other revenue sources have dried up. Car dealerships have
closed on El Camino. People are buying more on the Internet. Sales tax
reductions have put a big hole in our city budget.

Menlo Park continues to enjoy AAA bond ratings, but we must find
sensible ways to fund our departments or face drastic cuts to core services.

City Council placed Measure K on the ballot by unanimous vote with
broad community input. Measure K enacts a modest utility tax as 150 other
California communities have done. $200 in monthly utility bills would
mean a $7 tax, at most - less than a movie ticket - which could be erased
completely by just small conservation efforts in your home.

These funds will be used for our police, emergency preparedness,
libraries, street repairs, park maintenance, and senior and youth programs.
Without these funds, current budget problems could mean each one of these
programs would face severe cuts - some more drastic than others.

Extraordinary financial accountability features are included in Measure K.
Every two years, the sitting City Council will review the measure and vote
to continue, decrease or eliminate this tax going forward.

New taxes are never easy to accept. But the alternatives are much
worse. We hope you will join us in voting to do our modest but fair
share. Please vote YES on Measure K.

/s/ Patricia M. Watkins	August 16, 2006
Chair, Parks and Recreation Commission, Belle Haven Resident	
/s/ Timothy D. Goode	August 16, 2006
Friends of the Menlo Park Library	
/s/ Jeff M. Keegan	August 16, 2006
Menlo Park Police Officers Association	
/s/ Bill Frimel	August 16, 2006
Business Manager Menlo Park Presbyterian Church	
/s/ Dee Tolies	August 16, 2006
Former Mayor	

NO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE K SUBMITTED