VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)
Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed
laws are the opinions of the authors.

CAZADERO COMMUNITY SERVICES DISTRICT
MEASURE E

Shall Ordinance No. 1 of the Cazadero Community

E Services District, imposing for 20 years a special tax of
$225.00 per parcel, as defined in the Ordinance, but
excluding parcels on which no other property tax is due,
in order to fund construction, operation, and maintenance of a
community center/museum facility, and increasing the
District's appropriations limit to $3 million for four years to
permit spending the revenue raised by the tax, be approved?

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E

The current Fire House/Community Hall was constructed in 1969.
Since then, Cazadero has been transitioning from a predominantly
seasonal community to a largely year-round one. Consequently, the
Volunteer Fire Department has additional training, equipment and
meeting needs which are encumbered due to the shared arrangement
with various community groups and activities conducted in the Fire
House facility. Use of the new Cazadero Community Center/Museum
will be unimpeded by the need to coordinate with Fire Department
personnel and the removal of equipment for such activities.

The new Cazadero Community Center/Museum will attract a signifi-
cantly increased audience from within the local community, West
Sonoma County, visitors and tourists from northern California and
around the world. Local groups such as the Cazadero Community
Club, Montgomery Elementary School, Community Church, Catholic
Church, Senior Citizens, Mutual Water Companies, Local Summer
Camps, and Alcoholics Anonymous will benefit from the new facility.
In contrast to the current non-existent opportunities, the community’s
youth will use the centerfor athletic, social, and cultural activities. The
improved ambiance will entice more weddings and special celebrations.
Local and neighboring area performers will have an attractive venue
to share their talents. The facility will also be used as a refuge center
in case of disaster.

CONT. NEXT COLUMN

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable.to your ballot)
Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed
laws are the opinions of the authors.

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE E, CONT.

Space to display archives and artifacts relevant to the Cazadero area
will be provided in the new Cazadero Community Center/Museum. A
history, including the earliest known human inhabitants of Cazadero
(the Kiyashawa-Pomo), the European-American settlement beginning
soon after statehood in 1850, the North Pacific Coast Railroad/Austin
Creek spur in 1886, and the economic activities of timber harvesting,
mining, ranching, and recreation, will be displayed for regular viewing
by the public.

s/ Larry Kaher
Director, CCSD

s/ Steve Parmeter
Director, CCSD

si Homer Canelis	si	Susan	E.	Delaney	Moeckel

Director, CCSD	Director,	CCSD

si Eric Schanz
Director, CCSD

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E

ORDINANCE NO. 1

AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING IMPOSITION OF A SPECIAL
TAX FOR CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION
OF A COMMUNITY CENTER/MUSEUM AND EXERCISING THE

OTHER RIGHTS AND POWERS OF THE DISTRICT, AND
INCREASING THE DISTRICTS APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT FOR A
PERIOD OF FOUR (4) YEARS TO ALLOW USE OF THE
PROCEEDS OF THE TAX

The people of the Cazadero Community Services District
do ordain as follows:

Section 1. AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE TAX.

This Ordinance is proposed for adoption by the Board of
Directors of the Cazadero Community Services District, pursuant to
sections 61121 and 50077(c) of the Government Code, to be effective
upon approval by two-thirds of the qualified voters of the District.

Section 2. TAX IMPOSED. PURPOSE. TAX RATE. AND
LENGTH OF TAX.

A special parcel tax is hereby imposed pursuant to
Article XIII A, section 4 and Article XIIIC of the California Constitu-
tion, and Government Code sections 61121 and 50077(c), to fund the
construction, maintenance, and operation of a Community Center/Mu-
seum facility, for the residents of the community of Cazadero, to be
effective upon approval by two-thirds of the qualified voters pursuant
to Government Code section 50077. The amount of the tax shall be

CONT. NEXT COLUMN

VOTER’S PAMPHLET

MEASURES, ANALYSES AND ARGUMENTS
(whichever is applicable to your ballot)
Arguments in support of, or in opposition to, the proposed
laws are the opinions of the authors.

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E, CONT.

$225.00 for each parcel of property, except that $0 shall be charged
for each parcel of undeveloped property for which no other property
tax is due or for property otherwise exempt from property tax. “ Parcel"
is defined to include multiple parcels that are contiguous and are part
of one economic unit under the same name and ownership, whether
or not they receive separate tax bills, which shall be taxed as one
parcel. Owners of such multiple parcels must file documentation
with the District General Manager establishing that they meet the
requirements to be considered a single "parcel" on or before May 1,
2007, or on or before May 1 of any subsequent tax year. At the request
of the taxpayer, the Board shall review any determination by the
General Manager that the taxpayer’s property does not qualify as a
single parcel, or does not quality for the $0 rate for otherwise un-
taxed property.The tax shall be imposed beginning on July 1,2007,
and continue in effect for a period of twenty (20) years. The Board
shall have discretion each year to lower the tax for that year, or
discontinue the tax, if other funding sources for construction [and
maintenance] of the project become available, but in no event shall
the tax exceed the amount set forth in this paragraph.

Section 3. METHOD OF COLLECTION.

The tax shall be collected by the county in the same
manner and subject to the same penalties and interest as regular
property taxes.

Section 4. APPROPRIATIONS LIMIT.

The Appropriations Limit of the District shall be in-
creased to $3 million dollars per year for the next four years to allow
for spending the proceeds of the tax and construction of the project at
the time most convenient and advantageous to the District during that
period.

Section 5. ACCOUNTABILITY MEASURES.

a.	All proceeds of the tax imposed by this Ordinance
shall be spent only on the purpose set out in section 2.

b.	Proceeds of the tax shall be deposited into a
separate account in the Westamerica Bank or other savings bank or
government treasury selected by the General Manager, and shall be
specifically dedicated to the purposes for which the tax was imposed.

c.	Each year in which said tax is authorized to be
imposed, the chief fiscal officer of the District shall present a report
to the Board of Directors stating the amount of funds collected and
expended during the year, and the status of any project required or
authorized to be funded by the tax.

CONT. NEXT COLUMN

FULL TEXT OF MEASURE E, CONT.

Section 6. SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.

If any section, subsection, sentence, phrase, or clause
of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance.
The Directors of the District here declare that .they would have
adopted the Ordinance and each section despite the fact that any one
or more sections, sentences, subsections, phras'es or clauses be
declared invalid.

Section 7. EFFECTIVE DATE.

This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its
confirmation by two-thirds of the qualified voters.

Director Eric Schanz	Aye
Director Steven Parmeter	Absent
Director Larry J. Kaher	Aye
Director Susan E. Delaney Moeckel	Aye
Director Homer P. Canelis	Absent
AYES: 3 NOES: 0 ABSTAIN: 0	ABSENT: 2
SO ORDERED.	
si Eric Schanz Chairman, Board of Directors	

INSTRUCTIONS TO VOTERS:

To vote in favor of the measure, mark a
cross (+) in the voting square to the right of
the word “Yes.” To vote against the
measure, mark a cross (+) in the voting
square to the right of the word “No.” Ballots
may be marked with pen or pencil.

All distinguishing marks or erasures are
forbidden and make the ballot void. If you
wrongly mark, tear, or deface this ballot,
return it to the election official and obtain
another.

After voting, remove the stub from the ballot.
Fold the ballot and place it in the
postage-paid return envelope. Complete
and sign the identification section on the
return envelope. The return envelope
(containing voted ballot) may be mailed or
delivered to the election official. You (the
voter) may return your own ballot, or (in the
event of illness or other physical disability)
you may authorize your spouse, child,
parent, grandparent, grandchild, brother,
sister or person residing in your household
to return the ballot on your behalf.

Because no polling place has been
established for this election, no postage is
necessary for the return of this ballot;
however, please be aware that postage paid
mail may take longer for delivery. Mail your
ballot well in advance of Election Day to
ensure it is received in time to be counted.
Voted ballots must be received (not
postmarked) by the Registrar of Voters
Office no later than 8:00 p.m. on August 29,
2006.

COUNTY
OF

SONOMA

VOTER INFORMATION
PAMPHLET

Cazadero Community
Services District

Special All Mailed Ballot

August 29, 2006

Important Notice to Voters - This election is being
conducted entirely by mail. There will be no polling
place established. The Official Ballot included in
this mailing is the only ballot you will receive - do
not destroy your Official Ballot

For information regarding voting and returning your
ballot, please refer to the instructions printed on the
envelope in which your ballot was mailed.

This Voter Information Pamphlet was prepared and
distributed by:

The Sonoma County Registrar of Voters Office
435 Fiscal Drive

P.0. Box 11485, Santa Rosa, CA 95406-1485
Phone: 565-6800 or 1-800-750-V07E or TDD 565-6888
*Office hours: Monday - Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.

*0n August 29,2006, office hours will be 7 a.m. until
8 p.m.