MEASURE S

To further student academic achievement by retaining and recruiting highly qualified teachers, supporting their ability to focus on individual student needs
through lower class sizes and providing academic resources at all grade levels, shall the Cabrillo Unified School District levy an annual tax for 5 years of
$175 on improved parcels, $30 on unimproved parcels, with senior citizen exemptions and annual audits?

FULL TEXT

The full text of the ballot measure shall read as follows:

To further student academic achievement by retaining and recruiting highly
qualified teachers, supporting their ability to focus on individual student
needs through lower class sizes and providing academic resources at all
grade levels, shall the Cabrillo Unified School District levy an annual tax
for 5 years of $175 on improved parcels, $30 on unimproved parcels, with
senior citizen exemptions and annual audits?

Pursuant section 50075.1(a) of the Government Code, the proceeds of the
special tax shall be spent to provide and maintain academic achievement
priorities through the following:

1.	A highly qualified and well-trained teaching staff;

2.	Small classes in kindergarten through third grade;

3.	Lower class sizes at the middle school and the high school;

4.	An increased range of academic programs at the high school level;

5.	Academic programs including, but not limited to, honors classes,
science, math and technology courses, literacy programs, extra-
curricular programs, materials and supplies, and staff development
time to promote coordination of teaching efforts.

Basis of Tax

The special tax shall be levied on all parcels of taxable real property in
the District, as defined below, for 5 years starting with the 2006-2007
property tax year, at a rate of $175 on improved parcels and $30 on
unimproved parcels.

“Parcel of Taxable Real Property” shall be defined as any unit of real
property in the District that receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem
property taxes from the County Tax Collector’s Office. All property that is
otherwise exempt from or upon which are levied no ad valorem property
taxes in any year shall also not be subject to the special tax in such year.

An exemption shall be granted on any parcel owned by one or more
persons aged 65 years or older as of July 1 of any applicable tax year who
occupies said parcel as a principal residence, upon annual application for
exemption.

Any such parcels which are contiguous, used solely for owner-
occupied single family residential purposes and held under identical
ownership, shall, upon approval of an annual application of the owners of
such parcel, be treated as a single parcel for purposes of this special tax.

If a parcel of taxable real property has an assessment for
improvement(s) on the property, such parcel shall be considered an
improved parcel for purposes of this special tax. If a parcel of taxable real
property has no assessment for improvement(s), or an assessment only for
personal property (such as a manufactured or mobile home), such property
shall be considered an unimproved parcel for purposes of this special tax.

With respect to all general property tax matters within its jurisdiction,
the County Tax Assessor shall make all final determinations of tax
exemption or relief for any reason, and that decision shall be final and
binding. With respect to matters specific to the levy of the special tax,
including the Senior Citizen Exemption and the classification of property
for purposes of calculating the tax, the decisions of a District
administrative review panel shall be final and binding.

Pursuant to California Constitution article XIIIB and applicable laws,
the appropriations limit for the District will be adjusted periodically by the
aggregate sum collected by levy of this special tax.

Accountability Measures

The proceeds of the special tax shall be applied only to the specific
purposes identified above. The proceeds of the special tax shall be
deposited into a fund, which shall be kept separate and apart from other
funds of the District. No later than January 1 of each year while the tax is
in effect, the District shall prepare and file with the Board of Education a
report/audit detailing the amount of funds collected and expended, and the
status of any project authorized to be funded by this measure.

Severability

The Board of Education hereby declares, and the voters by approving
this measure concur, that every section and part of this measure has
independent value, and the Board of Education and the voters would have
adopted each provision hereof regardless of every other provision hereof.
Upon approval of this measure by the voters, should any part of the
measure or taxing formula be found by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid for any reason, all remaining parts of the measure or taxing
formula hereof shall remain in full force and effect to the fullest extent
allowed by law.

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF MEASURE S

The California Constitution and state law authorize a school
district, upon approval of two-thirds of the voting electorate, to levy a
qualified special tax for specified purposes.

By this measure, the Board of Trustees of the Cabrillo Unified
School District propose to levy a special tax for a period of five years
beginning July 1, 2006 and ending June 30, 2011. This tax shall not exceed
the annual rates on each taxable parcel in the District as follows: $175 on
improved parcels and $30 on unimproved parcels. The measure defines an
improved parcel as a parcel of taxable real property that has an assessment
for improvement(s) on the property. The measure defines an unimproved
parcel as a parcel of taxable real property that has no assessment for
improvement(s), or an assessment only for personal property such as a
mobile home.

A parcel shall be defined as any unit of land in the District which
receives a separate tax bill for ad valorem property taxes from the
San Mateo County tax collection officials. Parcels that are contiguous,
used solely for owner-occupied single family residential purposes and held
under identical ownership may qualify to be treated as a single parcel for
purposes of this special tax. Any property owner aged 65 years or older
may qualify for an exemption from the special tax if that property owner
occupies the parcel. All property which would otherwise be exempt from
property taxes will also be exempt from the imposition of the tax.

The stated purposes of the special tax are for hiring and retaining
teaching staff, small class size for kindergarten through third grade,
smaller class sizes at the middle school and high school, more high school
academic programs, honors classes, science, math and technology courses,
literacy programs, extra-curricular programs, materials and supplies, and
staff development time to promote coordination of teaching efforts.

The proceeds of the special tax will be placed into a special
account. An annual report is required that accounts for the parcel tax
revenues collected and the manner in which they have been spent.

A “yes” vote on this measure would allow a special tax to be levied
on property within the boundaries of the Cabrillo Unified School
District for a period of five years beginning July 1, 2006 and
ending June 30, 2011. This tax shall not to exceed the annual rates
on each taxable parcel in the District as follows: $175 on improved
parcels and $30 on unimproved parcels. The tax would be used for
teaching staff, small classes, more high school academic programs,
honors classes, science, math and technology courses, literacy
programs, extra-curricular programs, materials and supplies, and
staff development time to promote coordination of teaching efforts.

A “no” vote on this measure would not allow the special tax to be
levied.

This measure passes if two-thirds of those voting on the measure vote
“yes.”

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

Measure S is needed for two priorities: great teachers and great academics.
Measure S will fund additional teachers and important academic classes
and programs in order to improve student achievement in the classroom:

Measure S will:

•	Help recruit and retain qualified, experienced teachers;

•	Strengthen students’ academic foundation by adding additional
classes in science, math, technology and literacy;

•	Guarantee small class sizes from kindergarten until third grade so
young students get individualized instruction;

•	Reduce class sizes in middle and high schools to improve student
achievement;

•	Help teachers continue to improve by funding staff training
programs;

•	Provide funding for books

All Measure S funds will be used locally to improve schools in the
Coastside and Kings Mountain communities. No funds can be taken by the
state. Independent annual audits will provide strict accountability over the
use of these public funds.

Our local schools strive to provide excellent teachers in every classroom.
We have dedicated and creative teachers, but our schools struggle to
compete with neighboring districts “over the hill,” which can hire more
teachers, support more programs and offer higher salaries. Years of state
funding cuts, rising costs and mandates have eroded our district’s ability to
fund the academic programs our students need to succeed in a competitive
world.

By focusing more resources on additional teachers, basic and advanced
academic programs, and smaller class sizes, Measure S will make it easier
for students to learn and teachers to teach, thereby improving students’
success in meeting and exceeding academic standards.

Measure S also offers senior citizen exemptions. The measure
automatically expires in five years and can’t be extended without voter
approval.

We support Measure S for our children, our community and our future. On
the Coastside, we deserve great schools. Please vote Yes on Measure S!

/s/ Victor S. Tigerman	March 15, 2006
Senior Coastsider	
/s/ Cameron K. Palmer	March 16, 2006
Half Moon Bay Business owner	
/s/ John H. Muller	March 16, 2006
Farmer	
/s/ April A. Vargas	March 15, 2006
Environmental Activist	
/s/ Jayne Battey	March 17, 2006
Parent Volunteer, Half Moon Bay High School & Cunha Intermediate	

School

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE S

“Years of state funding cuts”? Look at state funding trends:

1999-0 2001-2 2002-3 2003-4 2004-5 2005-6 2006-7

State K-12 Budget

(General fund, billions) $27.5 $30.6 $30.7 $29.3 $34.0 $36.5 $39.8

A parcel tax now, as state funding ramps up, is unnecessary. In 1994,
California spent “only” $15.6 billion for K-14. These long-term increases
are huge, but throwing money at our schools’ problems hasn’t worked;
reform is what’s needed. And that’s the exact opposite of Measure S:

•	“Recruit and retain qualified, experienced teachers” - business as
usual. How about, instead, paying teachers for performance, rather
than longevity? Paying teachers in short supply (math, science)
more? Paying AP teachers more than elementary school teachers?

•	“Reduce class sizes in middle and high schools” - popular with
teachers and their unions, but studies show class size is far less
important than teacher quality - which will be lowered to find the
extra teachers needed! Other countries choose larger classes - and
better teachers. American 12^ graders were dead last in Physics
and tied for last place in Math, in the 1998 TIMSS.

•	“Provide funding for books ” - As usual, at the bottom of the heap.

Cabrillo Unified School District has seen huge increases in funding, but
we’ve seen little for it - as with the middle school bond debacle, or the
ending of student busing. Until voters insist upon fiscal responsibility and
meaningful reforms, district schools won’t improve for our children.

Send a clear message:

Vote NO on Measure S !

/s/ Donald F. Pettengill	March	27,	2006

Treasurer, Coastside Citizens for Good Government

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

Cabrillo Unified School District wants another $875 from local
homeowners with this proposed tax. Worse yet, they plan to spend the
money on operating expenses. Will they ask for more when this tax
expires? What do you think?

The school district pleads poverty, but what do its financial reports show?

Data from www.ed-data.kl2.ca.us:			
	1993-4	2003-4	Increase (%)
Revenue (in $millions)	14.1	23.5	66
Number of Students (ADA)	3430	3600	5
Books,Supplies/Student ($)	184	215	17
Employee Salaries, Benefits (in $millions)	11.7	20.4	74

Inflation over that time was just 27%. And in 1994, we still had school
buses!

Ten years ago, voters gave the school district a $35 million bond for an
“urgently needed” middle school. We’re still waiting for it.

Throwing more money at this district will make things worse, not better.
Local taxpayers already fund students generously ($4427 here versus
$2115 statewide, in local taxes per student, 2003-4). And if the district ever
gets around to spending its $35 million bond money, we’ll pay for that, too.

Tell them: Enough is enough.

VOTE NO ON MEASURE S

Is/ Donald F. Pettengill	March	17,	2006

Treasurer, Coastside Citizens for Good Government

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE S

Like anything else, if we want great schools, we have to invest in them.

Our opponent is right - operating a school district costs more today than in
1993. Years of cutbacks in state funding in the face of rising costs continue
to challenge our local schools financially.

Funding formulas based on geographies mean that Coastside schools
receive less funding than the statewide average and 30-50% less than
wealthier districts over the hill. Consequently, our schools struggle to retain
experienced teachers and support excellent academics.

Coastside schools nonetheless are moving in the right direction.
Groundbreaking for the new Cunha Middle School has begun. Student
performance is strong and demonstrates sustained improvement over the
past six years in the Academic Performance Index (API), a statewide
system for measuring scholastic achievement.

To ensure the academic excellence our students need to succeed in a
competitive, demanding, and rapidly changing world, we need Measure S.

Measure S supports high-priority academic needs by focusing on excellent
teachers, smaller class sizes, and basic and advanced academic programs,
including additional classes in science, math, technology and literacy.
Independent annual audits will provide strict accountability. Measure S
funds are controlled locally and cannot be taken by the state.

The bottom line - Measure S will help students meet and exceed high
academic standards. That’s a goal we all can agree on.

Please Vote Yes on Measure S.

/s/ Lenny Mendonca	March	24,	2006

Chair, Bay Area Economic Forum

/s/ Ellen Wright	March	24,	2006

Former Chair, California Commission on Academic Standards

/s/ Jerry Trenter	March	24,	2006

Science Teacher at Cunha Middle School

/s/ Charise McHugh	March	24,	2006

President & CEO, Half Moon Bay Coastside Chamber of Commerce
and Visitors’ Bureau

/s/ Kevin Lansing	March	27,	2006

Senior Economist