English

SAMPLE BALLOT

County of Colusa

STATE

PROPOSITION 85

WAITING PERIOD AND PARENTAL
NOTIFICATION BEFORE TERMINATION OF
MINOR'S PREGNANCY. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT.

Amends California Constitution prohibiting
abortion for unemancipated minor until 48
hours after physician notifies minor's
parent/guardian, except in medical emergency
or with parental waiver. Mandates reporting
requirements. Authorizes monetary damages
against physicians for violation. Fiscal
Impact: Potential unknown net state costs of
several million dollars annually for health and
social services programs, court
administration, and state health agency
administration combined.

O yes

O NO

PROPOSITION 86

TAX ON CIGARETTES. INITIATIVE
CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND
STATUTE.

Imposes additional $2.60 per pack excise tax
on cigarettes and indirectly increases taxes
on other tobacco products. Provides funding
for various health programs, children's health
coverage, and tobacco-related programs.
Fiscal Impact:	Increase	in excise tax

revenues of about $2,1 billion annually in
2007-08 spent for the specified purposes
outlined above. Other potentially significant
costs and savings for state and local
governments due to program changes.

YES

NO

PROPOSITION 87

ALTERNATIVE ENERGY. RESEARCH,
PRODUCTION INCENTIVES. TAX ON
CALIFORNIA OIL PRODUCERS
INITIATIVE	CONSTITUTIONAL

AMENDMENT AND STATUTE.

Establishes $4 billion program to reduce
petroleum consumption through incentives for
alternative energy, education and training.
Funded by tax on California oil producers.
Fiscal Impact: State oil tax revenues of $225
million to $485 million annually for alternative
energy programs totaling $4 billion. State and
local revenue reductions up to low tens of
millions of dollars annually.

CD YES
CD NO

State of California

STATE

PROPOSITION 88

EDUCATION FUNDING.REAL PROPERTY
PARCELTAX.	INITIATIVE

CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENT AND
STATUTE.

Imposes $50 tax on each real property parcel
to provide additional public school funding for
kindergarten through grade 12. Exempts
certain elderly, disabled homeowners from
tax. Use of funds restricted to specific
educational purposes. Fiscal Impact: State
parcel tax revenue of roughly $450 million
annually, allocated to school districts for
specified education programs.

YES

NO

CONTINUE VOTING IN NEXT COLUMN



PROPOSITION 89

POLITICAL	CAMPAIGNS.	PUBLIC

FINANCING.	CORPORATE TAX

INCREASE. CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION
AND EXPENDITURE LIMITS. INITIATIVE
STATUTE.

Provides that eligible candidates for state
elective office may receive public campaign
funding. Increases tax on corporations and
financial institutions by 0.2 percent to fund
program.	Imposes new	campaign

contribution/expenditure limits. Fiscal Impact:
Increased revenues (primarily from increased
taxes on corporations and financial
institutions) totaling more than $200 million
annually to pay for the public financing of
political campaigns.

CD YES
CD NO

PROPOSITION 90

GOVERNMENT	ACQUISITION,

REGULATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
INITIATIVE	CONSTITUTIONAL

AMENDMENT.

Bars state/local governments from
condemning or damaging private property to
promote other private projects, uses. Limits
government's authority to adopt certain land
use, housing, consumer, environmental,
workplace laws/regulations. Fiscal Impact:
Increased annual government costs to pay
property owners for losses to their property
associated with new laws and rules, and for
property acquisitions. These costs are
unknown, but potentially significant on a
statewide basis.

YES

NO

CONTINUE VOTING IN NEXT COLUMN

_h

November 7,2006

SCHOOL

YUBA COMMUNITY COLLEGE DISTRICT

BOND MEASURE J

'To repair/upgrade Yuba and Woodland
Community Colleges, improve job training,
university transfer, provide more courses to
students close to home, repair/expand
classrooms for math, science, healthcare,
nursing, police, fire, public safety programs,
upgrade electrical, heating, ventilation
systems, repair leaky roofs, improve disabled
access, upgrade technology, repair, construct,
acquire, equip buildings, classrooms, sites,
computer labs, shall Yuba Community
College District issue $190 million in bonds, at
legal rates, with mandatory audits and citizen
oversight to monitor spending?"

BONDS. YES
BONDS.NO

CITY

CITY OF WILLIAMS

BALLOT MEASURE "B"

WILLIAMS CITY CLERK

"Shall the office of the City Clerk in the City of
Williams be appointive?"

O' yes

NO

BALLOT MEASURE “C”

WILLIAMS CITY TREASURER

"Shall the office of the City Treasurer in the
City of Williams be appointive?"

CD YES
NO

BALLOT MEASURE "D"

WILLIAMS PUBLIC SERVICES
PRESERVATION MEASURE

"Shall the City of Williams enact a one-half
cent sales tax for a period of six years to help
preserve the safety and character of Williams,
by funding essential services such as road
maintenance, fire/police services, and other
general governmental purposes, requiring a
published annual report on General Fund
expenditures, and requiring a public hearing
by the City Council every three years to
determine whether the tax is still necessary?"

YES

NO

END OF BALLOT

1/

Typ:02 Seq:0022 Spl:01

English

	ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF OR IN OPPOSITION TO THE PROPOSED LAWS ARE THE OPINIONS OF THE AUTHORS.	
c/>	CITY OF WILLIAMS	m  3
DEBS  o>  c	MEASURE D	CD  </>'
LU	WILLIAMS PUBLIC SERVICES PRESERVATION MEASURE  “Shall the City of Williams enact a one-half cent sales tax for a period of six years to help pre- serve the safety and character of Williams, by funding essential services such as road maintenance,	

fire/police services, and other general governmental purposes, requiring a published annual report on
General Fund expenditures, and requiring a public hearing by the City Council every three years to
determine whether the tax is still necessary?”

Yes______ No_______

ORDINANCE 06-10
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF WILLIAMS
ADDING CHAPTER 3.18 TO TITLE 3 OF THE WILLIAMS MUNICIPAL CODE
RELATING TO A TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF EQUALIZATION

The City Council of the City of Williams ordains as follows:

Section 1. Authority. The City Council enacts this ordinance in accordance with the authority granted to cities by
Article XI, Section 7, of the California Constitution.

Section 2. Addition of Chapter. Chapter 3.18 is hereby added to Title 3 of the Williams Municipal Code.

Section 3.18.010 Title. City and territory. This chapter shall be known as the City of Williams Transactions and Use
Tax Ordinance. The City of Williams hereinafter shall be called “City.” This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorpo-
rated territory of the City.

Section 3.18.020 Transactions tax rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is here-
by imposed upon all retailers in the incorporated territory of the City at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the
gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail in the City on and after the
Operative Date of this ordinance.

Section 3.18.030 Operative date. “Operative Date” means the first day of the first calendar quarter commencing
more than 110 days after the later of the adoption of this ordinance and chapter, the date of such adoption being as set
forth below, and the approval of the voters of the City of a measure approving the imposition of the transaction and use
tax set forth herein; provided that if the City shall not have entered into a contract with the State Board of Equalization as
required herein prior to such date, the Operative Date shall be the first day of the first calendar quarter following execu-
tion of such a contract.

Section 3.18.040 Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to achieve the following, among other purposes, and
directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to accomplish those purposes:

A.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of Part 1.6 (commencing with
Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2
which authorizes the City to adopt this tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the qualified voters
of the City voting on the measure vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

B.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions identical to those of the Sales
and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements
and limitations contained in Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

C.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and provides a measure therefore that
can be administered and collected by the State Board of Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as
practicable to, and requires the least possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative proce-
dures followed by the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales and
Use Taxes.

D.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a manner that will be, to the
greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code, minimize the cost of collecting the transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden

English

of record keeping upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 3.18.050 Contract with State. Prior to the Operative Date, the City shall contract with the State
Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the administration and operation of this transactions
and use tax ordinance; provided, that if the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization
prior to the Operative Date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the Operative Date shall be the
first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 3.18.060 Place of sale. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are consummated at the
place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property sold is delivered by the retailer or his
agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross
receipts from such sales shall include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and
use tax, regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no permanent place of
business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place or places at which the retail sales are
consummated shall be determined under rules and regulations to he prescribed and adopted by the State
Board of Equalization.

Section 3.18.070 Use tax rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption
in the incorporated territory of the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on and after the
Operative Date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in the City at the rate of one-half of one
percent (0.5%) of the sales price of the property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such
charges are subject to state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 3.18.080 Adoption of provisions of state law. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance and
Chapter and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part I (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code are hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance and Chapter as though fully set forth
herein.

Section 3.18.90 Limitations of adoption of state law and collection of use taxes. In adopting the provisions
of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

A.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the name of this City shall
be substituted therefore. However, the substitution shall not be made when:

1.	The word “State” is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State Treasurer, State
Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the Constitution of the State of
California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against this City or any
agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State Board of Equalization, in
performing the functions incident to the administration or operation of this ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to the exterior
boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution would be to:

a.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other con-
sumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be exempt from this tax
while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject to tax by the State under
the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, or

b.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other consumption of tangible
personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state under the said provision of
that code.

4.	In Sections 6701,6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711,6715, 6737, 6797 or 6828 of
the Revenue and Taxation Code.

F

B.	The word “City” shall be substituted for the word “State” in the phrase “retailer engaged in business in
this State” in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in Section 6203.

Section 3.18.100 Permit not required. If a seller’s permit has been issued to a retailer under Section 6067
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor’s permit shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 3.18.110 Exemptions and exclusions.

A.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax the amount of any
sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city, city and county, or county pursuant
to the Bradley-Burns Uniform Local Sales and Use Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered
transactions or use tax.

B.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to operators of aircraft

English

to be used or consumed principally outside the county in which the sale is made and directly and
exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of persons or property under the
authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point outside the City, pur-
suant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer or his agent, or by delivery
by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such point. For the purposes of this
paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be satisfied:

a.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to registration pursuant to
Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft
licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, and undocumented
vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the
Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City address and by a declaration under penalty of
perjury, signed by the buyer, stating that such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of
residence; and

b.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business out-of-City and
declaration under penalty of perjury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle will be operated
from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the property for a fixed
price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the Operative Date of this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such property, for any period
of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by the lease
prior to the Operative Date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of tangible personal
property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of
time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the con-
tract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

C.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use or other consumption
in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions tax under any
state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance.

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and used or consumed
by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of per-
sons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of public convenience and necessity
issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United States, or any foreign government. This
exemption is in addition to the exemptions provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue
and Taxation Code of the State of California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract
entered into prior to the Operative Date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible personal property
arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for any period of time for
which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount fixed by a lease prior to the
Operative Date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or other consumption-
or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible personal property shall be
deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for any period of time for which any
party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon
notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the City shall not be
required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal property, unless the retailer
ships or delivers the property into the City or participates within the City in making the sale of the
property, including, but not limited to, soliciting or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly,
at a place of business of the retailer in the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser,
solicitor, subsidiary, or person in the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	“A retailer engaged in business in the City” shall also include any retailer of any of the following:
vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing ‘with Section 4000) of
Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public
Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commenc-
ing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code. That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from

English

any purchaser who registers or licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

D.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any transactions tax or
reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or retailer liable for a transactions tax pur-
suant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person
of the property the storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3.18.120 Public Hearing. The City Council shall receive an annual report and shall hold a public
hearing three years after the Operative Date to determine if the sales tax is necessary. The City Council shall
review the annual report on the General Fund, annual collection of sales tax pursuant to this Chapter, and the
annual expenditure of funds collected from the sales tax. The City Council shall also review and consider the
projected annual collection of sales tax and the projected expenditures for the next three years.

Section 3.18.130 Amendments. All amendments subsequent to the Effective Date of this ordinance to Part
I of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent
with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and ail amendments to Part 1.6 and
Part 1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of this ordinance,
provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect the rate of tax imposed by this ordi-
nance.

Section 3.18.140 Enjoining collection forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable
process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State or the City, or against any
officer of the State or the City, to prevent or enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2
of the Revenue and Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 3.18.150 Severability. If any provision of this ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other per-
sons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

Section 3.18.160 Effective date. This ordinance relates to the levying and collecting of the City transactions
and use taxes and shall take effect upon the Operative Date and shall be published within 15 days after adop-
tion by the City Council in a paper of general circulation published and circulated within the City of Williams.

Section 3.18.170 Termination date. The authority to levy the tax imposed by this ordinance shall expire six
years from the Operative Date of this ordinance.

INTRODUCED at a regular meeting of the City Council held on the 9th of August, 2006, and PASSED and
ADOPTED

by the City Council of the City of Williams, State of California,_by	the	following	roll	call	vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ATTEST:	APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Amber Mason, City Clerk

Carolyn A. Alexander, Interim City Attorney

English

English

CITY ATTORNEY S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS
OF MEASURE D
CITY OF WILLIAMS

Measure D proposes to raise revenue for gener-
al City of Williams purposes by authorizing a 0.5 per-
cent (i.e., '/a cent) sales tax within the City of
Williams. 100% of the proceeds would remain in the
City of Williams. The tax would be paid in addition to
current state and local sales taxes and would be col-
lected at the same time and in the same manner as
the existing sales taxes.

California Revenue and Taxation Code Section
7285.9 authorizes the Williams City Council to levy
transactions and use (i.e., a “sales”) tax at certain
rates, including a 0.5 percent (i.e., X cent) rate pro-
vided the tax is approved by a majority of the voters
voting in an election on that issue. If approved the
Measure D sales tax would become effective April 1,
2007, and would remain in effect until March 31,
2013, a period of six years. The tax would expire at
the end of the six-year period unless it is reauthorized
by a majority of the voters in another election.

Measure D states that the X cent sales tax is to
be used for funding “essential services such as road
maintenance, fire/police services, and other general
governmental purposes.” Because this sales tax
would be a “general tax,” the City of Williams would
be able to use tax proceeds for any legal governmen-
tal purpose without restriction. The City of Williams
would not be legally bound in any way to use the tax
monies for any special purpose or for any particular
program or service.

The measure requires that the City of Williams
publish an annual report on General Fund expendi-
tures, and requires a public hearing by the Williams
City Council every three years to determine whether
the tax is still necessary.

/s/ CAROLYN A. ALEXANDER

Interim City Attorney, City of Williams

English