ORDINANCE NO. 2006-07

AN ORDINANCE OF THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF PINOLE
IMPOSING A GENERAL TRANSACTIONS AND USE TAX
OF ONE HALF CENT TO BE ADMINISTERED BY THE STATE BOARD OF

EQUALIZATION

BE IT ORDAINED BY THE VOTERS OF THE CITY OF PINOLE:

SECTION 1. FINDINGS. The voters of the City of Pinole hereby find as follows:

a.	The City General Fund is projected to be significantly out of balance and will be
incapable of maintaining the Minimum Reserve, as established by the City
Council, beginning in fiscal year 2008-2009 and will be operating in a budgetary
deficit by fiscal year 2010-2011.

b.	The projected budgetary shortfall is the result of factors largely outside of the
City’s control, including national economic trends, rapid and disproportionate
increases in the cost of employee health insurance and retirement benefits,
unpredictable decreases in revenue from existing taxes and fees, increases in
charges by the County of Contra Costa, and State takeaways of local revenue.

c.	The City has taken significant steps to reduce its operational costs. It is in the
process of cutting 5% from all non-safety City departmental budgets.

d.	Because of changes in State law, particularly the approval of Propositions 62 and
218, the City has very few means available for increasing General Fund revenue.

e.	Absent a new source of General Fund revenue, the City’s ability to provide
adequate staff and service levels is uncertain. The Police Department will not
have the necessary staff to address the significant increase in crime since the
expansion of the Pinole Vista Shopping Center and the opening of the Richmond
Parkway in 1995. The Public Works Department will be unable to maintain
public facilities such as roadways, storm drains and other water control and
discharge infrastructure in a first class manner.

f.	A one-half of one percent transaction and use tax would generate approximately
$1,700,000 to $1,800,000 million per year. That revenue would be sufficient to
prevent the forecasted deficit in the Minimum Reserve and would allow to the
City to provide adequate levels of public safety and public works and
infrastructure support services in addition to other City services.

g.	Government Code sections 53723 and 53724 require that a general tax be
proposed only upon approval by two-thirds of the City Council.

h.	Government Code sections 53723 and California Constitution Article XIIIC,
Section 2(b) require a majority vote of the voters voting in the election for the
extension of general taxes.

i.	California Constitution Article XIIIC, Section 2(b) requires that the election for
the extension of general taxes must be consolidated with a city’s general
municipal election for members of the City Council.

j.	November 7, 2006 is the date of the City’s regular municipal election.

SECTION 2. AMENDMENT OF CODE. Chapter 3.28 “Transactions and Use Tax”
shall be added to Title 3 of the Pinole Municipal Code and shall read as follows:

“Section 3.28.010. Title. This ordinance shall be known as the City of Pinole
Transactions and Use Tax Ordinance. The City of Pinole hereinafter shall be called
"City." This ordinance shall be applicable in the incorporated territory of the City.

Section 3.28.020. Operative Date. "Operative date" means the first day of the first
calendar quarter commencing more than 110 days after the adoption of this ordinance, the
date of such adoption being as set forth below.

Section 3.28.030. Purpose. This ordinance is adopted to achieve the following, among
other purposes, and directs that the provisions hereof be interpreted in order to
accomplish those purposes:

a.	To impose a retail transactions and use tax in accordance with the provisions of
Part 1.6 (commencing with Section 7251) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation
Code and Section 7285.9 of Part 1.7 of Division 2 which authorizes the City to adopt this
tax ordinance which shall be operative if a majority of the electors voting on the measure
vote to approve the imposition of the tax at an election called for that purpose.

b.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that incorporates provisions
identical to those of the Sales and Use Tax Law of the State of California insofar as those
provisions are not inconsistent with the requirements and limitations contained in Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

c.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that imposes a tax and
provides a measure therefor that can be administered and collected by the State Board of
Equalization in a manner that adapts itself as fully as practicable to, and requires the least
possible deviation from, the existing statutory and administrative procedures followed by
the State Board of Equalization in administering and collecting the California State Sales
and Use Taxes.

d.	To adopt a retail transactions and use tax ordinance that can be administered in a
manner that will be, to the greatest degree possible, consistent with the provisions of Part
1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, minimize the cost of collecting the

transactions and use taxes, and at the same time, minimize the burden of record keeping
upon persons subject to taxation under the provisions of this ordinance.

Section 3.28.040. Contract with State. Prior to the operative date, the City shall contract
with the State Board of Equalization to perform all functions incident to the
administration and operation of this transactions and use tax ordinance; provided, that if
the City shall not have contracted with the State Board of Equalization prior to the
operative date, it shall nevertheless so contract and in such a case the operative date shall
be the first day of the first calendar quarter following the execution of such a contract.

Section 3.28.050. Transactions Tax Rate. For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is hereby imposed upon all retailers in the City at the rate of one-
half of one percent (0.50%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in said territory on and after the operative date of
this ordinance.

Section 3.28.060. Place of Sale. For the purposes of this ordinance, all retail sales are
consummated at the place of business of the retailer unless the tangible personal property
sold is delivered by the retailer or his agent to an out-of-state destination or to a common
carrier for delivery to an out-of-state destination. The gross receipts from such sales shall
include delivery charges, when such charges are subject to the state sales and use tax,
regardless of the place to which delivery is made. In the event a retailer has no
permanent place of business in the State or has more than one place of business, the place
or places at which the retail sales are consummated shall be determined under rules and
regulations to be prescribed and adopted by the State Board of Equalization.

Section 3.28.070. Use Tax Rate. An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or
other consumption in the City of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer
on and after the operative date of this ordinance for storage, use or other consumption in
said territory at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.50%) of the sales price of the
property. The sales price shall include delivery charges when such charges are subject to
state sales or use tax regardless of the place to which delivery is made.

Section 3.28.080. Adoption of Provisions of State Law. Except as otherwise provided in
this ordinance and except insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part 1.6
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, all of the provisions of Part 1
(commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code are
hereby adopted and made a part of this ordinance as though fully set forth herein.

Section 3.28.090. Limitations on Adoption of State Law and Collection of Use Taxes. In
adopting the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code:

a.	Wherever the State of California is named or referred to as the taxing agency, the
name of this City shall be substituted therefor. However, the substitution shall not be
made when:

1.	The word "State" is used as a part of the title of the State Controller, State
Treasurer, State Board of Control, State Board of Equalization, State Treasury, or the
Constitution of the State of California;

2.	The result of that substitution would require action to be taken by or against
this City or any agency, officer, or employee thereof rather than by or against the State
Board of Equalization, in performing the functions incident to the administration or
operation of this Ordinance.

3.	In those sections, including, but not necessarily limited to sections referring to
the exterior boundaries of the State of California, where the result of the substitution
would be to:

A.	Provide an exemption from this tax with respect to certain sales, storage,
use or other consumption of tangible personal property which would not otherwise be
exempt from this tax while such sales, storage, use or other consumption remain subject
to tax by the State under the provisions of Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, or;

B.	Impose this tax with respect to certain sales, storage, use or other
consumption of tangible personal property which would not be subject to tax by the state
under the said provision of that code.

4.	In Sections 6701, 6702 (except in the last sentence thereof), 6711, 6715, 6737, .
6797 or 6828 of the Revenue and Taxation Code.

b.	The word "City" shall be substituted for the word "State" in the phrase "retailer
engaged in business in this State" in Section 6203 and in the definition of that phrase in
Section 6203.

Section 3.28.100. Permit Not Required. If a seller's permit has been issued to a retailer
under Section 6067 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, an additional transactor's permit
shall not be required by this ordinance.

Section 3.28.110. Exemptions and Exclusions.

a.	There shall be excluded from the measure of the transactions tax and the use tax
the amount of any sales tax or use tax imposed by the State of California or by any city,
city and county, or county pursuant to the Bradley-Bums Uniform Local Sales and Use
Tax Law or the amount of any state-administered transactions or use tax.

b.	There are exempted from the computation of the amount of transactions tax the
gross receipts from:

1.	Sales of tangible personal property, other than fuel or petroleum products, to
operators of aircraft to be used or consumed principally outside the County in which the

sale is made and directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as common carriers of
persons or property under the authority of the laws of this State, the United States, or any
foreign government.

2.	Sales of property to be used outside the City which is shipped to a point
outside the City, pursuant to the contract of sale, by delivery to such point by the retailer
or his agent, or by delivery by the retailer to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at such
point. For the purposes of this paragraph, delivery to a point outside the City shall be
satisfied:

A.	With respect to vehicles (other than commercial vehicles) subject to
registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the
Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities
Code, and undocumented vessels registered under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5
(commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code by registration to an out-of-City
address and by a declaration under penalty of peijury, signed by the buyer, stating that
such address is, in fact, his or her principal place of residence; and

B.	With respect to commercial vehicles, by registration to a place of business
out-of-City and declaration under penalty of peijury, signed by the buyer, that the vehicle
will be operated from that address.

3.	The sale of tangible personal property if the seller is obligated to furnish the
property for a fixed price pursuant to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of
this ordinance.

4.	A lease of tangible personal property which is a continuing sale of such
property, for any period of time for which the lessor is obligated to lease the property for
an amount fixed by the lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, the sale or lease of
tangible personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or
lease for any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the
unconditional right to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such
right is exercised.

c.	There are exempted from the use tax imposed by this ordinance, the storage, use
or other consumption in this City of tangible personal property:

1.	The gross receipts from the sale of which have been subject to a transactions
tax under any state-administered transactions and use tax ordinance. 2

2.	Other than fuel or petroleum products purchased by operators of aircraft and
used or consumed by such operators directly and exclusively in the use of such aircraft as
common carriers of persons or property for hire or compensation under a certificate of
public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to the laws of this State, the United

States, or any foreign government. This exemption is in addition to the exemptions
provided in Sections 6366 and 6366.1 of the Revenue and Taxation Code of the State of
California.

3.	If the purchaser is obligated to purchase the property for a fixed price pursuant
to a contract entered into prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

4.	If the possession of, or the exercise of any right or power over, the tangible
personal property arises under a lease which is a continuing purchase of such property for
any period of time for which the lessee is obligated to lease the property for an amount
fixed by a lease prior to the operative date of this ordinance.

5.	For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4) of this section, storage, use, or
other consumption, or possession of, or exercise of any right or power over, tangible
personal property shall be deemed not to be obligated pursuant to a contract or lease for
any period of time for which any party to the contract or lease has the unconditional right
to terminate the contract or lease upon notice, whether or not such right is exercised.

6.	Except as provided in subparagraph (7), a retailer engaged in business in the
City shall not be required to collect use tax from the purchaser of tangible personal
property, unless the retailer ships or delivers the property into the City or participates
within the City in making the sale of the property, including, but not limited to, soliciting
or receiving the order, either directly or indirectly, at a place of business of the retailer in
the City or through any representative, agent, canvasser, solicitor, subsidiary, or person in
the City under the authority of the retailer.

7.	"A retailer engaged in business in the City" shall also include any retailer of
any of the following: vehicles subject to registration pursuant to Chapter 1 (commencing
with Section 4000) of Division 3 of the Vehicle Code, aircraft licensed in compliance
with Section 21411 of the Public Utilities Code, or undocumented vessels registered
under Chapter 2 of Division 3.5 (commencing with Section 9840) of the Vehicle Code.
That retailer shall be required to collect use tax from any purchaser who registers or
licenses the vehicle, vessel, or aircraft at an address in the City.

d.	Any person subject to use tax under this ordinance may credit against that tax any
transactions tax or reimbursement for transactions tax paid to a district imposing, or
retailer liable for, a transactions tax pursuant to Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code with respect to the sale to the person of the property the storage, use or
other consumption of which is subject to the use tax.

Section 3.28.120. Amendments to State Law. All amendments subsequent to the
effective date of this ordinance to Part 1 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code
relating to sales and use taxes and which are not inconsistent with Part 1.6 and Part 1.7 of
Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, and all amendments to Part 1.6 and Part
1.7 of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code, shall automatically become a part of

this ordinance, provided however, that no such amendment shall operate so as to affect
the rate of tax imposed by this ordinance.

Section 3.28.130. Enjoining Collection Forbidden. No injunction or writ of mandate or
other legal or equitable process shall issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court
against the State or the City, or against any officer of the State or the City, to prevent or
enjoin the collection under this ordinance, or Part 1.6 of Division 2 of the Revenue and
Taxation Code, of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.

Section 3.28.140. Refunds and credits; suits and legal proceedings.

a.	Refunds of and credits for any tax paid pursuant to this Chapter may be made
only as provided for in Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001) of Division 2 of the
Revenue and Taxation Code.

b.	Suits and proceedings for the recovery of any amount alleged to have been
erroneously or illegally determined or collected pursuant to this Chapter may be
maintained in any court only as provided for in Part 1 (commencing with Section 6001)
of Division 2 of the Revenue and Taxation Code. A judgment shall not be rendered in
favor of the plaintiff in any action brought against the State Board of Equalization to
recover any amount paid when the action is brought by or in the name of an assignee of
the person paying the amount or by any person other than the person who paid the
amount.

SECTION 3. USE OF TAX REVENUE. The tax approved by this ordinance is a
general tax. The City may use the revenue from the tax for any general governmental
purpose, including without limitation police, fire safety, paramedics, public works and
infrastructure improvements, crossing guards, graffiti abatement, anti-gang programs,
street and park maintenance, and libraries.

SECTION 4. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this ordinance or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
the remainder of the ordinance and the application of such provision to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. The voters of the City of Pinole hereby
declare that they would have adopted each and every provision of this ordinance
irregardless of the invalidity of any other provision.

SECTION 5. CODIFICATION. Upon adoption of this ordinance pursuant to the voter
approval referenced in Section 2, the City Clerk, in consultation with the City Attorney,
is hereby authorized and directed to codify this ordinance in the Pinole Municipal Code.

SECTION 6. EFFECTIVE DATE. If this ordinance is approved by a majority of the
voters voting on the issue at the November 7, 2006 election, pursuant to Elections Code
Section 9217, this ordinance shall become effective ten (10) days after the Council
declares the results of the election, and the tax shall become operative on the “operative

SECTION 7. PUBLICATION. The Clerk of the City of Pinole is hereby directed to
cause the following summary of the ordinance to be published by one (1) insertion in the
West County Times, a newspaper of general circulation published and circulated in the
City of Pinole:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance adopts a half-cent
transactions and use tax on the sale or consumption of tangible personal
property within the City of Pinole.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Pinole on
August 1, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES:	ALEGRIA, BOYLE,	HORTON, MURRAY

NOES:	NONE

APPROVED by the following vote of the Voters of the City of Pinole on
November 7, 2006:

FOR:

AGAINST:

ABSENT:

Cole

ABSTAIN:

NONE

ATTEST:

SECTION 7. PUBLICATION. The Clerk of the City of Pinole is hereby directed to
cause the following summary of the ordinance to be published by one (1) insertion in the
West County Times, a newspaper of general circulation published and circulated in the
City of Pinole:

Contingent upon majority voter approval, this ordinance adopts a half-cent
transactions and use tax on the sale or consumption of tangible personal
property within the City of Pinole.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Pinole on
August 1, 2006 by the following vote:

AYES:

NOES:

ABSENT:

ABSTAIN:

ALEGRIA, BOYLE, HORTON, MURRAY

NONE

COLE

NONE

ATTEST:

Patricia Athencrfar, City Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM
Of

Benjamin T.m.ejes, II, Cit^Kttorney

APPROVED by the following vote of the Voters of the City of Pinole on
November 7,2006:

FOR:

AGAINST:

844045 1

Sep 07 06 04:12p

Contra Costa Co Elections

925 646 1385

P * 4

DATED: August 7,2006

Benjamin T. Reyes
City Attorney
City of Pinole

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE R

There were no arguments filed for or against Measure R.

TRANSACTION & USE TAX MEASURE S
CITY OF PINOLE

Shall an ordinance be adopted enacting a local half-cent transaction
and use (sales) tax to preserve and improve essential City services,
including, but not limited to public safety, as well as street and storm
drain repair?

CITY ATTORNEY’S IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS OF
MEASURES

The City Council of the City of Pinole placed Measure S on the
November 7,2006 ballot to ask voters to consider an ordinance imposing
a general transactions and use (sales) tax of one-half of one percent
(0.50%) to be administered by the State Board of Equalization. The
proposed tax will increase the local sales tax rate in Pinole from the
current 6.25% to 8.75%. Measure S is a general tax and would only
become effective if approved by a majority of voters casting a vote on the
Measure at the November 7,2006 general election.

City Staff projects that the General Fund will be out of balance
during fiscal year 2008-2009, and will not be sufficient to maintain the
Minimum Reserve level. At the current rate of expenditure, Staff projects
that the City will likely experience a budgetary deficit by fiscal year 2010-
2011. The projected budgetary shortfall can be attributed to factors
outside of the City's control, including significant increases in the cost of
employee health insurance and retirement benefits, decreases in
revenue from existing taxes and fees, property tax take-aways by the
State, and general increases in the cost of materials and supplies
necessary for City operations.

Absent an additional source of General Fund revenue, the City
may not be able to maintain adequate staff and service levels. For
example. Pinole Police may not have enough patrol officers to confront

2

Sep 07 06 04:12p

Contra Costa Co Elections

925 646 1385

p.5

increases in crime, particularly around the Pinole Vista Shopping Center
area. The Fire Department may not be able to continue to staff the
Pinole Valley Fire Station with minimum firefighting crews. The Public
Works Department may not be able to maintain roadways, storm drains
and other water control and discharge infrastructures.

The proposed transaction and use (sales) tax is estimated to
generate approximately $1,800,000.00 per year for the City of Pinole.
This is a local tax which will be collected and placed in the City of
Pinole’s General Fund account. Under Preposition 1A, this local tax
revenue cannot be taken away by the State or County. This revenue
would be sufficient to prevent the forecasted deficit in the Minimum
Reserve and would allow the City to provide adequate levels of public
safety, public works, and necessary support services. This tax does not
have a “sunset provision” and will continue to be levied unless repealed
by the voters. Proceeds from the local transactions and use (sales) tax
may be expended for any municipal purpose. If the tax Is not approved
by the voters, the City would likely have to Implement reductions in
general municipal services.

By placing Measure S on the ballot, the City complies with Article XIIIC of
the California Constitution (adopted by Proposition 218), which requires
the voters to approve an ordinance which Imposes a general tax. A copy
of the proposed ordinance is printed in the sample ballot.

DATED: August 7,2006

Benjamin T. Reyes II
City Attorney
City of Pinole

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURE S

Passing a local half-cent general sales tax is critical to preserve and
improve essentia! city services, including, but not limited to, public safety
and street and storm drain repairs. Additionally, the tax will provide
funding to continue the full staffing of our fire station in Pinole Valley.

The City of Pinole has been one of the most efficient and fiscally
conservative full service cities in the County, as determined by an
independent finance consulting study. Compared with other cities of the
same size, Pinole provides better services and programs with fewer
resources year after year.

3

Sep 07 06 04:13p

Contra Costa Co Elections

925 646 1385

p.G

In the past four fiscal years, the State of California has taken over $5.5
million from the City of Pinole to balance the State’s budget. Additionally,
neighboring communities are permitting superstores that will divert
current sales tax from Pinole and weaken our Genera! Fund.

Despite our efficiencies, we still have a number of unmet needs. Public
Safety needs include additional officers to focus on gangs, narcotics,
violent crime, and vice Other items Include disaster emergency
preparedness and regional aid programs. Additional funds are needed
for the repair and maintenance of our aging storm drain and street
infrastructure.

The local half-cent general sales tax would generate $1.8 million. This
tax places the least amount of burden on the residents of Pinole,
because the majority of the tax revenue is generated from residents of
other communities. However, Pinole citizens are assured that 100% of
this tax stays in the City of Pinole and the State cannot take any of it
away! Join Pinoie citizens in fighting to maintain our high community
standards, our property values, and keeping Pinole safe by VOTING
"YES" ON MEASURE S.

Betty G. Boyle
Mayor, City of Pinole

Tammera E. Campbell
Pinole Resident

Marc S. Grisham
Former City Manager, Pinole

James S. Parrott
Fire Chief

Thomas Francis Gozzano
Former Mayor of Pinole

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF
MEASURES

The city wouldn't need to increase sales tax if its current revenue was
managed responsibly.

The major points for voter consideration are:

• The City’s proposed 2006-2007 budget increases spending bv
$4.4million (17%)

-	This Is far higher than inflation

-	Reducing this huge Increase by $1.8 million (the
amount this tax will supposedly raise) eliminates
any "neecT for this tax increase

4

Sep 07 06 04s13p

Contra Costa Co Elections

925 646 1385

P‘7

•	City claims to need this tax increase because superstores
nearby divert sales tax from Pinole

Raising the sales tax from 8.25% to 8.75 % will
further cause shoppers to go elsewhere to make
purchases

•	The proponent’s claim that the majority of tax revenue generated
will be paid by residents of other communities makes no sense
at all

- lt*s the people who iive here and shop here who
will pay most all of this increased tax

•	This is a regressive tax, hurting those in our community who can
least afford to pay more taxes

•	The City claims to be efficient and fiscally conservative but offers
nothing to back up that claim - and a huge budget Increase
Indicates otherwise

•	This is simply a fax increase to fund a wish list provided to the
Council by department heads

VOTE NO AND TELL THE CITY TO CUT THE PROPOSED $4.4

MILLION SPENDING INCREASE BY $1.8 MILLION!

Rod Mefgard

ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE S

Pinole is hardly short of money. Lacking a chapel, they paint murals
costing hundreds of thousands on concrete overpasses and retaining
walls. The City employs a person whose job it is to trespass on
private property, peek over fences (what does your garden grow?)
and give otherwise law abiding citizens, citations for what they see
thus requiring owners to plant their front yard to cement or asphalt to
avoid further molestation. While the street in front of your house goes
to ruin you are cited for parking your boat in your back yard. These
are visible wastes and, like an iceberg, six times as much is hidden.
(Pay a good grant writer this money and watch it grow!)

The Pinole Council proposed Pinole Vista to be a financial savior for
the city. Now they say it's a drain which needs more tax money for
support. Ten years ago they "needed” the Utility Tax "temporarily"
until Vista was completed and providing income to the City. Two years
ago this temporary tax essentially became permanent.

The State is unlikely to be taking Pinole’s money away. Property
taxes are going up at an incredible rate due to price increases as are

5

Sep 07 06 04:13p

Contra Costa Co Elections

925 646 1365

p. 8

other sources of income. The Council is just political fear mongering.
This Council is also the Redevelopment Agency Board of Directors
and has amply demonstrated it cannot think two years ahead
nonetheless predict shortages in 2011.

If sales tax is such a good idea lets vote this one down and next year
vote on a tax that is twice as high with the additional revenue used to
reduce our regressive utility tax.

These taxes are not justified at this time. I request your vote of NO.
Rod Melgard

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST
MEASURE S

Dear Pinole residents,

The argument against the measure is inaccurate and misleading. The
proposed local sales tax increase is NOT about our community murals or
code enforcement violations. It IS about continuing to fund the things
we've worked hard for, like the fire station in Pinole Valley, while also
adding new services that the community is demanding, such as
additional police officers to combat gangs, narcotics, violent crimes and
vice. It IS about improving roads and making storm drain repairs. It IS
about maintaining our quality of life and increasing safety in an
environment of rising costs.

Property taxes are not the solution, they represent only a small portion of
the General Fund. The Utility Users Tax is NOT permanent. It was
approved by Pinole voters and will be up for your vote In 2012. The
Pinole Vista shopping center is also not a permanent answer, because
revenues have remained flat while our costs for essential services
increase.

Pinole collects less than one penny per dollar of the current 8.25%
general sales tax* The State HAS taken about $5.5 million from Pinole in
the past four years. A majority of this new revenue source will be
generated from residents of other communities AND 100% of this tax
stays In Pinole while the State cannot take any of it away.

Please do not let inaccurate information sway you from making the right
choice to protect and maintain our excellent quality of life in Pinole, vote
YES on Measure S.

Betty G. Boyle
Mayor, City of Pinole

6

Tammera E. Campbell
Pinole Resident