
<impartial> County Counsel's Impartial Analysis of Measure "Cl":
Special Tax Measure

The Butte County Counsel has prepared the following impartial
analysis of Measure "Cl" pursuant to Elections Code Section
9160. This analysis is not an argument for or against the
measure.

Analysis:

This measure is being submitted to voters within an area in the
unincorporated area of the County known as County Service
Area 37 (the “CSA 37 area”), pursuant to the requirements of
Proposition 218, which was approved by California voters in
November 1996. Proposition 218 prohibits new taxes and/or tax
increases within any area of the County unless and until the new
tax or tax increase is submitted to the voters within that area and
approved by a two-thirds vote.

This measure would authorize a proposed special tax within the
unincorporated area of the CSA 37 area, as specified in
Ordinance 3937, adopted by the Board of Supervisors of the
County on July 25, 2006, for stand-by costs of providing
emergency room services at the Biggs-Gridley Memorial
Hospital, a critical access hospital. If the measure is approved
by two-thirds or more of the votes cast on the measure, the
proposed special tax, in the amount of $70.00 per Equivalent
Residential Unit, will be imposed on real property in the
unincorporated area of the CSA 37 area for fiscal year 2006-07
and each fiscal year thereafter, for a period of ten (10) years. The
proposed tax would expire after ten (10) years. The amount of
the proposed special tax for each parcel of residential real
property would be based upon the number of Equivalent
Residential Units.

For the purposes of defining an Equivalent Residential Unit, the
following categories have been established:

(1)	Single family residential (1);

(2)	Multi-family residential unit (.75);

(3)	Condominium (.75);

(4)	Vacant parcels and parcels without
residential units shall not be subject to the Tax.

The imposition and levy of the tax is expressly conditioned upon
the adoption by the cities of Biggs and Gridley and the approval
of their respective electorates, of special tax measures within
their respective jurisdictions which also provide funding for the
hospital emergency room at the same rates and for the same
duration as the proposed special tax.

The tax would not be imposed upon real property owned by the
County, the State of California, any other public district or agency
of the State or the United States of America.

The tax could not be increased in the future unless another
election were held in the unincorporated area of the CSA 37 Area
approving the increase by two-thirds or more of the votes cast.

The amount of the tax imposed each year would appear as a
separate item on each tax bill and would be collected by the
County in the same manner and at the same time as property
taxes.

The revenues generated from the tax could only be used for
stand-by costs of providing emergency room services at the
Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital. <impartialend>






<impartialsigs> Bruce S. Alpert
Butte County Counsel

By: Is/ Robert W. MacKenzie
Chief Deputy County Counsel <impartialsigsend>







	
<favor> ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE Cl	
Measure C-1 will ensure our communities continue to have access to emergency medical services.	

Readily accessible emergency room services can mean the difference between life and death. The communities of Biggs, Gridley, Richvale and the surrounding area are fortunate to have a hospital with 24-hour physician-staffed emergency room service with supporting staff including nurses and radiology, laboratory, and cardiology technicians. Life-sustaining treatment can be provided and if specialized medical services are not available, emergency stabilization and transportation to a trauma center are provided. The ER has saved countless lives in our communities.
	
The hospital needs support to continue to pay for having these vital emergency services available, which is the sole reason for the assessment being placed on your ballot. The hospital loses approximately $800,000 yearly providing emergency services for our community. The proposed assessment will raise $300,000 annually, which approaches the cost of maintaining ER staff availability at all times. The assessment does not pay for uninsured patients. It pays for standby expenses for keeping the emergency room open. This assessment ends in ten years, for as our communities grow, the hospital’s volume will grow making the subsidy unnecessary. Waiver of the assessment for	qualifying low-income residents is included. Your elected officials will control the funds. Ultimately, these funds help the hospital support newer facilities and equipment.

Measure C-1 will allow us to keep our local hospital open.
	
Measure C-1 is more than just the emergency room. If the emergency room were to close, it would mean the hospital would also close. The impact on healthcare in our communities would be enormous. Fewer qualified physicians would locate here and residents would need to drive out of town for diagnostic testing.	

Please vote “yes”. A “yes” vote means continued emergency services and a hospital in our regional community. <favorend>




	
<favorsigs> /s/ Curt Josiassen, County Supervisor District 4  /s/ Mike Dahl, Resident  /s/ Otto Behunin, Resident  /s/ Marvin Stowe, Resident  /s// John Harris, BGMH Hospital Foundation President <favorsigsend>	





NO ARGUMENT WAS SUBMITTED AGAINST MEASURE C1





<resolution> A RESOLUTION OF THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE COUNTY OF BUTTE
GIVING NOTICE OF AN ELECTION REGARDING IMPOSITION OF A SPECIAL
PROPERTY TAX TO FUND STANDBY COSTS OF PROVIDING EMERGENCY ROOM
SERVICES IN A CRITICAL ACCESS HOSPITAL (BIGGS-GRIDLEY MEMORIAL
HOSPITAL) WITHIN THE BOUNDARIES OF COUNTY SERVICE AREA 37 IN THE
UNINCORPORATED AREA OF THE COUNTY TO BE HELD NOVEMBER 7, 2006 AND
CONSOLIDATING THAT ELECTION WITH THE GENERAL ELECTION TO BE HELD
NOVEMBER 7, 2006

WHEREAS, the Board has determined:

1.	It is critically important to the residents and businesses located within the cities of Biggs and Gridley and the adjacent unincorporated area of Butte County
(which is co-terminus with the area within the boundaries of County Service Area
(“CSA”) 37) that a hospital within these communities be available to provide
emergency room services; and

2.	The Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital, which is the sole provider of critical
emergency room facilities within these communities, is feeing the closure of its
emergency room in the absence of funding of the costs of emergency room
services which are not otherwise offset by the revenues from operation of the
emergency room (referred to herein as the “standby-costs”); and

3.	Closure of the Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital’s emergency room would
constitute a significant detriment of and to the health, welfare and safety of the
citizens residing within the area encompassed by the CSA 37; and

4.	The levy of a special tax within the area co-terminus with the boundaries of
CSA 37 and corresponding special taxes levied in the cities of Biggs and Gridley,
is necessary to provide funding to maintain operation of the Biggs-Gridley
Hospital’s emergency room so as to provide these critical
southern portion of Butte County; and

WHEREAS, the Board has also determined that it is in the best interest of the citizens within the unincorporated area of CSA 37 to seek voter approval, which will require approval by two-thirds of the voters voting thereon, for a proposed special property tax, in order to be able to fund stand-by costs of providing emergency room services in a critical access hospital (Biggs-Gridley Hospital) and has adopted Ordinance No. 3937 to enact a special property tax for this
purpose, subject to voter approval; and

WHEREAS, if approved by the voters, the special property tax for stand-by costs of
providing emergency room services in a critical access hospital (Biggs-Gridley Hospital) will be used solely for the purpose of covering the stand-by costs of providing boundaries of CSA 37; and

WHEREAS, if this special property tax is approved by the voters, the County may
exceed, by the amount of the revenue collected pursuant to the levy of the special property tax, the spending limit as previously established for the County in accordance with the provisions of Article XIII B of the California Constitution; and

WHEREAS, said ordinance proposes, subject to approval by a two-thirds majority vote
of the voters of the unincorporated area of CSA 37, that Article IIA to Chapter 21, entitled ‘"Taxation” be added to the Butte County Code imposing a special property tax (special tax) in accordance with the provisions of Articles XTTTA and XDIC of the California Constitution and Sections 23027, 50075, 50076, 50077 and 53722 et. seq. of the California Government Code, which special tax will be applicable in the unincorporated area of the County of Butte that is coterminous with the unincorporated area of the County of Butte within the boundaries of
Service Area 37.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE U RESOLVED, by the Board of Supervisors of the County of
Butte, State of California, as follows:

1.	Butte County Ordinance No. 3937 having been duly adopted on July 25, 2006,
enacting a special property tax for the funding of the stand-by costs of emergency room services of the Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital, and calling for an election of the voters within the special benefit zone established in said ordinance, it is hereby ordered and directed that:


2.	The special property tax election, regarding the tax enacted by Ordinance No 3937 is
hereby ordered consolidated with the general election to be held oh November 7, 2006. The
Butte County Clerk/Recorder is designated as the Elections Official fair said special property tax
election and is hereby authorized and directed to provide all notices and take all other actions
necessary to holding the said election, including (but not limited to) providing notices of times
within which arguments for and against the tax measure are to be submitted. The costs of said
election are to be paid by the County.

3.	Said election shall be held and conducted pursuant to the procedures specified in Part
3 of Division 10 of the Elections Code commencing at Section 10400. 

4.	For the purposes of this election the "County Voters" shall include all voters within the boundaries of CSA 37 in the unincorporated area of the County, the boundaries of which are described in Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and incorporated by reference.

5.	The Board hereby authorizes and directs the Clerk of the Board of Supervisors to file with the Butte County Clerk/Recorder certified copies of this resolution.

6.	The Clerk of the Board of Supervisors is hereby directed to Submit copies of the ballot
measure to the County Counsel, who shall prepare an impartial analysis of this measure in
accordance with Elections Code 9280. The analysis shall be submitted by the County Counsel to
the Registrar of Voters/Elections Official, for printing by the date set by the Registrar of Voters/Elections Official. The analysis shall not exceed 500 words in length and shall otherwise comply in all substantial respects with the applicable provisions of |he Elections Code of the
State of California.

7.	Arguments for and against the measure shall be filed in accordance with this
resolution and applicable provisions of law. Arguments for and against the measure shall be submitted to the Butte County Clerk and Registrar of Voters/Election
August 10, 2006. Rebuttal arguments shall be submitted to the Butte County Clerk/Recorder before 5:00 pm, August 21,2006. Any argument shall not exceed 300 words in length and shall not be signed by more than five persons. Any rebuttal shall not exceed 250 words in length and shall not be signed by more than five persons; those persons may be different persons than those who signed the direct arguments. 


8. The Chairman of the Board or a designated subcommittee consisting of Supervisors
are hereby authorized to prepare a written argument in favor of this measure not to exceed 300 words, on behalf of the Board. At the Chairman’s/subcommittee's discretion, the arguments may also be signed by bonafide organizations or by individual voters.

PASSED AND ADOPTED at a regular meeting of the Board of Supervisors of the
County of Butte, State of California, on the 25 the day of July i, , 2006, by the following
vote:

AYES: Supervisors Connelly, Dolan, Houx, Yamaguchi
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
NOT VOTING: None

and Chair Josiassen

ATTEST:

PAUL MCINTOSH, Chief Administrative Officer
and Clerk of the Board of Supervisors

LASSEN, Chair of the
Board of Supervisors <resolutionend>







<summary> Commencing at the intersection of t h e section line between
Sections Four and Nine, T. 19 N, R. 1 E. M.D.M., with the 
center line of Butte Creek, in the Boundary Line between
Butte and Glenn Counties; thence along Section lines, 
Easterly, six and three-fourths miles, more or less, to the 
corner of Sections 3, 4, 9 and 10, T. 19 N,R. 2 E. M.D.M;
thence along section line, North, one mile, to the corner to
Sections 3, 4, 33 and 34 T. 19 and 20 N.R. 2 E,M.D.M; hence 
along township line. East, two miles, to the corner to
Sections 1, 2, 35 and 36, T, 19 and 20 N.R. 2 E.M.D.M; hence
along section line, South, one mile, to the corner to
Sections 1, 2, 11 and 12, T. 19 N. R. 2 E.M.D.M; thence
continue South, along section line, one-fourth mile, more or
less, to intersection with the easterly property line of the
former Gage and Glass property, also known as the old Spring
Valley Canal; thence along said easterly line of said old
Spring Valley Canal on easterly boundary of aforesaid Gage and Glass property southerly, four miles, more or less, to intersection with the east and west center line of Section Twenty-seven T. 19 N.R. 2 E.M.D.M; thence along half-section
lines, East, two and one-fourth miles, more or less, to the
center corner of Section Twenty-five, said township; thence
along half-section line, South, one-half mile, to the 1/4 
section corner between Sections 25 and 36, said township; thence
along section lines, East one mile, to the 1/4 section corner
between Sections 30 and 31, T. 19 N. R. 3 E.M.D.M; thence along
half-section line, North, one mile, to the 1/4 section corner
between Sections 19 and 30, said township; thence along section
lines. East, two and five-eights miles, more or less, to 
intersection with the east line of Block No. 180 of South
Thermalito; thence South, along east line of Block Nos. 180, 204
and 211 of said South Thermalito, and an extension thereof, to
the south line of Timothy Avenue; thence West, 100 feet, more or 
less, to the northeast corner of Chardon Colony, being in the west
line of said South Thermalito, three-fourths mile, more or less,
to intersection with the center line of Feather River; thence
meandering down stream. Southerly, along center line of said
Feather River, following its various meanders, fourteen miles, 
more or less, to inter-section with the line between Sections 22
and 27, T. 17 N.R. 3 E.M.D.M., being identical with the northeast
corner of Sutter County; thence West, on section lines, along
County Boundary Line between Butte and Sutter Counties, fifteen
miles, more or less, to intersection with the center line of
Butte Creek, being identical with the corner of Butte, Sutter and
Colusa Counties; thence along said center line of said Buttee
Creek, following its various meanders, Northerly, and along
Boundary line between the Counties of Butte and Colusa, and
between Butte and Glenn Counties, fifteen miles, more or less, to
the place of beginning, excluding therefrom, the incorporated
areas within the cities of Biggs, Gridley and Oroville. 

EXHIBIT "A'

THE FOREGOING INSTRUMENT IS A CORRECT COPT OF
THE ORIGINAL ON FILE AND OF RECORD IN THIS OFFICE

ATTEST		

ATTEST
PAUL McINTOSH

DATE

Clerk of the Board of Supervisors In and for the County Of Butte State of California <summaryend>








<full> Ordinance No. 3937

AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNTY OF BUTTE IMPOSING A| SPECIAL PROPERTY
TAX MEASURE FOR STANDBY COSTS OF PROVIDING EMERGENCY ROOM
SERVICES IN A CRITICAL ACCESS HOSPITAL (BIGGS-GRIDLEY MEMORIAL
HOSPITAL), CALLING AND GIVING NOTICE OF AN ELECTION REGARDING
THE TAX TO BE HELD NOVEMBER 7, 2006, AND SETTING AN APPROVAL
MEASURE FOR THE TAX ON THE NOVEMBER 7,2006 BALLOT

The Board of Supervisors of the County of Butte, State of California, ordains as follows:

SECTION 1. Special Property Tax Provisions.

Subject to approval by the electors of the ballot measure described in Section 2 herein,
the County of Butte hereby adds Article HA to Chapter 21, entitled “Taxation, of the Butte
County Code, to read as follows:

“Article IIA. CSA 37 Area Special Property Tax for Stand by Costs of
Providing Emergency Room Services in a Critical Access Hospital (Biggs-
Gridley Memorial Hospital).

Section 21A-1. Necessity, Authority and Purpose,

a.	The Board of Supervisors has determined:

1.	It is critically important to the residents and businesses located within
the cities of Biggs and Gridley and the adjacent unincorporated area of Butte
County (which is co-terminus with the area within the boundaries of County
Service Area (“CSA”) 37) that a hospital within these communities be available to
provide emergency room services; and,	j

2.	The Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital, which is the; sole provider of
critical emergency room facilities within these communities, is facing the closure
of its emergency room in the absence of funding of the costs of emergency room
services which are not otherwise offset by the revenues from operation of the
emergency room (referred to herein as the “standby costs”); and

3.	Closure of the Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital’s emergency room
would constitute a significant detriment of and to the health, welfare and safety of
the citizens residing within the area encompassed by CSA 37; and,

4.	The levy of a special tax as hereinafter provided within the area co-
terminus with the boundaries of CSA 37 and corresponding special taxes levied in
the cities of Biggs and Gridley, is necessary to provide funding to maintain
operation of the Biggs-Gridley Hospital’s emergency room, so as to provide these
critical services within the southern portion of Butte County,

b.	This Article is adopted in order to establish a dedicated source of funding in the
form of a special property tax that will be used exclusively for the purpose of
contracting with the Biggs-Gridley Hospital for maintenance of the emergency room services.

Section 21A-2. Special Tax Established and Levied.

a.	In accordance with and subject to the requirements for voter approval pursuant to the provisions of Articles XIIA and XIII C of the California Constitution and
Sections 23027, 50075, 50076, 50077 and 53722 et. seq. of the California
Government Code, a special property tax is hereby established and shall be levied
annually, on all taxable real property in that portion of the unincorporated area o Butte County that is co-terminus with the boundaries of CSA 37, existing as of
the effective date of this Ordinance, which area is hereby designated as a special
zone of benefit within the County of Butte for the purpose of finding emergency room services, the boundaries of which are described in Exhibit “A”, attached hereto and incorporated by reference. Commencing in the fiscal year 2006-2007,
the special property tax shall be levied annually against all taxable real property,
at the maximum flat rate of no more than seventy dollars ($ 70.00) per Single
Family Equivalent Residential Unit (ERU), per year. For the purposes of defining
an Equivalent Residential Unit, the following categories are established:

(1)	Single family residential (1);

(2)	Multi-family residential unit (.75 );

(3)	Condominium (.75 );


(4)	Vacant parcels and parcels without residential units shall not be
subject to the Tax.

The imposition and levy of this special tax is expressly conditioned upon the
adoption by the cities of Biggs and Gridley and the approval
electorates, of special tax measures within their respective jurisdictions which
also provide funding for the hospital emergency room at the same rates and for
the same duration as set forth in this Article,

b.	For purposes of this Chapter, “taxable” properties are those not owned by the

County, the State of California, any other public district or agency of the State or
the United States of America.

c.	The Tax shall not exceed the maximum amount set forth in this section 21A-2,
except that the Tax shall, unless otherwise directed by the Butte County Board of
Supervisors, be increased annually by the percentage equal to the percentage
change in the Construction Engineering Index for the geographic area most
applicable for the preceding twelve (12) month period calculates from April 1 to
March 31. Provided, however, that any such annual increase in
exceed 3%. If this index should cease publication, the Auditor-Controller shall
use any appropriate official index published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, or
successor, or similar agency as may then exist or may then most nearly
equivalent thereto.

Section 21A-3. Call of Special Tax Election.

a.	The Board hereby calls an election to be held within the County of Butte on
November 7, 2006, pursuant to Articles XIIIA and XIIIC of the California
Constitution and Sections 23027, 50075, 50076, 50077 and 53722 et. seq. of the
California Government Code, and Elections Code Section 9140.

b.	The question to be submitted to the County voters at said election shall be:

Shall a special property tax in the amount of $70 per residential equivalent unit, as

enacted by Butte County Ordinance No________for a period of ten years, to fund

stand-by costs of providing emergency room services at the Biggs-Gridley
Memorial Hospital, and a corresponding increase in the County’s spending limit
for a period of four years, be approved ?

YES	NO

c.	The Butte County Clerk/Recorder shall serve as the1 election official
conducting this election, in all respects, which shall be consolidated with the
general election to be held on November 7, 2006. The costs of the election shall
be borne by the County.

Section 21A-4. Purposes and Uses of Tax.

The proceeds of the Tax shall be deposited in a special fund, maintained by the
County, which proceeds,-together with any interest and penalties thereon,
collected each fiscal year (collectively, the "Tax Proceeds,”), shall be used solely
for stand by costs in maintaining the operation of emergency room services by the
Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital as a critical access hospital. The revenues from
the tax shall be expended only for the above specified purpose Upon formation
of the Biggs-Gridley Hospital Agency (Agency) the County may transfer the Tax
Proceeds to the Agency in order to provide funding which I shall be used to
contract with the Hospital to fund standby costs incurred ii. maintaining the
Hospital’s emergency room.

Section 21A-5. Computation and Collection of Tax.

The Auditor-Controller or his/her designee is hereby authorized and directed each
fiscal year, commencing with the fiscal year 2006-2007, to determine the Tax amount to be levied for the fiscal year for each taxable parcel
within the boundaries of CSA 37 area in the unincorporated area
the manner and as provided in Section 21A-2. Unless otherwise required by the; Board, no Board action shall be necessary to authorize the arm-mil collection of the
Tax as herein provided.	j

Section 21A-6. Accountability.

Pursuant to Sections 50075.1 and 50075.3 of the California Government Code,
the specific purposes of the Tax and the requirement that the Tax Proceeds by
applied to such purposes and -the establishment of a special fund for the Tax
proceeds are as set forth in section 21A-3. So long as the Tax is collected
hereunder, commencing no later than July 1, 2007, or as soon thereafter after said
Tax may be levied, the Auditor-Controller is hereby authorize and directed to
cause to be prepared and filed with the Board a report that shows the amount of
Tax collected and expended and the status of any projects funded with the Tax
Proceeds. For purposes of this section 21A-6, the Auditor-Controller is
authorized to retain such consultants, accountants or agents as may be necessary
or convenient to accomplish the foregoing. To the extent that the proceeds of the
special tax are transferred to the Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital Agency

(Agency) to implement the purpose of the special tax, said Agency shall provide

appropriate information to the County Auditor-Controller in on order to provide the
annual report to the Board of Supervisors.

Section 21A-7. Examination of Books and Records and Annual Audit
The Auditor-Controller or his/her designee or agent, is hereby authorized and
directed to examine assessment rolls, property tax records, records of the Butte
County Recorder and any other records of the County of Butte deemed necessary
in order to determine ownership of parcels and computation of the Tax. A
certified public accounting firm retained by the County will perform an annual
audit to assure accountability of the proper disbursement of these Tax Proceeds in
accordance with the objectives stated herein.

Section 21A-8. Collection of Tax: Interest and Penalties.

The Tax shall be collected in the same manner as ordinary ad valorem taxes are
collected and shall have the same lien priority, and be subject to the same
penalties and the same procedure and sale in cases of delinquency as provided for
ad valorem taxes collected by the County of Butte; provided,

Board may provide for other appropriate methods of collection of the Tax by
appropriate resolutions) of the Board. The County shall annualy take such steps
as are necessary to have the special property taxes collected through the property
tax bill. The County shall be entitled to deduct its reasonable
collecting the special taxes, which shall not exceed .05% of the amount of the
special tax.

Section 21A-9. Collection of Unpaid Taxes.

The amount of the Tax, any penalty, and any interest imposed under the
provisions of this Article shall be deemed a debt to the County,
real property lien status imposed by this Article and by law, delinquent taxes and
penalties shall also be considered the personal debt of the per ion(s) owning the
subject property. Any person owing money under the provisions of this Article shall be personally liable to all action brought in the name of the County, at its
option, for the recovery for such amount.

Section 21A-10. Refund of Tax, Penalty, or Interest paid More Than Once, or
Erroneously or Illegally Collected.

When the amount of the Tax, any penalty, or any interest has been paid more than
once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the County
under this Article, it may be refunded, provided a verified claim, in writing,
therefore, stating the specific ground(s) upon which the claim is founded, is filed
with the Auditor-Controller within one (1) year from the date of payment If the
claim is approved by the Auditor-Controller, the excess amount collected or paid
may be refunded or may be credited against any amounts then due and payable
from the person from whom it was collected or by whom paid, and the balance
maybe refunded to such person, his/her administrators or executors. 

Section 21A-11. Savings Clause. 

The provisions of this Article shall not apply to any person, or to any property as
to whom or which it is beyond the power of the County to impose the Tax herein
provided. If any provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this Article is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall affect only such provision, sentence, clause, section or part of this
Article and shall not affect or impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences,
clauses, sections or parts of this Article. It is hereby declared to be the intention
of the County that this Article would have been adopted had such
unconstitutional, illegal or invalid provision, sentence, clause, section or part thereof not been included herein.	I

Section 21A-12. Regulations.

The Board is hereby authorized to promulgate such regulations as it shall deem necessary to implement the provision of this Article, including implementing this
Article, which is hereby codified in Chapter 21 Article IIA of the Butte County
Code.

Section 21A-13. Authorization for Spending Limit Increase.

To the extent that the revenue from the special property tax enacted by this Article
is in excess of the spending limit for the County as calculated in accordance with
the provisions of Article XHE B of the California Constitution and applicable
statutory provisions, the approval of the special property tax by the voters shall
constitute approval to increase the County’s spending limit in an amount equal to
the revenue derived from the special property tax for the maximum period of time
as allowed by law.

Section 21A-14. Operative Date and Termination Date.

a.	Operative Date means the first day that the Tax is imposed and collected. The
operative date shall be the day following the certification of the election results
reflecting approval of the special tax by no less than a two-thirds vote, as required
by Article XHIA and Articles XIIIC of the California Constitution. 

b.	Termination Date. The authority to levy the Tax imposed
shall extend only through June 30,2017
7Section 21A-15. Validation Pursuant to CCP Section 860 et Seq.

Pursuant to the provisions of Government Code Section 50077.5, any judicial
action or proceeding to attack, review, set aside, void or annul this Article and/or
the approval of the subject special taxes and/or increase in the spending limitation
pertaining to the special tax shall be commenced, if at all, within 60 days of the
date of the adoption hereof.

SECHQN 2. Election Provisions.	

a.	The Board hereby calls an election to be held within the County of Butte on November 7, 
2006, pursuant to Articles XIIIA and XIIIC , of the California Constitution, Sections 23027,
50075, 50076, 50077 and 53722 et. seq. of the California Government Code, and Elections Code
Section 9140.

b.	The question to be submitted to the County voters at said election shall be:

Shall a special property tax in the amount of $70 per residential equivalent unit, as enacted by Butte County Ordinance No 3937 for a period of ten years, to fund stand-by by costs of providing emergency room services at the Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital, and a corresponding increase in the County’s spending limit for a period of four years, be approved?

YES_________________ NO____________________________

3. The tax is a special tax and is imposed solely for stand by costs of providing
emergency room services in a critical access hospital (Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital). The revenues from the tax shall be expended only for those specific purposes and projects and shall be allocated by the Butte County Auditor/Controller (less administative costs not to exceed
.05%).

4.	Said election shall be held and conducted pursuant to the procedures specified in Part 3 of Division 10 of the Elections Code commencing at Section 10400. 

5.	For the purposes of this election the "County voters" shall include all voters in the County residing in the unincorporated area within the boundaries of County Service Area 37, as existing on the date of the adoption of this Ordinance.

SECTION 3. Severability.

If any provision of this Ordinance or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is for any reason held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
provision shall be deemed severable, and the invalidity thereof shall provisions or other applications of the Ordinance which can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application thereof.

SECTION 4. Effective date.

This ordinance, being an ordinance calling and relating to an
and be in force immediately upon final passage, as provided by Government Code Section 25123. Provided, however, that Section 1 of this ordinance adding Article IIA, entitled “CSA 37 Area Special Property Tax for Stand by Costs of Providing Emergency Room Services in a
Critical Access Hospital (Biggs-Gridley Memorial Hospital)” to Chapter 21 of the Butte County
Code, entitled “Taxation”, shall become effective immediately upon acceptance by the Board of
Supervisors of the certified results of the November 7, 2006, election
Code section 15400), but only if approved by a 2/3 majority vote of
issue.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Supervisors of the County of Butte, State of

California, on the 25th day of July 2006, by the following voles:

AYES: Supervisors Connelly, Dolan, Houx, Yamaguchi and Curt Josiassen
NOES: None
ABSENT: None
NOT VOTING: None

Chair of the
Board of Supervisors

ATTEST:

PAUL McINTOSH, Chief Administrative Officer
and Cleric of the Board of Supervisors <fullend>

