Vote Both Sides

r:

!!:

00

0)

a

E

«

co

General Election
Orange County
November 07, 2006

OFFICIAL BALLOT



84- WATER QUALITY, SAFETY AND
SUPPLY. FLOOD CONTROL. NATURAL
RESOURCE PROTECTION. PARK
IMPROVEMENTS.

BONDS. INITIATIVE STATUTE. Funds
water, flood control, natural resources, park
and conservation projects by authorizing
$5,388,000,000 in general obligation bonds.
Emergency drinking water safety provisions.
Fiscal Impact: State cost of $10.5 billion
over 30 yeans to repay bonds. Reduced
local property fax revenues of several
million dollars annually. Unknown state and
local operations and maintenance costs,
potentially tens of millions of dollars
annually.

Yes

□ No

85 - WAITING PERIOD AND PARENTAL
NOTIFICATION BEFORE TERMINATION
OF MINOR'S PREGNANCY.

INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Amends California
Constitution prohibiting abortion for
unemancipated minor until 48 hours after
physician notifies minor's parent/guardian,
except in medical emergency or with
parental waiver. Mandates reporting
requirements. Authorizes monetary
damages against physicians for violation.
Fiscal Impact: Potential unknown net state
costs of several million dollars annually for
health and social services programs, court
administration, and state health agency
administration combined.

□ Yes
3 No

86-TAX ON CIGARETTES.

INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Imposes
additional $2.60 per pack excise tax on
cigarettes and indirectly increases taxes on
other tobacco products. Provides funding for
various health programs, children's health
coverage, and tobacco-related programs.
Fiscal Impact: Increase in excise tax
revenues of about $2.1 billion annually in'
2007-08 spent for the specified purposes
outlined above. Other potentially significant
costs and savings for state and local
governments due to program changes.

] Yes
iNo

67 - ALTERNATIVE ENERGY.	j

RESEARCH, PRODUCTION, INCENTIVES.
TAX ON CALIFORNIA OIL PRODUCERS.
INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT AND STATUTE. Establishes
$4 billion program to reduce petroleum
consumption through incentives for
alternative energy, education and training.
Funded by tax on California oil producers.
Fiscal Impact: State oil tax revenues of $225
million to $485 million annually for
alternative energy programs totaling $4
billion. State and local revenue reductions
up to low tens of millions of dollars annually.

□ Yes

Ino

88 - EDUCATION FUNDING. REAL
PROPERTY PARCEL TAX.

INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT AND STATUTE! Imposes
$50 tax on each real property parcel to
provide additional public school funding for
kindergarten through grade 12. Exempts
certain elderly, disabled homeowners tom
lax. Use of funds restricted to specific
educational purposes. Fiscal impact: State
percel tax revenue of roughly $450 million
annually, allocated to school districts for
specified education programs.

I I Yes

□ No

89 - POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS. PUBLIC
FINANCING. CORPORATE TAX
INCREASE.

CAMPAIGN CONTRIBUTION AND
EXPENDITURE LIMITS. INITIATIVE
STATUTE. Provides that eligible candidates
for state elective office may receive public
campaign funding. Increases tax on
corporations and financial institutions by 0.2
percent to fund program. Imposes new
campaign contributiontexpendlture limits.
Fiscal Impact; Increased revenues (primarily
tom increased taxes on corporations and
financial institutions) totaling more than
$200 million annually to pay for the public
financing of political campaigns.

Yes
No

90 - GOVERNMENT ACQUISITION,
REGULATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY,
INITIATIVE CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT. Bare state/local
governments from condemning or damaging
private property to promote other private
projects, uses. Limits government's
authority to adopt certain land use, housing,
consumer, environmental, workplace
iaws/regulations. Fiscal Impact: Increased
annual government costs to pay property
owners for losses to their property
associated with new laws and rules, and for
property acquisitions. These costs are
unknown, but potentially significant on a
statewide basis,

3 Yes
3 No

COUNTY OF ORANGE

M - Measure "M," Orange County
Transportation improvement Plan
Shall the ordinance continuing Measure M,
Orange County’s half-cent sales tax for
transportation improvements, for an
additional 30 years with limited bonding
authority to fund the following projects:

-	relieve congestion on the 1-5,1-405,22,
55, 57 and 91 freeways;

-	fix potholes and resurface streets;

-	expand Metrolink rail and connect it to
local communities;

-	provide transit services, at reduced rates,
for seniors and disabled persons;

-	synchronize traffic lights in every
community;

-	reduce air and water pollution, and protect
local beaches by cleaning up oil runoff tom
roadways;

and establish the following taxpayer
protections to ensure the funds are spent as
directed by the voters:

-	require an independent Taxpayer
Oversight Committee to review yearly audits
to ensure that voter mandates are met;

-	publish an annual reportto the taxpayers
on how all funds are spent; and

-	update the transportation improvement
plan every 10 years, with voter approval
required for major changes;

be adopted for the purpose of relieving
traffic congestion in Orange County?

Yes

No

(O

00

o

Q.

E

<0

CO

IMPARTIAL ANALYSIS BY COUNTY COUNSEL
MEASURE M

Measure M would authorize the Orange County Local Transportation Authority (Authority) to construct specific transportation improvement and traffic
congestion relief projects in Orange County by continuing the existing 1/2 of one percent retail transaction and use tax for thirty years from the expiration of
the current Measure M on April 1,2011. Passage of Measure M:

1.	Adopts the Renewed Measure M Transportation Investment Plan (Plan) that requires Measure M revenues be spent only in Orange County for
freeway projects, street and road improvements, transit projects and environmental cleanup, ali as specified in the Plan that was approved by the Orange
County Board of Supervisors and all 34 cities'in Orange County.

2.	Requires that all revenues be deposited in a special fund and used solely for the identified transportatipn improvements. No more than one percent of
the annual revenues may be used for salaries and benefits for administration of the transportation improvement and traffic congestion relief projects funded
by the renewed Measure M.

3.	Requires that the Plan be reviewed at least every ten years and requires that any change to the funding categories be approved by the voters of

Orange County.	;vr'Y

4.	Establishes an independent Taxpayers Oversight Committee for the purpose of overseeing Measure M compliance and reviewing annual audits of the
revenues to ensure that voter mandates have been met. The Orange County Auditor, who is elected by a countywide vote, shall chair the Taxpayers
Oversight Committee and shall annually certify if the revenues have been spent in compliance, with Measure M.

6. Requiresthe Authority to annually publish a written report detailing how the revenues have been spent and the progress in implementing the
transportation improvement projects hri the Plan.	■	-	••

6.	Establishes “pay-as-you-go” as the preferred method of financing projects. Bonds may only be issued if pay-as-you-go funding is infeasible.

Establishes an appropriations limit .for the Authority, as required by the California Constitution and the Public Utilities Code, of $1,123 million for the
2006-2007 fiscal year,	.	••	-

7.	Requires that the $11.86 billion in transportation revenues that are estimated to be generated during the 30 year continuation of Measure M must be
used to add to and not replace existing public and private funding for transportation improvements in Orange County.

Two-thirds of the voters voting on Measure M must vote‘Yes” in order for the measure to pass.

30-8700a

ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

Vote YES on Measure M to relieve congestion, improve traffic safety and fix
local roads — without raising taxes!

Measure M renews th8 transportation improvement program that helped
finance every major highway, transit improvement and street repair in
Orange County since 1991.

Vote YES to improve traffic flow on Orange County freeways — the 91,5,
405, 55, 57, and 22.

Vpte YES to fix potholes, resurface streets and synchronize traffic
signals in every city in Orange County.

Vote YES to reduce gridlock and improve police, fire and paramedic
response times.

Vote YES to provide transit services for seniors and disabled persons
and to expand Metrolink with connections to local communities.

Measure M includes new protections to keep oily roadway runoff from
our beaches.

Taxpayer groups support “M" because it contains strict safeguards to
protect your tax dollars:

*	Accountability... An independent citizen oversight committee will hold
transportation officials accountable for your tax dollars by reviewing
financial audits annually — ensuring voter mandates are met.

*	Re!iabiUty...Government agencies are prohibited from using Measure
M dollars for anything except what is authorized by the plan. They
cannot make significant modifications without voter approval.

*	Efficiency...The revenue will go to traffic relief, not overhead. No more
than 1% of your tax dollars will go for administration.

Measure M guarantees transportation dollars raised in Orange County
stay in Orange County. Politicians can't raid the funds.

Without Measure M, congestion relief could be delayed for decades.
We can't count on state and federal funds. Many projects won’t be built and
many improvements can’t be delivered without Measure M.

The Automobile Club of Southern California (AAA), the Orange County
Taxpayers Association, public safety associations, Orange County
Business Council, environmentalists, and neighborhood groups agree:
Vote YES on Measure M.

To see Measure M improvements in your community, go to
www.RenewMeasureM.org. Vote YES on Measure M.

s/Thomas V. McKeman, President and CEO, Automobile Club of Southern
California (AAA)

s/ Reed Royalty, President, Orange County Taxpayers Association

s/ Marian Bergeson, Chair, California Transportation Commission and
former Orange County State Senator •

sJ Denise Welch, President, Community Civic Association, Laguna Woods.
Village (formerly Leisure World)

s/ Garry Brown Orange County Coastkeepers

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT IN FAVOR OF MEASURE M

Don’t be misled! Vote NO.

Measure M’s an $11,861,900,000 new tax, masquerading under the name
of an old tax that Orange County Transportation Agency promised would
solve our transportation problems by 2011. Now congestion's worse, and
they want 30 more years.

In 1990 they promised:

•	More freeway janes

*	New lanes on SR-91

•	Reduced senior transit fares

•	Developer payment for street improvements needed for new
development

*	Growth management, to prevent overcongestion.

We got:

*	Expensive, exclusive carpool lanes

•	Toll lanes

*	Pennies for seniors; massive subsidies for a' handful of railway
commuters; millions wasted promoting Centerline.

•	Roads clogged with new traffic; demands for us to pay.

*	Unbridled growth/gridlock, hindering emergency response.

Now they want to repeat the cycle of promises made, promises broken.
Vote NO!

A better way: OCTA’s website outlines another plan that requires no
new tax, trims wasteful spending, and is better for the environment OCTA’s
required to eliminate that oily runoff, anyway. And synchronized traffic
signals promised again? Vote NO.

Most gas taxes we pay never comes back to Orange County. Let's
demand the legislature return our fair share, not tax ourselves $11.86
BILLION more. OCTA won’t even stipulate that all Measure M money will
be spent in Orange County.

SR-91 toll lanes will bring in billions over the next thirty years. Let’s use
that to improve SR-91 and other freeways.

Don’t let OCTA waste more of our tax dollars.

VOTE NO on NEW Measure M.

Visit www.NoMtax.com.

s/ Steve White

Committees of Correspondence
s/ Mark Leyes

Garden Grove City Councilmember
s/ Sandra L. Genis

Former Costa Mesa Mayor/Land Planner
s/ Lawrence Gilbert

Investigative Reporter, Cutting Edge A Talkshow, Internet TV News

s/Chris E. Ema, PE
CA Registered T ransp Engr #42

30-8700b

ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

This measure would not come into effect until the current measure
expires in five more years. Within that time, it’s important that we pass a
renewed measure M plan — but not this one.

This is a plan for defeat in the war against congestion. Under this
measure, 2030 county congestion delay is projected to increase more than
207%. That’s worse congestion than experienced today anywhere
nationally.

That need not be the case. This measure is poorly designed and
"'inefficient.

It is part of a long-range plan of which 38% of funds are for transit costing
10 to 100 times as much for the same transportation (person-miles) as
roads, and providing less than 2% of our total transportation. Transit share
will grow by only one percent of trips.

Most of the measure’s transit funds will be spent on expanding and
supporting Metrofink, which will, carry only 0.2 percent of all trips. It will serve
only a part of the county, with the rest getting minimal improvements for the
next 30 years. OCTA considers Metrolink the backbone transit system, but

0.2 percent is hardly a wishbone.

The 1990 Measure M provided for important freeway expansions of four,
six and more lanes. This plan is limited to inadequate
one-lane-in-each-direction, short-term fixes on the 5, 55, 57, and 405. The
proposed plan would build only half the number of freeway lane-miles, at three
times the total local cost of the 1990 measure.

This plan dabbles in transportation rather than focusing on congestion
fixes.

This may be our last chance for a generation. We had better get it right.
Don’t vote for more congestion. Reject this plan and send OCTA the
message:

‘'Give us the best congestion relief plan for the money — not this one.”
s/ David L. Mootchnik

Member Southern California Commuters Forum

$/ Donald D. Van Winkle

Member Southern California Commuters Forum

s/ John Pearson
Member

s/ Ruth T, Smith
Member

s/Albert J. Mallinckrodt
Principal AJM Engineering

REBUTTAL TO ARGUMENT AGAINST MEASURE M

The opponents’ arguments don't offer a single alternative to relieve
traffic congestion.

Here’s the facts:

Measure M builds on 16 years of keeping Orange County moving —
without increasing taxes.

The Automobile Club of Southern California (AAA) monitored the plan to
renew Measure M, saying:

“Any delay in renewing Measure M will stall critical highway
improvements for years and only increase cost. This is a balanced
plan that will relieve future congestion, fix potholes and synchronize
2,000 traffic signals on major roads."

-	Hamid Bahadori, Principal Transportation Engineer, Auto Club

The Orange County Taxpayers Association helped craft Measure M’s fiscal
oversight and protections, saying:

“Existing Measure M has kept Its promises and delivered highway
projects, keeping faith with taxpayers. Improvements to the Garden
Grove Freeway are possible today, years ahead of schedule, because
of Measure M.”

-	Reed Royalty, President, Orange County Taxpayers Association

Coastkeepers and Amigos de Bolsa Chica support Measure M because it
will clean up runoff from roads and keep our beaches cleaner.

Business and labor support Measure M because it keeps our economy
strong.

Measure M will widen the 91,405,5,57and 55 freeways within existing j
Right-of-Way, and address chokepoints on every major freeway, without
raising taxes. It will improve the Orange Crush and dozens of
interchanges throughout Orange County. It provides the primary source of
funding to repair and maintain local roads.

Critics always have reasons why we shouldn’t do something. Measure Mis
the best answer to a serious problem and deserves our support.

Vote Yes on Measure M.

s/ Reed Royalty, President, Orange County Taxpayers Association

s/ Dr. Marlon Boarnet, Chair, Department Planning, Policy, and Design,

UC Irvine

s/ Lucy Dunn, Chief Executive Officer, Orange County Business Council

s/ Jim Adams, Council Representative, LA/Orange County Building and
Construction Trades Council

s/ Tom Anderson, President, Amigos de Bolsa Chica

30-8700C

Tr j.’ >*' * • •'	^

' 'l '	?jk‘	\'\Jy?S'j	l'§

ORANGE COUNTY LOCAL TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
550 South Main Street
P.O.Box 14184
Orange, CA 92863-1584

(714) 560-5066
www.octa.net

as it.. iy



Tabie of Contents

Introduction

Overview,...

Freeway Projects	7	/

Overview ..........................................

Orange County Freeway Projects Map..........

P5.V Santa Ana Freeway Interchange Improvements
1-5 C Santa Ana/San Diego Freeway Improvements ..
SR-22	Garden Grove Freeway Improvements

;SR-55 ;; :■■■ Costa Mesa Freeway Improvements ..!.

SR-57 Orange Freeway Improvements ;.................

SR-91	Riverside Freeway Improvements .....______

1-405	San Diego Freeway,Improvements.............

1-605	Freeway Access Improvements........;.......

Ail" 7 Freeway Service Patrol ..

Streets & Roads Projects

Overview. ...........................................

Orange'County Streets and Roads Programs Map

Regional Capacity Program............'...............

Traffic Signal Synchronization.......................

Local Fair Share Program	................

Transit Projects •	/AjAAA	-	A'	A	A||;:	v'in

Overview	........................................

Orange County Transit Projects Map....;...:.'.;.............

High Frequency.Metrolink Service .;.........................

Transit Extensions to Metrolink	 ........

Metrolink Gateways.....;........................................

Expand Mobility Choices for Seniors.and. Persons with Disabilities

Community=Based Tra n sit/Ci r cu la tors.........................

Safe Transit Stops . '	*y;	-1.	^	-	&	AA-•

Environmental Cleanup

Overview ......... .....

Project Description ..

Taxpayer Safeguards and Audits

Overview	  ...;

Description

Measure M Investment Summary!

Measure M Promises Fulfilled.

On November 6, 1990, Orange County voters
approved Measure M, a half-cent local transportation
sales tax for twenty years. All of the major projects
promised to and approved by the voters are
underway or complete. Funds that go to cities and
the County of Orange to maintain and improve
local street and roads, along with transit fare
reductions for seniors and persons with disabilities,
will continue until Measure M ends in 2011. The
promises made in Measure M have been fulfilled.

Continued Investment Needed

Orange County continues to grow. By the year 2030,
Orange County’s population will increase by 24
percent from 2.9 million in 2000 to 3.6 million in
2030; jobs will increase by 27 percent; and travel
on our roads and highways by 39 percent. Without
continued investment average morning rush hour
speeds on Orange County freeways will fall by
31 percent and on major streets by 32 percent.

Responding to this continued growth and broad
support for investment in Orange County’s
transportation system, the Orange County
Transportation Authority considered the
transportation projects and programs that would be
possible if Measure M were renewed. The Authority,
together with the 34 cities of Orange County, the
Orange County Board of Supervisors and thousands
of Orange County citizens, participated during the
last eighteen months in developing a Transportation
Investment Plan for consideration by the voters.

A Plan for New Transportation Investments

The Plan that follows is a result of those efforts. It
reflects the varied interests and priorities inherent
in the diverse communities of Orange County. It
includes continued investment to expand and

improve Orange County’s freeway system;
commitment to maintaining and improving the
network of streets and roads in every community;
an expansion of Metrolink rail service through the
core of Orange County with future extensions to
connect with nearby communities and regional
rail systems; more transit service for seniors and
disabled persons; and funds to clean up runoff
from roads that leads to beach closures.

Strong Safeguards

These commitments are underscored by a set of
strong taxpayer safeguards to ensure that promises
made in the Plan are kept. They include an annual
independent audit and report to the taxpayers;
ongoing monitoring and review of spending by
an independent Taxpayer Oversight Committee;
requirement for full public review and update of
the Plan every ten years; voter approval for any
major changes to the Plan; strong penalties for
any misuse of funds and a strict limit of no more
than one percent for administrative expenses.

No Increase in Taxes

The traffic improvements detailed in this plan do
not require an increase in taxes. Renewal of the
existing Measure M one-half cent transportation
sales tax will enable all of the projects and
programs to be implemented. And by using good
planning and sensible financing, projects that
are ready to go could begin as early as 2007.

Renewing Measure M

The projects and programs that follow constitute
the Transportation Investment Plan for the
renewal of the Measure M transportation sales tax
approved by Orange County voters in November
of 1990. These improvements are necessary to
address current and future transportation needs
in Orange County and reflect the best efforts
to achieve consensus among varied interests
and communities throughout the County

The Renewed Measure M Transportation Investment
Plan is a 30-year, $11.8 billion program designed to
reduce traffic congestion, strengthen our economy
and improve our quality of life by upgrading
key freeways, fixing major freeway interchanges,
maintaining streets and roads, synchronizing traffic
signals countywide, building a visionary rail transit
system, and protecting our environment from the oily
street runoff that pollutes Orange County beaches.
The Transportation Investment Plan is focused solely
on improving the transportation system and includes
tough taxpayer safeguards, including a Taxpayer
Oversight Committee, required annual audits,
and regular, public reports on project progress.

The Renewed Measure M Transportation Investment
Plan must be reviewed annually, in public session,
and every ten years a detailed review of the Plan
must take place. If changing circumstances require
the voter-approved plan to be changed, those
changes must be taken to the voters for approval.

Freeways

Relieving congestion on the Riverside/Artesia
Freeway (SR-91) is the centerpiece of the freeway
program, and will include new lanes, new
interchanges, and new bridges. Other major projects
. will make substantial improvements on Interstate
5 (1-5) in southern Orange County and the San
Diego Freeway (1-405) in western Orange County.
The notorious Orange Crush—the intersection of
the 1-5, the Garden Grove Freeway (SR-22) and the
Orange Freeway (SR-57) near Angel Stadium—will
be improved and upgraded. Under the Plan, major
traffic chokepoints on almost every Orange County
freeway will be remedied. Improving Orange
County freeways will be the greatest investment
in the Renewed Measure M program: Forty-
three percent of net revenues, or $4,871 billion,
will be invested in new freeway construction.

Streets and Roads

More than 6,500 lane miles of aging streets and roads
will need repair, rejuvenation and improvement.

City streets and county roads need to be maintained
regularly and potholes have to be filled quickly
Thirty-two percent of net revenue from the Renewed
Measure M Transportation Investment Plan, or
$3,625 billion, will be devoted to fixing potholes,
improving intersections, synchronizing traffic signals
countywide, and making the existing countywide
network of streets and roads safer and more efficient.

Public Transit

As Orange County continues to grow, building a
visionary rail transportation system that is safe,
clean and convenient, uses and preserves existing
rights-of-way, and, over time, provides high-speed
connections both inside and outside of Orange
County, is a long term goal. Twenty-five percent
of the net revenue from Renewed Measure M, or
$2.83 billion, will be dedicated to transit programs
countywide. About twenty percent, or $2.24 billion,
will be dedicated to creating a new countywide
high capacity transit system anchored on the
existing, successful Metrolink and Amtrak rail line,
and about five percent, or $591 million, will be
used to enhance senior transportation programs
and provide targeted, safe localized bus service.

Environmental Cleanup

Every day, more than 70 million gallons of oily
pollution, litter, and dirty contaminants wash off
streets, roads, and freeways and pour onto Orange
County waterways and beaches. When it rains, the
transportation-generated beach and ocean pollution
increases tenfold. Under the plan, two percent
of the gross Renewed Measure M Transportation
Investment Plan, or $237 million, will be dedicated
to protecting Orange County beaches from this
transportation-generated pollution (sometimes called
“urban runoff’) while improving ocean water quality.

program, or $118.6 million over 30 years, will
pay for annual, independent audits, taxpayer
safeguards, an independent Taxpayer Oversight
Committee assigned to watchdog government
spending, and a full, public disclosure of all Renewed
Measure M expenditures. A detailed review of the
program must be conducted every ten years and,
if needed, major changes in the investment plan
must be brought before Orange County voters for
approval. Taxpayers will receive an annual report
detailing the Renewed Measure M expenditures.
Additionally, as required by law, an estimated one
and a half percent of the sales taxes generated, or
$178 million over 30 years, must be paid to the
California State Board of Equalization for collecting
the one-half cent sales tax that funds the Renewed
Measure M Transportation Investment Plan.

In this pamphlet, every specific project, program,
and safeguard included in the Renewed Measure
M Transportation Investment Plan is explained.
Similar details will be provided to every Orange
County voter if the measure is placed on the ballot.

Taxpayer Safeguards and Audits

When new transportation dollars are approved,
they should go for transportation and transportation
purposes alone. No bait-and-switch. No using
transportation dollars for other purposes. The
original Measure M went solely for transportation
purposes. The Renewed Measure M must be just
as airtight. One percent of the gross Measure M

Every day, traffic backs up somewhere on the
Orange County freeway system. And, every day,
freeway traffic seems to get a little worse. .

In the past decade, Orange County has made major
strides in re-building our aging freeway system.

But there is still an enormous amount of work
that needs to be done to make the freeway system
work well. You see the need for improvement every
time you drive on an Orange County freeway.

Forty-three percent of net revenues from the
Renewed Measure M Transportation Investment Plan
is dedicated to improving Orange County freeways,
the largest portion of the 30-year transportation plan.

SR-91 is the Centerpiece

Making the troubled Riverside/Artesia Freeway
(SR-91) work again is the centerpiece of the
Renewed Measure M Freeway program. The fix
on the SR-91 will require new lanes, new bridges,
new overpasses, and, in the Santa Ana Canyon
portion of the freeway, a diversion of drivers to the
Foothill Corridor (SR-241) so the rest of the Orange
County freeway system can work more effectively.

And there’s more to the freeway program than the
fix of SR-91—much more. More than $1 billion
is earmarked for Interstate 5 in South County.

More than $800 million is slated to upgrade the
San Diego Freeway (1-405) between Irvine and
the Los Angeles County line. Another significant
investment is planned on the congested Costa
Mesa Freeway (SR-55). And needed projects
designed to relieve traffic chokepoints are planned
for almost every Orange County freeway.

To make any freeway system work, bottlenecks at
interchanges also have to be fixed. The notorious
Orange Crush Interchange—where the Santa Ana
Freeway (1-5) meets the Orange Freeway (SR-57) and

the Garden Grove Freeway (SR-22) in a traffic tangle
near Angel Stadium—is in need of a major face lift.
And the intersection of Interstate 5 and the Costa
Mesa Freeway (SR-55) is also slated for major repair.

Pays Big Dividends

Local investment in freeways also pays big dividends
in the search for other needed freeway dollars.
Because of state and federal matching rules, Orange
County’s local investment in freeway projects acts
as a magnet for state and federal transportation
dollars—pulling more freeway construction
dollars into the county and allowing more traffic-
reducing freeway projects to be built sooner.

Innovative Environmental Mitigation

A minimum of $243.5 million will be available,
subject to a Master Agreement, to provide for
comprehensive, rather than piecemeal, mitigation of
the environmental impacts of freeway improvements.
Using a proactive, innovative approach, the
Master Agreement negotiated between the Orange
County Local Transportation Authority and
state and federal resource agencies will provide
higher-value environmental benefits such as
habitat protection, wildlife corridors and resource
preservation in exchange for streamlined project
approvals for the freeway program as a whole.

Freeway projects will also be planned, designed
and constructed with consideration for their
aesthetic, historic and environmental impacts
on nearby properties and communities using
such elements as parkway style designs, locally
native landscaping, sound reduction and aesthetic
treatments that complement the surroundings.

Project	Project
Santa Ana Freeway (1-5) improvements	Santa Ana Freeway (1-5) Improvements from the
between Costa Mesa Freeway (SR-55) and "Orange Crush" Area (SR-57)	Costa Mesa Freeway (SR-55) to El Toro "Y" Area
	Description:
Description:	Build new lanes and improve the interchanges
Reduce freeway congestion through improvements	in the area between SR-55 and the SR-133 (near
at the SR-55/1-5 interchange area between the Fourth	the El Toro “Y”). This segment of 1-5 is the major
Street and Newport Boulevard ramps on 1-5, and	route serving activity areas in the cities of Irvine,
between Fourth Street and Edinger Avenue on	Tustin, Santa Ana and north Orange County The
SR-55. Also, add capacity on 1-5 between SR-55 and	project will also make improvements at local
SR-57 to relieve congestion at the “Orange Crush”.	interchanges, such as Jamboree Road. The project
The project will generally be constructed within the	will generally be constructed within the existing
existing right-of-way Specific improvements will be	right-of-way Specific improvements will be subject
subject to approved plans developed in cooperation	to approved plans developed in cooperation with
with local jurisdictions and affected communities.	local jurisdictions and affected communities.
The project will increase freeway capacity and reduce	The project will increase freeway capacity and
congestion. The current daily traffic volume on this	reduce congestion. The current traffic volume
segment of the 1-5 between SR-55 and SR-57 is about	on this segment of 1-5 is about 356,000 vehicles
389,000. The demand is expected to grow by more	per day and is expected to increase by nearly 24
than 19 percent by 2030, bringing the daily usage to	percent, bringing it up to 440,000 vehicles per
464,000 vehicles per day Regional plans also include	day In addition to the projects described above,
additional improvements on 1-5 from the “Orange	regional plans include additional improvements
Crush” to SR-91 using federal and state funds.	to this freeway at local interchanges, such as Culver Drive, using federal and state funds.
Cost:  The estimated cost to improve this	Cost:
section of the 1-5 is $470.0 million.	The estimated cost to improve this
	section of 1-5 is $300.2 million.
	

Project

Project

San Diego Freeway (i-5) Improvements
South of the El Toro "Y"

Santa Ana Freeway / San Diego Freeway (1-5)
Local Interchange Upgrades

Description:

Add new lanes to 1-5 from the vicinity of the El Toro
Interchange in Lake Forest to the vicinity of SR-73
in Mission Viejo. Also add new lanes on 1-5 between
Coast Highway and Avenida Pico interchanges to
reduce freeway congestion in San Clemente. The
project will also make major improvements at local
interchanges as listed in Project D. The project
will generally be constructed within the existing
right-of-way. Specific improvements will be subject
to approved plans developed in cooperation with
local jurisdictions and affected communities.

The project will increase freeway capacity and
reduce congestion. Current traffic volume on 1-5
near the El Toro “Y” is about 342,000 vehicles per
day. This volume will increase in the future by 35
percent, bringing it up to 460,000 vehicles per
day. Regional plans also include construction of a
new freeway access point between Crown Valley
Parkway and Avery Parkway as well as new off ramps
at Stonehill Drive using federal and state funds.

Cost:

The estimated cost to improve these
segments of 1-5 is $627.0 million.

Description:

Update'and improve key 1-5 interchanges such
as Avenida Pico, Ortega Highway Avery Parkway
La Paz Road, El Toro Road, and others to relieve
street congestion around older interchanges and
on ramps. Specific improvements will be subject
to approved plans developed in cooperation with
local jurisdictions and affected communities.

In addition to the project described above,
regional plans also include improvements to
the local interchanges at Camino Capistrano,

Oso Parkway Alicia Parkway and Barranca
Parkway using federal and state funds.

Cost:

The estimated cost for the 1-5 local
interchange upgrades is $258.0 million.

Garden Grove Freeway {SR-22}
Access Improvements

Costa Mesa Freeway (SR-55) Improvements

Description:

Construct interchange improvements at Euclid
Street, Brookhurst Street and Harbor Boulevard
to reduce freeway and street congestion near these
interchanges. Specific improvements will be subject
to approved plans developed in cooperation with
■local jurisdictions and affected communities.

Regional plans also include the construction of
new freeway-to-freeway carpool ramps to the
SR-22/I-405 interchange, and improvements to
the local interchange at Magnolia Avenue using
federal and state funds.

Cost:

The estimated cost to improve the
SR-22 interchanges is $120.0 million.

Description:

Add new lanes to SR-55 between Garden Grove
Freeway (SR-22) and the San Diego Freeway
(1-405), generally within existing right-of-way,
including merging lanes between interchanges to
smooth traffic flow. This project also prorides for
freeway operational improvements for the portion
of SR-55 between SR-91 and SR-22. The project
will generally be constructed within the existing
right-of-way. Specific improvements will be subject
to approved plans developed in cooperation with
local jurisdictions and affected communities.

The project will increase freeway capacity and reduce
congestion. This freeway carries about 295,000
vehicles on a daily basis. This volume is expected
to increase by nearly 13 percent, bringing it up to
332,000 vehicles per day in the future. In addition
to the projects described above, regional plans also
include a new street overcrossing and carpool ramps
at Alton Avenue using federal and state funds.

Cost:

The estimated cost for these SR-55
improvements is $366.0 million.

Orange Freeway (SR-57) Improvements

Description:

Build a new northbound lane between Orangewood
Avenue and Lambert Road. Other projects include
improvements to the Lambert interchange and
the addition of a northbound truck climbing
lane between Lambert and Tonner Canyon
Road. The improvements will be designed and
coordinated specifically to reduce congestion at
SR-57/SR-91 interchange. These improvements
will be made generally within existing right-of-
way. Specific improvements will be subject to
approved plans developed in cooperation with
local jurisdictions and affected communities.

The project will increase freeway capacity and reduce
congestion. The daily traffic volume on this freeway
is about 315,000 vehicles. By 2030, this volume will
increase by 15-percent, bringing it up to 363,000
vehicles per day In addition to the project described
above, regional plans include new carpool ramps
at Cerritos Avenue using federal and state funds.

Cost:

The estimated cost to implement
SR-57 improvements is $258.7 million.

Riverside Freeway (SR-91) Improvements
from the Santa Ana Freeway (1-5) to
the Orange Freeway (SR-57)

Riverside Freeway (SR-91) improvements
from Orange Freeway (SR-57) to the Costa
Mesa Freeway (SR-55) interchange Area

Description:

Add capacity in the westbound direction and provide
operational improvements at on and off ramps to
the SR-91 between 1-5 and the Orange Freeway
(SR-57), generally within existing right-of-way to
smooth traffic flow and relieve the SR-57/SR-91
•interchange. Specific improvements will be subject
to approved plans developed in cooperation with
local jurisdictions and affected communities.

The current daily freeway volume along this ‘
segment of SR-91 is about 256,000. By 2030,
this volume is expected to increase by nearly 13
percent, bringing it up to 289,900 vehicles per day.

Cost:

The estimated cost for improvements in this
segment of SR-91 is $140.0 million.

Description:

Improve the SR-91/SR-55 to SR-91/SR-57
interchange complex, including nearby local
interchanges such as Tustin Avenue and Lakeview,
as well as adding freeway capacity between
SR-55 and SR-57. The project will generally
be constructed within the existing right-of-
way Specific improvements will be subject to
approved plans developed in cooperation with
local jurisdictions and affected communities.

Current freeway volume on this segment
of the SR-91 is about 245,000 vehicles per
day. This vehicular demand is expected to
increase by 22 percent, bringing it up to
300,000 vehicles per day in the future.

Cost:

The estimated cost for these improvements
to the SR-91 is $416.5 million.

Project

Riverside Freeway (SR-91) Improvements
from Costa Mesa Freeway (SR-55) to
the Orange/ Riverside County Line

Description:

This project adds capacity on SR-91 beginning at
SR-55 and extending to 1-15 in Riverside County.

The first priority will be to improve the segment
of SR-91 east of SR-241. The goal is to provide
up to four new lanes of capacity between SR-241
and Riverside County Line by making best use
of available freeway property, adding reversible
lanes, building elevated sections and improving
connections to SR-241. These projects would be
constructed in conjunction with similar coordinated
improvements in Riverside County extending to
1-15 and provide a continuous set of improvements
between SR-241 and 1-15, The portion of
improvements in Riverside County will be paid for
from other sources. Specific improvements will be
subject to approved plans developed in cooperation
with local jurisdictions and affected communities.

This project also includes improvements to the
segment of SR-91 between SR-241 and SR-55.

The concept is to generally add one new lane in
each direction and improve the interchanges.

Today, this freeway carries about 314,000 vehicles
every day. This volume is expected to increase by 36
percent, bringing it up to 426,000 vehicles by 2030.

Cost:

The estimated cost for these improvements
to the SR-91 is $925.0 million.

San Diego Freeway (1-405) Improvements
between the 1-605 Freeway in Los Alamitos
area and Costa Mesa Freeway (SR-55)

Description:

Add new lanes to the San Diego Freeway between
1-605 and SR-55, generally within the existing right-
of-way. The project will make best use of available
freeway property update interchanges and widen
all local overcrossings according to city and regional
master plans. The improvements will be coordinated
with other planned 1-405 improvements in the
I-405/SR-22/I-605 interchange area to the north
and I-405/SR-73 improvements to the south. The
improvements will adhere to recommendations of
the Interstate 405 Major Investment Study

(as adopted by the Orange County Transportation
Authority Board of Directors on October 14,

2005) and will be developed in cooperation with
local jurisdictions and affected communities.

Today, 1-405 carries about 430,000 vehicles daily
The volume is expected to increase by nearly 23
percent, bringing it up to 528,000 vehicles daily
by 2030. The project will increase freeway capacity
and reduce congestion. Near-term regional plans
also include the improvements to the I-405/SR-73
interchange as well as a new carpool interchange
at Bear Street using federal and state funds.

Cost:

The estimated cost for these improvements
to the 1-405 is $500.0 million.

San Diego Freeway (M05) Improvements
between Costa Mesa Freeway
(SR-55) and Santa Ana Freeway (1-5)

Description:

Add new lanes to the freeway from SR-55 to the
1-5. The project will also improve chokepoints at
interchanges and add merging lanes near on/off
ramps such as Lake Forest Drive, Irvine Center
Drive and SR-133 to improve the overall freeway
operations in the I-405/I-5 El Toro “Y” area. The
projects will generally be constructed within the
existing right-of-way Specific improvements will be

subject to approved plans developed in cooperation
with local jurisdictions and affected communities.

This segment of the freeway carries 354,000
vehicles a day. This number will increase by
nearly 13 percent, bringing it up to 401,000
vehicles per day by 2030. The project will increase
freeway capacity and reduce congestion. In
addition to the projects described above, regional
plans include a new carpool interchange at Yon
Karman Avenue using federal' and state funds.

Cost:

The estimated cost for these improvements
to the 1-405 is $319.7 million.

Project

Project

1-605 Freeway Access Improvements

Freeway Service Patrol

Description:

Improve freeway access and arterial connection
to 1-605 serving the communities of Los Alamitos
and Cypress. The project will be coordinated with
other planned improvements along SR-22 and
1-405. Specific improvements will be subject to
approved plans developed in cooperation with
local jurisdictions and affected communities.

Regional plans also include the addition of new
freeway-to-freeway carpool ramps to the 1-405/
1-605 interchange using federal and state funds.
This improvement will connect to interchange
improvements at 1-405 and SR-22 as well as
new freeway lanes between 1-405 and 1-605.

Cost:

The estimated cost to make these 1-605 interchange
improvements is $20.0 million.

Description:

The Freeway Service Patrol (FSP) provides
competitively bid, privately contracted tow
truck service for motorists with disabled vehicles
on the freeway system. This sendee helps
stranded motorists and quickly clears disabled
vehicles out of the freeway lanes to minimize
congestion caused by vehicles blocking traffic
and passing motorists rubbernecking.

Currently Freeway Service Patrol is available on
Orange County freeways Monday through Friday
during peak commuting hours. This project
would assure that this basic level of service
could be continued through 2041. As demand
and congestion levels increase, this project
would also permit service hours to be extended
throughout the day and into the weekend.

Cost:

The estimated cost to support the Freeway
Service Patrol Program for thirty years
beyond 2011 is $150.0 million.

Orange County has more than 6,500 lane miles
of aging streets and roads, many of which are in
need of repair, rejuvenation and improvement.
Intersections need to be widened, traffic lights
need to be synchronized, and potholes need to
be filled. And, in many cases, to make Orange
County’s transportation system work smoothly, we
need to add additional lanes to existing streets.

Thirty-two percent of net revenues from the
Renewed Measure M Transportation Investment
Plan is dedicated to maintaining streets,
fixing potholes, improving intersections and
widening city streets and county roads.

Making the System Work

Making the existing system of streets and roads
work better—by identifying spot intersection
improvements, filling potholes, repaving worn-
out streets—is the basis of making a countywide
transportation system work. That basis has to be the
first priority. But to operate a successful, countywide
system of streets and roads, we need more:
street widenings and traffic signals synchronized
countywide. And there’s more. Pedestrian safety
near local schools needs to be improved. Traffic flow
must be smoothed. Street repairs must be made
sooner. And, perhaps most importantly, cities and the
county must work together—collaboratively—to
find simple, low-cost traffic solutions.

Renewed Measure M provides financial incentives
for traffic improvements that cross city and
county lines, providing a seamless, county-
wide transportation system that’s friendly to
regional commuters and fair to local residents.

Better Cooperation

To place a higher priority on cooperative,
collaborative regional decision-making, Renewed
Measure M creates incentives that encourage traffic
lights to be coordinated across jurisdictional lines,
major street improvements to be better coordinated
on a regional basis, and street repair programs to be
a high priority countywide. To receive Measure M
funding, cities and the county have to cooperate.

The Streets and Roads program in Renewed
Measure M involves shared responsibilities—local
cities and the county set their local priorities
within a competitive, regional framework that
rewards cooperation, honors best practices, and
encourages government agencies to work together.

Project

Regional Capacity Program

Description:

This program, in combination with local matching
funds, provides a funding source to complete the
Orange County Master Plan of Arterial Highways
(MPAH). The program also provides for intersection
improvements and other projects to help improve
street operations and reduce congestion. The
program allocates funds through a competitive
process and targets projects that help traffic the most
by considering factors such as degree of congestion
relief, cost effectiveness, project readiness, etc.

Local jurisdictions must provide a dollar-for-dollar
match to qualify for funding, but can be rewarded
with lower match requirements if they give
priority to other key objectives, such as better road
maintenance and regional signal synchronization.

Roughly 1,000 miles of new street lanes remain
to be completed, mostly in the form of widening
existing streets to their ultimate planned width.
Completion of the system will result in a more
even traffic flow and efficient system.

Another element of this program is funding for
construction of railroad over or underpass grade
separations where high volume streets are impacted
by freight trains along the Burlington Northern
Santa Fe railroad in northern Orange County.

Cost:

The estimated cost for these street
improvement projects is $1,132.8 million.

Regional Traffic Signal Synchronization Program
Description:

This program targets over 2,000 signalized
intersections across the County for coordinated
operation. The goal is to improve the flow
of traffic by developing and implementing
regional signal coordination programs
that cross jurisdictional boundaries.

Most traffic signal synchronization programs today
are limited to segments of roads or individual cities
and agencies. For example, signals at intersections
of freeways with arterial streets are controlled
by Caltrans, while nearby signals at local street
intersections are under the control of cities. This
results in the street system operating at less than
maximum efficiency. When completed, this project
can increase the capacity of the street grid and
reduce the delay by over six million hours annually.

To ensure that this program is successful, cities, the
County of Orange and Caltrans will be required
to work together and prepare a common traffic
signal synchronization plan and the necessary
governance and legal arrangements before receiving
funds. In addition, cities will be required to
provide 20 percent of the costs. Once in place,
the program will provide funding for ongoing
maintenance and operation of the synchronization
plan. Local jurisdictions will be required to
publicly report on the performance of their signal
synchronization efforts at least every three years.
Signal equipment to give emergency vehicles
priority at intersections will be an eligible expense
for projects implemented as part of this program.

Cost:

The estimated cost of developing and maintaining
a regional traffic signal synchronization program
for Orange County is $453.1 million.

Project

Local Fair Share Program

Description:

This element of the program will provide flexible
funding to help cities and the County of Orange keep
up with the rising cost of repairing the aging street
system. In addition, cities can use these funds for
other local transportation needs such as residential
street projects, traffic and pedestrian safety near
schools, signal priority for emergency vehicles, etc.

This program is intended to augment, rather than
replace, existing transportation expenditures
and therefore cities must meet the following
requirements to receive the funds.

1.	Continue to invest General Fund monies
(or other local discretionary monies) for
transportation and annually increase this
commitment to keep pace with inflation.

2.	Agree to use Measure M funds for
transportation purposes only, subject
to full repayment and a loss of funding
eligibility for five years for any misuse.

3.	Agree to separate accounting for Measure
M funds and annual reporting on
actual Measure M expenditures.

4.	Develop and maintain a Pavement
Management Program to ensure timely
street maintenance and submit regular
public reports on the condition of streets.

5.	Annually submit a six-year Capital Improvement
Program and commit to spend Measure

VI funds within three years of receipt.

6.	Agree to assess traffic impacts of new
development and require that new
development pay a fair share of any
necessary transportation improvements.

7.	Agree to plan, build and operate major
streets consistent with the countywide
Master Plan of Arterial Highways to ensure
efficient traffic flow across city boundaries.

8.	Participate in Traffic Forums with neighboring
jurisdictions to facilitate the implementation and
maintenance of traffic signal synchronization
programs and projects. This requires cities to
balance local traffic policies with neighboring
cities—for selected streets—to promote

more efficient traffic circulation overall.

9.	Agree to consider land use planning
strategies that are transit-friendly,
support alternative transportation modes
including bike and pedestrian access and
reduce reliance on the automobile.

The funds under this program are distributed to
cities and the County of Orange by formula once
the cities have fulfilled the above requirements. The
formula will account for population, street mileage
and amount of sales tax collected in each jurisdiction.

Cost:

The estimated cost for this program for
thirty years is $2,039.1 million.



Building streets, roads and freeways helps fix
today’s traffic problems. Building a visionary transit
system that is safe, clean and convenient focuses
on Orange County’s transportation future.

Twenty-five percent of net revenues from the
Renewed Measure M Transportation Investment
Plan is allocated towards building and improving
rail and bus transportation in Orange County.
Approximately twenty percent of the Renewed
Measure M funds is allocated to developing a creative
countywide transit program and five percent of
the revenues will be used to enhance programs for
senior citizens and for targeted, localized bus service.
All transit expenditures must be consistent with
the safeguards and audit provisions of the Plan.

A New Transit Vision

The key element of the Renewed Measure M transit
program is improving the 100-year old Santa Fe
rail line, known today as the Los Angeles/San
Diego (LOSSAN) rail corridor, through the heart
of the county. Then, by using this well-established,
operational commuter rail system as a platform for
future growth, existing rail stations will be developed
into regional transportation hubs that can serve as
regional transportation gateways or the centerpiece
of local transportation services. A series of new, well-
coordinated, flexible transportation systems, each
one customized to the unique transportation vision
the station serves, will be developed. Creativity
and good financial sense will be encouraged.
Partnerships will be promoted. Transportation
solutions for each transportation hub can range
from monorails to local mini-bus systems to new
technologies. Fresh thinking will be rewarded.

The new, localized transit programs will bring
competition to local transportation planning,
creating a marketplace of transportation ideas where
the best ideas emerge and compete for funding. The
plan is to encourage civic entrepreneurship and
stimulate private involvement and investment.

Transit Investment Criteria

The guiding principles for all transit investments
are value, safety, convenience and reliability. Each
local transit vision will be evaluated against clear
criteria, such as congestion relief, cost-effectiveness,
readiness, connectivity, and a sound operating plan.

In terms of bus services, more specialized transit
services, including improved van services and
reduced fares for senior citizens and people with
disabilities, will be provided. Safety at key bus stops
will be improved. .And a network of community-
based, mini-bus services will be developed in
areas outside of the central county rail corridor.

Project In

Project

High Frequency Metroiink Service

Description:

This project will increase rail services within the
county and provide frequent Metroiink service north
of Fullerton to Los Angeles. The project will provide
for track improvements, more trains, and other
related needs to accommodate the expanded service.

This project is designed to build on the successes
of Metroiink and complement service expansion
made possible by the current Measure Mt The
service will include upgraded stations and
added parking capacity; safety improvements
and quiet zones along the tracks; and frequent
shuttle service and other means, to move
arriving passengers to nearby destinations.

The project also includes funding for
improving grade crossings and constructing
over or underpasses at high volume arterial
streets that cross the Metroiink tracks.

Cost:

The estimated cost of capital and
operations is $1,014.1 million.

Transit Extensions to Metroiink

Description:

Frequent service in the Metroiink corridor provides
a high capacity transit system linking communities
within the central core of Orange County. This
project will establish a competitive program for local
jurisdictions to broaden the reach of the rail system
to other activity centers and communities. Proposals
for extensions must be developed and supported
by local jurisdictions and will be evaluated against
well-defined and well-known criteria as follows:

•	Traffic congestion relief

•	Project readiness, with priority given
to projects that can be implemented
within the first five years of the Plan

•	Local funding commitments and
the availability of right-of-way

•	Proven ability to attract other financial
partners, both public and private

•	Cost-effectiveness

•	Proximity to jobs and population centers

•	Regional as well as local benefits

•	Ease and simplicity of connections

•	Compatible, approved land uses

•	Safe and modern technology

•	A sound, long-term operating plan

This project shall not be used to fund transit
routes that are not directly connected to or that
would be redundant to the core rail service on
the Metroiink corridor. The emphasis shall be
on expanding access to the core rail system and
on establishing connections to communities and
major activity centers that are not immediately
adjacent to the Metroiink corridor. It is intended
that multiple transit projects be funded through

a competitive process and no single project may-
be awarded all of the funds under this program.

These connections may include a variety of
transit technologies such as conventional bus,
bus rapid transit or high capacity rail transit
systems as long as they can be fully integrated
and provide seamless transition for the users.

Project

Expand Mobility Choices for Seniors
and Persons with Disabilities

Description:

This project will provide services and programs
to meet the growing transportation needs of
seniors and persons with disabilities as follows:

Cost:

The estimated cost to implement this program
over thirty years is $1,000.0 million.

Convert Metrolink Station(s) to Regional
Gateways that Connect Orange County
with High-Speed Rail Systems

Description:

This program will provide the local improvements
that are necessary to connect planned
future high-speed rail systems to stations
on the Orange County Metrolink route.

The State of California is currently planning a
high-speed rail system linking northern and
southern California. One line is planned to
terminate in Orange County. In addition, several
magnetic levitation (MAGLEV) systems that
would connect Orange County to Los Angeles
and San Bernardino Counties, including a link
from Anaheim to Ontario airport, are also being
planned or proposed by other agencies.

•	One percent of net revenues will
stabilize fares and provide fare discounts
for bus services, specialized ACCESS
services and future rail services

•	One percent of net revenues will be
available to continue and expand local
community van service for seniors through
the existing Senior Mobility Program

•	One percent will supplement existing
countywide senior non-emergency
medical transportation services

Over the next 30 years, the population age 65
and over is projected to increase by 93 percent.
Demand for transit and specialized transportation
services for seniors and persons with disabilities
is expected to increase proportionately

Cost:

The estimated cost to provide these programs
over 30 years is $339.8 million.

Cost:

The estimated Measure M share of the cost for these
regional centers and connections is $226.6 million.

tMB :  |wB^k fe i  ijntfjS N^ >{ vk  |h<:f j!*<K^^BlBwliS^^«	25 __v-£-
Project	Project
Community Based Transit/Circulators	Safe Transit Stops
Description:	Description:
This project will establish a competitive program	This project provides for passenger amenities at
for local jurisdictions to develop local bus transit	100 busiest transit stops across the County. The
services such as community based circulators,	stops will be designed to ease transfer between
shuttles and bus trolleys that complement regional	bus lines and provide passenger amenities
bus and rail services, and meet needs in areas not	such as improved shelters, lighting, current
adequately served by regional transit. Projects will	information on bus and train timetables and arrival
need to meet performance criteria for ridership, connection to bus and rail services, and financial	times, and transit ticket vending machines.
viability to be considered for funding. All projects	Cost:
must be competitively bid, and they cannot duplicate or compete with existing transit services.	The estimated cost of this project is $25.0 million.
Cost:	
The estimated cost of this project is $226.5 million.	
	

Every day, more than 70 million gallons of oily
pollution, litter, and dirty contamination washes
off streets, roads and freeways and pours onto
Orange County waterways and beaches. When
it rains, the transportation-generated pollution
increases tenfold, contributing to the increasing
number of beach closures and environmental
hazards along the Orange County coast.

Prior to allocation of funds for freeway, street and
transit projects, two percent of gross revenues
from the Renewed Measure M Transportation
Investment Plan is set aside to protect Orange
County beaches from transportation-generated
pollution (sometimes called “urban runoff’)
and improving ocean water quality.

The environmental cleanup program is designed to
supplement, not supplant, existing transportation-
related water quality programs. This clean-up
program must improve, and not replace, existing
pollution reduction efforts by cities, the county,
and special districts. Funds will be awarded
to the highest priority programs that improve
water quality, keep our beaches and streets clean,
and reduce transportation-generated pollution
along Orange County’s scenic coastline.

Countywide Competitive Program

Measure M Environmental Cleanup funds will
be used on a countywide, competitive basis
to meet federal Clean Water Act standards for
controlling transportation-generated pollution by
funding nationally recognized Best Management
Practices, such as catch basins with state-of-
the-art biofiltration systems; or special roadside
landscaping systems called bioswales that filter
oil runoff from streets, roads and freeways.

Environmental Cleanup

Description:

Implement street and highway related water
quality improvement programs and projects that
will assist Orange County cities, the County
of Orange and special districts to meet federal
Clean Water Act standards for urban runoff.

The Environmental Cleanup monies may be used for
water quality improvements related to both existing
and new transportation infrastructure, including
capital and operations improvements such as:

•	Catch basin screens, filters and inserts

•	Roadside bioswales and biofiltration channels

• Wetlands protection and restoration

•	Continuous Deflective Separation (CDS) units

•	Maintenance of catch basins and bioswales

'• Other street-related “Best Management Practices”
for capturing and treating urban runoff

This program is intended to augment, not replace
existing transportation related water quality
expenditures and to emphasize high-impact
capital improvements over local operations and
maintenance costs. In addition, all new freeway,
street and transit capital projects will include water
quality mitigation as part of project scope and cost.

The Environmental Cleanup program is
subject to the following requirements:

•	Development of a comprehensive countywide
capital improvement program for transportation
related water quality improvements

•	A competitive grant process to award funds to
the highest priority, most cost-effective projects

•	A matching requirement to leverage
other federal, state and local funds
for water quality improvements

•	A maintenance of effort requirement to
ensure that funds augment, not replace
existing water quality programs

•	Annual reporting on actual expenditures and an
assessment of the water quality benefits provided

•	A strict limit on administrative costs
and a requirement to spend funds
within three years of receipt

•	Penalties for misuse of any of the
Environmental Cleanup funds

Cost:

The estimated cost for the Environmental Cleanup
program is $237.2 million. In addition it is
estimated that new freeway, road and transit projects
funded by the Renewed Measure M Transportation
Investment Plan will include more than $165
million for mitigating water quality impacts.

When new transportation dollars are approved,
they should go for transportation and transportation
alone. No bait-and-switch. No using transportation
dollars for other purposes. The original
Measure M went solely for transportation. The
Renewed Measure M will be just as airtight.

And there will be no hidden costs in the program.

Prior to allocation of funds for freeway, street and
transit projects, one percent of gross revenues from
the Renewed Measure M Transportation Investment
Plans is set aside for audits, safeguards, and taxpayer
protection. By state law, one and one half percent of
the gross sales taxes generated by Measure M must be
paid to the California State Board of Equalization for
collecting the countywide one-half percent sales tax
that funds the Transportation Investment Program.

Special Trust Fund

To guarantee transportation dollars are used for
transportation purposes, all funds must be kept in
a special trust fund. An independent, outside audit
of this fund will protect against cheaters who try to
use the transportation funds for purposes other than
specified transportation uses. A severe punishment
will disqualify any agency that cheats from
receiving Measure M funds for a five-year period.

Back to the Voters

Of course, over the next 30 years, things will change.
Minor adjustments can be made by a 2/3 vote of the
Taxpayer Oversight Committee and a 2/3 vote of
the Orange County Local Transportation Authority
Board of Directors. Major changes must be taken
back to voters for authorization. And, ever}? ten
years, and more frequently if necessary, the Orange
County Local Transportation Authority must
conduct a thorough examination of the Renewed
Measure M Investment Plan and determine if
major changes should be submitted to the voters.

There are other important taxpayer safeguards,
all designed to insure the integrity of the voter-
authorized plans. But each is focused on one
goal: guaranteeing that new transportation
dollars are devoted to solving Orange County’s
traffic problems and that no transportation
dollars are diverted to anything else.

The annual audits, and annual reports detailing
project progress, will be sent to Orange County
taxpayers every year and will be reviewed in
public session by a special Taxpayer Oversight
Committee that can raise fiscal issues, ask
tough questions, and must independently
certify, on an annual basis, that transportation
dollars have been spent strictly according to
the Renewed Measure M Investment Plan.

Taxpayer Safeguards and Audits
Description:

Implement and maintain strict taxpayer
safeguards to ensure that the Renewed Measure
M Transportation Investment Plan is delivered
as promised. Restrict administrative costs to
one percent (1%) of total tax revenues and state
collection of the tax as prescribed in state law
[currently one-and-one-half (1.5%) percent].

Administration of the Transportation Investment
Plan and all spending is subject to the following
specific safeguards and requirements:

Oversight

•	All spending is subject to an
annual independent audit

•	Spending decisions must be annually
reviewed and certified by an independent
Taxpayer Oversight Committee

•	An annual report on spending and
progress in implementing the Plan
must be submitted to taxpayers

Integrity of the Plan

•	No changes to the Plan can be made
without review and approval by 2/3 vote
of the Taxpayer Oversight Committee

•	Major changes to the Plan such as deleting
a project or shifting projects among major
spending categories (Freeways, Streets &

Roads, Transit, Environmental Cleanup)
must be ratified by a majority of voters

•	The Plan must be subject at least every ten
years to public review and assessment of
progress in delivery public support and
changed circumstances. Any significant
proposed changes to the Plan must be approved
by the Taxpayer Oversight Committee

and ratified by a majority of voters.

Fund Accounting

•	All tax revenues and interest earned must be
deposited and maintained in a separate trust
fund. Local jurisdictions that receive allocations
must also maintain them in a separate fund.

•	All entities receiving tax funds must
report annually on expenditures and
progress in implementing projects

•	At any time, at its discretion, the Taxpayer
Oversight Committee may conduct independent
reviews or audits of the spending of tax funds

•	The elected Auditor/Controller of Orange
County must annually certify that spending
is in accordance with the Plan

Spending Requirements

•	Local jurisdictions receiving funds must
abide by specific eligibility and spending
requirements detailed in the Streets & Roads and
Environmental Cleanup components of the Plan

•	Funds must be used only for transportation
purposes described in the Plan. The penalty
for misspending is full repayment and loss of
funding eligibility for a period of five years,

•	No funds may be used to replace
private developer funding committed
to any project or improvement

•	Funds shall augment, not replace existing funds

•	Every effort shall be made to maximize matching
state and federal transportation dollars

Taxpayer Oversight Committee

•	The committee shall consist of eleven
members—two members from each of the Eve
Board of Supervisor’s districts, who shall not be
elected or appointed officials—along with the
elected Auditor/Controller of Orange County

•	Members shall be recruited and screened for
expertise and experience by the Orange County
Grand jurors Association. Members shall be
selected from the qualified pool by lottery.

•	The committee shall be provided with
sufficient resources to conduct independent
reviews and audits of spending and
implementation of the Plan

Collecting the Tax

•	The State Board of Equalization shall be paid
one-and-one-half (1.5) percent of gross revenues
each fiscal year for its services in collecting
sales tax revenue as prescribed in Section 7273
of the State’s Revenue and Taxation Code

Cost:

The estimated cost for Safeguards and Audits

over thirty years is $296.6 million.

1-5	Santa Ana Freeway Interchange Improvements

1-5	Santa Ana/San Diego Freeway Improvements

SR-22	Garden Grove Freeway Access Improvements

SR-55	Costa Mesa Freeway Improvements

SR-57	Orange Freeway Improvements

SR-91	Riverside Freeway Improvements

1-405	San Diego Freeway Improvements

1-605	Freeway Access Improvements

$470.0

1,185.2

120.0

366.0

258.7
1,481.5

819.7
. 20.0

All Freeway Service Patrol

Streets & Roads Projects (in millions)

150.0

$3,625.0

Regional Capacity Program  Regional Traffic Signal Synchronization Program  Local Fair Share Program	%	$1,132.8  453.1  2,039.1	
1 Transit Projects (in minions) ACL\ j AyHA'. . '•% $2,832.0i..			
High Frequency Metrolink Service	©	$1,014.1	
Transit Extensions to Metrolink	0	1,000.0	
Metrolink Gateways	0	226.6	
Expand Mobility Choices for Seniors and Persons with Disabilities	o	339.8	
Community Based Transit/Circulators	0	226.5	
Safe Transit Stops	m	25.0	
Environmental Cleanup (in millions)	F 5		$237.2
Clean Up Highway and Street Runoff that Pollutes Beaches	m	$237.2	
Taxpayer Safeguards and Audits (in millions)			$296.6
Collect Sales Taxes (State charges required by law)		$178.0	
Oversight and Annual Audits		118.6	
Total (2005 dollars in millions)		. ** ; ... U. . ' • A	$11,861.9 1